10-10-2020||Calcutta||Crocodile swims into village pond in Sunderbans||A 10ft-long crocodile strayed into a pond in a Sunderbans village prompting villagers to take photographs of the reptile. Officials from the South 24-Parganas forest range office and trained personnel from the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary in Patharpratima mounted a rescue operation along the muddy banks of the pond. Crocodiles swimming into ponds are uncommon after nylon fencing had been done around villages. On Thursday hundreds of people had gathered around the pond in the Patharpratima Block of South 24-Parganas to catch a glimpse of the reptile. Milan Kanti Mandal, the divisional forest officer (DFO), of South 24-Parganas, said the crocodile was a male. “The team could spot it only when its nostrils surfaced to breathe … it was constantly swimming around the pond… it was a challenge to locate and catch it.” Forest officials lowered a nylon net at one end of the pond and started pulling it towards the bank. The crocodile managed to give the team the slip several times before it was netted. “Crocodiles are incredibly powerful… we needed several men to pull the net in as it was trying its best not to get caught,” Mandal said. Once near the bank the team used bamboo poles to “steer” the reptile head towards them. One of the team members, an experienced crocodile handler at the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary, threw a gunny bag connected with a rope over its head and caught hold of its snout. Crocodiles cannot open their jaws once pressure is applied from above and he held on to the upper jaw while another person got on top of its back to restrict its movement. “Once the crocodile could not see anything it made things easier for us and we managed to tie it down with ropes,” Mandal said. “The pond is connected to one of the creeks nearby through a narrow channel. It is likely that the crocodile made its way into the pond through the channel,” a forest official who was part of the rescue team said. The reptile was later released into a creek near the Kalash forest. “Our men acted swiftly and rescued it before it could harm anyone or be harmed by villagers,” forest minister Rajib Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Quest to build a ‘beautiful society’||A girl in her early 20s seated on a wheelchair came to Nehru Children’s Museum in 1992 because she wanted to learn how to operate computers. She could not speak but had a compass fitted to her head and a book of letters on her lap, which she made use of to point out and express herself. The person at the museum who was approached did not want to refuse her but was unsure whether they would be able to accommodate her. So she approached the director. Founder Jugal Srimal took the girl to the class she wanted to go to and told the students that the “main objective” of Nehru Children’s Museum was “to build a beautiful society’, not to train them in operating a computer. Members and staff of the museum paid tributes to Jugal Srimal, the founder-director of Nehru Children’s Museum, on Thursday on the occasion of his birth centenary. “That society will be built by all of you. No matter whatever the challenges are for a beautiful society, each one of you has to hold hands...,” Sikha Mukherjee, the administrative secretary of the museum quoted Srimal as telling the class, back in 1992.  Memories and anecdotes were shared about Srimal, who was also the founder trustee of Tagore Foundation, a trust formed to promote Bengali culture. Srimal got the land on Chowringhee Road, on which the museum stands, from the Bengal government in 1969. The museum was inaugurated on November 14, 1972. The museum has clay models that narrate the stories of Ramayana and Mahabharata and costume dolls from over 96 countries, some of which were collected by Srimal. Various embassies have also presented dolls to Nehru Children’s Museum. “There are over 1,000 dolls now, about 350 of which were collected during my father’s time,” said Srimal’s son Sudip, who is now director of the museum. Jugal Srimal was born in an “aristocratic and cultured zamindar family” of Azimganj, Murshidabad, on October 8, 1919. “If my father would have been here today he would never have allowed us to celebrate this day. He was always against publicity…. For his centenary, we had planned a five-day programme with 1,200 invitees, but because of Covid-19 we had a small programme remembering him,” said Sudip Srimal. From the oldest employee of the museum Ramendra Das to senior employee Dipti Biswas, each one had a story to share. Jugal Srimal’s work was not restricted to the museum but went much beyond that, said Prabal Dutta, joint director of the museum. Dutta spoke about the founder-director’s reading habits. “He would not be able to go off to sleep at night without reading but he had noticed that the habit of reading was going away…. He thought that people were not interested in buying books or borrowing it from library, but if the books reached them the interest of reading would sustain. So he formed Tagore Mobile Library,” Dutta recalled. Jugal Srimal gave away his collection to the library. Those who attended the programme said they were missing the children. The institute has 1,400 students learning various activities like song, dance, painting and drama. On Thursday, a portrait of Jugal Srimal made by 20-year-old Sourav Saha, who has been learning painting in the museum since 2015, was unveiled by Rotarian R.K. Bubna. A book titled “Shishuder ja prappo ta jeno tara paye”, written by the founder before in the 1940s, was released on Thursday. Granddaughter Indrani Sengupta, now the secretary of the museum, found it among his manuscripts. “I was young and not ready to take the responsibility but he told me it was not about age but how I handled the responsibility,” said Sengupta. “...Last eight months have been difficult but we have paid our permanent staff and used up our savings to tide over this period. We have appealed to our friends and well-wishers and many have responded,” said Sudip Srimal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
10-10-2020||Calcutta||State's Durga Puja doles challenged in High Court||The state government’s decision to pay Rs 50,000 to every community Durga Puja organiser was challenged in Calcutta High Court on Friday. A division bench, headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, fixed the matter for final hearing on October 14. An activist associated with the CPM’s labour arm Citu has challenged the legality of the state’s decision. A PIL has been moved before the same division bench, challenging the legality of the state’s decision to pay Rs 1,000 every month to every Hindu priest (purohit) of Bengal. The court has fixed the matter for hearing in mid-November. But the court made it clear that priests who have already received the money from the state will have to return it if the order goes against the government’s decision Last year, the state had paid puja organisers Rs 25,000 and Rs 10,000 the year before. This year, the amount has been raised to Rs 50,000. While making the announcement, the chief minister had said organisers were reeling under a financial crunch. Last year, a similar petition had been filed in the high court but the court had declined to issue a stay after the state’s advocate-general Kishore Datta had said the state paid the donation to campaign for its “Safe Drive Save Life” programme through the committees and that the police department paid the amount. At this, the petitioner had moved the Supreme Court. The apex court, too, had declined to issue a stay but had said that the state police administration would have to take the responsibility of maintaining accounts of the money paid for the purpose. On Friday, when senior counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya moved the petition, Justice Banerjee asked lawyers from both sides to produce last year’s order of the Supreme Court. Since the lawyers did not have a copy of the order, the bench adjourned the hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Presi alumni help for booksellers||The Presidency College alumni, many of who used to frequent the bookstalls dotting the College Street footpaths during their college days, on Friday extended a helping hand to booksellers hit hard by the pandemic. The alumni joined hands to raise money for 300 booksellers who came to the association’s office on the Presidency University campus to collect cheques of Rs 1,300 each. Friday was the first instalment of the help being extended to the booksellers ahead of Durga Puja, Bivas Chaudhury, the alumni association secretary, said. Booksellers may have resumed business but their earnings have been hit hard because buyers are not frequenting the stalls the way they used to earlier, Chaudhury said. “Their captive reader base vanished with the closure of the campuses that line Boipara. We are trying to help them as much as possible.” Some publishing houses have already decided to make books available on digital platforms as people have stopped visiting bookstores to avoid any sort of gathering. The lockdown had already destroyed their lives, Cyclone Amphan in May added to their woes, an alumna said. “The cyclone devastated the bookstall heritage corridor on College Street, stretching around 1.5km around Presidency University. Stalls had been damaged and books were strewn all around on waterlogged streets.” The association has set its sight on helping 500 booksellers. It has decided to raise Rs 24 lakh. “We will keep helping them as and when a decent sum is raised,” Chaudhury said. The association has compiled a list of bookstall owners and got it verified through the councillor and various local bodies. Pratap Das, one of the booksellers who collected the cheque on Friday, said: “It made me feel happy that these former students have not forgotten us. This gesture touched us.” The TTIS School Directory 2020, a book with information on more than 200 schools in the city and on its outskirts, was launched on Friday evening. The 14th edition of the directory was launched by Suborno Bose (centre), chief mentor, IIHM; Joyita Majumdar (right), the principal of Ruby Park Public School; and Jhuma Biswas (left), the principal of St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, during a show on Friends FM. The title sponsor for TTIS School Directory is IIHM, in association with St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore and Shyamnagar, powered by Ruby Park Public School and admission partner is admissiontree.in. “We are proud to be associated with it because the directory brings to the table a lot of value for parents. The directory and admissiontree are a perfect match for parents,” Bose said. The directory will be available on the stands from Saturday. P||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Harsher section invoked in car case||Police on Friday submitted a chargesheet for the Anandapur incident where a woman was allegedly assaulted and forced out of a Honda City and then another woman who tried to rescue her was hit by the car as it tried to speed away. The accused — Abhishek Pandey — has been charged with attempt to murder, outrage of modesty of a woman, voluntarily causing hurt, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life or personal safety of others. If convicted, Pandey could be sent to jail for up to 10 years. Earlier, the policehad booked Pandey under IPC section 308 (attempt to culpable homicide not amounting to murder). In the chargesheet, the section has been amended to 307 (attempt to murder). Officers said Section 307 of the IPC was tougher than 308. “Initially, we had thought that the woman who was assaulted and the accused barely knew each other. After assaulting her, the man was in a hurry to escape and accidentally hit Nilanjana Chatterjee (who rushed to the rescue of the other woman) while fleeing,” said an investigator. “But later we learned that the two (the accused and the assaulted woman) knew each other for years and there was no reason for him to drive the car in such a rash manner. So, a harsher section (attempt to murder) has been invoked.” The incident happened close to midnight on September 5 off EM Bypass, in front of Abhudoy housing complex in the Anandapur area. Chatterjee, who was in her car, heard screams of a woman from inside a Honda City. Chatterjee’s husband Deep Satpati had driven their car in a way that it blocked the Honda City’s way before Nilanjana stepped out. The next moment, the other woman was allegedly pushed out and the vehicle sped off, hitting Nilanjana. Chatterjee suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula and underwent surgery to fix the bones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Tridhara opts for simple pandal minus theme||In its 74th year, Tridhara Sammilani, one of the biggest crowd-pullers in south Calcutta, is dispensing with the services of a theme-maker for its pandal. It will be a simple structure coming up on Manoharpukur Road, a stone’s throw from Deshapriya Park. “The pandal will be less than half our usual size. Unlike other years, I do not want too many visitors this year. It will be impossible to maintain distancing norms otherwise,” Debashis Kumar, the puja’s general secretary said. Kumar is a member of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators. Other factors, too, reinforced the decision to downsize. The theme that was chosen last November for this year’s puja was cancelled, anticipating the pandemic situation. The first bamboo pole at the pandal site was planted on October 3, days after the state government announced the puja directives. “There is hardly time to try anything elaborate,” he said. Well-known theme-maker Gauranga Kuilya, a Tamluk resident, had been in charge of the pandal and the idol for the past eight years. “He brings 100-125 labourers from the districts to work on the pandal. Even if we could find space for them to stay, what would we have done if there was an infection outbreak among them? The local decorator’s men go home at the day’s end; so, there is no overnight gathering,” Kumar said. Economic compulsions, too, played a hand. Budget is down to one-fourth. Not a single advertisement has been finalised yet. “Talks are on but it is unrealistic to expect much,” he said. That has impacted the publicity budget as well. “Around this time in any other year, our banners would be all over the city. This time, we have no plans to put up anything beyond the immediate neighbourhood,” Gargi Mukherjee, the puja’s communications coordinator, said. From 400, the order for banners has come down to 20-25. Kuilya is making only the idol this time. “I have executed mammoth projects for Durga Puja; I will do so again in future. But this year, the general mood is downbeat. Erecting a gigantic pandal amid the pandemic would be like dressing up to see one’s father’s body,” the theme-maker, who has lost close associates to Covid-19, told The Telegraph from Tamluk. Kumar spoke of sagging public morale. “So many people have lost their livelihoods. Durga Puja will happen as a matter of course but the spirit is missing. That’s why we are going with the slogan Ei akale bodhan thak, utsab noy. (Let there be awakening, not celebration),” Kumar said. Tridhara, which is holding its puja magazine release, with artist Shuvaprasanna and author Narayan Debnath, over videoconference on Saturday, does not want even people of the area to crowd during sindur khela or anjali. “Our 65-year-old priest is wary of the possibility,” he said. So, the whole process will be streamed live on the club’s social media sites. “If someone insists on coming to the pandal, he or she will have to watch the proceedings on two giant LED screens that will be put up at the pandal’s entry and exit gates. They will have to bring their own floral offerings and deposit them in containers placed near the screens. We will not let anyone in except the priest’s helpers.” Kumar sounds a word of caution. “The Covid situation will worsen as we get closer to the Pujas, given how people are out shopping. If, as a political leader and civic body administrator, I go all out in organising puja this year I will lose the moral right to dissuade other pujas nearby from taking the extravagant route. For us to have no more than moderate footfall at Tridhara, we need neighbouring pujas to scale down plans, too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||Time to cooperate even more with cops||Police commissioner Anuj Sharma asked Puja organisers at a meeting on Friday to ensure that no visitor is allowed inside pandals without a mask and without getting his or her hands disinfected, an organiser who was at the meeting said. The organisers were also asked to enforce social distancing protocol and offer masks to those who don’t have one. The city top cop explained to the organisers that adequate precautionary measures at pandals would help prevent a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases after Puja. He then asked the organisers to ensure that pandals have enough room for air circulation and, if possible, keep the roof open. “We have always received your cooperation. This year is different and we want it even more. I had tested positive for the coronavirus and have recovered. No one should take chances. Please adhere to the guidelines that have been laid down,” an organiser quoted the police commissioner as saying at the meeting, held at Netaji Indoor Stadium. “The police commissioner reminded us in great det-ail about the norms, which the chief minister had told us earlier,” said Saswata Basu of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee. At a meeting with puja organisers in September, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had spelt out this year’s festive norms, including how pandals should be built to let air flow through it freely. Public health experts have been stressing the need for ventilation to minimise chances of spread of the coronavirus. Mamata had also urged the organisers to deploy more volunteers to prevent crowding inside pandals. Sharma’s word of caution came around the time when several puja committees have been calculating the amount they would have to spend on sanitisers and dispensers, depending on the likely footfall from Saptami to Navami. “That is no small amount. On an average we would need around 500 litres of sanitisers for the three days,” said Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains from Monday||Metro Railway will increase the number of trains and extend the timings from Monday in response to increasing passenger count. “From October 12, there will be 146 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. The interval between two trains will be around eight minutes in rush hours,” said a Metro official. The carrier now runs 122 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. “The last trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 8.30pm, instead of 8pm,” the official said. The last train will leave Noapara at 8.25pm from Monday. When the services resumed on September 14, the number of daily trains was 110 and Sunday services were suspended. The Sunday train count will also go up to 64, instead of 58, from October 18. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 10.10am and 8.30pm. The Sunday services, which resumed on October 4, see the last train leaving the terminal stations at 7.30pm now. Before the pandemic, the carrier used to run 288 trains every day from Monday to Saturday and carried over 600,000 passengers. For the first few days since the resumption of services, the Metro passenger count hovered around 20,000. One leg of the East-West Metro tunnel between Esplanade and Sealdah was completed by a boring machine on Friday evening. Engineers and workers broke into applause as soon as the machine — Urvi — broke open the diaphragm wall inside the upcoming underground Sealdah station around 4.30pm. Two boring machines had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in early 2019 but work had to be stopped after buildings in Bowbazar subsided when one of the machines hit an aquifer in August 2019. Urvi will now make a U-turn and burrow the other tunnel from the opposite end till Bowbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-276
10-10-2020||Business||Govt considering floor price for nominated gas fields, or price formula||State-run ONGC on Friday said the government was considering a floor price for nominated gas fields or even changing the gas formula with the PSU staring at a loss of Rs 6,000-7,000 crore on domestic gas production after prices fell to a low of $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) for the six months beginning this month. “The government-mandated rates are way below the cost of production of $3.5-3.7 per million British thermal unit… Our losses will be in the order of Rs 6,000-7,000 crore in the current fiscal,” Subhash Kumar, director (finance) of Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), told reporters after the AGM. Every dollar reduction in gas price leads to a revenue loss of about Rs 5,200 crore and a Rs 3,500-crore loss in profit. ONGC produces about 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from domestic fields. Kumar, however, hoped the government will act on the firm’ request and a floor price would be set to check losses. ONGC chairman and managing director Shashi Shanker said the current gas price does not cover cost and the company has made representations to the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for suitable amendments to the formula. “The ministry is favourably inclined and a committee has been set up to look into this. Prices have to be remunerative if the domestic output has to be raised. There is talk of a floor price and changes in the formula itself by linking the rate to relevant market benchmarks such as JKM,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||Vedanta close to getting delisted from domestic bourses||Vedanta is close to getting delisted from the domestic bourses after 137.78 crore shares were tendered at the close of the buyback offer made by the promoters. The shares tendered are more than the 134 crore out of the public holding of 169.73 crore shares that the promoter group, headed by Anil Agrawal, needed to delist the company. The promoters hold a little over 186 crore shares. Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal had earlier told a news channel he may come out with a counter offer if the delisting plan struggles to overcome the 90 per cent hump that is mandatory for it to become successful. Agarwal added that the response has been good and even LIC has tendered its shares. Some of the shareholders also reported glitches during the tendering process. However, data available from bourses showed that 137.78 crore shares were tendered at various price levels starting from Rs 87.25 apiece. Around 21.51 crore shares were offered at Rs 160 apiece, followed by 18.9 crore shares at Rs 145 and another 10.87 crore shares being offered at a price of Rs 153 per share. The company will now have to accept the shares and declare a buyback price. Vedanta promoters want to buy out 169.73 crore shares, or 47.67 per cent, held by the public to delist the firm. The reverse book building process started on October 5 and closed on Friday. The Vedanta scrip closed at Rs 122.10 on the BSE on Friday, a gain of 3.83 per cent over Thursday’s close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||RBI to buy state development loans in the secondary market||In a first of its kind move, the RBI on Friday announced that it will buy state development loans (SDLs), or bonds issued by state governments, in the secondary market. The step comes three days before a crucial GST Council meeting where states are going to discuss — but possibly not vote — on the contentious proposal to force them to borrow money from a cheap loan window to get a part of the money stuck because of poor GST collections and inadequate cash in the compensation cess fund. State governments raise loans from the market which are called SDLs. SDLs are dated securities issued by them in the primary market through normal auctions which are similar to those conducted for bonds issued by the central government. Interest is serviced at half-yearly intervals and the principal is repaid on the maturity date. The interest rates offered on SDLs are generally higher than central government securities, also called as G-Secs. There is also a secondary market for SDLs. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank would conduct open market operations (OMOs) in SDLs. The RBI would conduct these OMOs as a special case during the current financial year to address concerns about illiquidity and the absorptive capacity of the total government borrowing in the current year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
10-10-2020||Business||RBI seeks to address ‘disconnect’ with bond markets||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday sought to address the ‘disconnect’ with the bond markets through a combination of words and action. Three recent auctions of government securities conducted by the RBI have devolved as the markets demanded a higher yield, which the government was not prepared to concede. Market participants are apprehensive that the Centre may borrow more and that elevated inflation will force the RBI to go in for an extended pause in its interest rate cycle. On Friday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das finally chose to address the burning issue. Consequently, bond prices rallied with yields on the benchmark 10-year security falling by 10 basis points to 5.92 per cent. It later settled at 5.93 per cent. Asking the bond market participants to be “competitive without being combative”, Das said they needed to take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour (in the auctions) that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. “Yields in the government securities market, both primary and secondary segments, need to evolve in alignment with the comfortable liquidity conditions.” Das said the weighted average cost of borrowings by the Centre during the first half of 2020-21 at 5.82 per cent was the lowest in the last 16 years. He added that the RBI had assured that the borrowing programme of the Centre and the states for the rest of 2020-21 would be completed smoothly. The RBI said it would maintain comfortable liquidity conditions and conduct market operations in the form of outright and special open market operations (OMOs). It raised the weekly size of OMOs through which it buys bonds to Rs 20,000 crore from Rs 10,000 crore. Further, it extended the held-to-maturity relaxation for banks’ investment in government bonds till March 31, 2022. These are investments held till their maturity. On-tap LTRO The RBI will conduct on-tap targeted long term repo operation (TLTRO) with tenors of up to three years for a total of up to Rs 1,00,000 crore at a floating rate linked to the policy repo rate. The scheme will be available up to March 31, 2021 with flexibility on raising the amount and term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business|| India Inc. welcomes RBI's monetary policy stance||The RBI’s resolve to continue with an accommodative monetary policy stance and focus on reviving growth has been welcomed by India Inc. CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said the additional measures announced by the RBI in the form of liquidity support, reviving exports and improving ease of doing business are expected to give an impetus to the recovery process. Ficci president Sangita Reddy said the measures would enable banks to manage liquidity without facing many frictions given the government’s own borrowing requirements. Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani said the recast in home loan rules will give a boost to the real estate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business||RBI recasts rules for new home loans||The RBI has recast the rules for new home loans to boost the real estate sector. At present, differential risk weights are applicable to individual home loans, based on the size of the loan as well as the loan-to-value ratio (LTV). The LTV is that proportion of a loan given relative to the total value of the property. Risk weightage determines the amount of capital that banks must maintain while providing loans. Thus, a risk weightage of 100 per cent means that banks have to set aside Rs 9 for every Rs 100 lent (the minimum capital adequacy ratio is 9 per cent) or Rs 4.5 if the risk weightage is 50 per cent. “In recognition of the role of the real estate sector in generating employment and economic activity, it has been decided to rationalise the risk weights and link them to LTV ratios only for all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31, 2022,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. So far, the risk weight differed across the size of the loan and the LTV ratio. For instance, in the case of loans up to Rs 30 lakh and a LTV ratio of less than 80 per cent, the risk weight was 35 per cent, while for a higher LTV ratio, the risk weight stood at 50 per cent. The risk weight was 35 per cent for loans of Rs 35-75 lakh (LTV ratio of less than 80 per cent) and 50 per cent for loans above Rs 75 lakh where the LTV ratio is less than 75 per cent. Now, all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31, 2022 will attract a risk weight of 35 per cent where LTV is less than or equal to 80 per cent, and a risk weight of 50 per cent where LTV is more than 80 per cent but less than or equal to 90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||Business||RBI projects economy to contract 9.5 per cent this fiscal||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday projected the economy to contract 9.5 per cent in this fiscal with risks tilted to the downside — the first forecast by the apex bank since the onset of the pandemic which almost matches that of the World Bank (9.6 per cent contraction) made 24-hours ago. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also refused to buy into projections of a V-shaped recovery made by finance ministry mandarins a month ago or any of the other U, L, of K shaped figures speculated by economists. Recovery would be a three-speed one with revival different across sectors, the RBI governor said after the monetary policy committee (MPC) held the repo rate constant as widely expected. Surprisingly, the RBI governor’s statement doesn’t square with the forecasts in the 100-page monetary policy report. In his statement, Das said: “There is currently an animated debate about the shape of the recovery. Will it be V, U, L, or W? More recently, there has also been talk of a K-shaped recovery. In my view, it is likely to predominantly be a three-speed recovery, with individual sectors showing varying paces, depending on sector-specific realities.” However, the monetary policy report paints a very different picture, clearly pointing to a very sharp V-shaped recovery. In its baseline forecast, real GDP is projected to contract by 9.5 per cent this year but then bounce back to a positive 10.1 per cent in 2021-22. It lays out two other scenarios. In Scenario 1 — which assumes a faster normalisation of supply chains — the RBI forecasts a contraction of 7.5 per cent this fiscal and a strong 11.6 per cent growth next year. In Scenario 2 — an adverse case — real GDP growth this year will shrink by 11.5 per cent this year before rebounding to 7.2 per cent next year which it characterises as a “tepid growth”. In all three scenarios, there is a clear V-shaped recovery with the only difference being in the trajectory of the second arm. The newly constituted MPC, while keeping rates intact, has maintained an accomodative stance that led to analysts projecting rate cuts not very far ahead as  financial stocks advanced on the bourses with the Sensex rising more than 300 points. Inflation watch In a “decisively” dovish commentary, the MPC said they would await the easing of inflationary pressures to use the space available for supporting growth further since the revival of the economy from the Covid-19 pandemic assumes the highest priority in the conduct of monetary policy. The growth oriented committee also decided to look through the current inflation hump as transient. Economists feel that the RBI will bring down the repo rate by 25-50 basis points in the coming months. “We currently have a pause in December followed by a 25 basis points rate cut in February and we maintain that call. The assurance that policy will stay accommodative is likely to help anchor market pricing as well as markets-based borrowing cost,” Radhika Rao, economist, DBS Group Research, said. Edelweiss Research said it continued to expect another 25-50 basis repo rate cuts, but potentially a much sharper fall in long-end rates as well over the next 6-12 months.  The monetary policy committee  also came out with an inflation forecast for the first time after January. CPI (consumer price index) inflation is projected at 6.8 per cent for the second quarter and at 5.4-4.5 per cent during the second half and 4.3 per cent in the first quarter of next fiscal with risks broadly balanced.  The Reserve Bank’s target inflation range is 4 per cent plus/minus 2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-267
10-10-2020||India||Pompeo slams China's aggressive military behaviour||China has amassed more than 60,000 troops on India's northern border, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said as he hit out at Beijing for its "bad behaviour" and the threats it poses to the Quad countries. The foreign ministers from the Indo-Pacific nations, known as the Quad group - the US, Japan, India and Australia - met in Tokyo on Tuesday in what was their first in-person talks since the coronavirus pandemic began. The meeting took place in the backdrop of China's aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. "The Indians are seeing 60,000 Chinese soldiers on their northern border," Pompeo told The Guy Benson Show in an interview on Friday after his return from Tokyo wherein he attended the second Quad ministerial with his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia. "I was with my foreign minister counterparts from India, Australia, and Japan a format that we call the Quad, four big democracies, four powerful economies, four nations, each of whom has real risk associated with the threats imposed attempting to be imposed by the Chinese Communist Party. And they see it in their home countries too," he said. Pompeo met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in Tokyo on Tuesday and they underscored the need to work together to advance, peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe. He described his meeting with Jaishankar as "productive." "They see, the people of their (Quad) nations understanding that we all slept on this for too long. For decades, the West allowed the Chinese Communist Party to walk all over us. The previous administration bent a knee, too often allowed China to steal our intellectual properties and the millions of jobs that came along with it. They see that in their country too," he said in the interview. In another interview with Larry O'Connor, Pompeo said in his meetings with his counterparts from Japan, India and Australia, they began to develop a set of understandings and policies that can jointly take these countries to work to present a true resistance to the threats that the Chinese Communist Party poses to each of these nations. "They absolutely need the United States to be their ally and partner in this fight," he said. "But they've all seen it, whether it's the Indians, who are actually having a physical confrontation with the Chinese up in the Himalayas in the northeastern part of India, the Chinese have now begun to amass huge forces against India in the north whether it's the Australians who did the simple thing of saying the Chinese screwed this deal up with the virus, and we'd like to understand what happened and said we ought to have a full investigation, and in exchange for that, the Chinese Communist Party began to extort, coerce, bully the Australians, Pompeo said. Every one of these countries has seen this, he said, adding that people in each of these countries now understand the Chinese Communist Party presents a threat to them. "The world has awakened. The tide's begun to turn. And the United States under President Trump's leadership has now built out a coalition that will push back against the threat and maintain good order, the rule of law, and the basic civic decency that comes from democracies controlling the world and not authoritarian regimes," Pompeo said. In his third-interview to Fox News, Pompeo said that the US under Trump administration has begun to build out all the edifice of the structure and the allies and the coalition to push back against China. "We aim to protect the American people from the threat that the Chinese Communist Party poses," he said. Referring to his Quad ministerial meeting, Pompeo said that the three other countries Japan, India, and Australia were building out a coalition, build partners and allies around the world who understand the threat from the Chinese Communist Party in the same way that "we do so that they can protect jobs here at home". "Look, they've stacked 60,000 soldiers against the Indians in the north. When the Australians had the temerity to ask for an investigation of the Wuhan virus and where it began, something that we know a lot about, the Chinese Communist Party threatened them. They bullied them, Pompeo told Fox News. "We need partners and friends. They'll certainly try to react. But what the Chinese Communist Party had become accustomed to, frankly, for an awfully long time was watching America bend a knee, watching us turn the other cheek and appease them," he said. "That only encouraged their bad behaviour, their malign activity. Our push back they understand we're serious about it. They've watched that we're going to confront them and impose costs upon them. I am confident that this activity, over time, will change the nature of what the Chinese Communist Party tries to do to harm America, Pompeo said. India is expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Centre issues fresh advisory to states for women's safety||The Centre has issued a fresh advisory to states and UTs on mandotary action in cases of crimes against women, and said probe into rape cases must be completed within two months as per law and that dying declaration of a victim can't be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a magistrate. The detailed three-page advisory of the Union Home Ministry came days after the alleged gangrape and murder of a woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh sparked nationwide outrage. The home ministry said there should be compulsory registration of an FIR in case of a cognisable offence under the CrPC, and any failure of police to adhere to laid down rules does not augur well for the delivery of justice. The law also enables the police to register an FIR or a "Zero FIR", in case the crime is committed outside the jurisdiction of police station, in the event of receipt of information on commission of a cognisable offence, which includes cases of sexual assault on women, the ministry said. "However, even with stringent provisions in law and several capacity building measures undertaken, any failure of police to adhere to these mandatory requirements may not augur well for the delivery of criminal justice in the country, especially in the context of women safety," it said. "Such lapses, if noticed, need to be investigated into and stringent action taken immediately against the concerned officers responsible for the same," the advisory to states and Union Territory administrations said. The home ministry told the states and UT administrations that the Section 173 of CrPC provides for completion of police investigation in relation to rape in two months and Section 164-A of CrPC provides that in rape or sexual assault investigation, the victim should be examined by a registered medical practitioner under consent within twenty-four hours from the time of receiving the information relating to the commission of such offence. The advisory said the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, provides that the statement, written or verbal by a person, who is dead, shall be treated as relevant fact in the investigation when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his (or her) death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his (or her) death. "Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 7th January 2020.....directed that a particular statement, when being offered as dying declaration and satisfies all the requirements of judicial scrutiny, cannot be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a Magistrate or that the police officer did not obtain attestation by any person present at the time of making of the statement, it said. It is necessary to use the Sexual Assault Evidence Collection (SAEC) kits in every case of sexual assault reported for which the home ministry has been regularly conducting training and Training of Trainers (TOT) programmes on procedure for collection, preservation and handling of forensic evidence for police and prosecutors and medical officers respectively. In order to facilitate the state police to monitor compliance, the home ministry said, an online portal called Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences (ITSSO) for monitoring the same has been available exclusively to law enforcement officers. The states and UTs were advised to use the national database on sexual offenders for identifying and tracking repeat sexual offenders etc. The home ministry also mentioned about the previous advisories sent by it on the issue of crimes against women and pro-active police action on May 16, 2019, December 5, 2019, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Investigation and Prosecution of Rape against Women issued by BPR&D and distribution of SAEC kits. "The Government of India has taken steps to strengthen legislative provisions to deal with incidents of sexual offences against women and girls," it said. "It is requested that States and UTs, may suitably issue instructions to all concerned to ensure strict compliance with the provisions in the law...It is also requested to monitor the cases on ITSSO to ensure that suitable follow up action is taken for the charge-sheet of the guilty in a timely manner as required in the law, the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Scientists call Modi turbine suggestion impractical and outlandish||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s question whether a wind turbine could be a three-in-one device to extract energy, water and oxygen from the air hangs somewhere between outlandish and impractical, sections of scientists said on Friday. Modi, during a recent conversation with the head of a Danish wind-turbine maker, had asked whether a turbine could be used to harvest water from moisture in the air and oxygen too, thus serving as a three-in-one machine. The Prime Minister’s suggestion and Vestas CEO Henrik Andersen’s response that he might invite Modi to Denmark as an “idea generator” for that country’s research and engineering community have drawn political taunts and support. Some scientists, ignoring the politics, brainstormed on the challenge. Some said the challenge is: can the energy from a wind turbine be used into processes that can produce both water and oxygen? The uncertainty and impracticality emerges from energy economics. “The engineer in me says, basically, yes, if you give me a source of power, I could use it to run some process,” said a Mumbai-based senior researcher. “It is a matter of cost. What is the cost per litre of water generated this way versus the use of grid power or some other source of energy such as solar power? This is a question of economics, not science. Like solar refrigeration, possible, but what is the cost compared to the alternative?” Pure oxygen extraction from air may require fractional distillation, which is expensive and super energy intensive, the researcher said. Oxygen enrichment is possible through the use of materials called zeolites, which is how most portable oxygen concentrators work. Another researcher pointed out that passive water extraction technologies are already in operation and do not require energy. These technologies involve systems that cool down at night and have a large surface area to achieve water extraction. Engineers at the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands had 12 years ago demonstrated a prototype wind turbine that they proposed could be used for seawater desalination. While a traditional windmill drives a pump, the Delft engineers had proposed a high-pressure pump that pushes water through a reverse osmosis membrane to produce fresh water directly from seawater. The technology was intended for deployment in coastal areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Shashi, prove ’em silly by finishing idli pile. No sambar!   ||Edward Anderson, a British historian, has set the pot — and much more — boiling for a few hours by declaring “idli are the most boring things in the world”. Shashi Tharoor’s son, Ishaan, a foreign affairs columnist for the New Yorker, was the first to weigh in: “I think I’ve encountered the most offensive take on Twitter.” He was backed up by his father, the MP of Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala: “Yes, my son, there are some who are truly challenged in this world. Civilisation is hard to acquire: the taste & refinement to appreciate idlis, enjoy cricket, or watch ottamthullal (a dance and poetic performance) is not given to every mortal. Take pity on this poor man, for he may never know what Life can be.” Anderson did add: “P.S. Before the whole of south India attacks me, can I just say that I love dosa and appam and basically all south Indian food. But idli (and puttu for that matter) are insufferable.” Puttu is a cylindrical rice cake. Some largely good-natured ribbing — although not all were amused — followed with many Indians joining in. The “news” made it to the American CNN, too, which opted for British humour by suggesting the historian’s idli tweet “did not go down well”. Anderson told BBC that as far as the “fun responses go, some have been brilliant. And a lot of people have made the very valid point that it is a bit rich for a Britisher to criticise Indian food as being bland!” The Twitter bake-off ended (or took an idli break) with a gracious addition by Anderson: “Fantastic. My stupid idli comment has now been connected — ever so tenuously — to the US election. For the record: I love Indian food... and especially south Indian food! (Just not idlis).” He was referring to a report that mentioned Kamala Harris, the US Democratic candidate for Vice-President, saying her late mother, Shyamala Gopalan, “always wanted to instil in us, a love of good idli”. Tharoor Senior responded: “At least now, Anderson, you know idlis aren’t boring! Would a mere roti have stirred up such a viral row on social media? Let alone a Yorkshire pudding?” Anderson is no stranger to either India or idlis. He works on the history and politics of modern and contemporary India and Britain. His research focuses on the Indian diaspora, transnational politics, religious nationalism, and British histories of migration, ethnicity and multiculturalism. Perhaps most relevant to the debate is his wife’s ethnic identity — some would say he speaks from experience. He told the BBC he had had “many idlis in his life mainly in India — I’ve spent a lot of time there over the years and my wife is from Kerala. Idlis regularly feature at breakfast with the in-laws.” After the entire idly exchange, one titbit of information did stand out. Willy nilly, or idly nilly, it came across that like most carbohydrates, the enticement of the dish is greatly enhanced by the accompaniments. Tharoor himself gave it away in a tweet while cuddling the idli. “Try it with a plate of steaming idlis, accompanied by coconut chutney with a garnish of mustard seeds, a red-chilli-and-onion samandi & some molagapodi w/melted ghee. If the idli batter has been fermented right, it’s the closest thing to heaven on this earth!” Molagapodi is the world-famous “gunpowder” that can go with idli as well as dosa. Many have idlis with sambar, too. Sriram Aylur, executive chef of Quilon, an upmarket south Indian restaurant in London, told The Telegraph in loving detail about the joys and pitfalls of idli. “Any carbohydrate on its own can be boring — rice can be boring. Idli has to be well made, soft and fluffy. It is meant to enhance taste. It depends where Anderson had his idli.” “Idli is a simple dish but you have to follow certain procedures,” he added. Not that everyone needs accompaniments to demolish mountainous quantities of fluffy idlis. Most idli-eating competitions begin with a round of plain idlis and water with no companion dishes. Perhaps, the Tharoors should take up such a challenge because as the cliché goes, the proof of the idli is in the eating. Will it be a cakewalk for the Tharoors, or will Anderson be tucking into the pudding?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||NRI quota in medical not must: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that candidates have no vested automatic right to admissions under the NRI quota for undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses in private colleges as it is the discretion of the managements to confer such benefit. However, a bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat directed Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences, Rajasthan, to conduct a special counselling session for a group of doctors seeking admission under the NRI quota in postgraduate seats, since the special quota was abruptly withdrawn by the private colleges after inviting aspirants for the admission process. The court said that the NRI aspirants should be admitted solely on the basis of merit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Fee hike worry over Delhi University funds proposal ||Delhi University has committed to raise Rs 334 crore internally in the next four years to implement the projects planned under the Institution of Eminence (IoE) scheme, a proposal many faculty members have opposed because it would result in increase in tuition fees. The university’s Executive Council will meet on Saturday to clear the proposal. The agenda copy for the council meeting has attached the details of funding of new centres the university would set up under the scheme. The university has already got IoE status. The Centre will give Rs 1,000 crore to the university by 2024-25, while the institution will have to arrange another Rs 334 crore, it said. “The University of Delhi shall endeavour to continue to charge and revise fees for its various courses and facilities, keeping in view the need to make quality higher education accessible to the poorest of the poor in this country and also from African, Asian and Latin American countries,” the agenda copy said. Aditya Narayan Mishra, a faculty member, said the university would be forced to increase fees to raise the funds it had committed. Currently, the tuition fees in colleges and university departments are below Rs 100 a month. “Increase in fees will deny education to poor students at DU. Over 60 per cent of students of the university are from SC, ST, backward classes and economically weaker sections. They will be discouraged to study at DU,” Mishra said. A group of teachers has written to the DU Teachers’ Association to build up a strong protest against the move which, they fear, will lead to privatisation of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Yechury flags concern on BJP poll cash ||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday, highlighting concerns over opaque political funding and the lack of a level playing field with the BJP in the upcoming Bihar polls. In his letter, Yechury questioned the Election Commission of India’s ability to ensure a level playing field due to the pending electoral bond case in the Supreme Court. “You are aware, as much as we are, that the EC earlier had told the SC that electoral bonds will signal ‘serious repercussions on the transparency aspect of political funding of political parties’… Since the matter is now pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the question is, how the Election Commission will discharge the mandate of Article 324 in ensuring a free and fair poll in Bihar and a level playing field,” Yechury wrote. The court has refused to stay the scheme that offers anonymity to political donors although it has asked all parties to give details of bonds received to the EC by May 30 in sealed covers. Yechury added that the BJP enjoyed a “disproportionate advantage” over other parties in the use of mass media and has reportedly misused social media to “to build a narrative based on fake news”. He said, “On the eve of the 2019 general election, the then BJP president Amit Shah had publicly stated that the party, with its network of 32 lakh WhatsApp groups, can make any message, true or false, viral within hours. Add to this, the finding of international fact-check websites that an overwhelming majority of fake news is generated in India. And now on the eve of the Bihar elections, the party has kicked off a virtual election campaign by putting up 72,000 LED TV monitors for Shah’s speech… Obviously, the anonymous corporate funds without any upper ceiling will certainly be the death knell for electoral democracy.” The BJP bagged 92.94 per cent of all corporate donations made to parties between 2016 and 2018. The CPM is contesting only four out of the 243 Assembly seats in the three-phase Bihar polls that begin later this month. It is part of the Rashriya Janata Dal-led Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) of Opposition parties in Bihar. “The issue of use of social media by political parties has assumed new significance in the light of the exposure on the BJP’s involvement in the spread of misogyny and hate on social media. The report in The Wall Street Journal has opened the floodgate of more factual details about how Facebook and Twitter have been complicit in turning a blind eye to BJP’s divisive campaign on the strength of its substantial investment through advertisement in the social media platform along with its associates. This is in addition to its use of WhatsApp messages to build a narrative based on fake news,” he said. The EC is yet to respond to the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Rahul questions Modi turbine idea, ministers hit back||If politics is so bitterly divided, even a flight of imagination raises a dust. This was manifest on Friday yet again when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi taunted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for asking if turbines could be used to create drinking water from the excess moisture in air as well as separating oxygen from air. The query, which would have withstood scrutiny and critical evaluation had it been the product of a youngster’s creative thinking, triggered a political slugfest because the Prime Minister of India had made the suggestion in a formal conversation with Henrik Andersen, president and CEO of Vestas, a Danish company that manufactures wind turbines. The principal Opposition leader, instead of laughing off the impractical idea, chose to point out what was wrong. “The real danger to India isn’t that our Prime Minister doesn’t understand. It’s the fact that nobody around him has the guts to tell him,” Rahul wrote, posting the two-day-old video on Twitter. While many Congress workers and other social media users made fun of the Prime Minister, recalling his earlier questionable comments on matters related to science, the party’s official Twitter handle also ridiculed Modi saying he was playing the role of a scientist after ruining the economy. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh sarcastically said, referring to Modi’s educational qualifications: “This is what happens when you have an MA in entire political SCIENCE.” The Prime Minister had tweeted after the conversation: “Had an insightful interaction with Mr Henrik Andersen, President and CEO, @Vestas. We discussed a series of issues relating to the wind energy sector. Highlighted some of India’s efforts to harness renewable energy in order to build a cleaner future for the coming generations.” Modi had asked whether turbines could be used to create clean drinking water from excess moisture in air and whether this could also be used to separate oxygen from air. He had wondered if the same turbine could be used to manufacture oxygen, clean drinking water and energy with some technological advancement. A smiling Andersen had replied: “…Come visit me in Denmark, you can be the idea developer for our research development. I can’t say how pleased I am with your ideas.” A visibly elated Modi had burst into laughter. It is true that many scientific ideas have been laughed off and have appeared improbable at the beginning but have germinated into reality. But Congress leaders insisted that it was Modi’s track record of floating seemingly weird ideas — closer to fantasy and superstition than to science — that had prompted such a sardonic reaction from Rahul. They recalled Modi’s claim that Lord Ganesha’s head was one of the first instances of plastic surgery and his arguments on climate change. He had said while talking to students: “Climate change is nothing. People get old and feel more cold than usual. Then they say it is climate change.” Some Congress workers also posted videos of Modi narrating the experience of a tea seller who had used gas from a nullah, through a pipe, to light up his stove. He was also criticised for claiming that he had suggested to the Indian Air Force that they should take advantage of cloudy weather to escape detection by Pakistani radars. BJP ministers and leaders rallied behind Modi on Friday, arguing his idea had been appreciated by Vestas chief Andersen. Modi’s supporters had attributed scientific motives to his calls to the nation during the lockdown — such as banging utensils, clapping and lighting candles on designated dates and times — arguing how his suggestions had been based on calculations to obliterate the coronavirus from India. His supporters had even sung “go corona go” in the hope of beating the global pandemic. Railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted: “Nobody around Rahul Gandhi has the guts to tell him that he doesn’t understand. He mocks PM Narendra Modi’s ideas when the CEO of the world’s leading company endorses them.” Minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju tweeted: “…Narendra Modi ji speaks after deep research, understanding of subjects….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
10-10-2020||India||NHRC asks AIIMS, New Delhi to address caste discrimination allegations||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, to address allegations by a postgraduate doctor who is a Scheduled Caste candidate that a selection panel had rejected him for a post for “extraneous reasons”. Harjit Singh Bhatti, an MD in geriatric medicine from the AIIMS itself, has said the panel rejected him even though he was the only candidate who had appeared for the “walk-in” interview for a contractual post of an assistant professor in geriatric medicine. Bhatti, in a complaint to the NHRC, has accused the panel of discriminating against him on the basis of caste and pointed out that he had from time to time raised issues relating to basic facilities for staff at the AIIMS. Earlier this year, he had pointed to shortages in personal protective equipment. A top AIIMS official has said the allegations are not true. “Dr Bhatti appeared for the interview where an external expert evaluated him, including his research and publications,” the official told The Telegraph. The decision was based on the experts’ assessment and grading, the official said. The NHRC, taking note of the complaint, on Friday wrote to the AIIMS director seeking appropriate action on the complaint that, it said, has alleged caste-based harassment, humiliation and discrimination. The NHRC has sought an “action taken report” from the institute within four weeks. “The Commission, generally, does not entertain the complaints relating to service-related grievances, but the allegations of caste-based discrimination and right to health of the elderly people amid the Covid-19 pandemic are a matter of concern for the Commission,” the NHRC said in its note. Bhatti, who graduated from the Government Medical College in Jabalpur and obtained his MD degree from the AIIMS, also spent three additional years at the institute as a senior resident in geriatric medicine. He had applied for the contractual position advertised by the AIIMS on August 10 this year asking candidates to appear for a “walk-in” interview on August 25. Bhatti said he was the only candidate to appear for this post, but was still rejected. Bhatti, in his complaint, has said that besides his AIIMS experience, he also has four research publications, two in collaboration with the pharmacology department, which demonstrate capacity for interdisciplinary research. A senior AIIMS faculty member familiar with these developments has told this newspaper that the panel’s rejection of Bhatti appears to be in line with a tradition of embracing extraneous considerations, including caste-based discrimination, during selections and promotions. A three-member expert panel led by former UGC chairperson S.K. Thorat had a decade ago documented caste-discrimination against SC students at the AIIMS. The panel had noted that this discrimination manifests itself as “contempt, discouragement and differential treatment.”The faculty member believes Bhatti has also likely been the victim of such discrimination. “It could be for caste or for his decision to raise genuine issues relating to PPEs,” the faculty member said. “Nobody records such reasons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
10-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Video of UP police burning victim’s body||A television channel has aired footage showing a group in uniform and plainclothes preparing a pyre over a body wrapped in white cloth, pouring the contents of a jerry can and setting it alight purportedly at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The father of the Dalit teenager who was brutalised and murdered last month in Hathras said the clips showed police burning the body of his daughter on September 30.  The father said he could recognise all the individuals in the footage as local policemen he had seen during visits to the police station and interactions since the death of his daughter. Uttar Pradesh police denied that they had forcibly burnt the body of the Hathras victim. State additional director-general of police (law and order) Praveen Kumar said he did “not recognise” the video. He accused the family of the Hathras girl of changing their statement “for reasons best known to them”. “Whatever was done there was done with the consent of the family. Some of the family members were present at the cremation site and all the rituals were followed,” Kumar added. Narendra Pratap, the reporter who gathered the clips, told The Telegraph on phone: “I stand by the story. It is true that the girl’s body was burnt by the policemen.” If the veracity of the footage and the identity of the body are established, it will be clearest proof yet that the girl’s immediate family was shut out of the last rites. The suspicions and allegations shrouding the cremation had served to transform the tragedy into a national issue, lending credence to suggestions that the government was keen to hush up the matter. The Uttar Pradesh home department had left that matter vague in an affidavit to the Supreme Court earlier this week, merely referring to “family members” without identifying them by relation. “The extraordinary circumstances and sequence of unlawful incidents… forced the district administration to take the extraordinary step of cremating the victim at night in presence of family members who agreed to attend to avoid further violence,” the state government’s affidavit had said. “The cremation of the victim was performed with full rites and customs,” the affidavit had added subsequently. If the authenticity of the latest clips is upheld, it would also raise questions whether emptying the contents of a jerry can meets the description of “rites and customs”. The latest footage, which appeared to have been shot on a mobile phone, shows men in plainclothes and in uniform placing logs, planks and dried dung on a body wrapped in a white cloth and setting the mound on fire by pouring the contents of a white container. The family has accused the police of forcibly burning the body of the victim after locking them up. An uncle of the girl had said he had been forcibly taken by the police to the site of the burning to register the token presence of a family member. On September 30 night, television news channels had shown footage of the alleged burning of the body from a distance. The clips aired on Friday are far more clear. Prem Prakash Meena, subdivisional magistrate of Hathras district, had told reporters on September 30 that “the family members of the victim were present during the cremation. We have made many videos of their presence during the last rites of the victim.” The controversy can be set to rest if edited excerpts of the video — showing the family members with their identity masked — are made public or shown to a group of independent observers or a civil society group. For some reason, the Yogi Adityanath government has not taken such an initiative so far. The father of the victim told reporters in Hathras on Friday: “We are not surprised to see the video and can identify every policeman in it, even if they are in plainclothes. We knew what exactly happened that day as some villagers were present there. The policemen brought my daughter’s body from Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi in an ambulance. The ambulance was parked in front of our house for a few minutes. Then some policemen locked the door of our house from outside and took the body to an agricultural field and burnt her hurriedly by using cow dung and wood collected from Rajput households in the village.” The four persons arrested for the gang rape and murder of the girl belong to the Rajput caste. The father of the girl said no tradition or ritual was followed. “The video exposes the Yogi Adityanath government’s false affidavit in the Supreme Court that (the cremation) was done according to our wishes and because there was apprehension of violence. The government has lied to the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
10-10-2020||India||Chirag Paswan letter to J.P. Nadda leaked||A letter purportedly written by Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan to BJP national president J.P. Nadda recounting instances where Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had allegedly insulted his father Ram Vilas Paswan and him was leaked on Thursday night around the time the LJP founder passed away. The letter has raised eyebrows in the political circles and speculation over its purpose because of the details hitherto unknown in the public as well as its timing. The missive throws light on the reasons on why Chirag cannot patch up with Nitish and his Janata Dal United (JDU) despite the upcoming Assembly elections. Written on September 24, a day before the Bihar elections were announced, the letter points out that apart from the six Lok Sabha seats, a Rajya Sabha seat was promised to Ram Vilas during the seat-sharing deal for the 2019 general elections in the presence of then BJP president Amit Shah, Nitish and LJP leaders. “However, Nitish refused to support Ram Vilas just before the Rajya Sabha polls and the latter was forced to go to his residence to placate him. Nitish’s behaviour was not appropriate when he (Ram Vilas) went to his house. The chief minister did not come to the nomination despite my father’s repeated requests. He came only after the muhurta (auspicious time) of nomination had passed. All these have led to much resentment among our leaders and workers,” Chirag said in the letter. “Nitish even refused to acknowledge that my father was ill when mediapersons asked him a question on it. This was at a time when the President, the Prime Minister and top leaders cutting across party lines were concerned about his health and wished speedy recovery. The chief minister’s behaviour was insensitive,” he added. Chirag accused Nitish of not consulting anybody from his party on the coronavirus pandemic, and not meeting, talking to him or replying to his letters despite seeking time to discuss the “Bihar first, Bihari first” campaign. He also asserted that the ruling NDA was still working on the agenda fixed by the Opposition Grand Alliance of which Nitish’s JDU was a partner earlier. Chirag, who has been on the warpath with Nitish for the last few months and has refused to acknowledge the chief minister’s development schemes in Bihar, asserted that he refused to take in migrant workers returning from other states during the lockdown, and did nothing to alleviate the flood affected despite ruling for 15 years. “There is a distinct wave against Nitish in the state. The BJP at present is capable of winning the elections on its own chief ministerial candidate. I am busy tending to my ill father and encouraging our party workers to ensure the victory of the NDA, but some JDU leaders are calling me Kalidas, middleman, and are threatening to break my nose and mouth during this difficult time for me,” Chirag said. The LJP chief voiced full faith and dedication towards the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but said “such words by some leaders will cause friction between our parties”. He also asked Nadda to free him to choose an independent path if the BJP was facing any problem in the Bihar alliance due to him or his party, but assured that any fresh step would not be against the interests of the BJP. Chirag has vowed to put up candidates against the JDU during the elections but has professed full support to the BJP. He has already announced 40 candidates, who could queer the pitch for the JDU in the polls. Besides, many of the LJP candidates are those who have quit the BJP and the RSS recently to contest elections, indicating that it could be a brainchild of top leaders from the saffron party to undermine Nitish and ride to power in the post-poll scenario. “The timing of the release of the letter is significant. It tends to discredit Nitish in the eyes of the Scheduled Castes ahead of the polls for allegedly humiliating Ram Vilas. This may influence the pattern of voting. Secondly, Chirag, by taking the onus on himself, tries to absolve the BJP of allegations of scheming against Nitish,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. A few political leaders from different parties said the letter was aimed at gathering the sympathy of voters, especially those hailing from the Scheduled Castes. Ram Vilas’s body was brought to the Patna airport on a special flight of the Indian Air Force on Friday evening, where Nitish and senior BJP leaders, including Sushil Kumar Modi, paid floral tributes. The cremation is expected to take place on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee’s health parameters normal||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee's vital health parameters are normal, his daughter Poulomi Basu said on Saturday. The 85-year-old actor was shifted to the ITU of a city hospital after he experienced restlessness and was in an "acute confusional stage" on Friday. Chatterjee was admitted to the private hospital on Tuesday after he tested positive for COVID-19. "As per the doctors' team attending to my father, he is maintaining his vital parameters and is stable on this account. His blood pressure is normal and he is not requiring oxygen administration at the moment," Basu said in a statement. However, he was suffering from COVID encephalopathy, as per the physicians' assessment and, therefore, disoriented and restless at the time. “All due care is being taken,” she said. "There has been no deterioration on account of his comorbidities including a high PSA count, pneumonia tendencies and compromised lungs which is a good sign," Basu added. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
10-10-2020||West Bengal||House collapse kills 2||Two brothers were killed and their father severely injured when their two-storey mud house collapsed on them at a village in Bankura’s Joypur early on Friday. Police said brothers Santosh Biswas, 56, and Bikash Biswas, 52, got trapped in the debris of the house at Supur village that came crashing down on them around 1am while they were trying to rescue their 81-year-old father Anil Charan Biswas, who can’t walk because of age-related ailments. Residents came rushing on hearing the noise of the collapse and informed the police. Police and fire brigade officers brought out the brothers and their aged father from under the debris after three hours and sent them to Joypur block primary health centre. Doctors declared Santosh and Bikash dead on arrival. Their injured father was hospitalised. Octogenarian Anil has been the former secretary of the CPM-affiliated All Bengal Teachers’ Association’s Bankura chapter and former chairman of Bankura primary school council. Soma, Santosh’s wife, said she was shocked at the events of the day. “I was sleeping on the first floor of our house with my daughter when we felt a tremor. My husband was sleeping on the ground floor with his father when his brother took us out of the house. The brothers again went inside the house to rescue their father when the mud house collapsed on them in front of our eyes,” said an inconsolable Soma, adding that her husband worked at a private company in Burdwan town. She said the house was over five decades old but not dilapidated, though its condition had worsened this monsoon. “We were about to repair the house after Durga Puja but it collapsed,” she added. Police handed over the bodies to the family after post-mortem. A pall of gloom descended on Supur as the news of the deaths spread. A villager said the octogenarian father had not yet been told that he had lost his two sons. “It will be too much for him to bear at his age” the villager said. One of the brothers’ cousins who stays at a concrete house nearby said he had told “Anil uncle” to leave the mud house and stay with him, but he refused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Long road to land rights||Hundreds of people residing in former Bangladeshi enclaves, which are now Indian villages in Cooch Behar district, are yet to receive land rights. The delay in validating their ownership of land is a continued source of hardship for these people who chose to become a part of India in 2015 when the two countries exchanged enclaves. “Only a handful of them have received the (land rights) documents, but most of those are erroneous and need to be rectified. Others haven’t got their papers,” admitted a district official. On July 31, 2015, 51 Bangladeshi enclaves that were within India merged with the Indian mainland. All 14,835 Bangladeshi residents living in these enclaves became Indians and 7,110 acres of Bangladeshi land became Indian land. On the other side, 111 Indian enclaves got merged with Bangladesh. Later, 921 persons crossed the border and reached Cooch Behar. They are staying in settlement camps now. “Since then, we have not yet received land rights. We have old deeds issued by Bangladeshi authorities but those are of no use now. A few of us have received documents from the district administration here (Cooch Behar) but those are full of errors. For example, a person who owns five bighas of land has been handed over land rights of only one bigha,” Jainal Abedin, a resident of Mashaldanga, a former enclave that is in Dinhata subdivision of Cooch Behar, said. Saddam Hossain, another resident of Mashaldanga, said there are around 366 acres of land in the village. “This delay in providing us land rights or giving us erroneous documents has left many of us in trouble,” Hossain said. “Some of us want to take loans to build houses or mortgage land for agricultural or cash loans to meet certain expenses. None of us can do anything because of this delay,” he added. Similar is the situation in Poaturkuthi, another former enclave that is in Dinhata-II block. “We don’t know when this problem will end. We feel the district administration should hold camps, check our old documents and issue necessary documents. This can expedite the process (of giving us our land rights),” said Rafikul Islam, a local resident. Diptiman Sengupta, one of the prominent faces of the movement that went on for years over the demand of the exchange of enclaves, told this paper that the state government did not carry out proper land surveys in these 51 former enclaves. “This is a glaring instance of administrative lapse. Five years have passed and yet these people have not been provided with rights of their own land. The state government should immediately take the initiative and end this problem,” said Sengupta. Senior officials of the district land and land reforms department stayed tight-lipped on the issue. One of the officers, who refused to be quoted, said that the work had got delayed because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “We will soon conduct hearings to rectify land documents and will also see that others are given documents which prove the ownership of their land,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul launches drive to woo back Dalits||The Trinamul Congress has launched a drive that will cover over 10,000 villages and towns and create a platform for interaction with more than 1.5 crore Scheduled Caste voters in one month. Senior Trinamul leaders have said the drive termed Taphashilir Sanglap (loosely translated as “Conversations with the Scheduled Caste”) gains added significance in the wake of alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The campaign, reportedly the brainchild of poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team at the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), will involve around 2,000 Trinamul leaders from the SC community, who will conduct door-to-door visits in Dalit pockets with specially-designed campaign caravans. “The drive is aimed at sending an image of the BJP’s anti-Dalit stance as exemplified in UP recently. The other objective is to inform the community members about the Bengal government schemes that are drawn up for their benefits,” said a senior Trinamul leader. “Needless to say, the Hathras atrocity involving the gangrape of a Dalit girl has become a sensitive topic, for which the community wants answers... It gives us an opportunity to win them back ahead of the Assembly polls,” the leader added. Of the total 294 seats in the Bengal Assembly, 68 are reserved for SCs and 16 for STs. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP secured leads in 34 Assembly seats whereas Trinamul came first in 33 constituencies. The Congress had won lead in one seat. Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 13 of the 16 ST seats. Trinamul insiders said the party was also focusing on tribal pockets. The drive, which began on October 3, is slated to continue across Bengal for 20 days with teams of 10 party leaders from the SC community being formed for each Assembly segment. “We are meeting the SC voters at their doorsteps. We will have a conversation with them mainly about various state government schemes and ask them whether they are availing themselves of the benefits. Later, we will tell them about the BJP’s idea of the low caste community and how Dalits are treated in BJP-ruled states,” said a Trinamul leader in the campaigning team. The leaders will also distribute leaflets detailing the state government’s schemes for the SC community during their visits. Though ruling party leaders and members of I-PAC are hopeful of reaping political dividends through the drive, political experts say it is better to focus on good governance in the SC-dominated areas rather than the BJP’s alleged anti-Dalit activities. The political analysts said the patterns of social segregation were different in Bengal and north India. “A campaign on the BJP’s anti-Dalit image will not work in Bengal which doesn’t have the issue of social segregation. It is better for Trinamul to focus on better governance in the SC and ST-dominated areas,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 2.5 lakh Covid cures, cases rise||Bengal on Friday achieved a landmark of 2.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries, 206 days since the first case was detected in the state on March 17. Bengal on Friday also reported 62 deaths and 3,573 new cases, yet another record single-day jump. However, nearly 2.53 lakh out of 2.87 lakh infected persons in all are cured in the state, 3,069 of them on Friday. “This milestone is a timely morale-booster,” a minister said about the 2.5 lakh recoveries. The state reached its first lot of 50,000 recoveries on August 1, over a span of 137 days. The latest 50,000 recoveries came in 17 days, after Bengal crossed 2 lakh on September 22. The minister added that of October’s nine days so far, new records for Covid-19 infections were set on seven days. With a rise by 442 to 29,296 now, Bengal reported a rise in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 31st consecutive day. Bengal’s recovery rate, however, fell from Tuesday’s 87.98 per cent to 87.90 on Friday. The national rate is 85.48 per cent. Friday’s 62 deaths took the toll to 5,501 deaths. Thirteen died in Calcutta, 19 in North 24-Parganas. The state government reported 4,669, or 84.9 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. The common comorbidities among novel coronavirus patients reported up till now are hypertension, cardiovascular and kidney diseases, and diabetes. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, lagging behind the national 1.54 per cent. The state also reported 42,532 tests on Friday, taking the total past 36 lakh, at 40,090 tests per million people. The state reported 37.59 per cent occupancy in the 12,715 beds for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 3.11 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Raiganj University phone funds plea||Raiganj University in North Dinajpur has sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students who can’t afford them so that they could attend online classes and access study materials digitally. Vice-chancellor Anil Bhuimali on Friday wrote a letter to state higher education secretary Manish Jain for the aid. “We did a survey to find out how many of our students lacked basic devices such as smartphones. It emerged that 1,000 students who are economically backward need smartphones. Being a new university we lack resources to buy the devices,” Bhuimali told this paper. A cost estimate is included in the letter, a copy of which has been sent to Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee. In a virtual meeting with VCs on September 28, Chatterjee had said his department was exploring the possibility of resuming regular undergraduate and postgraduate classes in government-run colleges and government-aided universities from December with online classes. Bhuimali had flagged the issue of digital divide there. Raiganj University, with 13,000 students, held the students’ survey after the meeting. A varsity official said they sought Rs 52 lakh to buy the smartphones, each set costing Rs 5,200, while the rest would be spent to develop the central repository where teachers can upload classroom lectures. The VC of another university, preferring anonymity, said Bhuimali’s letter laid bare the challenges that varsities and poorer students face amid the pandemic where attending classes in person is fast becoming a thing of the past. Recently, Jadavpur University in Calcutta raised funds to buy smartphones for 200 students. Asked why his varsity could not raise funds on the lines of JU, Bhuimali said they needed state support as they lacked a “network of resourceful alumni, teachers” that JU has. “Whatever we get in terms of grant goes into paying salaries and maintenance.” Principal secretary Jain could not be contacted. He did not reply to text messages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||CID retraces footsteps of Manish killers||The assassins of Manish Shukla had come from outside Bengal and stayed at two houses in Barrackpore for days before pulling the trigger, CID officers said on Friday while adding that those men had been engaged by Khurram Khan. The investigators have already found purported evidence that Khurram and Shukla had been at loggerheads ever since the former’s father had been killed nearly five years back and the latter was named as one of the accused. The CID has already arrested Khurram, along with Seikh Gulab, in connection with Shukla’s murder. It has now emerged, according to a section of CID officers, that Khurram had engaged Subodh Yadav, a small supplier of consumer goods in Barrackpore, for providing logistics for the gang members he had got from Bihar to carry out the operation. “Preliminary investigation suggests Subodh didn’t know about the murder plan,” said a source before adding that Khurram had sought his help for specific reasons. Apparently, a low-profile Subodh would have escaped even the most suspecting eyes in the locality and hence the choice, the investigators said. Subodh was arrested from Sarkar Bagan area of Barrackpore on Thursday night. During interrogation Subodh apparently told the CID that Khurram had approached him for fixing up houses for the gang members to stay. “Subodh Yadav had unknowingly provided the logistic support to the team by arranging for their accommodation, including the two-wheelers that the assassins had used,” said a CID officer. “Subodh had put up the gang members in two flats, one of which is on Dakshin Panchanantala road in ward 4 of Barrackpore municipality. We have already sealed it.” During their stay, the gang members had apparently thoroughly scanned the area in Titagurh, including the BJP office where Manish would visit in the evenings. Then, they drew up a final plan armed with specific inputs, CID officers said. Officers believe the assassins have left Bengal immediately after the murder by road and took the national highway to move beyond the state’s borders. Two separate teams the of CID have been formed to track down the assassins, who appear to be six in number. Officers have started examining CCTV footage of vehicles that left Titagarh’s Purani Bazar area and took the national highway on the night of October 4. Police stations on the Jharkhand and Odisha borders have already been alerted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||MP Arjun’s nephew held over Rs 11cr loan fraud||The detective wing of Barrackpore police commissionerate has arrested BJP MP Arjun Singh’s nephew Sanjith Singh, alias Pappu Singh, for allegedly swindling Rs 11.6 crore that was disbursed as loan to contractors by the Bhatpara-Naihati Cooperative Bank Limited. The alleged fraud at the cooperative bank headed by Arjun Singh in 2018 was committed on the basis of fake work orders of Bhatpara municipality, said the investigators. The sleuths said the fund disbursed to the contractors had eventually been transferred to Pappu’s account. The BJP MP was also the chairman of the Bhatpara municipality that allegedly issued the work orders. Pappu appeared before an investigating team on Friday afternoon for the first time after he had ignored at least four summonses related to the case. He was arrested after interrogation, said an officer of the detective wing. He will be produced in a court in Barrackpore on Saturday. “During the investigation, we have found that the loan disbursed to about 29 contractors was finally transferred to the account of a company that is owned by Pappu who had not been issued any work order or sought a loan from the bank.” After the probe began on the basis of a complaint lodged by Trinamul Congress leader Somnath Shyam, the accused have returned only about Rs 5 crore. Sources said Shyam had lodged a complaint at the Bhatpara police station in February, accusing the bank authorities of disbursing loans to several contractors based on forged documents during the 2017-18 fiscal. Neither have the contractors refunded the borrowed amount, nor have they executed any work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Hindu priest aid on fast track||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to expedite the process of launching the disbursal of monthly honourarium to Hindu priests and bring as many of them as possible under the scheme to ensure that no one feels left out. “The target is to send the first allotment to the bank accounts of the eligible priests before Puja. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay would hold a meeting with district magistrates tomorrow (Saturday) to draw up a roadmap for initiating the scheme on time,” said a senior state government official. The chief minister had announced recently that her government would provide a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 each to “poor Hindu priests”. In an attempt to send out a message that her government believes in inclusiveness, Mamata Banerjee also promised that the administration would consider similar payments for economically weaker clerics in other faiths like Christianity, Jainism and Buddhism. Sources in the state secretariat said the project had initially been planned considering that there could be 8,000 to 10,000 Hindu priests who could be given the honourarium. “But the project is likely to start with more than 20,000 beneficiaries as many priests have already contacted district administrative officials showing their interest in availing themselves of the benefit. The state government would not discriminate against any of the eligible applicants,” said another official. According to sources aware of the plan drawn up by Nabanna, the government is all set to roll out a housing scheme also for the priests. “The state government would construct dwelling units for the priests under a housing scheme provided they have land. The chief secretary would discuss this matter also with the district magistrates tomorrow,” said a source. The sources said the government had already drafted guidelines for the selection of beneficiaries of the honourarium and housing schemes. The guidelines stipulate that the beneficiary has to be financially weak and a permanent resident of the state. The priests who draw honourarium, stipend or pension from any other government schemes will not be considered. “The state government is laying stress on putting a proper mechanism in place for selecting the beneficiaries. The government wants to ensure that the honourarium reaches those who actually need it,” said another official. The information and cultural affairs department would be the nodal agency for the scheme, said a source. The Nabanna top brass, the source said, passed on instructions to ensure that the distribution of benefits didn’t  result in chaos. “Several complaints had come up while selecting the beneficiaries of the schemes launched to help Cyclone Amphan victims. The government does not want a repeat of such situation and that is why the chief secretary himself would make the district magistrates aware of the selection process,” said another official. Trinamul insiders have said the ruling establishment is eager to launch the scheme at the earliest as the Assembly polls are only about six months away. “The chief minister tried to strike a balance by offering honourarium to Hindu priests as the BJP has been trying to polarise the society on communal lines by accusing the government of pandering to Muslims by providing honourarium to imams and muezzins. We all know each scheme has a teething problem and it does not go smooth immediately after its launch... But we want to run the scheme smoothly for a few months ahead of the polls,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||West Bengal||Marks ‘sale’ stick for teacher||The governing body of Siliguri College on Friday suspended Amitabha Kanjilal, a faculty member accused of promising high marks to a final-year undergraduate student for Rs 10,000. The assistant professor in the political science department has been suspended from work until the final conclusion of departmental proceedings against him. The decision follows a report filed by an inquiry committee formed by the college to probe into the allegations. “At the meeting, it was decided that disciplinary proceedings would be initiated against Amitabha Kanjilal. An inquiry officer and a presenting officer would be deputed for further proceedings…Kanjilal has been suspended on and from October 10 until the final conclusion,” said principal Sujit Ghosh. During his suspension period, Kanjilal would receive half his salary, sources said. Ghosh said the suspended teacher would be allowed into the college for daily attendance signature. For further proceedings, the inquiry officer will be a legal person while the presenting officer will be an associate professor from the college itself, said sources. Earlier, the governing body of the college had formed a seven-member inquiry committee to probe into the money-for-marks allegation against the teacher. The committee submitted a report within 20 days of the internal investigation. The inquiry committee had found certain anomalies in Kanjilal’s statements, which merited the departmental proceedings, sources said. “Also, in the course of investigation, the committee members have spoken with the complainant (the student who filed the complaint against Kanjilal) and found valid points against the accused faculty member. That is why the fresh departmental proceedings have been ensued against him. The new committee will start the investigation from next week,” sources added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-348
10-10-2020||North East||Gauhati HC directs Assam govt to submit action-taken on detention centres||Gauhati High Court has directed the Assam government to submit an action-taken report by October 16 on steps taken to set up detention centres “outside” jail premises. Justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua passed the order after hearing three petitions challenging illegal detentions and designating district jails as detention centres where suspected illegal foreigners are kept and declared illegal foreigners are lodged till they are deported, among others. “We require the authorities in the State Government, Home and Political Affairs to submit an action taken report within the next returnable date on the steps that have been taken to set up detention centre outside the jail premises and if necessary by following the requirement of the two communication dated 07.03.2012 and 10.09.2014 as well as the Clause 4.1 and 4.4 of the model manual which requires that if suitable government accommodations are not available for the purpose, the authorities may also be required to hire any private premises for the purpose,” the order said. The Union ministry of home affairs had issued the two communications on March 7, 2012 and September 10, 2014, to the states and Union Territories. The order copy was uploaded on the high court website on Thursday evening. Senior advocate Nilay Dutta represented the petitioners. There are six detention centres at Tezpur, Silchar, Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Kokrajhar and Goalpara, all housed inside jails. The first one opened in 2009 following a high court order in a 2008 illegal migrant case. On September 1 this year, the state government had informed the Assembly that there are 425 detainees lodged in the detention centres. Tezpur has 140 detainees followed by Goalpara (98), Jorhat (83), Kokrajhar (47), Silchar (43) and Dibrugarh (14). Justice Bujor Barua has cited the Supreme Court order in the Bhim Singh (Supra) case which “clearly provided that the detenues be kept at an appropriate place with restricted movements pending their deportation/repatriation and the places where they are to be kept may be detention centres or whatever name such places are called but must have the basic facilities of electricity, water and hygiene etc”. Clause 4.1 of the model manual prepared by the home ministry states that detention centres/holding centres/camps shall be set up outside the jail premises while clause 4.4 says pending acquisition of land and construction of building, state governments and Union Territories may consider hiring of suitable accommodation for this purpose. In case of non-availability of government buildings, the administration may look at hiring a private building, subject to production of non-availability certificate and rent assessment by the central public works department or state PWD. If it is decided to hire a private building for the centre/camp, it may be ensured that all existing codal formalities under general financial rules are strictly followed. The high court said “it cannot be accepted” that the respondents can still rely upon a September 2018 communication to project it would be permissible to declare a part of the jail premises as detention centre. The court said the September 7, 2018, communiqué is in “the nature of an enabling provision providing that in cases where the setting up of the detention centres/holding centres are pending, a specific area in the jail premises is to be earmarked for housing the foreign nationals/illegal migrants and that such earmarking of the jail premises to be the detention centres/holding centres would be purely as a temporary measure”. Based on the various ministry notifications, the court also observed that “it is discernible that more than 10 years have gone by, since a part of the jail premises in Goalpara, Kokrajhar and Silchar had been declared to be detention centres. Certainly a period of more than 10 years cannot be understood to be a temporary arrangement. Even in respect of Jorhat, Dibrugarh and Tezpur a period of 5 years is almost over which also again cannot be strictly said to be a temporary arrangement”. The court listed the matter for October 16 for submission of the action-taken report. The Assam government is constructing a 3,000-capacity exclusive multistoried detention centre at Matia in Goalpara district, around 130km from here. The 25-bighas campus will have its own schools, hospitals and playground, among others. The detainees will be shifted to this centre, work on which started last year. There is a plan to construct 10 more detention centres, sources said. In compliance of the Supreme Court direction in the Bhim Singh case, the home ministry had on March 7, 2012, communicated to all principal secretaries of states and Union Territories that such category of persons be released from jail immediately and they may be kept at an appropriate place outside the jail premises with restricted movement pending repatriation. The communication had also taken note of the apex court order that if such persons cannot be repatriated and have to be kept in jail, they cannot be confined to prison and be deprived of the basic human rights and human dignity. The subsequent communication of September 09, 2014, after reviewing the state of detention centres, had taken some of the following decisions: * All state governments/Union Territory administrations should set up sufficient number of detention centres/holding centres/camps for restricting the movement of illegal immigrants/foreign nationals awaiting deportation/repatriation after completion of sentence due to non-confirmation of nationality, under the provisions of Section 3 (2) (e) of Foreigners Act, 1946. The administrations concerned may decide on their numbers. * Such centres/camps should be set up outside the jail premises and it may please be ensured that all the basic amenities like electricity with generator, drinking water (including water coolers), hygiene, accommodation with beds, sufficient toilets/baths with provision of running water, provision for kitchen, round-the-clock security arrangement, sentry posts and guard room, etc. are provided. There should be sufficient open space within the compound for detainees to move around in a secure environment. There should be properly segregated accommodation for male and female detainees. There should be a proper boundary wall with dense barbed wire fencing above the boundary wall. The staff posted should be well trained to ensure that the detainees are treated with due dignity. Provision may also be made for medical attendance for the detainees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
10-10-2020||Opinion||Magical skill: Goodbye Eddie Van Halen||Sir — It was deeply saddening to read that Eddie Van Halen, the renowned lead guitarist of the iconic rock band, Van Halen, passed away a few days ago after battling throat cancer for years. He was only 65 years old. The news was shared with the world by his son, Wolf Van Halen, through social media. With Eddie’s death, those of us who grew up in the 1970s and early 1980s have lost yet one more musical icon from our childhood and teenage years. Indeed, Van Halen was a popular band even with people who grew up in the 1990s and the 2000s, which only bears further testimony to their enduring legacy. Eddie and his brother, Alex, began to play together when they were just teenagers, but went on to form the heart of the group after meeting David Lee Roth. The band released more than 12 albums together over the course of 40 years. Through their turbulent career — the lead singer of the band kept changing, with Roth being followed by Sammy Hagar and Gary Cherone, before Hagar and then Roth eventually returned — it was Eddie’s other-worldly skills with the guitar that provided the musical act with the anchor that it needed. Not only did he impress fans and critics alike with his guitar solos on songs such as “Runnin’ with the Devil”, “Panama”, “Why Can’t This Be Love?” and “Jump” — the last was Van Halen’s only number one hit — but he also collaborated with Michael Jackson for the superhit 1983 song, “Beat It”. Eddie’s contribution to that track transformed Jackson’s sound. The former’s music played a pivotal role in shaping our understanding of rock as a genre; one hopes that the younger generations, too, are able to discover and appreciate Van Halen’s magic. Apurva Majumdar,Calcutta Sir — The news of Eddie Van Halen’s death, coupled with reports of the demise of the well-known reggae and pop singer, Johnny Nash, at the age of 80, made an already-gloomy time even bleaker. It is bad enough that the Covid-19 pandemic has made such a huge difference — in an adverse way — to our lives, in terms of mobility and job prospects. Making matters worse is the regular news of the deaths of many public figures, especially musicians, whose work we grew up loving. Even though Eddie Van Halen rose to popularity when my parents’ generation was growing up, my friends and I were introduced to his band’s music while we were young. As a result, we grew up loving Van Halen and being in awe of Eddie’s guitar skills. In a telling testimony to Eddie’s genius, the singer of Def Leppard, Joe Elliott, spoke about the time he saw a Van Halen performance in 1977. He said that Eddie “reinvented guitar playing just like Jimi Hendrix had done a generation earlier”. There, perhaps, could not be a more apt way to describe Eddie’s contribution to rock music. He will be deeply missed. Pranita Roy,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — I live in an affluent building complex in southern Calcutta. One would expect that my neighbours within the complex, given their wealth and access to education, would be far more mindful about the dangers of not wearing masks in these times. And yet, every evening, I see the men and women roaming around and fraternizing downstairs sans masks. Even if they do not care about their own health, they should consider the well-being of others. Avira Mukherjee,Calcutta Helping hand Sir — In an interesting turn of events, a hospital in Bhubaneswar has been using a robot to provide medicines, food and remote assistance to patients in the Covid-19 ward, in a bid to protect health workers from contracting the coronavirus. If this model could be replicated in other healthcare centres across the country, even if it is just in urban areas to begin with, it would make a huge difference to the health and workload of front-line health workers. Moreover, could this be seen as an example of human and mechanical labour being able to co-exist without the fear of people losing their jobs? Shalini Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Mind the muscle: Global politics of brawn||It should not have been a chicken-and-egg story. The best of knowledge traditions — science, philosophy, theology — generally converge on one point: that mind is the master and muscle its vassal. This is not to deny muscles their autonomy. Evolution — even though New India is dismissive of it — is proof that mankind could not have walked tall without muscle power, or, for that matter, muscled its way to the top of the food chain. But the wisdom behind these accomplishments, as always, came from the very top of the human anatomy: the mind. In the age of Post-Truth, however, cardinal principles are meant to be mocked at and inverted. Thus, modernity has regressed to deliberating the chicken-and-egg problem: should muscle precede — lord over — the mind? A cursory glance at the global political map would reveal that this, indeed, is the age of muscle. Muscular regimes dot the planet, from India to corners of Europe to the United States of America. Beefy men, metaphorically speaking, have demonstrated, time and again, the supremacy of muscle over mind in their respective constitutions. A testament to this constitutional imbalance, it can be said safely, would be their peculiar attitude to the threat posed by the Covid-19 pandemic to their personal health and the health of their nations. These Men of Steel have come out remarkably rusty in their battle against the contagion. Donald Trump, Jair Bolsonaro, Boris Johnson as well as some lieutenants of India’s Bharatiya Janata Party had pooh-poohed the warnings of wise men — advisers, scientists, political opponents — about the power of the pandemic. The result of their cavalier attitude is now there for all to see. Each of these leaders contracted the virus. That perhaps is the least of civilizational problems, the more worrying point being that the US, Brazil, the United Kingdom and India shoulder the heaviest virus loads in the world. Countless lives have been lost in these countries and their economies crippled. All because muscle was allowed to triumph over the mind by leaders and those who elected them to office. There is, however, a method in this madness of muscle men. Bravado, even the kind that leads to the incapacitation of prudence, has been turned into a political virtue. Armed with this new form of political capital, elected regimes continue to trample over the forces of reason, empathy, kindness and fraternity the world over. India, thus, is a mute spectator to the vilification of minorities who have been accused, among other things, of being eager carriers of Covid. The US watches as a Covid-positive president breaks every conceivable medical protocol so as to bolster his claims of immunity and — none can say Mr Trump lacks humour — of being a perfect physical specimen. Meanwhile, the UK, under Mr Johnson’s able leadership, is bracing for a second, frightening wave of infection. Deliverance does not lie in a vaccine alone. Redemption is predicated upon setting right wrongs — political and moral — so that mind can rein in rogue muscles and, some would add, men.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Green peace: Forest bathing therapy||In the current climate of mental stress, people have taken to spending more time outdoors, both for exercise and relaxation. Now, you can participate in a guided, relaxing ‘Forest Walk’ in Illinois’s Morton Arboretum. The concept, which was brought to the United States of America by the Association of Nature and Forest Therapy Guides and Programs, is based on the Japanese practice of shinrin-yoku, which roughly translates to ‘forest bathing’ or ‘taking in the atmosphere of the forest’. The idea was initially developed by the Japanese ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in the early 1980s as a way to encourage people to get out into nature and improve their health through stress reduction. Guests are guided by certified forest therapists who ‘invite’ participants to commune with nature and notice new details in their surroundings as they walk through the forest. The goal is to wander slowly, with purpose in each step, and be mindful of one’s surroundings. At the end of the walk, participants engage in a 10- to 20-minute seated reflection before foraging plants — like wild bee balm, which makes for a strong-tasting brew — for a calming tea ceremony. The California-based ANFT, founded in 2012, has trained over 1,100 guides in their forest bathing-based therapy. In addition, forest bathing and forest therapy outings have been held in settings that include New Jersey’s Pinelands and Philadelphia’s Schuylkill Center for Environmental Education and the Wissahickon Valley Park. Spooks galore This Halloween, you have a chance to go to Hell. Not 2020; I mean Hell, Michigan. The mayor, John Colone, is putting up his manor on Airbnb on October 14 in this small town outside of Pinckney, Michigan. Guests will be greeted by a pumpkin-lined path to the mayor’s manor, which is dressed up in red velvet curtains, skulls and gold accents. Airbnb, on the other hand, is not so quick to allow guests to book a room for Halloween night in the light of Covid-19. It announced a ban on one-night reservations over the Halloween weekend for home listings in the US and Canada. Previously booked reservations that meet that criteria will be cancelled, and the guests reimbursed. If you are still in the mood to enjoy something spooky for Halloween without risking exposure to the coronavirus, you can take part in a virtual horror tour. Ghost Flix, a live video ghost tour through the haunting streets of more than 20 cities across the US, features real-life guides walking through eerie streets as they narrate the horrors of the neighbourhood. The company, Southernmost Ghost, has partnered with Google Home and Amazon Alexa to give people the opportunity to listen to over 100 scary stories read out by voice actors. You can also buy the Halloween equivalent of the Christmastime ‘Elf on a Shelf’ — a sinister-looking doll modelled on the countess, Elizabeth Báthory, commonly referred to as the female Dracula. You can prop her up on a shelf to add a creepy element to your Halloween.Spicy affair Fall kicked off on September 23 with the changing leaves and chilly temperatures offering a much-needed respite from the past eight months. People have started decorating their front porches with hand-picked pumpkins and squash. Pumpkin spice lattes are selling out as well. Pumpkin spice is a blend of ginger, nutmeg, cinnamon and allspice, created in 1934 by the spice brand, McCormick & Company, who introduced the blend as an alternative for consumers who were buying all four spices to make pumpkin pie. According to Forbes, Starbucks sold an estimated 200 million PSLs in the first 10 years since it was invented. However, around this time each year we get bombarded by all things pumpkin spice, not just lattes. The Honey Baked Ham Company is testing Pumpkin Spice Glazed Turkey Breast in select cities across the US. Kraft is also testing out a pumpkin spice mac-and-cheese. People in the US can use #PumpkinSpiceKMC #Sweepstakes as well as tag @KraftMacNCheese on Twitter for a chance to win one of 1,000 limited-edition Pumpkin Spice Kraft Mac & Cheese products. Pumpkin spice does not involve actual pumpkins. But fall does involve a spike in the purchase of pumpkins themselves. Illinois is the top pumpkin producer in the US and produces twice as many pumpkins as the other four top-producing states.City lessons A scavenger hunt is taking place this month in New York City. At a time when the future is so unpredictable and people are stuck indoors, this is exactly the kind of respite they are looking for. NYC’s month-long prominent architecture-and-design festival, Archtober, is marked by the 36-hour, five-borough outdoor scavenger hunt put on by Open House New York and Archtober. Now in its 10th year, the festival invites participants to test how well they truly know NYC. Think brain puzzle meets marathon. People can play by themselves or in teams of up to six. More than 60 clues will be emailed to the team captain on the first day. Teams will capture proof of arrival at each mystery site with a mascot or ‘object’ pictured in all the photos to be submitted for points. The competition ends in prizes. The hunt will take place during this year’s Open House New York weekend. To get from one spot to the next, teams can walk, run, take public transport or use bikes and cars. Teams who do not use cars get a “green energy bonus”. This year, Archtober will host several events online, thereby allowing people from around the globe to take part and learn about New York’s architecture. Footnote Movie theatres may still be shut, but there is an alternative. Not a drive-in, but a pop-up floating cinema in Key Biscayne, Florida. The float-in will travel the coast from Haulover south to Key Biscayne (near the Miami Marine Stadium) and then into the Bill Baggs State Park. On-land viewing tickets will be available for the park screenings, allowing people to drive up rather than boat in. First will be a showing of Jaws followed by Moana, Finding Nemo and other water-centric films.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Opinion||Constant company||When I moved permanently to Bangalore in 1995, I hoped to renew my acquaintance with five institutions in particular. Two were bookstores. Premier was owned by a shy Hindu from the Konkan coast, and sold new books. Select was owned by a loquacious Kannadiga engineer, and sold used or second-hand books. Both owners were extremely knowledgeable about their stock, and about the obsessions of their regular customers as well. Two other Bangalore institutions I knew well also dealt with the printed word. One was Variety News; it stocked a wide range of periodicals from across India (and the world); it was owned by a family of Muslims who spoke Dakhani to each other and English or Kannada or Tamil to their customers. Like the owners of Premier and Select, those who ran Variety had wonderfully warm relations with their regular customers, knowing their interests and catering to them with professional ease. Then there was the British Library; one of the more benign legacies of imperial rule, it housed books published in the United Kingdom, here issued to desi members by devoted and competent desi librarians. I liked all of these places; but the place that I liked most was Koshy’s Parade Café. ‘Koshy’s’ is how the newer residents of the city know it; for me it has always been ‘Parade’s’. The restaurant is located on St Mark’s Road, on the ground floor of a two-storey building owned by the Church of South India. Parade’s was founded in 1952 by a Syrian Christian from Kerala named P.O. Koshy. I first got to know it in 1970, exactly 50 years ago. I was spending the summer with my uncle in Bangalore, going with him every afternoon to practise with the Friends Union Cricket Club at a ground opposite the Kanteerava Stadium, a cricket ball’s thrown away from Koshy’s. After nets we cricketers would repair to the café, where the men drank coffee and I, 12 years old at the time, drank lime juice. I got to know Parade’s much better in the 1980s, when I was working in Bangalore. Our house was off M.G. Road (near the Trinity Circle side), and on my way to the café were both Select and Premier. Across the road from Koshy’s was Variety News, and above Koshy’s itself was the British Library. My way to Parade’s thus happily took in visits to four varied — I should say gloriously varied — repositories of print culture. Once I entered the café I would order a coffee, and perhaps a snack, while taking out from my jhola the books and magazines I had just bought, opening and riffling their pages with love and with anticipation. After half-an-hour at Koshy’s I would walk back home. In 1989 my wife, Sujata, and I moved to Delhi, returning to Bangalore six years later. Back in 1995 all the places I knew and loved were still flourishing. The situation in 2020 is somewhat different. Premier, Variety News and the British Library have all shut down, while Select is a shadow of its former self. In the 25 years since I settled in Bangalore, only one institution has kept me continuous company — Koshy’s Parade Café. Parade’s is now run by the founder’s grandsons, Santhosh and Prem. Santhosh is quiet and self-effacing; very much a behind-the-scenes man, keeping the institutional operations afloat. Prem, on the other hand, is affable and outgoing — hopping from table to table chatting with customers and getting feedback on new items on the menu (and many other things besides). Prem Koshy is the same age as my wife, Sujata, and they grew up on adjoining streets. In the days when he was a young hippie, he would say, on being introduced to someone his age who was not of his sex: ‘The name is Prem. It means luvvhh’. His passion at the time was rifle shooting. Then he went to Louisiana to study baking technology, and became an alcoholic. He returned home, and gave up both the gun and the bottle. With his brother, Santhosh, he now devoted himself to making his father’s and grandfather’s café an always welcoming place in a chaotic and ever-changing city. The attractions of Koshy’s are various: the light, the ambience, the food, the location and, not least, the more visible of the two owners. Prem is stocky in build, clad often in jeans, and always with a large ring of keys around his waist. He is infinitely kind with customers; first-timers can stay hours with a single cup of coffee, while old-timers can go on a riotous binge if they so choose. I have never seen him raise his voice, or wear a grumpy face, not even when an ill-considered Supreme Court ruling got him to stop serving liquor, on the grounds that the place was too close to M.G. Road, allegedly a ‘national highway’. (It was months before this ruling was overturned — the financial losses suffered by Koshy’s in this period must have been immense.) Everyone who has visited Parade’s more than once grows to like Prem. Those who have been going there for some years know that, for all its identity with him, the café does not consume his life: there is his wife, Ruby, and his son, Josh, his love of theatre and his own ability to rescue and rehabilitate snakes from building sites. And his ability to rescue and rehabilitate some humans too. Although his restaurant serves liquor, he has himself not had a drop since he returned from the United States of America. He is deeply involved with the Bangalore branch of Alcoholics Anonymous, and has personally helped many men, of varying ages and class backgrounds, conquer their addiction and rebuild themselves and their families. I have two Prem stories of my own which show the special character of the man. The first relates to a gifted young photographer named G. Raghav, who did a series of portraits of people at the café (including one of the great playwright, Girish Karnad). When Raghav died in his thirties, of cancer, Prem hosted a meeting paying tribute to his work, for which he closed down the establishment for an entire afternoon, serving tea and snacks on the house while the rest of us made speeches about our friend and his legacy. Certainly no restaurant owner in Delhi or Bombay would forsake hours of business to honour the memory of a relatively unknown artist. We were all very moved, no one more so than Raghav’s mother. The second story may be even better. One night, Sujata and I returned home to find a large owl in the garage. He would not move, and we did not want to hurt him. We stood next to the owl, hissed at him, shone the headlights at him, but he stayed put. What to do? Call Prem, said Sujata. Are you sure, I asked: it is 10.30 already. Call him, she insisted, he knows about birds and animals, and will go anywhere to help them. So I called Prem. Fortunately he was awake, and of course he lived on the next street. He came over, saw the big, beaky, beady-eyed fellow still staring at us, walked up, stared back at him for a minute before picking him up in one arm. Prem then came out onto the main road and flung the owl into the sky. The owl shook his wings, shook his head, and flew away to safety. When we asked for a diagnosis, Prem said that the poor fellow was drunk, having sucked deep into the roots of a palm tree, the sort of stuff that happened to birds of this species on moonlit nights at this time of the year. Because he was drunk Prem could pick him up easily; because Prem flung him so hard and so high he was shaken out of his stupor and could save himself from humans while allowing us to go home and go to bed too. Like most business establishments in Bangalore, Koshy’s Parade Café was grievously affected by the pandemic. It has been mostly shut since April, but it opened again last week, operating with a strict safety regimen in place. That it has reopened is a relief, and a blessing. As one grows older one has fewer wishes and hopes for oneself. One of mine is this; that I may die before my favourite café does. I can probably (just about) live without music, cricket and even books, but life without Parade’s is impossible to contemplate. ramguha@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel rededicates Sir Dorabji Tata Park to the people of Jamshedpur||Tata Steel on Saturday rededicated the Sir Dorabji Tata Park opposite the Keenan Stadium in Bistupur to the people of Jamshedpur on the occasion of the park’s silver jubilee. Saturday also happened to be the 141st birth anniversary of Lady Meherbai Tata, wife of Sir Dorabji. Sir Dorabji Tata was the eldest son of Tata group founder J.N. Tata. On the occasion, Tata Steel CEO and managing director T.V. Narendran unveiled the renovated park comprising an illuminated diamond structure and a pavilion. Ruchi Narendran, wife of the Tata Steel MD, unveiled the statue of Lady Meherbai Tata. They were joined by senior company officials and R. Ravi Prasad, president of Tata Workers’ Union, among other guests. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all the other invitees, including employees, joined the event via videoconferencing. Spread over 2.5 acres, the renovated park now includes a statue of Lady Meherbai Tata and a resplendent steel tubular structure and a pavilion through which the legacy of the famous “Jubilee Diamond” has been immortalised in steel. Addressing the event, MD Narendran spoke about the Tata ethos and said: “It gives me immense pride to be a part of the Tata Group legacy. It is founded on strong values and exemplary leadership. Even 100 years later, we are still grounded in our ethos and stay committed to responsible and inclusive development. Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata are the embodiment of these beliefs. Both were spirited leaders and passionate individuals, who contributed immensely to our shared legacy. This park is a tribute to them and a symbol of Tata Steel’s commitment to the city of Jamshedpur.” Welcoming the guests, Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president, corporate services, Tata Steel, said: “Tata Steel since inception has been committed to inclusive development and through this rededication, we would like to honour the contributions and sacrifices of Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata towards the unparalleled legacy of Tata Steel and the steel city. The Diamond Pavilion, a marvel in steel, will be a new attraction in Jamshedpur; it will celebrate the stories of excellence, leadership and sacrifice for years to come.” In a video message, Jamshed J. Irani, former managing director of Tata Steel, said: “The Diamond Pavilion and Lady Meherbai’s statue are thoughtful additions to the Sir Dorabji Tata Park. The park as it stands today is a veritable salute to Sir Dorabji Tata and Lady Meherbai Tata for their contributions and sacrifices that helped in creating the inimitable legacy of Tata Group, Tata Steel and our city of Jamshedpur.” The design of the upgraded park is based on the principles of sustainability and best practices to ensure that all design elements come together, projecting harmony and enduring as a holistic tribute to the legacy of Tata Steel and the city of Jamshedpur. Lady Meherbai’s statue stands at the southern end of the park, directly facing Sir Dorabji's statue. The “Jubilee Diamond” became part of the Tata story in the early 1900s when the diamond was pledged along with the entire personal wealth of Sir Dorabji Tata and his wife to pull Tisco (the former name of Tata Steel) out of severe financial difficulties in the aftermath of the First World War. Designed by the architect Nuru Karim, the diamond structure and the pavilion form an integral part of the overall redesign of Sir Dorabji Tata Park. Positioned at the western end of the park, the pavilion lends to its sustainable and harmonious design, while capturing the timeless elegance of the “Jubilee Diamond”. Spanning 16m by 12m, the structure is fabricated using Tata Structura tubular steel hollow sections to create an intricate lattice. Weighing 45 metric tonnes, the structure rests on the proverbial “diamond” tip, rising outward from the ground to meet the sky. The Jubilee Diamond structure also houses a central amphitheatre. This space allows visitors to experience the brilliance of the diamond pavilion from within its interior. The splendid pavilion is another addition to the “Structures of the Future” series dedicated by Tata Steel to the country. Over the past 100 years, Tata Steel has been associated with some of the most iconic structures of India, like the Howrah Bridge in Calcutta, the Butterfly Park in Bangalore, Bandra-Worli Sea Link, an award-winning steel sculpture depicting the “Gandhian Charkha” at the Oval Maidan in Mumbai and “The Rath” at the Biju Patnaik Park in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate crosses 90% mark||Jharkhand registered a Covid-19 recovery rate of over 90 per cent for the first time after more than 1,100 Covid patients recovered from the infection across the state on Saturday and relatively fewer cases surfaced, data compiled by the health department showed. Besides the recovery rate climbing up to 90.5 per cent, the number of active cases of infection in the state also dropped below 9,000 after only 768 fresh cases surfaced against as many as 1,158 recoveries, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate, health officials said, was among the best in the country, and above the national average of 85.50 per cent. As per government data, as many as 91,254 people have been infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand and at least 81,654 of them have recovered. While the rate of recovery improved significantly in the past week, the number of Covid-19 casualties has also been on the rise. Government figures stated that at least six more Covid patients, including three in Ranchi, died during treatment on Saturday, taking the toll in the state to 781. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Saturday’s test results and recovery records caused marginal dip in the number of active cases of infection in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand. As per government records, as many as 314 cases of infection surfaced in Ranchi on the day against 378 recoveries, bringing the count of active cases down to 2,752. In East Singhbhum, 156 patients recovered while 103 fresh cases surfaced, bringing the number of active cases down to 1,686. All the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand reported cases in double digits. As many as 48 cases surfaced in Bokaro, the third highest in the state. Meanwhile, only one person was found infected in Pakur. The number of active cases in Dhanbad dropped to 478 after 49 patients recovered there against 41 fresh cases. The government has so far collected swab samples of 25.80 lakh people in Jharkhand and 25.76 lakh of them have been tested. On Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,524 people. As per official records, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand reached 70.23 days against the national average of 59.89 days. The growth rate of the virus in the past week was 0.98 per cent in Jharkhand against the national growth rate of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two AC special trains introduced, one of which has Tatanagar stop||Steel city got another train to Calcutta on Saturday with South Eastern Railway announcing two AC specials, one of which will travel between Howrah and Pune via Tatanagar. The AC bi-weekly special trains were announced to clear the rush of passengers. The (02222) Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special will run from Howrah every Thursday and Saturday from October 15. While returning, the (02221) Pune-Howrah AC bi-weekly special will leave Pune every Saturday and Monday with effect from October 17. The special train will run as per timings and stops of Howrah-Pune Duronto Express. The Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special will leave Howrah at 8.25 am. The train will reach Tatanagar at 11.40 am. The train will reach Pune the next day at 11.45am. While returning, the Howrah-Pune AC bi-weekly special (Dn) will leave Pune at 3.45 pm. It will reach Tatanagar at 4.30 pm. The schedule arrival time of the train at Howrah is 7.45 pm the next day. According to a circular issued by Garden Reach, headquarters of South Eastern Railway, the second new train, (02807) Santragachi-Chennai AC bi-weekly Special, will run from Santragachi every Tuesday and Friday from October 16. On its return, (02808) Chennai-Santragachi AC bi-weekly Special will leave Chennai every Thursday and Sunday from October 18. CPRO if South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said both the special trains will have one first AC, three AC two-tier and 12 AC three- tier coaches. "The specials are being run in view the festive rush. Both trains will continue to run till further notification," he said. Earlier this month, SER had increased the frequency of two trains, the Howrah-Mumbai Special (02810/02809) and the Howrah-Ahmedabad Special (02834/02833). Both trains are now running daily. Their stops at Tatanagar have also been restored, thus making convenient for steel city residents  to travel to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata golf championship to be held at Golmuri greens amid strict Covid protocols||The Tata Steel Tour Championship will be held at the 18-hole Golmuri golf course from December 17 to 20 following strict Covid-19 protocols. The four-day championship, which carries a prize money of Rs 1.5 crore, will be preceded by a pro-am (professional-amateur) event. “The last six months have indeed been the longest and the darkest to us all. Now with the permission to conduct tournaments within Unlock guidelines, we are going to stage five tournaments in November and December for season 2020-2021,” said Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO of the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI). The Golmuri greens have always won accolades for top golfers who have come to the steel city for the tournament. The pro-am gives an opportunity to local golfers to play alongside professionals. Shedding light on the Covid protocols, Mundy said players must get their Covid test done 72 hours prior to their arriving at the tournament venue for the practice round. Only those with a negative test report will be allowed. Players not carrying their test reports will not be allowed to enter the tournament venue. The installation of the Arogya Setu app is recommended to update their health status. Social distancing  of at least six feet must be practiced at all times at the tournament venue, and masks mandatory in all areas except while playing on the course and during dining. Gatherings are strictly prohibited and players will be asked to leave the venue as soon as their round has been completed. No practice will be allowed after the round. If a player is showing any signs of illness he will be asked to stay home and follow health protocols as recommended by health authorities. No player other than those as mentioned in the tournament entry list or draw (practice rounds 1 and 2), and those making the cut (rounds 3 and 4) will be allowed entry at the tournament venue. Players can opt to carry their own bag. Starters must wear a mask, a face shield and gloves. Only a scorecard and hole location or local rules sheet will be distributed on the tee. They will be stapled together and given to the marker. There will be no exchange of paper between the participants. Mundy said five events are scheduled to be played in 2020 and that the current season has been extended to 2021. The season resumes with the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship to be hosted by Panchkula Golf Club. Chandigarh Golf Club will present the same event from November 9-12. The format for the event will be the same as for the previous event, except the third and fourth rounds will be played only at Chandigarh during the week. The Jeev Milkha Singh invitational will be held from December 3-6 at the Chandigarh Golf Club, followed by the Indian Oil Servo Masters Golf at Digboi Golf Links in Digboi from December 9-12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Education minister Mahto improving gradually, says CM||Critically-ill after testing Covid positive, Jagarnath Mahto is facing minor difficulty in breathing but is able to talk to visitors and read newspapers, chief minister Hemant Soren said after meeting the education minister at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi on Saturday. Hemant said Mahto’s condition was improving gradually after he and health minister Banna Gupta visited the hospital in the afternoon and sought updates on his condition from a team of doctors treating him in the private hospital. A special team of doctors from state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has been constituted to advise the doctors treating Mahto in Medica. During his meeting with the doctors, Hemant directed them to closely monitor all the changes in Mahto’s health condition and provide regular updates to the government. Later, the chief minister said the government was planning to send Mahto outside Ranchi for better treatment but doctors advised against it as he was not fit to travel. “The education minister has been undergoing treatment in this hospital for 10 days, and his condition is gradually improving,” said Hemant. “He is still facing minor difficulty in breathing, but he is talking to visitors and also reading newspapers,” he added. The chief minister said that Mahto was getting the best possible treatment in Ranchi. And any facility that is available in the metro cities will be provided to Mahto here itself as he had been asked not to travel. “Before being admitted to Medica, he (Mahto) was undergoing treatment at RIMS. Although he has shown improvement, the pace of recovery is quite slow,” said Hemant. Mahto was admitted in the ICU of Medica on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilator. The oxygen level in his blood had gone down to 65mm Hg. The normal reading is between 75mm Hg to 100mm Hg. Dr Vijay Mishra, who has been treating Mahto at Medica, said the oxygen level in his blood has improved marginally, but it was still lower than optimum. “We are providing the standard treatment that would be given to him in any other hospital in the country. And he is responding to it,” said Mishra. Mahto is among five ministers who have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. State minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died hours after recovering from Covid-19 last week. Besides, health minister Banna Gupta, drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh have recovered without showing severe symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tilaiya Dam to get tourist police outpost ||Tilaiya Dam, one of the most popular and picturesque spots in Koderma district will have better security facilities for tourists who frequent this hostspot every year. Koderma superntendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib said a proposal has been sent to the state convert to convert the area into a full-fledged outpost. If given a go-ahead it will be known as Tilaiya Dam Tourist outpost. The dam, which was the first of four multi-purposed dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by prime minister Jawahar Lal Nehru, attracts a large number of tourists around the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. Filmmakers from Bengal and of the Bhojpuri film industries prefer to shoot their films at this picturesque location. Waquarib said the outpost will be made hi-tech with proposals finalized to change its name. A helpdesk will be erected to act immediately on receiving any kind of complaint. Sources in Koderma said with every passing year, tourist footfall is increasing at the dam finding it the best place to get a break from their busy schedule. They said this was the reason why many of the facilities have been improved here including security. They said the administration's plan is to provide best facilities here so as to encourage tourists. In 2017, Koderma administration, in association with the state tourism department had introduced a 32-seater double-decker boat and an eight-seater speedboat dam to draw more tourists and improve the lives of boatmen at the same time. To reach the dam, tourists can come to Koderma, is 160km from Ranchi, l a smooth two-hour drive on the Ranchi-Patna stretch on NH-33, for a memorable getaway. Administrative officials said the tourism department wants to convert the dam into a centre with facilities at par with the best of the country. In the coming days, funds will be pumped to upgrade facilities here. Waquarib said at present, efforts are on to convert Tilaiya Dam outpost into Tilaiya Dam Tourist outpost with upgraded facilities to be available soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police step up vigil at Dhoni homes after threat on social media||Ranchi police have stepped up vigil around Former Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s houses here following a threat to his daughter on social media on Friday night after his team, Chennai Super Kings, lost to Kolkata Knight Riders in an IPL tie on Wednesday. Trolls threatened Dhoni’s 5-year-old daughter with rape, with a section of the media reporting that Dhoni’s wife Sakshi saw it on her Instagram feed. The incident sparked an outrage over social media with many users, including MLAs and celebrities, condemning such distasteful online behaviour. Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam said police were on high alert. “Ever since we learnt about the rape threat, we have increased patrolling and vigil in and around both the areas where Dhoni’s houses exist in view of the safety of his family. The city police are not taking any chances even though we aren’t reading much into the distasteful tweet,” he told The Telegraph Online. Dhoni has a farmhouse in Simalia on the outskirts of Ranchi. His family, including wife, daughter and parents, moved there last year. He has another house in Harmu, named Shaurya, which he had built on land gifted to him by the state government for his achievements on the cricket field in mid-2000. With BCCI not allowing cricketers’ families to travel with them for the ongoing IPL underway in UAE this year, Dhoni's wife and daughter are currently in Ranchi. Asked about the duration of extra security, Alam said it would be in place for a few days. “Till the time we feel everything is safe, the drill will be on. We are also contacting his family in Ranchi as a part of confidence building measures, to assure them of their safety and to know if they foresaw any problem,” said Alam. As an international cricketer, Dhoni has often been unfairly targeted in his hometown after matches that do not go in India’s way. In 2007, enraged over his poor form in the first match of the World Cup, unruly fans vandalised his house and damaged a portion of the boundary wall. Fans reconstructed the boundary wall themselves once better sense prevailed. In December 2010, one of the 20 CCTV cameras at his bungalow in Harmu, was stolen. An FIR was registered at Argora police station. No one was arrested. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) has strongly condemned the incident. JSCA vice president Ajaynath Shahdeo said, “Cricket is a game of gentlemen. And in sports, winning and losing are two sides of the same coin. Dhoni is not just the pride of the state, but he is also the toast of the country. He is a great ambassador of the game. Such a comment against his minor daughter on social media is disgraceful,” he said. In the ongoing IPL, Dhoni-led CSK is currently placed in sixth position out of the eight teams taking part in the tournament. In six games, CSK has won two and lost four so far. On Saturday, CSK is scheduled to take on Royal Challengers Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Chief minister defends Swamy in midnight tweet ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren broke his silence and defended Stan Swamy late on Friday night, almost 24 hours after the 82-year-old social Jesuit priest and social worker was picked up from his Ranchi home by the National Investigating Agency. Describing Swamy as a “stalwart among rights activists”, Hemant used his official Twitter handle to speak out. “Why is the Centre hellbent on stifling all the pro-poor, pro-tribal and pro-Dalit voices in the country? What message does it want to give by arresting Stan Swamy, who has been among the strongest voices of all those marginalised in the state and country,” he tweeted in Hindi. Swamy, known for working towards the uplift of tribals, was picked from his residence in Ranchi by NIA for alleged links with Maoists allegedly involved in the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune December 2017. Earlier on Friday, the Church and several rights organisations came out in support of Swamy and questioned the Hemant government’s silence on the manner of his arrest. They appealed to the chief minister to come out openly against the arrest of the octogenarian by the central agency at night and without a formal warrant. Activists also staged a protest at Albert Ekka Chowk holding banners and posters in support of Swamy, who was among the eight to be charge-sheeted by NIA on Friday in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence. The NIA, which is probing the case, has accused Swamy of being a part of CPI (Maoists) and one of the key conspirators behind the violence. Swamy has denied the accusations. A joint statement, issued under the aegis of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and endorsed by over 2,000 activists, stated that Swamy had cooperated with investigating officers of the NIA when they questioned him at his residence in Bagaicha for over 15 hours on two occasions between July 27-30 and August 6. They also dubbed the case against him and other activists as false and fabricated. Economist Jean Dreze, one of the firsts to condemn the NIA’s high-handedness, said, “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. We are demanding, to both the state and central governments, to release him.” Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, in his statement appealed to citizens to stand by Swamy in his hour of need. He also appealed to the authorities concerned to release the octogenarian immediately.  “We are distressed and troubled by the manner in which such an elderly person has been treated by NIA. A clarification from NIA would be greatly appreciated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Thief found hanging from tree||A hand cuffed nude body of a thief who ran away from Kalubathan Police outpost was found hanging from a tree on Friday. Prakash Gorai, 25, a resident of Upchuria area of Nirsa block was arrested on Wednesday for stealing and re-selling mobile phones. Gorai fled the station from the toilet after his arrest. “We had lodged FIR with regard his escape from the police outpost as he cut the rope attached to his handcuff and also broke the ventilator of toilet of police station while fleeing away” said Vijay Kumar Kushwaha, Nirsa DSP, and added that they had informed the family members of the deceased after his escape from the police outpost. “Though it seems to be case of suicide but we will not leave anything on chance and carry out a detailed investigation after carrying out a detailed enquiry,” claimed Kushwaha and said that the body has been sent for post-mortem to PMCH. Chairman of Dhanbad District Board, Robin Gorai said, “Since the deceased was arrested by police and his dead body was found today around 1 km from police station, it raises doubt over the role of police and a detailed enquiry is required in  the case.” A rain fed Pipra river washed away a 14-year-old boy in Barhi on Friday, around 50kms away from Hazaribagh. Vinod Hansda was returning home in Pipra village on his bicycle and tried to cross the river but was washed away by the high tide. Villagers launched a search but failed to find him. Daltonganj police and civic officials on Friday held a meeting to discuss traffic de-congestion plans during the festive season. Sub divisional police officer Sandip Kumar Gupta said the LIC road is the most congested area because of road side vendors. Gupta said the focus will be on parking and barricading to avoid bottlenecks. Lorries entering the state will be monitored so as not to cause any traffic trouble here. The entry and exit time is from 9 at night to 9 in the day. The Dhanbad Covid hospital at Jagjivan Nagar will be relaunched after its renovation on September 22. The renovation is being carried out by the district administration in association with BCCL. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said the hospital will now have a 30 bed ICU facility for seriously affected Covid patients and equipped with other state of the art facilities. Prakash Kumar, an employee of a rice mill of Giridih  who went missing on Friday morning was found by Dhanbad Police  from Bank More area. Prakash claimed that he was abducted by a Dhanbad resident,  Upendra Singh, from Bank More area while he was heading towards Deoghar in his car. Dhanbad police denied his abduction for ransom claims and said that he was held by some finance company recovery agents over non payment of EMI for his car but was later released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
10-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand temples open, wait for churches ||Many temples in Jharkhand opened their doors for the devotees on Thursday after a gap of about seven months. The state government issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed on Wednesday night. But most of the churches are yet to be opened. The cap of 50 persons attending a place of worship at any given time, as the SOP specified, came in the way. A circular issued by the Catholic church in this regard has expressed reservations. “Those who prepared the SOP could have applied their mind a little more, specially regarding the number of persons that are allowed,” said the circular issued by Ranchi archdiocese on Thursday night under signatures of Archbishop Felix Toppo and Auxilliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas. Many churches in the region can accommodate much more people even after maintaining social distancing. The circular, however, expressed gratefulness that the government “finally issued SOP for opening of churches” and directed all concerned to follow it. It also allowed churches under Ranchi archdiocese to conduct two masses on weekdays and three or even more on Sundays for accommodating more number of faithful to attend the masses. The parish priests can decide on this after consulting with whomever they feel necessary, the circular added. The circular directed that “no church/place of worship will be opened till the basic safety measures of sanitiser and thermal scanners are in place” and also to “find, train and prepare volunteers to meet the new condition”. “Online masses will continue and big churches will conduct more than three masses on Sundays,” auxiliary Bishop Mascarenhas told The Telegraph when asked if online masses would now be discontinued. Each church will take the call individually but they will open only when they have health safety measures in place, he further informed about the date of opening the churches. The Gossner Evangical Lutheran Church, the oldest in the region that was established in 1845, was, however, expected to reopen from Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-271
