11-10-2020||Calcutta||Music video launched by Bengal child rights body and Unicef||A song that speaks of equal opportunities for girls will be part of the playlist at several Puja pandals in Calcutta. The song is part of a music video that was launched by the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Saturday on the eve of International Day of the Girl Child. This year the theme is: “My voice, our equal future.” The video is a collaboration between the commission and the Unicef. Several Calcutta-based artistes and an actor-activist from Bangladesh have featured in the four-minute video. “Amio egote chai, soman amader adhikar. Chhele ar meyer taphat korona ei gota duniyai (I want to move ahead; we have equal rights. Don’t discriminate between boys and girls in this world),” goes the song. The video shows girls — newborn, toddler, students and teenagers — in various spheres of life. A girl is seen writing alphabets in one frame. In another, a group plays cricket with elan. “Every year, we collaborate with the Unicef to celebrate the International Day of the Girl Child,” Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said. “We do a lot of work on the ground. But this year, the pandemic has stalled much of the work. So, we decided to make a music video with a mass appeal.” The plan was conceived in the end of September and the video was ready in 10 days, she said. The video was shot in the Ram Bagan slum area in north Calcutta. The music video was launched on the commission’s Facebook page on Saturday evening. “It will be shared on social media. It will be aired on TV and radio. We have got in touch with several Puja organisers… they will play this at their pandals,” she said. The video features Iman Chakraborty, Anirban Bhattacharya, Parambrata Chatterjee, Anupam Roy and Rafiath Rashid Mithila, an actor from Bangladesh. Mithila has been working with child rights advocacy in Bangladesh for over a decade now. “The song delivers a message that girls should have voices and choices. Shooting with the children was a humbling experience,” Mithila, the head of early childhood development programme of BRAC in Bangladesh said. Roy, who wrote the song and composed the music, said the “central theme” was “equality of opportunities”. “Our brief was clear. The song had to be simple and catchy, something that would appeal to the masses.” Chatterjee Chakraborti and filmmaker Sudeshna Roy have directed the video. “Educating men is the key to gender equality. We hope this video reaches out to as many people as possible,” Roy, who is part of the commission, said. “The commemoration on October 11 every year reminds us of the importance of calling upon everyone to adopt, practise and promote equal opportunities and rights for girls and boys,” Mohammad Mohiuddin, chief, Unicef office for West Bengal, said. “The music video is an innovative and creative message, which will be disseminated as an appeal and call to all duty-bearers towards this recognition and practice,” Mohiuddin said. The Covid pandemic has posed serious challenges in terms of increasing school dropouts and child marriages. This newspaper has reported how child marriages have been on the rise during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||5-year-old wades into New Town pond to get ball, drowns||A five-year-old boy who was chasing a ball fell into a pond next to a playground in Jyoti Nagar, on the outskirts of New Town, and drowned on Saturday, police said. Ayush Mondal was kicking around a small ball a little distance away from other children in the playground near a club called Milan Sangha, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. The pond is next to the ground and Ayush’s ball fell into it, he said. The boy went into the pond, which has a sloping bank, to try and grab the ball when he started drowning, another officer said. “The other children were a distance away and nobody saw him walking into the water. He did not know how to swim,” the officer said. Residents and passers-by saw Ayush floating face down in the pond and pulled him out. They alerted his parents and the police. Neighbours and members of the club took him to the sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake, 6.1km away, where he was declared dead. “The boy had lost consciousness when he was brought in. We could not revive him,” a doctor who examined him said. Ayush was extremely playful and used to be seen in the playground whenever his parents let him out, neighbour Parimal Majhi said. “Like all children his age, he used to love playing outdoors. His family is inconsonable,” said Majhi. The pond where Ayush drowned is around 5ft-deep and like many water bodies that dot the city, it does not have a guard wall or parapet around it. The banks are slippery because of algae and moss.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Private hospital meet on surge-readiness||The state’s health regulatory commission has asked private hospitals if they are ready for a surge in critical Covid patients during the festival season. The commission plans to hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the preparedness. The chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday posted a voice message in a closed WhatsApp group of private hospital representatives, in which he says an increase in the number of critical cases is anticipated. “Our festive season is just knocking at the door. We don’t know what is stored for us. We are anticipating an increase in number of critical patients, particularly during the festive days,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee said in the message. “Let us sit together and introspect whether we are ready for the situation. Durga Puja, followed by Diwali and Chhath will really be a crucial period that we have to cover. I would earnestly request all of you, particularly hospitals having approximately 200 beds and above, to take responsibility for a meeting.” On Friday, the state’s chief secretary Alapan Bandyopa-dhyay held a meeting with commission chairperson Banerjee and health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to discuss the preparedness of both government and private hospitals during the Pujas, a government official said. “Along with the private sector, we have asked government hospitals to enhance their services in the festive season. Everyone knows this Puja… it’s a different situation,” the official said. The official later told Metro that 24 CCU beds and 24 HDU beds were made functional at ESI Baltikuri in Howrah. Metro had earlier reported about several private hospitals requesting doctors, nurses, paramedics and other support staff not to take leaves during the festive season as they apprehended a surge in Covid numbers. The same report spoke of hospitals trying to enhance infrastructure. An official of a private hospital said 22 Covid patients with moderate and severe symptoms had been admitted to the hospital on Friday. The hospital has no vacant beds for Covid patients now, the official said. Officials of some private hospitals said it would be difficult for them to increase general beds in their hospitals but they would try to create more critical care beds because the fear is there would be more demand for ICU beds for Covid patients in the festival period. “Now, 75 per cent of our beds in the Covid wards are general beds while 25 per cent are for critical care patients. We can increase the critical care beds to 40 per cent. But, it will be difficult to increase the actual number of beds because for six months we did not have other patients… they have started coming now,” the CEO of a private hospital said. If the meeting is held, hospitals will seek the regulatory commission’s assistance for uninterrupted services, which is essential for Covid treatment, officials of some hospitals said. “The tankers carrying oxygen to refill our oxygen tanks should be allowed to enter the city during the Pujas. Usually these plants are outside the city. In pre-Covid times, we used to fill up our oxygen tanks every four days on average. Now, we have fill up the tanks every alternate days,” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. The CEO of another hospital said they would request the commission to ensure ambulance services were smooth. Some would want trucks carrying medicines from other states allowed entry to the city because the demand for particular types of antibiotics and other drugs have increased manyfold, according to officials of a few hospitals. “We are continuously trying to increase the number of beds and other infrastructure to accommodate the maximum number of Covid patients. We will work together with the commission to face any situation during the festive season,” Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, said. Barua is the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said AMRI had already requested its doctors and nurses to be on duty on the Puja days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Don Bosco’s co-ed college from 2021||Don Bosco Park Circus will start an undergraduate co-educational college on its campus from 2021. The state higher education department gave its “no objection” to the Don Bosco Educational Society on Saturday to start Don Bosco College, a self-financing undergraduate institution affiliated to Calcutta University to start from this year. But Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said the college would start from next year. “It will be a co-ed college and it is scheduled to start from 2021. The college will start on the same (Park Circus) campus. Apart from offering subjects in science, commerce and arts, the college will run professional courses as well,” he said. Asked why not from this academic session, a school official said the approval came in October; so, the session would start next year. The higher education department has extended the deadline for undergraduate admissions till October 30 for this academic session. “We had submitted the proposal to the department in November last year. Had the no objection arrived in February or in March, we could have started the college from this year,” the official said. The college will offer honours in English, physics, chemistry, mathematics, accounting and finance and bachelor of business administration and computer science. The inspection got delayed because of the pandemic and that is why the NoC could not be issued earlier, a department official said. “Besides, the Don Bosco Educational Society was advised to follow certain norms after the inspection. After the compliance, the NoC was issued,” the official said. “The physical infrastructure maybe ready, but the college requires time to appoint teachers and members of the non-teaching staff. It has to finalise who will head the college,” the department official said. A vice-chancellor said the launch of the college would fulfil the “need for a good undergraduate college”. “Besides, I feel parents won’t send their children to study in colleges outside Bengal because of the pandemic… for them, the launch of a good college in the city will be a boon.” When asked what triggered the move to start a college, Father Bikash Mon-dal said: “Most of our stud-ents look for good colleges… we will cater to this demand. Students of other institutions, too, will benefit. I have to get in touch with Calcutta University for completing the affiliation.” A department official said the department was sure that Don Bosco College would grow as a good college. “The Educational Society runs a self-financing college, Don Bosco College of Arts and Science, in Chennai. They run a college in Siliguri. Then there is Assam Don Bosco University. We are sure this rich experience will come handy as they start the college in Calcutta,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Kashmir pins tourism hope on Bengal||Kashmir is counting on Bengal to revive tourism in the Valley, stalled since the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. A team of officials from the directorate of tourism, Kashmir, was in Calcutta this week to meet tour operators. “As various sectors of the economy are being unlocked for normal activity in Jammu and Kashmir, we are ready to host tourists from all over India. Most of our tourists come from Bengal, Gujarat and Maharashtra,” Ahsanul Haq Chishti, the directorate’s deputy director and part of the team visiting Calcutta, said. “We are in Calcutta to pitch Kashmir once again as the place to be in this winter.” Kashmir has been a popular holiday destination for centuries, thanks to its snow-capped mountains, lush green valleys, lakes and houseboats and hospitable people. The tourism sector has been a significant contributor to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy. But the sector has been hit by a series of events, starting from the abrogation of Article 370 and the subsequent prolonged Internet shutdown. The Covid-19 pandemic has been a near-death blow for tourism. There are around 500 hotels and 800 guest houses in Srinagar, around 900 houseboats and 400 shikaras on the famed Dal Lake, an official of the directorate said. “All of them are facing a livelihood challenge.” “The people of Kashmir are dependent on tourism. They desperately want tourists back again,” another official said. “The Internet curbs have been lifted and there is uniform 2G connectivity in the Valley now.” Apart from the traditional favourite destinations such as Gulmarg and Pahalgam, are a string of new destinations have made to the tourism list. Doodhpatri (valley of milk), a bowl-shaped valley in the Pir Panjal Range of the Himalayas at an altitude of 8,957ft above sea level in Budgam district, is one such new destination. It is an alpine valley covered with snow-clad mountains and tall pine and deodar trees. The only worry — too much snowfall in winter often makes the valley inaccessible. Another underrated destination, officials said, was Yousmarg, a small meadow bordered by the majestic snow-covered Himalayas and green ridges. Tour operators in Bengal are in the know about the easing of Covid restrictions, including the lifting of curbs on entry of people to J&K by road, rail or air, and opening of all tourism destinations, parks, hotels and restaurants. “Kashmir tourism has prepared a calendar of activities for celebrating autumn. A golfing event is slated at Pahalgam. A saffron festival has been planned at Pampore by the end of this month. Events and activities have been slated for winter, especially at Pahalgam and the ski destination of Gulmarg,” a member of the visiting team said. Kashmir has always had a special place in the hearts of tourists from Bengal, according to tour operators in Calcutta. Last year, there were “big bookings” for Kashmir during Durga Puja but the Centre’s decision in August to scrap the special status of J&K made plans go haywire. “But we keep getting queries on Kashmir. If the situation is conducive for travel, there is no other place like Kashmir, more so because foreign travel is not happening,” an operator who met the visiting team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Calcutta||Women make Bengal government doorstep delivery a hit||A doorstep delivery of essential items for senior citizens during the lockdown has now turned into a full-fledged delivery system for the entire city and parts of Howrah. A state government agency has been promising everything — from locally produced vegetables and select fruits to grocery, fish and meat products — at the doorstep. The West Bengal Comprehensive Area Development Corporation has been delivering such items and more to people in Calcutta within hours of them placing orders on WhatsApp or on the department’s website. The corporation is an autonomous organisation under the Panchayat and Rural Development Department. Freshly-cooked meals, too, are available. The entire operation has been outsourced to the women of Self Help Groups in various districts. The corporation, which has been training members of Self Help Groups in agriculture, fishery and animal resource development, used to sell their produce in New Town before the pandemic struck. They sold at fairs and haats (Ahare Bangla and Saras), too. The corporation started doorstep delivery for the elderly once the Centre announced the lockdown. A WhatsApp group was formed. Also, the state government began an exercise to create a database of all senior citizens living on their own in Calcutta, Howrah and Salt Lake. Orders are placed on the WhatsApp group or on the corporation’s website. The corporation started expanding from vegetables, essential items such as pulses, cereals, and oil, and fish and meat to cooked meals, moringa powder, Mecha sandesh (a GI product from Beliatore in Bankura), crabs, Kadaknath chicken and fresh hilsa. Before Durga Puja, the corporation intends to introduce chicken dust, mango flake, and dried fruits. Primarily, Self Help Groups were trained in pisciculture and rearing animal husbandry. “We are into research, output and production,” Soumyajit Das, special secretary, Panchayat and Rural Development, said. Das personally responds to every WhatsApp order. “The initiative here is to empower women, the entire operation is run by women from Self Help Groups handpicked by us.” Piu Bag from Birohi Mahila Samannay Samiti in the Haringhata Block has been supervising girls from her Self Help Group in the supply of vegetables to the corporation this month. “We cultivate bottle gourds, ladies fingers, onions, cauliflowers… we have been supplying to the corporation after the lockdown. We are getting a better price here than elsewhere. My girls are helping out in the corporation canteen, too, and they get a monthly salary,” Bag said. Salekha Khatun from Hariharpara in Murshidabad is part of Nil Akash Mahila Samannay Samiti, which supplies spices and pulses to the corporation. “We have leased out 50 bighas this time in the hope of getting more orders from the corporation.”’ The department is now trying to grow the produce locally and Self Help Groups are being trained in vertical gardening and maintaining bioflock ponds at Mrittika Bhavan, the corporation headquarters. “We have noticed we need to produce locally to maintain quality. So, we are training them to grow here in Calcutta where they are supplying,” Das said. All customers give their feedback on the WhatsApp group and every complaint is attended to. Indranil Hazra from Belgachhia said: “A friend sent me the link to the WhatsApp group and I have been ordering since April. I am very impressed with the professional service as well as the range and quality of products.” His neighbour Subhasree Banerjee, a Corona warrior, along with her husband, too, have benefitted from the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
11-10-2020||Business||Fuel demand rises in September ||India’s fuel demand in September rose for the first time since June as easing coronavirus restrictions supported economic activity and travel even as consumption remained weaker than a year earlier. Consumption of refined fuels, a proxy for oil demand, rose 7.2 per cent in September from the prior month to 15.47 million tonnes — the first monthly increase since June when demand rose to 16.09 million tonnes. However, demand fell 4.4 per cent from the same period a year earlier, posting its seventh consecutive year-on-year slide, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. Factory activity also expanded at its fastest pace in more than eight years in September, even as layoffs continued. Fuel demand in August was the weakest since April. Diesel consumption rose 13.2 per cent to 5.49 million tonnes last month from 4.85 million tonnes in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||HDFC CEO Keki Mistry sees Q3 rebound||Keki Mistry, CEO of mortgage lender HDFC Ltd, on Saturday said the “worst is behind us” and the economic recovery has been faster than expected. Stating that the December quarter growth could outperform the expansion logged in the corresponding quarter a year ago, Mistry said that the Indian economy has shown its resiliency. A benign interest rate regime will continue going forward and that rates will go up only after economic activity gathers more pace and inflation pressure rises, Mistry said at an online dialogue organised by the All India Management Association (AIMA). He, however, said that interest rates have bottomed out. The government should identify the job creating sectors and address their issues on a priority basis, AIMA said in a release quoting him. Mistry said the housing and real estate sector is the biggest employer in the economy after agriculture, and that 80 per cent of the workforce in the sector require minimal skills. Talking about the repayment issues in the housing and the real estate sector, Mistry said that he expected non-performing loans to be in single digits. The veteran financial sector player also said that most of the job losses during Covid-19 were confined to low-income workers and the job losses for the kind of people who borrow money were not alarming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||Vedanta delisting process fails||Metals and mining baron Anil Agarwal’s attempt to take Vedanta Ltd private has suffered a major jolt as the de-listing offer has failed. The total number of shares tendered in the offer was less than the threshold required to make it successful. Vedanta will now return all the equity shares that were tendered during the delisting process to the shareholders. The failure of the delisting attempt came amid a rollercoaster ride for Agarwal with the reverse book-building process getting off to a slow start. Agarwal had told a news channel early on Friday he may come out with a counter offer if the delisting plan struggles to overcome the 90 per cent hump that is mandatory for it to become successful. Hopes rose later in the day with stock exchanges data showing that shareholders had tendered more than the minimum amount required. However, reports of glitches as some investors could not put in their bids saw the offer getting extended to 7 pm on Friday. But because of unconfirmed bids of a little over 12.54 crore shares, Vedanta fell short of the mark. While the promoter group needed around 134.1 crore shares to delist the company, they could only muster 125.47 crore bids. In a regulatory filing on Saturday, Vedanta said the total number of shares validly tendered by the public shareholders was 1,25,47,16,610. “Thus, the delisting offer is deemed to have failed in terms of Regulation 19(1) of the delisting regulations. The acquirers will not acquire any equity shares tendered by the public shareholders in the delisting offer and the equity shares will continue to remain listed on the stock exchanges. The company’s American Depositary Shares will continue to remain listed on the NYSE,” Vedanta said. No final application will be made to the stock exchanges for delisting, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||Business||RBI urges Supreme Court to lift bar on NPA tagging||The Reserve Bank of India has urged the Supreme Court to permit banks to start classifying loan defaulters as non-performing accounts once again, now that the six-month loan moratorium period has ended as of August 31. The apex court had imposed a restraint on NPA classification while hearing a batch of petitions from borrowers who were seeking waiver of interest on interest on their loans — called compounding interest in financial parlance — during the moratorium period. Some petitioners have also been seeking a court directive to extend the loan moratorium itself to help them tide over the crisis wrought by the pandemic. Many of these borrowers have been dissatisfied by the limited waiver of compound interest that the government recently granted to loans worth Rs 2 crore and below that were extended to small and medium businesses and a stack of retail loans to individuals. “The petitions are without any merit and are liable to be dismissed. It is further prayed that the interim order dated September 4, 2020 restraining classification of accounts into non-performing assets in terms of the directions issued by the RBI may kindly be vacated with immediate effect,” said the affidavit filed by Prashant Kumar, assistant general manager of the Reserve Bank of India. The central bank has cautioned that failure to immediately lift an interim stay on banks classifying any loan as an NPA would also undermine the RBI’s regulatory mandate. The court is set to rule on the matter on October 13. In a separate affidavit, the finance ministry has requested the apex court not to grant any further relief in the case apart from what has already been decided and submitted in the court. The decision to bear the cost of penal interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month moratorium was taken in the specific context of the pandemic. The plan to implement this decision will be put in place by November 15, the affidavit said. The RBI has also told the court that any blanket waiver of interest on interest or a further extension of moratorium on loans was not feasible. Such a move would cause a “serious dent” to the economy and lead to financial instability and a “debilitating impact on the process of credit creation in the economy”, the RBI said. “Any blanket waiver of interest on interest will entail significant economic costs which cannot be absorbed by the banks without a serious dent to their financials, which in turn will have huge implications for depositors and the broader financial stability. “A long moratorium can also impact credit behaviour of borrowers and increase the risks of delinquencies post resumption of scheduled payments,” the affidavit said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
11-10-2020||India||Hathras victim's family to appear before Allahabad HC on Monday||The family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. The court will record the version of the victim's family members in the case. It had on October 1 asked the woman's parents to come to apprise it of their version of the incident. The hearing is likely to be held in-person. The court had ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for the family's travel. The case is listed for hearing before a division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy at 2:15 PM. The high court had directed the district judge to ensure that the victim's family members appear before it on Monday. It has also summoned additional chief secretary, home; director general of police; ADG, law and order; and district magistrate and superintendent of police of Hathras to furnish the status report of the investigation in the case. The state government has asked additional advocate general V K Sahi to represent it before the court. "The district judge, who has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim's family members before the high court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly. The family is in Hathras as of now," Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal told PTI on Sunday morning. Police did not divulge the details of their security plan on the movement of the woman's family members. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the victim's house to ensure the safety of her family members, according to the police. With the help of CCTV cameras, the victim's house is being monitored round-the-clock, the police said. Jaiswal said a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen deployed at the entrance of the house. Deputy Inspector General of Police Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had on Friday said if needed, a control room would also be established. "Shocked" by the murder and alleged gang-rape of the Dalit woman and the subsequent forcible cremation, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had on October 1 summoned top government officials. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, a division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020, leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognisance of the same," the bench had said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Aamir Khan’s daughter Ira Khan reveals she suffers from clinical depression||Superstar Aamir Khan's daughter, Ira Khan, has revealed that she has clinical depression.  On World Mental Health Day, Ira Khan shared a video on Instagram.  The theatre director said it's time to "start a conversation" around mental wellbeing. "I am depressed. I have been for more than four years now. I have been to a doctor and I am clinically depressed. I am doing much better now,” she said.  "For over a year now, I wanted to do something for mental health, but I wasn't sure what to do," the 23-year-old said in the video.  Ira Khan, who made her directorial debut with a play last year, said she has decided to chronicle her journey with the hope that it will help people in knowing themselves "slightly better" and "understand mental illness better".  "Let's start from where I started. What do I have to be depressed about? Who am I to be depressed? I have everything, right?" she said in the one minute-long clip.  Ira Khan said a lot has been going on in people's lives as they navigate situations and feelings which are "confusing and stressful".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Indian looking at several types of Covid-19 vaccines||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that the government had not yet taken a view on granting emergency authorisation to COVID-19 vaccines in India, as and when they became available. The minister also said that the indigenously developed Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis could be rolled out in the next few weeks. “Presently COVID-19 vaccines are in various stages of phases 1, 2 and 3 of human clinical trials, the results of which are awaited,” Vardhan said during an interaction with his social media followers on the fifth episode of his Sunday Samvaad platform. "Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorisation, vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will depend on the data generated," he underlined. The minister had earlier said that a COVID-19 vaccine was likely to be available by the first quarter of 2021. Categorically rejecting speculation that the government was prioritizing young and working-class for the COVID-19 vaccine for economic reasons, Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups for COVID-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations -- occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.” Asked how the government planned to roll out the COVID-19 vaccine, he said that it was anticipated that supplies of vaccines would be available in limited quantities in the beginning. “In a huge country like India, it is critical to prioritise vaccine delivery based on various factors such as the risk of exposure, comorbidity among various population groups, the mortality rate among COVID-19 cases, and several others," the minister said. He also added that India was looking at the availability of several different types of vaccines, of which some may be suitable for a particular age group while others may not be so. He reiterated that the most important component of the planning was the cold chain and other logistics to ensure no glitches occurred in vaccine delivery even at the last mile. On the need to include other candidates of COVID-19 vaccine, Vardhan said considering the large population size of India, one vaccine or vaccine manufacturer will not be able to fulfil the requirements of vaccinating the whole country. "Therefore, we are open to assessing the feasibility of introducing several COVID-19 vaccines in the country as per their availability for the Indian population,” he said. Sharing his views on public-private partnership during the pandemic, Vardhan said that the present situation demands multiple vaccine partners to ensure maximum vaccination coverage to the Indian population. He also said that the use of a single vaccine from a certain company should not be seen through a negative lens. Vardhan also highlighted the need for massive advocacy for building community sensitization activities to understand the reasons for vaccine hesitancy and address them appropriately.Feluda test shows 96 per cent sensitivity On the rollout of the Feluda test, he said that based on tests in over 2,000 patients during the trials at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and testing in private labs, the test showed 96 pc sensitivity and 98 pc specificity. “This compares favourably to ICMR's current acceptance criteria of RT-PCR Kit of at least 95 pc sensitivity and at least 99 pc specificity,” he stated. He added that the Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis had been developed by CSIR-IGIB and had been approved by the Drug Controller General of India for a commercial launch. "The kit has already been validated by the Department of Atomic Energy's National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore. While I cannot put an exact date on the availability, we should expect this test within the next few weeks," he said.Reinfection misclassification Referring to reports of reinfection surfacing in various states, Vardhan said an analysis by the ICMR has revealed that many cases reported as COVID-19 reinfection have been misclassified because RT-PCR tests can detect dead-virus shed for prolonged periods after recovery. Actual reinfection would mean a fully recovered person getting infected by a freshly introduced virus in his/her body, belonging to the same or different strain. ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of re-infected cases. Results will be shared in a couple of weeks," he said. Currently, two indigenously-developed vaccine candidates, one by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd, are in phase 2 of the human clinical trials. Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate also, is conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India.Rs 3,000 cr released to states and UTs During the Sunday Samvaad conversation, Vardhan shared that in the first phase the Government of India has released Rs 3,000 crore to states and UTs to battle COVID-19 pandemic. Almost all, except three states and UTs, have utilized the complete grant given to them: Maharashtra has only used 42.5 pc of the grant followed by Chandigarh at 47.8 pc and Delhi at 75.4 pc, he stated. In view of the upcoming festivals, Vardhan urged the people to stay away from congregations and diligently follow COVID appropriate behaviour, saying "no religion or God says that you have to celebrate a festival in an ostentatious way".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Yogi, his police say no one was raped; for them, she was no one, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the death of a Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras who was gang-raped, saying that the chief minister and his police claim no one was raped because for them and many other Indians, she was "no one".  In a tweet, Gandhi said the shameful truth is that many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human.  "The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE," the former Congress chief tweeted. He also tagged a media report, which asked why police were denying rape when the woman repeatedly reported otherwise.  A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped and attacked by four upper-caste men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital.  The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family".  The state government has said that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the incident. Quoting an FSL (forensic science laboratory) report, it has denied the rape charge.  The Centre has issued a notification for the CBI to take over probe into the alleged gang-rape and death of the 19-year-old woman, officials said on Saturday. The CBI has taken over investigation into the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh on September 14, officials said. The agency registered an FIR on Sunday morning under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to gangrape and murder, they said. The case was earlier registered at Chandpa Police Station, in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh, on a complaint by the victim's brother. "The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further Notification from Government of India," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said. The agency has constituted a team to probe the case, he said. Read the full story here||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||CBI takes over probe into alleged gangrape of Dalit woman in Hathras||The CBI has taken over investigation into the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh on September 14, officials said.  The agency registered an FIR on Sunday morning under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to gangrape and murder, they said.  The case was earlier registered at Chandpa Police Station, in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh, on a complaint by the victim's brother.  "The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further Notification from Government of India," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said.  The agency has constituted a team to probe the case, he said.  The 19-year-old woman died of severe assault injuries at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. She was allegedly gangraped on September 14 by four upper caste men. The visit of a fact-finding team of Left and LJD MPs on Sunday to Hathras, following the alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit woman, was cancelled after the Uttar Pradesh Police informed it that her family is being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance, sources in the CPI(M) said.  The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died at a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday.  Barely half an hour before the team was to depart from New Delhi, the Uttar Pradesh Police informed that its visit had been cancelled as the woman's family is being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance on Monday, the sources said.  The team, which comprises Elamaram Kareem and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya of the CPI(M), Binoy Vishwam of the CPI and M V Shreyams Kumar of the LJD, was to visit the Hathras rape victim's house and meet her family members, neighbours and others, they said.  The team of MPs also wanted to hold a meeting with the district magistrate and the district police chief to enquire about the safety of the woman's parents and relatives as there were incidents of "constant attacks" on the them, the sources said.  The fact-finding team had decided to submit its report to the president, the chief justice of India and the prime minister after the visit.  Shocked by the incident and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to court.  A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident.  Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered the Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Delhi woman 'becomes' British High Commissioner for a day!||Being the British High Commissioner in India can be a hectic job, and an 18-year-old woman from the national capital experienced this when she held the post for a day.  Chaitanya Venkateswaran from New Delhi had the unique opportunity to spend last Wednesday as the UK's senior-most diplomat in India under the mission's initiative aimed at empowering and highlighting the challenges faced by women across the world.  The British High Commission has been organising the 'High Commissioner for a Day' competition annually since 2017, inviting young Indian women aged 18 to 23 years to take over as their most senior diplomat.  Venkateswaran is the fourth young woman to take over as the British High Commissioner in an annual competition run by the UK mission in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British High Commission said in a statement.  As the UK's top diplomat here, Venkateswaran's busy day included handing out tasks to the High Commission's department heads, interacting with senior woman police officers, meeting the press, and launching a study tracing the impact of British Council STEM scholarships on Indian women participants.  "I used to visit the British Council library in New Delhi when I was younger, and that's where I cultivated my love of learning. Building on that knowledge, to be the British High Commissioner for a day was a golden opportunity," Venkateswaran said. "My day was full of diverse experiences which have really broadened my perspective on the role of women and their representation in fields of media, policing and STEM. I am now more determined than ever to use my new knowledge and experience to help promote equitable treatment of women everywhere," she said.  Jan Thompson, the Deputy High Commissioner for that day and acting High Commissioner to India on other days, said this competition is one of his favourite moments of the year an opportunity to provide a platform to extraordinary young women, and show how the UK and India are sharing expertise to ensure women and girls reach their full potential around the world.  "I was thrilled to relinquish my duties to Chaitanya for the day and was impressed with how confidently and competently she took on this role, a deserving winner out of an incredible 215 entries," he said.  "In the side-lines of her very busy day as High Commissioner, we also enjoyed discussing our mutual love of the arts. I look forward to seeing what Chaitanya achieves next, as she joins a cohort of young women whose voices we have been proud to amplify through this annual initiative; the next generation of global leaders," Thompson said.  This year, entrants to the competition were invited to submit an one-minute video on social media, answering the question -- 'What global challenges and opportunities do you see for gender equality in the age of COVID-19?'  In line with COVID-19 health and safety precautions, Venkateswaran participated in the day through video conference, but was happy to meet Acting High Commissioner Thompson at a later date for a socially distanced walk.  Venkateswaran, a recent high-school graduate from New Delhi, is pursuing a bachelor's degree with a full scholarship in International Studies and Economics, and certificate programmes in Advanced Leadership Studies and Political Thought at American University, Washington DC, studying remotely.  An active volunteer, she has worked to aid visually-impaired students, acid attack survivors and marginalised LGBT+ groups.  During the day when she was the British High Commissioner, she met with the Editor of Anandabazar Patrika to learn about gender representation in the media industry, discussed gender and policing with senior police officers from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana and interacted with the Marks & Spencer India team.  She also launched the British Council STEM Tracer Study documenting the stories of 166 Indian women scholars and chaired a meeting with youth leaders, including previous competition winners, on some of the biggest challenges facing the world, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Sikkim says hello to tourists after long gap||Scenic Sikkim welcomed tourists on Saturday after a gap of seven months after Covid-induced curbs on entry of visitors to check the spread of the infection in the tiny Himalayan state. Official data on the number of tourist arrivals was not available, but tourists — both domestic and foreign — entered Sikkim by road and a few by air. Air travel was made possible thanks to the resumption of the helicopter service between Gangtok and Bagdogra coinciding with Unlock 1. According to the guidelines issued by the Sikkim state tourism department, all domestic tourists and foreigners residing in India would be allowed to visit the state in the first phase of resumption. But tourists must first register themselves on the department’s portal and stay in only registered hotels and other accommodation units. However, some tourists had already entered Sikkim in the past few days without registration. A group of four friends from Bihar said they had gone to Sikkim for two days of sightseeing. Asked about the punitive measures to be taken against tourists entering the state without registration, a senior official in the tourism department said action would be initiated against those hotels and accommodation units found entertaining such guests. “Hotels and other accommodations are expected to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs),” said the official. The SOPs have also asked hotels and other units to limit guests at 50 per cent of their capacity to enforce social distance norms. The 50 per cent cap has also been imposed on restaurants and tourist cabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Bullet removed from skull||The Central Referral Hospital (CRH) at Tadong in Gangtok has successfully removed a bullet that was lodged inside the left forehead of a 16-year-old boy for over three months after a homemade gun he had allegedly made opened fire by mistake. The CRH, a constituent of Sikkim Manipal University, said the boy was brought to the hospital with headache, nausea, vomiting and fever. The CT scan and X-ray reported a metallic foreign body inside the skull. A team headed by consultant neurosurgeon of the hospital, Dr Pranav Rai, successfully removed the bullet. According to the hospital, the boy accidentally shot himself while trying out a firearm he had designed after watching online gun-making videos. “The exact details of the events are being investigated by the police...,” said the CRH. “Contrast enhanced CT scan of the brain showed multiple pockets of pus with thickened capsules surrounding the projectile,” the CRH release emailed to The Telegraph said. There was significant edema of the surrounding brain causing dangerous mass effect and impending cerebral herniation, which are life-threatening, it said. Edema is swelling caused by excess fluid trapped in a body’s tissues and cerebral herniation occurs when something inside the skull produces pressure that moves brain tissues. The boy made a “remarkable recovery” without complications, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Centre’s reminder and Uttar Pradesh stand don’t match||The Union home ministry on Saturday reminded states that dying declarations are to be considered “relevant fact” during an investigation. The reminder was issued at a time Uttar Pradesh police have been accused of contesting the Hathras victim’s last known statement to the investigating officer in which the 19-year-old girl said she was raped by four men. The case was officially handed over to the CBI on Saturday. Referring to the dying declaration, the Union home ministry’s advisory on Saturday to the states and Union Territories said the law “provides that the statement, written or verbal, by a person who is dead shall be treated as relevant fact in the investigation when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in death”. The advisory cited a Supreme Court order that said the statement should satisfy “all the requirements of judicial scrutiny” but “cannot be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a magistrate or that the police officer did not obtain attestation by any person present at the time of making of the statement”. In the Hathras case, the Uttar Pradesh government informed the Supreme Court that the Dalit girl told the investigation officer on September 22 in an Aligarh hospital that she was raped by the four accused and then there was an attempt to strangulate her. A lady head constable was present when the statement was taken and the procedures were videographed. The girl died on September 29 at Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi. Uttar Pradesh police have contested the rape complaint, citing the lack of sperm in a forensic analysis of samples collected several days after the incident. The police explained the delay by saying the girl first spoke of rape on September 22 after she was attacked on September 14. But the report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, confirmed two deep injuries in her vagina. Saturday’s Union home ministry advisory said that in crimes against women, an FIR must compulsorily be registered in case of a cognisable offence, public servants should be punished if they failed to do so, investigations into rape complaints must be completed within two months and medical exam of the victim conducted within 24 hours of receiving information of the offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Task of bugging China left to Tajinder Bagga||India officially sat out Taiwan’s National Day on Saturday as always and in line with New Delhi’s One-China policy, but not Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga. “Happy National Day Taiwan” posters in the name of Bagga, a Delhi BJP spokesperson, surfaced near the Chinese embassy in the high-security Diplomatic Enclave. The posters had the name of Bagga, who was the BJP’s Hari Nagar candidate in the Assembly elections earlier this year, but did not mention any affiliation. Bagga tweeted a picture of the poster taken in the night and hashtagged it “TaiwanNationalDay”. A PTI report said the posters were subsequently removed during the day by the civic body concerned amid speculation of Bagga having some sanction to put them up, given the tight security in the area. This was clearly not lost on the Chinese. Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong tweeted: “One-China policy is long-standing position of the Indian government. China firmly opposes any individual or any move trying to create ‘two Chinas’ or ‘One-China, one Taiwan’, which violates this position.” Bagga shot back in a tweet: “As Indian, I still stand with One China, 1 Taiwan, 1 Tibet, 1 Hong Kong, 1 Xinjiang.” He uploaded a new profile picture on his Twitter handle, wearing a “Free Tibet” T-shirt with the Tibetan flag. Through the day, the Chinese embassy was busy picking on Indian journalists who commented about Taiwan on social media. They were sent messages that said: “Hope you could stick to Indian government’s position on Taiwan question and do not violate the One-China principle when you do the report.” The journalists were also told that the mission was willing to maintain communication with them individually and their media organisation on China-related reports. This was essentially a repeat of part of the message that was sent to Indian media houses by the Chinese embassy on Wednesday, listing the dos and don’ts on Taiwan’s National Day, bracing for efforts to use the occasion to focus on China’s troubled relationship with Taiwan. The drive, however, did not deter media houses from running discussions on Taiwan’s National Day. Till late in the night, no one from the government greeted Taiwan on its national day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||83-year-old Catholic priest’s arrest unlocks Church voice||The Catholic Church has condemned the arrest of 83-year-old Catholic priest Stanislaus Lourduswamy on sedition charges and demanded his immediate release. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, economist Jean Dreze and several Christian groups have added their voice to the chorus of condemnation. The statement from the Catholic Bishops Conference of India (CBCI), the apex body of the Catholic Church in the country, stood out for two reasons. One, there has been a perception that sections of the Church establishment have been somewhat reluctant to speak out of late because of the Narendra Modi government’s crackdown on foreign sources of funds. Two, the CBCI statement focused only on the priest, although 15 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and writers have been imprisoned in connection with the probe into the same case. The Ranchi-based priest, better known as Fr Stan Swamy, suffers from Parkinson’s disease and is known for his documentation of police torture of tribal youths suspected of terrorism and his vocal support for the recognition and codification of the animist Sarna faith. The National Investigation Agency has arrested and chargesheeted him in the Elgaar Parishad case — an alleged Maoist plot to incite violence through an Ambedkarite event in 2017 — accusing him of being a member of the banned CPI Maoist and a conduit for its funds. He has been sent to judicial custody in Mumbai till October 23. On Saturday, Felix Machado, archbishop of Vasai and CBCI secretary-general, said in a statement: “According to our reports, Fr Stan has for decades been working to protect the rights of the Adivasis, especially their land rights. This could have worked against the interests of certain people. “When questioned during the months of July-August 2020 by authorities, Fr Stan Swamy has fully cooperated with investigating agencies and has provided detailed statements, claiming to be innocent in the case.” The statement added: “It is difficult to comprehend the plight of an octogenarian with several morbidities, like Fr Stan Swamy, to have to undergo such difficulties during this pandemic in which even a normal healthy person would hesitate to travel or would never travel risking one’s life.” Before his arrest, Fr Stan had declined an NIA summons to its Mumbai office, citing his age and the pandemic. “The CBCI makes a strong appeal to the concerned authorities to immediately release Fr Stan Swamy and to permit him to go to his residence,” the statement said. Archbishop Machado’s Protestant counterpart, Rev. Asir Ebenezer, general secretary of the National Council of Churches in India (NCCI), said his organisation was still working on a statement. Asked why his statement did not mention the 15 other accused imprisoned in the case, Archbishop Machado told The Telegraph: “Others are also our concern if they are detained out of unfair (methods) and injustice.” The North East Catholic Research Forum said in a statement: “By selective targeting of a law-abiding prominent Christian, it appears to be an attempt to distract and divert people’s attention from multiple crises the country is currently witnessing -- political, diplomatic, economic and social insecurity.… The NECARF, therefore, appeals to the Government of India to forthwith intervene and ensure his early release, as we pray for people of this country in these times of extreme crisis exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic.” While most Church bodies in India have so far been focusing on Fr Stan and not the other 15, Christian organisations at the global level have joined other human rights bodies in demanding justice for all of them. “Stan is the latest one among the 16 people arrested including well-known rights defenders Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj, both lawyers, and Vernon Gonsalves and Varavara Rao, both writers,” a statement from the Society of Jesus, or Jesuits, said. Fr Stan is a member of the Society of Jesus, a religious order with a legacy of running quality educational institutions. “We, as Jesuits involved in works of education, caring and defending the rights of the poor and the vulnerable all over the world, stand in solidarity with Stan and other human rights defenders in India and strongly condemn the arrest of Fr Stan Swamy, demand immediate release and refrain from arbitrary arrests of innocent law-abiding citizens,” the statement said. Many Catholics in India are observing fasts and conducting prayers and protests in Delhi at the call of the Forum of Religious for Justice and Peace, a group of Christian priests and nuns from various congregations. John Dayal, spokesperson for India’s oldest Catholic lay people’s body, the All India Catholic Union, said the government’s crackdown on charitable institutions through the Foreign Contributions (Regulation) Act, 2010, had sealed the lips of many Christians. “Muslims and Sikhs contribute a lot more to charity and do not need to rely on foreign funds. For Christians, the FCRA is a sword hanging over every other educational institution,” Dayal said. “The government effectively used income-tax investigations, municipal zoning laws and land laws during the (tenure of the) previous BJP government in Jharkhand to terrorise the Church.” Amnesty International had to recently shut shop in India after its account was frozen for alleged FCRA violations. “While the Church itself has been silenced, the 1.25 lakh members of religious groups like Jesuits have stuck to their main task of fighting for the oppressed and pushing forward a socialist agenda,” Dayal said. “The government does not mind you distributing food but the moment you open a coaching class for the civil services, or talk about civil rights under the Constitution, you will be harassed like Fr Stan.” Fr Stan has been charged with channelling Maoist funds through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, headed by Calcutta professor Partho Sarathi Ray, who too has been questioned. Rights activists and noted academics too have spoken out against Fr Stan’s arrest. Dreze has supported an appeal to Opposition leaders tweeted by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha -- a coalition of rights outfits - tagging politicians including Rahul Gandhi, Sitaram Yechury, Mamata Banerjee and Tejashwi Yadav, among others. “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. All Opposition parties should exert pressure on the Centre to release him,” Dreze said. Chief minister Soren posted a tweet on Friday night from his official handle that said: “What message does the BJP government at the Centre want to send out by arresting the 83-year-old Stan Swamy, who has been raising his voice for the poor, the deprived and Adivasis? What obstinacy is this to stifle all voices of dissent?” Ranchi-based activist and writer Xavier Dias, 70, a close associate of Fr Stan, recalled the priest’s work for the tribal communities. “He hails from Trichy in Tamil Nadu. He worked as a teacher in the early 1960s and spent decades fighting for the rights of the Adivasis of Jharkhand under the banner of the Visthapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan, a people’s movement against displacement,” Dias said. “He opposed the previous BJP government’s attempts to amend land laws and the land acquisition act. He also fought for the Adivasis who were falsely accused of being Maoists and lodged in jail custody.” Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee from Jamshedpur and K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi flags soldier safety||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of indulging in wasteful expenditure even as the safety of Indian soldiers was being compromised. Rahul posted a video on Twitter that showed jawans discussing among themselves the dangerous decision of forcing them to travel in vehicles that are not bulletproof. “Our soldiers are being sent in nonbulletproof trucks to sacrifice their lives and aircraft worth Rs 8,400 crore for the Prime Minister! Is this justice?” Rahul tweeted. It is not clear where the video has been shot but the soldiers are acutely worried about being attacked. In the twominute video, one of the men in uniform can be heard saying: “We are forced to travel in such vehicles while officers travel in bulletproof vehicles. They are playing with our lives.” Other jawans agree with him, insisting that it is the duty of the officers to ensure bulletproof trucks for them. The parliamentary election last year was dominated by patriotic emotions as Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the Pulwama tragedy — in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed after an explosiveladen car rammed into their vehicle — and the subsequent Balakot air strike the main issue. The BJP hugely benefited from that discourse as all other issues got pushed aside even as the Opposition kept harping on lax security and increased terror at¬tacks under the Modi regime. The Congress has constantly attacked the Modi govern¬ment for cutting the defence budget and paying inadequate attention to the basic needs and welfare of the soldiers. The party has also consistently attacked the government for its wasteful expenditure in these times of unprecedented eco¬nomic crisis, asking it to scrap vanity projects such as the Central Vista in which a new Parliament building will be built along with offices and res¬idences for top functionaries. Barely a few days ago, Rahul had questioned the Prime Minister for buying two aircraft worth over Rs 8,000 crore when the BJP leaders taunted him for using a cushioned chair on the tractor during his protest against the farm bills in Punjab. Rahul said Modi ordered the fancy planes only because his friend, US President Donald Trump, had it. The two planes will be used by the President and the Prime Minister of India. The Congress on Saturday held kisan (farmer) conferences in every state to demand withdrawal of the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Republic CFO skips police summons, points to Supreme Court||Republic TV’s chief financial officer (CFO), who was summoned by Mumbai police to appear before them at 11am on Saturday in connection with allegations of TRP manipulation, skipped the meeting saying that the channel had approached the Supreme Court. Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram, the CFO on whom summons were issued on Friday, requested the police not to record his statement because the top court would hear the petition within a week, a senior official said. However, Sam Balsara, chairman and managing director of Madison World and Madison Communications, appeared before the crime branch to record his statement in the same case, the official said. The Mumbai crime branch, which is investigating alleged TRP manipulation by three channels, had issued the summons. The accountants of the Marathi channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema and those of a couple of advertising agencies were also summoned, the official said. The summons to Sundaram said there were reasonable grounds to believe that he was “acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the matter and the same are required to be ascertained”. “However, he did not appear before the probe team. He informed the police that the channel had approached the Supreme Court and that there would be a hearing within a week. Citing this, he requested the police not to record his statement,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||61-year-old pedals wife 90km to hospital||A 61-year-old villager pedalled a trolley rickshaw for 90km carrying his wife to a city hospital because he couldn’t afford an autorickshaw and was unable to call a government ambulance since he has no mobile. Rag-picker Kabir Bhuin, who pedalled the rented three-wheeler for more than 14 hours from Sakhigopal in Odisha’s Puri district to Cuttack, got wife Sukanti admitted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital on Saturday morning with help from some local people. Sources said Kabir had a week ago admitted Sukanti to the local community health centre in Gopinathpur, Puri district. Before her discharge, the doctor there informally advised Kabir to take her to the SCB Medical College, saying she had multiple ailments that might include cancer. Neither did the health centre make an official referral, nor did it arrange for a free government ambulance to take Sukanti to Cuttack, the sources said. When Sukanti’s condition worsened on Friday morning, Kabir decided to take her to Cuttack himself. “The local autorickshaw demanded Rs 1,200, which I couldn’t afford. So, I rented the trolley rickshaw at Rs 50 a day,” Kabir told reporters in Cuttack. Kabir set off from his home at 9am on Friday and reached Cuttack’s outskirts around 11pm. When, after a night’s rest, he resumed his journey towards the medical college hospital, some people came forward to help. “We noticed the poor man ferrying his wife in the trolley rickshaw, and some of us decided to help him,” social activist Abhimanyu Das told The Telegraph. He said Kabir had been nursing Sukanti, who was suffering from stomach pain and vomiting, for the past one year. He had taken her to hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Puri town during pre-pandemic times when buses used to run. “I’m trying my hardest to give her the best treatment I can,” Kabir told local reporters. He said he used to earn about Rs 200 a day before the lockdown reduced his income. Das said: “Kabir told us he had none to help him. He arrived here without even a spare sari for his wife. His wife’s arms and legs are swollen and she cannot even stand, let alone walk.” Bhubanananda Maharana, medical emergency officer at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, said Sukanti’s treatment had started. “We’ll do an ultrasound and X-ray. There’s strong suspicion of malignancy. If necessary, we’ll refer her to the Acharya Harihar Institute of Cancer (in Cuttack),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||A September to remember for Indian art at auctions||As the Covid-19 pandemic continued to wreak havoc on human lives and economies of nations, Indian art — both ancient and contemporary — made waves at international auctions in September-end. In what was described in a media release as the “Strongest season for Indian and Southeast Asian art in over a decade”, at a live auction in New York on September 25, Christie’s total was $82,830,875 (Rs 604.3 crore). It was described as a “100 per cent increase year-over-year doubling September 2019’s total”. Bidders participated from 41 countries and five continents. Arun Vadhera, who founded Vadhera Art Gallery and who is a consultant to Christie’s, explained it is true that the stock market is buoyant, but the art market is not liquidity driven. As a consultant he would never advise clients to invest in art. “In recent times, the number of collectors has increased and this is reflected in the rising prices. The art market is not liquidity driven. There is a huge gap between the Indian art market and the western or Chinese art market. This has to be narrowed,” Vadhera concluded. The top lot of the week was a rare and magnificent gray schist triad of Buddha Shakyamuni that sold for $6,630,000 (Rs 48.3 crore) and set the world auction record for a Gandharan work of art. Among the other notable results were the sales of a rare and magnificent bronze Chola bronze figure of Shiva Tripuravijaya, circa 1050, that sold for $4,350,000 (Rs 31.7 crore) and established the record for a south Indian sculpture, and of a Tyeb Mehta painting, Untitled, from 1974 that sold for $1,110,000 (Rs 8.09 crore). It is said Indians are mostly buyers of contemporary Indian art. “Such high museum quality art work has not been seen on the market for years now,” commented art historian Naman Ahuja. “Are collectors feeling vulnerable to hold on to these wonderful pieces any longer?… If they are feeling that this is their last chance because things may become worse.” Deepanjana Klein, international head of Classical and Contemporary Indian and South Asian Art, remarked: “This season was the strongest in over a decade for Indian and Southeast Asian art…. These exceptional results and participation demonstrate the resilience of the market and growing breadth and depth of the collector base in the field.” On September 22, Christie’s sale: A Lasting Engagement: The Jane & Kito de Boer Collection, totalled $3,563,625 (Rs 26 crore) with 82 per cent sold by lot and 81 per cent sold by value. Six records were set within the sale, including artist records for Chittaprosad Bhattacharya, Prosanto Roy, Prokash Karmakar and Rama Mukherji, along with a record for an Early Bengal oil painting and a record for a figurative work by Biren De. Top lots of the sale included important works by Rameshwar Broota led by Silent Structures of 1991, which sold for $525,000 (Rs 3.8 crore); and the seminal 1982 painting, The Last Chapter, which achieved $287,500 (Rs 2.09 crore). Other notable results included paintings by Ganesh Pyne, including The Animal which achieved $400,000 (Rs 2.9 crore), establishing the second highest price for a work by the artist. Sotheby’s, too, had reason for feeling upbeat. Sotheby’s London’s annual sale of Modern & Contemporary South Asian Art (September 29) was led by Bhupen Khakhar’s Portrait of Shri Shankerbhai V. Patel near Red Fort, which more than quadrupled its high estimate to sell for £2.6 million (Rs 2.47 crore). This is the second highest price ever achieved for the artist at auction, following the record-breaking sale of Khakhar’s Two Men in Benares at Sotheby’s London last year (£2.5 million). The Portrait of Shri Shankerbhai V. Patel near Red Fort had previously hung in the artist’s Baroda drawing room and was offered at auction directly from his estate.Elsewhere, a new record was set for Prabhakar Barwe, The Chess-Board sold for £302,400 (Rs 2.87 crore), more than double the artist’s previous record and three times the pre-auction estimate (£60,000-80,000). Another record was set for Pilloo Pochkhanawala when her Untitled wooden sculpture sold for £81,900 (Rs 77.9 lakh), versus an estimate of £40,000-60,000. The previous record for the artist was $71,000. Across the entire sale, 64 per cent of lots sold for prices above the high estimates. Thirty per cent of buyers were new to Sotheby’s. Fifteen works from the collection of Gunnar and Inger Hansen were sold for £170,000 (Rs 1.6 crore). Seventy-three per cent of the sold works achieved prices in excess of their pre-sale estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Delhi University sticks to online exams||Delhi University plans to continue online classes for the current semester and hold exams in the virtual mode in December-January despite many students failing to complete the earlier exam due to lack of access to Internet and devices. On Saturday, the DU administration tabled the proposal before its Executive Council (EC), the highest decision-making body of the university, but the meeting was deferred to October 20 as the vice-chancellor was indisposed. According to the proposal, second and third semester undergraduate and postgraduate students are to continue online classes for the rest of this year in view of the pandemic and also appear online for internal assessments and term exams. DU has around 6 lakh undergraduate and postgraduate students Around 10 per cent of students could not take the final-semester exams held in July, and another 20 per cent could not submit their answer sheets because of lack of access to Internet and devices such as smartphones and computers, feeble connections and other technical problems. A second round of online exams was held in August for such students, and DU is yet to come out with data on it. The exams had been held online in the open-book mode, under which the students had to log onto the examination portal to get the question papers, then write their answers on plain paper, scan them and upload them on the website. Apart from the connectivity and device issues, there is no scope for invigilation in such a mode, which prompted many to question the sanctity and effectiveness of such exams. “A large number of students could not appear for the OBE (open-book examination) because they did not have devices. The university wants to blindly follow the directives of the University Grants Commission and the education ministry, which want all institutions to hold online examinations,” said J.L. Gupta, a member of the DU Executive Council. He pointed out that JEE and NEET exams were conducted last month in the traditional pen-and-paper mode. “If (these exams) could be held in the pen-and-paper mode, the DU exams can also be conducted,” Gupta said. The first semester is yet to begin as the admissions process has been delayed because of the pandemic. The first semester is expected to begin in November. Rajesh Jha, another EC member, also opposed the proposal for online exams. “When students do not have adequate number of devices, the university should rather assess students on the basis of internal assessments,” he said. At Saturday’s EC meeting, four members submitted notes of dissent over the postponement of the session, arguing that there was no such provision in case of the indisposition of the VC. According to the meeting’s agenda note, DU has started six new centres — the Delhi School of Public Health, Delhi School of Climate Change and Sustainability, Delhi School of Public Policy and Governance, Centre for Disability Studies, Delhi School of Transnational Affairs and the Delhi School of Skill Enhancement and Entrepreneurship Development. Funds of Rs 1,000 crore that DU is to receive under the government’s Institution of Eminence scheme will be utilised to set up these centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Dalit case hurdles: police to prosecutor||Cases of atrocities against Dalits are diluted at every stage from registration of complaint to filing of chargesheet to the trial, leading to acquittals in 75 per cent cases, a study has found. The findings mirror the experience so far with the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder case, said Rahul Singh, director of the National Dalit Movement for Justice (NDMJ), a civil society group that studied cases of atrocities against Dalits registered between 2009 and 2018. “Our experience shows that when it comes to atrocities on Dalits, from the day of incident the police resort to various machinations to dilute the seriousness of the violence and shield the accused from prosecution,” Singh said. “When the case reaches the courts, the victims have to face bias from different court actors,” he added, specifically citing discrimination from the special public prosecutors appointed to represent the victims. According to the family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim in Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh police took eight days to invoke the charge of gang rape and five days to arrest the accused. The police are also accused of denying the victim the best possible treatment and then hijacking her body from hospital and burning it after locking her family at their home. “The officials involved in the illegal forced cremation and shoddy investigation must be punished under Section 4 of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The government must ensure that all the mandatory provisions, including the appointment of a special prosecutor of the victims’ (family’s) choice, are implemented,” Singh said. The Atrocities Act, enacted in 1989 and amended in 2015, mandates immediate arrest of the accused, chargesheets within 60 days, the completion of the trial within another next 60 days in “exclusive special courts” or “special courts”, and compensation for the victims. ⚪ According to the study, the police tend to register cases fit for the Atrocities Act under other laws. It found that of the 391,952 crimes by upper castes against Dalits reported between 2009 and 2018, some 32.5 per cent were registered under laws other than the Atrocities Act. ⚪ While the act sets a 60-day deadline for the filing of the chargesheet, data shows that the number of Atrocities Act cases where the police investigation remained pending rose from 6,095 in 2009 to 16,300 in 2018. ⚪ Slow investigation and delayed chargesheets lead to slow disposal of cases, allowing ample time to subject the victims to pressure, threats or force to withdraw the cases. ⚪ Another consequence of such delays in serious offences is that they virtually ensure that the accused receive bail. ⚪ While the act requires every district to have an “exclusive special court” to try Atrocities Act cases, state governments have been designating ordinary courts, already overburdened with cases, as (non-exclusive) “special courts”. Currently, the country’s 702 districts have only 157 exclusive special courts for Atrocities Act cases. In a 2014 study that the NDMJ had conducted on five such special courts, the discussions with undertrial victims and witnesses raised questions about the role of many of the government-appointed special public prosecutors (SPPs) who represent the victims. Many SPPs do not allow the victims or witnesses to enter their chambers, and do not brief or prepare them well about the court processes, the study found. It concluded that many SPPs were biased against the victims and believed they were filing false cases. Data that the study collated from National Crime Records Bureau reports show a 6 per cent rise in atrocities against Dalits, from 20.1 reported crimes per one lakh Dalits in 2009 to 21.3 reported crimes in 2018. While 33,594 atrocities were reported against Dalits in 2009, the number was 42,793 in 2018 — an increase of 27 per cent. This period witnessed 12,750 reported rapes of Dalit women. Among the Atrocities Act cases where judgments were delivered during this period, the overall conviction rate was 25.2 per cent. A teacher at a central university who has been researching the subject said there has always been a correlation between the caste of the accused and that of the chief minister or some other dominant political figure of the state. “There’s a clear correlation between the castes of the perpetrators and the political bosses. The legal action gets defused at every level,” Singh said. About the Hathras case, he said: “The police were in a hurry to cremate the body and prevent lawyers from meeting the victim’s family.” Among the well-known cases that had ended in the acquittal of most of the accused was the killing of 34 Dalits in Bihar’s Aurangabad district in the year 2000. The Ranvir Sena, a private army of landlords, was accused of the massacre. The Aurangabad special court awarded life terms to 10 people in 2007 but Patna High Court later acquitted nine of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
11-10-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut faces FIR for farmer comment||A Karnataka court has directed police to lodge an FIR against actress Kangana Ranaut for using the word “atanki (terrorists)” while commenting on the farmers’ protests against the farm laws. Kangana had tweeted in Hindi on September 20: “Mr Prime Minister, if someone is sleeping, they can be woken up. If someone has a misconception, they can be made to understand. But those who are pretending to be asleep, what difference will your explanation make to them? These are the very same terrorists who had spilt rivers of blood although CAA did not take away the citizenship of any individual.” The actress was responding to a tweet by the Prime Minister trying to allay fears over the farm laws. Reacting to a news report on her comment the next day, Kangana had tweeted: “People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformations about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists….” On Friday, the judicial magistrate first class of Tumkur in Karnataka directed the police to book a case against Kangana, based on a petition filed by lawyer L. Ramesh Naik who described himself as a farmer hurt by the comments. The farm laws have triggered protests in Punjab and Haryana and several other states, including Karnataka,  appearing to unnerve the Modi government. “I was deeply hurt with the way she (Kangana) described protesting farmers as terrorists. Apart from being a lawyer, I am a farmer involved in day-to-day farming of my land. That is why I decided to stand up for all the farmers she has insulted,” Naik told The Telegraph on Saturday. He said he was left with no option but to seek a judicial direction since the police had ignored his written complaints. “I had complained to the state director-general of police and the Tumkur police superintendent the day after she called farmers terrorists. But I was extremely disappointed due to the lack of any action from the police,” Naik said. He moved court on September 25, after which two hearings have taken place. In his petition, Naik has argued that Kangana “has a clear intention to injure the people who are opposing the farmers’ bills” and was “wantonly giving provocation with the intent to cause riot”. “I am relieved that the court took note of my concern as a farmer and directed the police to file an FIR. Now it is up to the local police station, which is expected to be served with the order copy by today (Saturday) evening,” Naik said. He said the police would have to follow the court order and file an FIR within 24 hours of receiving its copy. “There is no weekend holiday for a criminal case. I am expecting the police to file an FIR today itself,” Naik said. The local police station confirmed that they would register an FIR once they received the certified court order copy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
11-10-2020||India||Paswan funeral held with state honours||Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan was consigned to flames on the banks of the Ganga at Digha here on Saturday amid chants of “dharti gunje aasmaan, Ram Vilas Paswan” (Earth and sky echo, Ram Vilas Paswan) and demands for Bharat Ratna and a memorial in Delhi. A large crowd accompanied his body to the cremation ground while thousands more had converged there to be a witness to the last rites. Some had come from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Kerala just to be there. Ram Vilas’s son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan lit the funeral pyre in the presence of his mother Reena and other family members. The rituals were conducted with full state honours. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Nityanand Rai, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Jan Adhikar Party leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav were present. Ram Vilas, 74, had succumbed to heart-related ailments at a private hospital in Delhi on Thursday. His body was brought to Patna on a special IAF flight on Friday evening. It was taken to the Vidhan Sabha, LJP headquarters and then to his home in the city. Ram Vilas’s first wife Rajkumari Devi, whom he had divorced in 1981, paid a visit at his house here on Saturday. Before the funeral, Ram Vilas’s younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras said: “Ram Vilas ji should be given Bharat Ratna by the central government. His residence in Delhi should be turned into a memorial as a fitting tribute to a leader who worked for the uplift of the poor.” Ram Vilas’s death has turned the upcoming Bihar elections into an acid test for his son Chirag. The young leader has now a strong grip on his party and is trying to establish himself as a political force. But the guiding and protective presence is gone now. “Chirag’s earlier decision to influence his father to join the NDA ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls paid rich dividends. However, in a new gambit, he has taken on Nitish. The coming months are going to be make or break for him as Nitish is a hard nut and a veteran politician. Ram Vilas’s departure at this juncture has taken away a vast reservoir of experience and political acumen from which Chirag could have benefited,” a senior LJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. However, he asserted that there would be a sympathy wave in favour of Chirag. However, a JDU leader said: “Sympathy wave occurs mainly if a person has died of unnatural causes or if it has been untimely. Chirag may get a few more votes in the name of Ram Vilas, but there would be no sympathy wave.” The presence of Nitish at the funeral was seen by many as a posturing for the Scheduled Castes, who account for around 16 per cent of the electorate. “Nitish or for that matter any worthwhile leader or any party would not like to fall foul of the Scheduled Castes in this election season. His (Nitish’s) presence at the funeral was also necessitated by Chirag’s recent allegations that he had insulted Ram Vilas,” a senior politician quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Congress protest rally||The rally that marched from Bidhan Bhavan, the Congress state party headquarters, to Esplanade, was held to protest several issues, including lawlessness in the state, corruption in distribution of Amphan relief and the high electricity tariff. Senior Congress leaders such as leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan and Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya also took part in the rally where protesters — most of them wearing masks — carried flags and banners. Though no official figure could be ascertained, the turnout seemed impressive, said Congress leaders. It appeared that the Behrampore MP, who was recently appointed the chief of the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee after the death of Somendra Nath Mitra, had been able to mobilise supporters. “The turnout of the rally surpassed expectations,” said a Congress worker. After the rally, Chowdhury called on Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to hand over a deputation to him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Once again camps will come up, once again people will be dumped’||Bachao, bachao... thus begins Bengali Dalit writer Jatin Bala’s autobiography Shikor Chhera Jibon or My Uprooted Life. The first volume of the book is now being translated into English — a Sahitya Akademi initiative. When I meet Bala at his home in the South 24-Parganas, the octogenarian tells me, “I was only five years old when we had to run away from our village in East Pakistan. The bloody scenes are etched in my mind as if carved on a soft rock.” Bala, a retired government officer, lives in a spartan apartment, a loner’s den. Except for the bellowing of a passing local train — the housing complex is close to the Sonarpur railway crossing — the place is all peace and quiet. He continues, “I am a refugee. I was a victim of the riots of 1954 [that had to do with the ethnic cleansing of Bengali Hindus from East Pakistan].” Bala was born in 1949 in Jessore, now in Bangladesh. There was communal tension everywhere. He lost his mother when he was a little over a year old and his father died when he was barely four. He was brought up by his eldest brother, who was older to him by 25 years. Bala narrates how his father had to leave their family home and shift to another village as he was suspected to be an Indian spy because of his eldest brother’s connection with the extremist Rajat Biswas, a close associate of the freedom fighter Bagha Jatin. Bala’s father died soon after. Bala recalls an evening sometime in 1953-54, when their village was attacked and houses were set ablaze. He, his siblings and his paternal aunt, along with many others in the village, fled and hid amongst the thickets beyond. He says, “The next morning we reached a Hindu-majority village called Boro Bondortala.” Days later, they secured the requisite permits and left for the Benapole border. They walked over 37 kilometres before they could reach there. Says Bala, “And as we walked, more people from other villages kept streaming in and joining the steady flow. We were all beggars — women carried small bundles with bare essentials, men and children were barebodied, barefoot. We had left behind everything... When we reached the Benapole border, it took hours to get the border pass.” The siblings finally crossed the border, reached Petrapole on the Indian side, and from there they walked all the way to the Bongaon railway station in West Bengal. From there they were eventually taken to Sealdah. Sealdah was not the family’s ultimate destination,  nor did it spell an end to their suffering. Rather, it was the beginning of another long and arduous journey. Says Bala, “At the Bongaon station, we found thousands and thousands like us — homeless, uprooted. There was dearth of food and water. In fact, there was no place to sit and rest. Volunteers were handing out chire, muri, chhatu. I yearned for a morsel of rice.” The five-year-old Bala had possibly witnessed more than his brain could process. Even as he recounts his memories, he makes loopy gestures with his hands as if to show the images still jangling inside his head. He says, “I saw people die. Many had died en route, before reaching India. We left the dead bodies on the roads and kept walking. People died after reaching Bongaon and Sealdah. Babies died of hunger, women died of hunger. For days we went without taking a bath. Our bodies stank.” The streets adjoining Sealdah station — College Street and Harrison Road (now known as Mahatma Gandhi Road) — seemed like an ongoing exhibition of distress. On both sides of the road people had set up rag-tag brick ovens and were cooking rice in earthen pots. Bala remembers helping his brother cook for the whole family. But before he could partake of the much-awaited morsel, one of his brothers was asked to leave for the Bhandarhati Workside Camp in Hooghly. Three camps had been put up there for the refugees — the Kunti Transit Camp, the Balagarh Camp and the one at Bhandarhati. The family split at Sealdah station. Says Bala, “Mejda [the second brother] was sent away and the rest of us were loaded onto trucks and sent to Kunti.” Someone packed the rice in a gamchha to be eaten later. At Kunti, there were 500-600 tents. The camp was dirty and unkempt. Says Bala, “Many children died from the strain and the filth. Men who stayed in the camps were sometimes murdered by the locals as they regarded us as apod or extraneous menace who had come to take away their share of land, work, food... The cash dole given by the government was too paltry to survive on and we were not allowed to leave the camp and go out in search for jobs.” Here Bala worked as a child labour and was often physically abused. “One day, when I fell down while carrying a bundle of straw on my head, I resolved I would study and get myself an education,” he says. It was during his time at the Kunti camp that Bala started attending school. In the meantime, his brother kept approaching the authorities to let them shift to the Bhandarhati camp so that they could be united with the other brother. After two-and-a-half years they shifted to Bhandarhati. Says Bala, “One of the inspectors had learnt that my elder brother was a freedom fighter.” The Bhandarhati camp was a work site; a dam was being constructed at the time. It was a low-lying area infested with snakes and mosquitoes. Bala recalls, “It was an extremely unhealthy place to live in — children died of malaria and tuberculosis.” The authorities put the refugees to work at the construction site. But when the work was over, the Government of India decided to demolish the camp. “We protested and even went on hunger strike,” says Bala. But this protest did more harm than good. “Police bulldozed the camps; lathicharged indiscriminately, dumped us into trucks like animals and we were again transferred to another camp — the one at Balagarh,” he says. Bala’s education was interrupted. The family’s fortunes now split. The eldest brother managed to secure a loan and a plot of land, where he built a house. But Bala’s Mejda stayed on in the Balagarh camp and Bala with him. He says, “One day the government decided to stop giving us cash dole. I even stopped receiving the book grant I had received so far. There was no money, no food; for two days I survived on taal gola (the pulp of the palm fruit mixed in water).” Bala came out of the camp and into a regular life when he was in his teens. The period between then and now he narrates with a single word — “Ei” — and a sweep of his hands. He stares out of the window and says, “Now, when the BJP government is repeatedly talking about NRC (National Register for Citizens), about identifying the Muslims who came to India after Partition, of sending them away, I fear for their plight, for their life. Once again refugee camps will come up, once again people will be dumped into those inhuman confinements. Once again people will be rendered powerless, abandoned — sans homes, sans land, sans a country to call their own.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Body back home from Riyadh after 45 days||The mortal remains of a migrant labourer, who died in Saudi Arabia’s Riyadh on August 26, came home in Dighalkandi village of Nadia’s Murutia after 45 days on Saturday morning. Family members of Chhiddique, 40, a labourer with a construction firm, could get back his body because of an IT professional from Birbhum. Chhiddique’s colleague broke the news of the death to his kin and advised them to contact the administration to bring the body back home. But a pandemic-wary administration allegedly did not show much eagerness to help, alleged the bereaved family. Birbhum resident and IT professional Sadekul Islam read about the plight of the migrant worker’s family in newspapers and took it upon himself to help get Chhiddique’s body back to India. Sadekul, who works for an IT major in Calcutta, said: “I read a news item about the plight of the helpless family. I spoke to the local BDO to get the contact number of the family and decided to take up the matter with the authorities.” He had facilitated in bringing back a body from abroad earlier as well, he said. “I followed the same process in Chhiddique’s case. It is simple and details are available on the MEA website, but it is not easy for migrant workers to access it. The alleged apathy of the administration was shocking and I decided to step in,” Sadekul told The Telegraph. The IT professional said an online form on the MEA website has to be filled for the Indian embassy to start the process of transporting the mortal remains to India. “If the deceased is an overseas employee, the employer bears the cargo cost. If the employer refuses, money from the Indian Community Welfare Fund is used,” an MEA official told The Telegraph. Chhiddique’s body arrived at the Calcutta airport on Friday night and reached Dighalkandi, around 200km away, on Saturday morning. On the request of the family members, Sadekul attended the last rites. Azad Khan, brother of the deceased and a taxi driver, said: “It would not have been possible to see the mortal remains of my brother had Sadekulda not stepped in. We are poor people with no idea of how these things work. We had approached the administration, panchayat authorities and Trinamul, but no one was eager because of the Covid scenario.” BDO, Karimpur-II, Satyajit Kumar said that Krishnagar MP Mahua Moitra had advised them to get the body back through the Bande Bharat flight, but it did not work out. Officials in the Nadia district administration claimed that the body could be brought back because of coordinated efforts of the administration and an “NGO” (read Sadekul).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||105 stolen cellphones seized in Malda||Police in Malda acted on a tip-off and recovered 105 stolen cell phones from Purba Mahajanpara village of Sujapur under Kaliachak police station on Saturday. A man was also arrested in this connection. Alok Rajoria, the Malda superintendent of police, said accused Mohammed Asraful Alam had stored these stolen cellphones, most of which are Android handsets, at his house. “During interrogation, he has admitted that one Ziaul Sheikh from Khaschandpur-Charkatola area was dealing in stolen smartphones for a long time. Ziaul collects the stolen handsets from different states, stores them at different places like Alam’s house, and sells those in Kaliachak. Hunt is on to nab him,” said the district police chief. In a separate incident, two large “akashmoni” (a variety of acacia) trees were felled at the office of the block development officer of Old Malda. Irfan Habib, the BDO, said he has no idea who cut down the trees and took away the trunks. The forest department launched a probe, said Sitangshu Gupta, the additional divisional forest officer of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||30 injured as bus hits NH14 crater and flips||At least 30 passengers, including four children and six women, were injured when a private bus on the Rampurhat-Behrampore route hit a crater about 2 feet deep and flipped sideways on NH14 near Nakpur checkpost in Birbhum’s Nalhati on Saturday morning. The axle of the bus gave way leaving the vehicle without a wheel. As the vehicle flipped with a loud thud and passengers screamed for help, bystanders broke the windscreen of the vehicle to rescue passengers trapped inside. The injured were sent to Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital, where doctors said that the condition of five passengers, including two children, was critical. “The bus overturned as its axle broke after its wheel landed in a two-feet deep pothole. This happened because of the poor condition of the road. We have requested the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) several times to repair the roads, but no action has been taken. We will write to them again and inform them of how so many passengers had a close shave on Saturday,” a police officer said. Commuters said travelling on the 21km stretch from Nalhati to Moregram had become a nightmare as the road was studded with deep potholes. Over the past few days at least a dozen trucks and buses have broken down on the road which created huge traffic snarls on the single lane NH14, a commuter said. “If one or two trucks break down on the 21km stretch, traffic gets blocked for hours. We need to deploy at least 10 cops daily to maintain traffic on national highways,” said a police officer. “We know about the problem and have requested both the NHAI and state government to carry out repairs. We hope the stretch will be repaired soon. Big potholes will be filled up before Durga Puja,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. NH authorities, however, said they had sent a proposal to the ministry of road transport and highways in Delhi requesting funds for repair. The NHAI also blamed overloaded trucks for the damage to roads. An officer of the NHAI said that hundreds of overloaded stone and sand-laden trucks plied on the road leading to the formation of craters on the stretch. “We have sent the proposal to the central government and are waiting for the nod and funds to reach us. As soon as we get the money, the road will be repaired. Only six kilometres of the 21km stretch are badly damaged,” said N.K. Singh, executive engineer of the PWD, who also looks after national highways in Birbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal|| 50% property tax waiver for Midnapore||The Midnapore Municipality in West Midnapore has announced a 50 per cent rebate on property tax penalty, the move expected to benefit around 24,000 of the town’s 42,000 property holders who have defaulted on paying property tax since the lockdown in March. Announcing the offer, the municipality authorities have also extended the benefit to a substantial number of defaulters who have not paid taxes over the last two to three years. Sources said the move was aimed at raising revenue to address the municipality’s inability to meet wage payments for 700-odd casual workers, 100 of whom have been actively working throughout the lockdown. The municipality’s wage obligations to workers each month stand at around Rs 40 lakh. “The state government pays 85 per cent of the municipality’s wage bill but the remaining 15 per cent is met through municipality revenue, of which property tax is a huge part,” said a source. Midnapore town has 25 wards with 42,000 property holders, in addition to 6,000-odd business owners, whose trade licence renewal penalty have also been waived as part of the waiver scheme. Some 4,000 traders have not renewed their licences this year, causing substantial loss in earnings to the municipality. Current dues on account of property tax and trade licence tax stands at Rs 10 crore. “If the correct amount is paid within October, we will waive half the penalty for property and trade licence holders,” said an official, adding that a full waiver was not permissible legally. “We are aware that several people asked for a full waiver on the penalty in light of adverse financial circumstances amid the lockdown, but we can’t do that,” said municipality administrator and SDO Dinanarayan Ghosh. Residents of the town welcomed the move, saying a “full waiver” on the penalty would have been ideal but this waiver was “acceptable”. “Many have no income, and the waiver will help,” said Midnapore resident Mandakranta Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Recovery rate dips as cases rise||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,591 new Covid-19 cases — the highest spike yet reported in the 24-hour window till 9am — and 62 deaths, besides 3,032 recoveries. With this, the state went past 2.91 lakh cases since the first infection was detected on March 17, including nearly 2.56 lakh recoveries and 5,563 deaths. Bengal’s number of active cases stood at 29,793 on Saturday. In the face of a continued surge in the total of active cases, the state is experiencing a dip in the Covid recovery rate from Tuesday onwards. On Tuesday, Bengal’s recovery rate was 87.98 per cent. On Saturday, it stood at 87.86, though still ahead of the national rate at 85.83 per cent. “In the first 10 days of October, the state has seen the record for intra-day surge in Covid-19 cases in eight days,” said a minister. “This trend has to be reversed over the next couple of weeks. As it is, we are expecting a spell of surge right after Durga Puja,” he added. “In a real cause for worry, the recovery rate has started falling for the first time in months.” Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have been reporting over 1,500 new cases between them daily once again. Of the 62 deaths on Saturday, 20 were reported from Calcutta and a dozen from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 56 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in Bengal, since the first was recorded on March 23. Of the total deaths, 4,719 (84.8 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.91, while the national rate is 1.53 per cent. “Substantially lowering the mortality rate is a target we have not been able to achieve in a couple of months. That is difficult when just two districts have been reporting 25-30 deaths daily,” said the minister. The state also reported 42,855 tests on Saturday, taking the total past 36.5 lakh, with 40,567 tests per million people. “We have been covering a lakh tests almost every two days, for a long time now,” said the minister. The positive confirmation rate is 7.98 per cent now. The state reported 36.85 per cent occupancy of 12,715 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals and over 3.15 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||West Bengal||Polls ahead, road repair wake-up siren||The state public works department (PWD) has been flooded with requests from ruling party MLAs to undertake repair on important roads in their constituencies, prompting the department to prepare a list of roads that need urgent repairs. The department has so far shortlisted 242 roads that need urgent renovation based on MLA requests, but a senior official said that they were not sure how funds could be arranged. PWD officials said that they would soon prepare a funds estimate and place it before the finance department. “It is important to note that these roads are over and above the roads undertaken for repair under the Pathasree Abhijan, under which 12,000km of roads would be repaired in next couple of weeks. It is now clear that a large number of the roads in the state are in bad shape,” said an official. These requests from MLAs to the PWD hold significance, particularly ahead of the Bengal polls. Many in the department believe that this reveals that roads have been neglected in the state over the past few months, especially during lockdown. The urgency to repair the roads by Trinamul MLAs clearly suggests that they think their fate in forthcoming polls is linked to an extent to the condition of roads in their respective constituencies. The situation, sources said, is in sharp contrast with what the ruling party had faced in previous polls. Though chief minister Mamata Banerjee renewed her thrust in repairing roads across the state through Pathasree, the requests from MLAs clearly hint that the state has to do more. The Pathasree scheme stresses on repairing rural roads. But roads in semi-urban or urban areas are also in bad shape. “The road sector was one of the areas which was the chief minister’s focus area from the very beginning. The Trinamul’s success in consecutive polls was associated with the general impression that roads had improved in Bengal after the change of guard in 2011. It now seems the roads were not maintained properly in the past few months,” said an official. According to sources, Trinamul MLAs were under pressure from residents demanding repair of roads. Sources in the PWD said that several MLAs sent lists of seven to 10 roads each for urgent repair work. “We received requests to repair more than 600 roads. But we cannot take up repairs of so many roads at a go. That’s why we prepared a list of 242 roads,” said a PWD official. A ruling party MLA from Birbhum, preferring to stay anonymous, said: “I was facing questions from people of urban areas as repair work on rural roads have started. I sent a list of seven roads in my constituency to the PWD for urgent repair work.” A couple of district magistrates said they knew that the MLAs were knocking on the door of PWD for repair of some roads after DMs cited shortage of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
11-10-2020||Opinion||Let there be light||Only days ago, Chirag Paswan announced that the Lok Janshakti Party would contest the Bihar Assembly polls all by itself. Notwithstanding the strings attached to the BJP in Delhi, many an eyebrow turned tangential. The BJP’s doing to punish Nitish for his past dalliances, agreed most. After all, why else would a humble chirag, splutter at a full-blown political persona as chief minister and JDU boss Nitish Kumar and want to contest 143 seats given its current Vidhan Sabha tally of 2 out of 243? And that is how things would have remained had tragedy not struck the LJP. With the death of Ram Vilas Paswan there is talk of a sympathy vote for the LJP. And sympathy in politics can be a potent thing. Sometimes it can preclude processes and elections. That happened in 1984, after the assassination of Indira Gandhi. In 1991, it was the sympathy vote following the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi that averted the hung Parliament predicted by pundits, helped Congress fare better in the post-assassination poll phases, and win 244 seats and form government. And yet two decades later, when the Congress fell out with the late YSR’s son, Jagan Reddy, it seemed to have discounted the sympathy cards stashed in the favour of the good son. For a good while, Jagan Reddy rode all kinds of sympathies big and misplaced. First, there was his father’s tragic death, then his arrest following the disproportionate assets case and 16-month jail time. He lost the 2014 elections and was knifed while boarding a flight in 2018 before going on to achieve a clean sweep in 2019 and assume chief ministership of Andhra Pradesh. In the South, the DMK won the Madras Legislative Assembly elections of 1967 after MGR was shot in the ear by a co-actor and nearly lost his voice and hearing. The DMK alone won 137 seats; the Congress came second with 51 seats. But sympathy can be partisan. When MGR died in 1987, his wife succeeded him as the AIADMK chief minister, but remained in power only for a few days. Instead, people and political heavyweights transferred their affections and sympathy to his political heir, Jayalalithaa. In 1991, the AIADMK under Jayalalithaa fought the Assembly elections in alliance with the Congress and when Rajiv Gandhi died, the sympathy propelled the alliance into victory and Jayalalithaa into the hot seat. Last week, close on the heels of the news of Paswan Sr’s death, a letter from his son to BJP national president J.P. Nadda was leaked. The missive, from reports, appears to be a listicle of Nitish’s misdemeanors against the just departed. All very well, except you might ask --- where is the voter in all of this? Where are the policies and plans and development issues waiting to be addressed? You could always ask you know, and you would have the sympathies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
11-10-2020||Opinion||Facing headwinds in the East||It was back in the early 1990s that India introduced its “Look East Policy” which was transformed in 2015 into an “Act East Policy” that was meant to serve the twin purposes of stronger commercial links with the region and to create development opportunities for the Indian North East. But now it may be necessary to finetune that Act East Policy to ensure that it brings about the desired results. India has made steady progress in its ties with the ASEAN and its related frameworks as also with countries further East, including Japan, South Korea, Australia and the Pacific islands. This has even been extended to the Russian Far East for which the slogan “Act Far East” was coined. Progress, however, has faced headwinds over the last few years, and Covid-19 has brought about a need for reprioritisation and reorientation. From the Western Pacific, Australia and Japan to the South China Sea, and the Line of Actual Control on the Indo-Chinese border, the Indo-Pacific is facing the brunt of China’s aggressive policies, unjustified territorial claims and policies aimed at cornering resources. China has continued with occupation and artificial creation of islands, and their militarisation in disputed waters of the South China Sea; and incidents of denial of fishing, passage and drilling in territorial waters claimed by countries like Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Philippines have intensified. Territorial claims advanced by China on specious grounds have been emboldened thanks to Covid-19. China has used intensive outreach to neutralise growing unease by assisting selected Asean countries in the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic. It has also advanced subsidised 5G telecommunications networks and established a dependency wherever possible. In infrastructure, China has a formidable presence in many countries of the region through its BRI (Belt and Road Initiative) policies. Countries in the region have responded with a mixture of protests, trepidation, appeasement, balancing, and helplessness. China has ensured a lack of consensus within Asean on Chinese actions. Given the lack of adequate resources and funding available in the world today, most countries in the Asean and the Pacific Islands still view China as an economic opportunity. As US influence and interest in the region wanes, Chinese power will rise. The Asean India FTA in goods has been in force for some years, but due to its growing trade deficit with Asean, India has sought a full review before the end of the year to ensure the strengthening of the Rules of Origin provisions, removal of non–tariff barriers and provision of better market access.  Although Asean finally completed ratification of the services and investment FTA with India in 2019, no country has issued notifications and no sectoral mutual recognition agreements have been initiated between India and Asean. The promise of a boom in bilateral trade and investments between India and Asean is fading, especially since India pulled out of the RCEP negotiations in 2019, mainly due to Chinese intransigence on strengthening the Rules of Origin provisions, and a time-bound dispute settlement mechanism to stop it dumping in the Indian market. The trilateral highway which will connect India, Myanmar and Thailand, is also languishing. A $1-billion credit line announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 to enhance digital and infrastructure connectivity with Asean is lying unused. Clear guidelines for deploying these funds and utilising the fund for feasibility studies on selected projects need to be developed and discussed with Asean countries in a time-bound manner. Some $77 million was committed towards developing manufacturing hubs in the CMLV countries (Cambodia, Myanmar, Laos and Vietnam) but progress has been dilatory. Costs for completing the Kaladan multi-modal transport project, linking Calcutta to Sittwe port in Myanmar, extending into Mizoram by the river and land routes are escalating due to delays. It is for this reason that Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla sought to move towards functionality for this project during his visit to Myanmar on October 5 India’s desire for developing port infrastructure in Sabang (in Indonesia’s Aceh province) is significant but requires financing. Sea links are vital between the eastern seaboard of India including the ports of Ennore and Chennai to CMLV countries and there is need for improving trans-shipment links with partners like Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand. For these proposals to succeed, India and Asean have to create shipping joint ventures, and agree on related concessions through an agreement on maritime transport. An Asean India air-services agreement which would benefit trade, investments and tourism is on the back-burner due to the pandemic. India still needs, though, to ensure that the North East states are ready with export capability and the wherewithal to attract investments when the connectivity projects with Asean fructify. The silver lining is that India has been active in setting up coastal surveillance networks and has been steadily enhancing the capacity for shared Maritime Domain Awareness and has strengthened defence arrangements at a bilateral level with countries like Singapore, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Myanmar and Thailand. India has also stepped up maritime exercises with Asean countries and the Indian navy conducts the Milan exercise with the navies of the Indian ocean region around the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In September 2020, India and Asean reviewed progress in implementation of the Asean India Plan of Action 2016-20 and adopted a new plan of action for the next five years. The review focused on maritime cooperation, connectivity, education and capacity building, cooperation in fighting the pandemic and people-to-people contacts. At their joint committee meeting in June 2020. Asean and India looked at ways to improve the utilisation of the Asean India Fund and Asean India Green Fund, to finance joint projects. Health emergency and medicine, environment, education and skills development, energy, smart cities, and digital connectivity projects focusing on financial structure and e-governance as well as cyber security have emerged as the new priority focus areas. India must fix its credibility erosion with Asean by focusing on its strengths in generic medicine, pharmaceuticals and vaccine development, as well as strengthening the digital infrastructure between India and Asean through concrete, quick impact and timebound projects. New Delhi’s focus needs to narrow down, instead of being spread across an unmanageable “desired” list. An indication of the likely shifts in the post-Covid global economic order in the region is visible from the Resilient Supply Chain Initiative (RSCI) proposal mooted jointly by Australia, India and Japan. However, this initiative would require putting into place financial incentives for these shifts. It would also require the participants to agree on preferential investment rules, key tariffs specific to these supply chains, quality standards, rules of origin for determining value addition, cross-border data-flow rules, and dispute-settlement mechanisms. India must quickly restart FTA negotiations with Australia, release the CII Australia Economic Strategy Report at the Ministerial level, and undertake a major, time-bound effort with all countries involved. It is imperative to flesh out concrete steps under the seven pillars of the Indo Pacific Oceans Initiative, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last November at the Thailand Summit with Asean. The idea is that one or two countries could take the lead in driving work on a particular pillar, thus creating a cooperative network. India should also work with Quad countries on infrastructure projects as an alternative to the Chinese BRI by pooling resources. This could include Japanese FDI in Asean, ADBs Leading Asia’s private Sector Infrastructure Fund (LEAP) created with JICA; the US $60-billion funding - through the (BUILD) Act and the $1.5-billion appropriation per year up to five years via the US (ARIA) Act; and an Infrastructure Initiative by Australia worth AUS $2 billion aimed at the Pacific. India provides $200,000 each year on a rollover basis to each of the 14 island states which are members of FIPIC (Forum for India-Pacific Islands Cooperation) for developmental projects. This is in addition to the Asean India fund, the Asean India Green fund as well as the $1 billion credit facility announced for digital and infrastructure connectivity in 2015. All these resources can be pooled for a few model projects that can serve as capability demonstrators. India should also join the Blue Dot Initiative (the US-led counter to China’s BRI) which aims at quality Infrastructure, provided it is not confined to certification and actually works out a concrete corpus for funding projects. India’s Act East policy now requires a strong strategic focus. India will have to be nimble and quick in completing its connectivity projects with Asean. New Delhi will also have to focus on creating lasting defence and economic interdependencies with countries of the region, thus ensuring a stable and peaceful external environment for its own economic development. The writer is a former Secretary (East) in the Ministry of External Affairs, and has served as Ambassador to Italy, Thailand, Oman and Poland.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
11-10-2020||Opinion||Ek ladki ko dekhaa toh aisaa lagaa||As if a... hmmmmm. As if a monster need. As if a vandal greed. As if a trickster tryst, accidental, at unplanned crossroads. As if a meeting that should never have been. As if a crossroads nobody should have been despatched to. As if a place that is no meeting place. As if a place that needs abrogation. As if a place we are fortunate not to know the address of. As if a crossroads we are fortunate to have no roadmap to. As if another name we cannot print. As if another tale we should not tell. As if another dare we must defy. As if another law that’s no more than a flaw. As if another bell ringing. As if a need to respond. As if a jab and prod — wake up, if not now, when? As if a last call. As if a no, no, no, no, nooooo of disbelief resounding. As if a yes, cold as reality, cutting as the truth. As if a victim. As if a villain. As if a lone victim. As if a number of villains. As if a victim wrecked. As if a villain revelling. As if a cry. As if a cry of relief. As if a cry that is rending. As if a cry of protest. As if a cry of surrender. As if a cry after which there will no crying. As if a cry after which there will be more crying. As if a cry that will not be heard. As if a cry in vain. As if a tear welling. As if a tear that dried before its dropping. As if again. As if another one. As if a thing that will not stop to happen. As if a thing just waiting to happen. As if a thing that was always going to happen. As if a thing that has no end and leaps from one satanic end to another. As if another name that will not be taken. As if a name already banished. As if a name already silenced. As if a name that haunts from that pyre of proscriptions and banishments. As if a name that will now not be gone. As if a name that will insist. As if a name that will tug. As if a name that will ask. As if a name that will implore. As if a name that will look you in the eye. As if a name you cannot excise from your eye. As if a name that will not be rubbed away. As if a dream. As if a darkening dream. As if a tumult under the eyelids. As if a piercing. As if a pain. As if a devil in it. As if a devilish devouring of a dream. As if a thing done to death but not quite yet. As if a thing still of use. As if a thing still to abuse. As if a little more. As if a life not yet entirely throttled. As if a life not yet gone. As if a life requiring snuffing. As if a hunger not yet fully fed. As if a thirst not yet slaked. As if a lust not stopping to ooze. As if a breath of spring she never breathed. As if a winter she did not shiver. As if a raindrop she never drank. As if a summer never burst her cheeks to redness. As if a spring never relieved her. As if a tune she did not hum. As if a dance she did not dance. As if a thing to drool over. As if a thing to paw. As if a thing to slap. As if a thing to smother. As if a thing to cut. As if a thing to bruise. As if a thing to knead. As if a thing to scratch. As if a thing to sandwich. As if a thing of appetites. As if a thing to squeeze. As if a thing to bite. As if a thing to bleed. As if a thing to drug. As if a thing to dig. As if a thing to pinch. As if a thing to twist. As if a thing to tear. As if a thing to impale. As if a thing to rupture. As if a thing to break. As if a thing to plunder. As if a thing to silence. As if a thing to throw. As if a thing of no life. As if a sign. As if a signature. As if a body of proof, a body quite done, a body quite dead. As if a reminder to who we are. As if a claim to fame. As if a bleeding medallion of infamy. As if a rage rightly exhausted. As if a vengeance robustly wreaked. As if a collective conscience fed. As if a diktat of burial. As if a censor on the senses. As if a scale turned off-balance. As if a pronouncement blind by a bench blinded. As if a truth we do not wish to countenance. As if a name we cannot print. As if a forlorn grave. As if a gravestone with no name on it. As if a burning. As if a smoke. As if a sight that will live. As if a smell that will travel. As if a stench that will hang. As if again.   As if a demon’s feat As if a human defeat As if an ugliness, nothing neat As if a sordid repeat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Ethical dispossession||In the history of politico-ethical thought in India, the concept of compassion/daya was not always pegged to the idea of identification — the spectator of suffering ‘becoming one’ with the sufferer. In fact, Mohandas Gandhi’s notion of dayadharma (religion of compassion), as the historian, Ajay Skaria, calls it, has been one of the best instances of the grounding of the idea of compassion on a crucial concept of non-identification. In his formidable book, Radical Equality: Ambedkar, Gandhi, and the Risk of Democracy, the historian, Aishwary Kumar, has argued that for Gandhi, touching/approaching the harijan/untouchable within the Indian caste axis required a certain idea of ‘economy’, ‘distance’ or the ‘phenomenology of measure’. To formulate it in different terms, it was based on the analytic of a necessary non-identification of the brahmin with the shudra. To approach this ‘different’, ‘unequal’ Other — the harijan, who was the ‘most violated’ — demanded a fortitude that, Kumar tells us, was often, counter-intuitively enough, founded upon converting the act of ‘discrimination’ itself into a political ideal. Despite Kumar’s critique of Gandhi for contending that unlike the brahmin who could ‘become harijan’, the harijan could never emulate/‘become’ the brahmin, what is crucial to note is that even on an issue like untouchability where Gandhi is arguably at his paternalistic best, the idea of compassion towards this violated harijan was based precisely on an ethic of ‘distance’ between the brahmin and the harijan, as Kumar calls it, and not on identification/sameness. It involved an admission that the ‘upper’ caste can never be completely ‘one’ with the harijan, thereby involving a necessary unknowability/unintelligibility or, what Gandhi called, maryada, an ‘ethics of limit’ (Kumar), and what Skaria, in his crucial book on Gandhi, identifies as an ethic of ‘finitude’ that dwells at the very heart of — and thereby haunts — liberal postulations on freedom. The implication here is that ‘becoming harijan’ (just like ‘becoming woman’) for Gandhi was about two things: first, acknowledging that the ‘truth’ (satya) of the divinity of the harijan’s suffering cannot be accessed unless the one who is aiming at gaining access to this suffering (the non-harijan) sacrifices; second, this act of sacrifice is fundamentally predicated upon acknowledging that gaining access to/‘knowing’ the ‘truth-force’ of the harijan’s divine suffering cannot be based on complete identification of the non-harijan with the harijan. It must involve, what Skaria calls and Kumar explains to be, a ‘radically conservative’ process of both the brahmin and the harijan being ‘dispossessed’ from their own selves. This radically non-sovereign gesture of ‘becoming harijan’ for Gandhi was the fulcrum of the anti-colonial political struggle. It will be a mistake to think that the act of grounding this ‘force of compassion’ (as Kumar calls it) on non-identification was the sole prerogative of Indic traditions. In Plato’s text, Alcibiades — on political governance in early Greek society — the notion of ‘Self-Care’/‘Care of the Self’ shared a remarkably similar apparatus of ideas with the aforementioned legacy of grounding compassion on non-identification. ‘Self-Care’, as Michel Foucault has demonstrated, was predominantly about an unselfconscious acknowledgement that self-knowledge or wisdom (sôphrosunê) was necessary for governing the individuals in the city-state in pre-Christian Athens. This was, in turn, only possible by not ‘learning’ about the ‘truth’ of the other’s suffering but, rather, through looking at the ‘divine’ soul of the other. As Socrates explained, this was structurally similar to how in order to see/visualize oneself, one would generally look at the ‘best part’ of the eye (the pupil) of the other person. In the process (Foucault under-emphasizes this), Plato acknowledged the necessary incompleteness of the self of the one who wishes to govern. However, in the mainstream liberal tradition that eventually helped fortify the edifice of colonial conquest and empire, compassion had a completely heterogeneous meaning. This heterogeneity is best exemplified in one of the founding moments of Western modernity — via Adam Smith’s iconic text, The Theory of Moral Sentiments, through the notion of an apparently homologous term, ‘sympathy’. Sympathy, unlike compassion, is predominantly based on the ‘personal identification’ of the spectator of suffering with the sufferer, victim or the object of governance. The historian, Dipesh Chakrabarty, had pointed out (albeit without emphasizing the aforementioned Gandhian ethic of necessary non-identification/unknowability) that for Smith, the only way through which we can know what other sufferers might be feeling is by ‘imagining’ what we ‘ourselves’ might have felt in a similar situation. Here, the spectator imagines that he himself is enduring ‘similar torments’ and becomes, to a certain extent, the ‘same person’ as the sufferer. For Smith, as Chakrabarty further suggested, there are almost always certain principles in the very nature of an individual that ‘interest him’ in the happiness of others and render their ‘good fortune’ necessary to him. On the contrary, compassion, unlike sympathy, is not merely made to depend on the intelligibility of suffering based on self-identification. Placing this brief conceptual history in the context of the contemporary disparagement of the evocation of religious symbols by Muslims during the anti-CAA protests that India recently witnessed and drawing from an interrogation that Partha Chatterjee, in tracing a genealogy of the present cosmopolitan order, has engaged in, the question one needs to ask is this: is the Indian State apparatus rejecting the anti-colonial, Gandhian legacy of compassion and, instead, appealing to the liberal-ideological and imperialist (Smithian) impulse of sympathy in its exercise of political power? The political scientist, Rahul Rao, has recently pointed out how the evocation of the poem, “Hum Dekhenge”, by Faiz Ahmed Faiz, bearing the lines, “Sab taj uchhale jayenge/Sab takht girae jayenge/ Bas naam rahega Allah ka,” was met with visceral disdain from the liberal-secularizing intelligentsia at IIT Kanpur for supposedly being incommensurable with the identity of a ‘tolerant’ nation. Similarly, when the Muslim woman, Hadiya, in one of her testimonies, defined ‘liberty’ as the habitual recitation of a potentially non-anthropomorphic practice like namaz, that too was met with severe scorn from the judiciary. In a speech delivered in 2012, Narendra Modi had, in fact, suggested, “Drown all your gods in water. The Swami [referring to Vivekananda] left his gods too for a higher aim. Let your god be Mahabharti [the Hindu term for the Indian nation state] now.” These instances of, what Étienne Balibar calls, the ‘careful replacement’ of religious identities with national ones have only multiplied in recent times. What modes of political subjectivity do the State apparatus need to cultivate if it is to, once again, steer the idea of compassion towards the object of governance on non-identification and, thereby, appeal to the Gandhian (Platonic) idiom of compassion? The political future of Indian democracy hinges on whether it pegs itself to the anti-colonial, nationalist legacy of compassion or the liberal-imperialist legacy of sympathy. sbaner03@mail.bbk.ac.uk||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Women, interrupted||Could 2020 be the Year for Women? Women doing well in public life is not new. Yet it cannot be denied that the number of women who excel in science, economics and politics is negligible in comparison to men. But is the old, chauvinistic order crumbling? The Nobel Prize in chemistry has gone to two women scientists — they developed a revolutionary genome-editing tool that can alter the DNA of micro-organisms; the literature Nobel has gone to a woman too, while the new chief of the World Trade Organization is, for the first time, set to be a woman. Honour and recognition seem to be raining down on deserving women. Is this the time to hope that the proverbial glass ceiling will, at long last, be shattered? While celebrating this moment of equality, it would make sense to acknowledge that victories for women, especially in the realm of science, have always been hard-won. Since 1901, only seven women have got the chemistry Nobel, including the new awardees. This is far more likely to be on account of the daunting barriers — cultural and institutional — than a question of merit. In fact, there is a long and shameful history of denying women their due. A British woman scientist, whose work pioneered a significant breakthrough in the study of the gene, remains a stranger to historical or scientific records. Closer home, in 1933, the Nobel-winning physicist, C.V. Raman, it is alleged, had initially denied Kamala Sohonie entry into the Indian Institute of Science on account of her gender. She later went on to earn a PhD at Cambridge University. Such cultural and systemic prejudices continue because of the persistence of discriminatory ideas that intellect is shaped by gender and that women, the faulty corollary goes, do not have a natural affinity for specific subjects. The consequences of these myths are far from benign. In 2018, women made up a paltry 14 per cent of 2.8 lakh scientists, engineers and technologists employed in India’s research and development institutes. Such skewed representation has had an adverse effect on scientific output. Studies have shown that failures in artificial intelligence uniquely affect women; there is evidence to suggest that recruitment systems discriminate against job applicants with female names. The small pool of women who make it past these roadblocks face other challenges, not least of which are overarching domestic expectations. Ironically, the nation bears the cost of such prejudice. The stubborn refusal to view women as equal participants in national growth, scientific and otherwise, results in the under-utilization of significant human capital. There is thus an urgent need to root out embedded prejudice with targeted interventions. The new proposal by India’s department of science and technology to rank science institutes on the basis of the number of women employees may be encouraging but the real challenge lies in making society acknowledge women as agents of change. The women Nobel laureates could be held up as role models for many other women, but meaningful empowerment is premised on the ability of women to make their own choices in life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||When BJP fights for press freedom it’s for TRPs||The Bharatiya Janata Party has been known for unabashedly pushing to the forefront its contentious ideological agendas. The move has paid off, and the party now lords over the country. But this approach, to bare everything, could be dangerous in politics. In the scandal involving fake television rating points that was unearthed by the Mumbai police, the BJP has made it very obvious that it stands with Republic TV. The channel has been accused of securing fake TRPs. Ratings fetch revenues and also reflect the success of a channel. The ruling party does not seem to care about the gravity of the charge against the news channel. While Republic TV has been known for pushing the saffron party’s agenda, the BJP’s blatant defence of the channel has bared their association. “[The Congress’s] assaults on @republic and trampling over media freedom will never be tolerated by the people of India”: this was tweeted by none other than the president of the BJP, JP Nadda. The latter attacked the Congress since the party is part of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra. Many other BJP leaders jumped to defend Republic TV, invoking the freedom of the press. This move by the saffron party, however, has angered most news channels, who have suffered on account of Republic TV’s alleged TRP manipulation. The step taken by the BJP, many in the party fear, could prove to be damaging. Jitendra Singh, the All India Congress Committee general secretary given charge of poll-bound Assam on September 11, is yet to visit the state, but he has either met or heard almost all senior leaders — picking their brains before his much-awaited visit to the state sometime this month. While the state top brass met him in Delhi, he reportedly connected with the other leaders through video conference. Last Saturday’s four-hour marathon video meet with the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee leaders saw Singh seek their views on organizational as well as political issues which can be flagged to connect with the voters. Singh will be needing all the guile and luck if he has to deliver Assam to the Congress. Party insiders say they are in with a strong chance if Singh can get the top echelons to rein in their ‘misplaced’ ambitions and set the campaign pace by identifying the right issues with time-bound solutions, for the ruling BJP is still on a strong wicket despite the anti-BJP wave ‘created’ in TV studios. That the Congress and other anti-BJP parties are calling for a united fight reflects how strong the BJP is, said party insiders. “We hope Singh will activate his old links in the state from his Youth Congress days to know who will be the party’s assets and liabilities in the polls, [and] if required meeting seasoned party hands who may offer selfless advice for the right people to lead the fight and the right parties to ally [with] and why. It will be a challenge,” said a PCC general secretary. Candidate selection has always been a troublesome exercise for political parties, and dissenting voices are normal. Allegations of tickets being distributed on extraneous considerations and not winnability have surfaced in Bihar this time as well, and the Congress appears to be the worst affected of all the parties. While some aspiring candidates have reportedly resigned in protest and many have vowed to work for the defeat of the official nominees, what surprised the Congress high command this time is the gross violation of laid-down procedures. Many candidates were secretly given party symbols to file nomination papers much before the list was formally announced. This was done to ensure that rebellion by other aspirants and information of wrong-doing and selling of tickets reaching the central leadership fail to change the candidates. While many leaders of Bihar were extremely upset, the former state president, Anil Sharma, tweeted about the manner in which some leaders conspired to harm the party’s interests to give precedence to favourites. That no candidate from the Muslim community was picked up in the first list also caused resentment. One young leader said, “Rahul Gandhi said he wanted to fight dynastic culture in the party. Sadanand Singh contested 12 elections from Bhagalpur and now his son who worked in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur will contest. What are other party workers supposed to do, rally behind his son? Is that the correct way to build the organization? The party has become a conglomerate of small fiefdoms and the ordinary workers are fooled by lip service. No good man should ever enter politics now because only two factors matter — moneybag and family control.” One of the oldest regional parties in the Northeast, the Mizoram People’s Conference, quietly passed into history on Tuesday, merging with the People’s Representation for Identity and Status of Mizoram to give birth to a new political party — the People’s Conference Party. Lalhmangaiha Sailo and Vanlalruata, the presidents of the now disbanded MPC and PRISM respectively, will lead the PCP. Starting as an anti-corruption watchdog, PRISM registered as a political party in 2018. One does not know how the newly-floated PCP will fare but the MPC had an eventful run — a chequered history by all accounts. Formed by the former chief minister, T Sailo, in 1975, the party ruled Mizoram twice when it was a Union territory, first for six months in 1978 and then again from 1979 for a full five year term. It lost power in 1984 to the Congress but remained the main Opposition. Its stocks slipped from the late 1990s, winning 12, three, two and one seat in the 1998, 2003, 2008 and 2013 state polls respectively. Sailo was the lone winner in 2013. The MPC was part of the seven-party Zoram People’s Movement alliance in the 2018 polls won by the ruling Mizo National Front. The MPC withdrew from the ZPM in 2019. The Karnataka chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, is busy making friends in the Janata Dal (Secular) in what could become the card up his sleeve if the BJP firms up on a leadership change in the near future. The septuagenarian leader is not someone who will go without kicking up a storm. And if he can convince the JD(S) top man, HD Deve Gowda, to lend support with his 34 MLAs, BJP bosses will certainly be wary of the designs of the numero uno Lingayat leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Opinion||Better safe than sorry||Sir — Doctors have warned the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, that Durga Puja celebrations could cause a massive surge in Covid-19 cases. In a year when the world has been turned topsy-turvy by the pandemic, one must ask if public celebrations are really unavoidable. What is worse, like each year, there are awards for best Pujas and so on. This will make organizers compete to make creative pandals, which people will then flock to. Surely, the only award this year should be for the pandal that ensures that people can enjoy the Pujas safely? Tiyasha Mukherjee Calcutta Sir — While the Supreme Court accepted the right to peacefully protest against a legislation, it also made it absolutely clear that protests in public places for an indefinite period of time are unacceptable. A three-judge bench held that democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone. The court also said that protests must not block a public way and cause inconvenience to commuters. The order came in response to a petition regarding the Shaheen Bagh protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. A significant aspect of democracy is that citizens have the right to freely express their views, mobilize and protest. On the other hand, it is true that they are not entitled to infringe on the rights of fellow citizens. While the Supreme Court order will safeguard the rights of commuters, it will do so at the cost of those protesting against a divisive, unlawful Act. Restrictions on protesting, especially for groups that have no other way of expressing themselves publicly, will jeopardize the right to freedom of expression. While it is true that the protests may have caused some inconvenience to people, the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of expression are inviolable in a democracy. It is unjust to specify where public assemblies must occur in a democracy. Given that political and social participation through public demonstration is critical to the consolidation of democracy, the judiciary and the governments are expected to accord due weightage to this practice. Venu G.S. Kollam, Kerala Sir — When a Supreme Court bench said, “Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely. Dissent and democracy go hand in hand but protests must be carried out in designated area... Such kind of occupation of public place for protests is not acceptable,” it made a truly sensible observation. Although those sitting in protest at Shaheen Bagh have returned home in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the verdict shows the path for future protests. In India, protests like the one in Shaheen Bagh have been taking place for long — remember Anna Hazare’s protest? But Shaheen Bagh was different — nothing could scare the protesters away from the place, not shots fired, not petrol bombs hurled at the site. Shaheen Bagh has shown the world the meaning of a peaceful protest. If this is done at designated places, then the rights of others will not be infringed upon either. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee Faridabad Sir — The Supreme Court has said that protests can and should take place only at designated spots in the city. But one is forced to ask if this will ever achieve the desired results. People protest in their own way but unless others are made to stop in their tracks do they take notice? Is a minor public inconvenience of greater concern than a divisive bill that seeks to turn thousands of rightful Indians aliens in their own country? Moreover, is not restricting the rights of some citizens to express themselves in a location of their choice an infringement on their rights? While the Supreme Court is hearing a bunch of petitions, the primary issue — that of the constitutionality of an Act that singles out one community and excludes it from the benevolence and amnesty of the State — remains unaddressed. The pandemic did a good job of sweeping that issue under the carpet. In such a situation, a protest that is visible and makes people pause and think is more important than ever. Rohan Sengupta Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-135
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Traffic police, Jusco crack down on parking on Bistupur Main Road||The traffic wing of district police on Sunday launched a drive against those parking their vehicles on either side of the Bistupur Main Road in a bid to keep it free of congestion. The traffic police have roped in private security guards belonging to Jusco for the initiative. Over a dozen private security guards are carrying out the job of preventing vehicle owners from parking their vehicles along the road; if anyone defies their instructions, the security guards are asking the police to take necessary actions, which include fines or getting the vehicles towed to the Bistupur traffic police station. The focus of the drive is the newly set up Bistupur Public Square where the rush of people, especially youngsters, is on the rise. As more and more youngsters are turning up at the square, an increasing number of vehicles is also getting parked wrongfully there. Deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra said: “Ideally, we would have kept the entire stretch of Bistupur Main Road free of congestion but currently, we are focusing on a 500m portion starting from Bata to Diagonal Road. No one will be allowed to park their vehicles in this stretch and if anyone is found violating the instruction, they will be penalised.” He said vehicles would be towed away to Bistupur police station if they have been left in the no-parking zone. Apart from paying a penalty (of Rs 200 for two-wheelers and Rs 500 for four-wheelers), vehicle owners will also have to pay the towing cost. The opening of the square has meant that the responsibilities of the traffic police have increased. “After the square started attracting crowds, the road in front of it also started getting congested because of the vehicles the visitors would park there. The Jusco management requested that the stretch from Bata to Diagonal Road be kept free of any parking. As there were only five cops at the Bistupur traffic police station, we requested Jusco, which is a Tata Steel subsidiary, to provide its security guards to work to address the issue of congestion. The Jusco management obliged by providing about a dozen guards for the job,” said Shrivendra. However, those turning up at the square are finding it difficult to park their vehicles. This has forced some to drop their plans of visiting the place. “Today being a Sunday, we had come here as we wanted to spend some time at the square before going for puja shopping. But due to the parking problem, we dropped our plans,” Tapas Sinha, a resident of Parsudih, told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar relaxes restrictions at Baba Baidhyanath Dham ||The Deoghar district administration on Sunday relaxed restrictions at Baba Baidhyanath Dham. The temple announced that it will allow visitors from other states, while saying it will increase the entry limit of visitors per day to 1,000 from the existing cap of 200. It has also increased the visiting hours from four hours to eight. Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad said that the decision was taken following a meeting on Saturday in the wake of Unlock 5. He said: “Earlier, we were allowing entry of 200 visitors per day which has now been extended to 1,000. Similarly, the temple will be open for darshan for eight hours against a four-hour window. All entry to the temple, however, will continue to be through online permits from the temple website.” Prasad said that the temple will be open from 6am till 2pm. He said: “While the doors of the temple are open for all, as per the government’s safety advisory, we appeal to senior citizens with comorbidities, pregnant ladies and infants to refrain from visiting.” Following a Supreme Court order in connection with a PIL filed by BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey, the Jharkhand government notified reopening of the Baba Dham in Deoghar and Basukinath temple in Dumka on August 26 allowing the twin shrines to function only for four hours a day and only for devotees of the state. However, the state government continued to impose curbs on all other religious establishments till this month. From October 8, other religious places gradually began reopening following a formal nod from the state government. While the Chinnamastika temple in Ramgarh, Itkhori in Chatra and few others opened doors after seven months from October 8 itself, a majority of the temples in Ranchi began re-functioning only from October 10, after the Ranchi district administration barred their reopening till standard operating procedures were issued by the government||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||FIR over threat to Dhoni’s daughter||Police in Ranchi on Sunday registered an FIR against an unnamed person hailing from Gujarat in connection with a rape threat to Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s five-year-old daughter Ziva on social media. Police sources said they had traced the IP address from which the social media message had been posted after Dhoni’s team Chennai Super Kings lost to Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday night at the Indian Premier League. The IP address is from Kutch in Gujarat. Jharkhand police have also contacted their counterparts in Gujarat and it is believed that the latter have already picked up the accused. The officer in charge of Ratu police station, Rajiv Ranjan Lal, confirmed to The Telegraph Online the registration of the FIR. He said: “We have filed an FIR against an unnamed person under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (transmitting obscene material) of the IT Act. The IP address has been traced to Kutch in Gujarat.” On the identity of the culprit, he said the force was working on it with the Gujarat police and will make an announcement after a formal breakthrough. The Ranchi police stepped up vigil near Dhoni’s houses in Simalia on the city outskirts in the Ratu police station area and in Harmu in the Argora police station area as precautionary steps following the post. Trolls threatened the former Team India captain’s daughter with rape, with a section of the media reporting that Dhoni’s wife Sakshi saw it on her Instagram feed. The incident sparked an outrage on social media with many users, including MLAs and celebrities, condemning the distasteful online behaviour. Dhoni’s family, including his wife, daughter and parents, are currently at their Simalia-based farmhouse. Several cricketers affiliated to the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) on Sunday evening staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka Chowk holding banners and posters in support of Dhoni and his family and demanding early arrest of the accused. “Dhoni bhaiya is our idol and we can’t tolerate any harm to him or his family. The entire cricket fraternity is with him and it is probably for the first time that all cricketers have come out openly to protest in this fashion as everyone is deeply hurt by the incident,” said an Under-19 player, unwilling to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||About 50 per cent of new Covid cases from Ranchi||Nearly 50 per cent of the 574 Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Sunday were from Ranchi. It is the worst-affected district in terms of Covid case load in the state, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 286 of the 574 Covid cases reported on Sunday were from Ranchi. The district also saw a rise in the number of active cases on the day after 244 recoveries were reported here against the over-280 fresh cases. Ranchi was also the only district in Jharkhand to report a triple-digit spike in Covid cases on Sunday. All the remaining 23 districts reported less than 100 fresh cases of infection on the day. The Covid-19 tally in the district reached 22,531. Government data puts the number of active cases in the district at 2,669. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in the state, reported only 45 cases, while Bokaro reported 47 cases of infection on the day. As many as 42 people were found infected in Dhanbad, while Pakur reported zero cases of infection. Covid-19 claimed three more lives in Jharkhand on Sunday, and two of the victims were from Dhanbad. East Singhbhum reported one death on the day, which took the toll in the district to 315, government data stated. As many as 144 Covid patients have died in Ranchi so far, and these two districts account for nearly 60 per cent of the Covid casualties in the state. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped further up at 90.32 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 86.20 per cent. As per government data, out of the 92,525 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, 83,571 have recovered. As per figures with the NHM, there were 8,167 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Sunday evening. The government in Jharkhand has collected swab samples of 26.45 lakh people and tested 26.40 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 17,793 people and 17,219 of them came negative. As per government figures, the Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state was 82.11 days against the national rate of 62.79 days. The growth rate of the virus in the past one week was 0.85 per cent in Jharkhand and 1.11 per cent in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM leader and wife found murdered in their Jharia house||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) Dhanbad town vice president Shankar Rawani (50), and his wife Balika Devi (45) were brutally murdered at their house on Saturday night. They were residents of Gaurkhunti,under Bhowra Police outpost, about 25 km from Dhanbad district headquarters . The incident came to light on Sunday at around 9 am, when local residents inforned the police. Neighbours noticed that doors of the single storey house were unusually locked till late morning. They weren't able to elicit any response even after knocking several times. Bhowra police aarived and broke open the door to find two dead bodies lying in a pool of blood in the courtyard. Police recovered a dagger and two 9 mm empty shells, along with some cloth and other articles from the site. An FIR is likely be registered after Karan Rawani, the deceased's son who runs a small business in Chakradharpur, arrives. Dhanbad City SP R Ramkumar who reached the site in the morning, along with Sindri DSP Ajit Kumar and Bhowra police outpost in-charge Kalika Ram, said, “We can’t say anything at the moment with regard to the incident as the matter is under investigation”. Councillor of ward number 50 Chandan Mahto said, “ The deceased were stabbed and shot in what seems to be a case of gruesome murder.” A local resident said several articles lay broken all around the house, suggesting struggle. Shramdev Singh Chandravanshi, a JMM activist close to Shankar Rawani, said, “Animosity between the families of Shankar and his cousin Dhiren Rawani, as well as other coal outsourcing contractors, is the probable cause behind the murders. Shankar had written to Dhanbad police seeking security, but his request was not entertaied." Dhiren, Shankar Rawani's cousin, who was also his business partner and former neighbour, was killed on August 18, 2017. Kunal Rawani (25), Shankar Rawani's son, an accused in the murder, was killed by an irate mob on the same day. Shankar and Dhiren started a lottery business in late 80s at Gaurkhunti. Later they founded a non-banking finance company, Nagmani, in the early 90s. Dhiren and Shankar locked in dispute and parted ways soon after, with Shankar establishing his own chit fund company Rainbow, later rechristening it as Rainbow Smart Cooperative Society. Dhiren shifted to Mithu Road in Dhanbad town after the dispute with his cousin. Both lodged several cases against each other in different police stations of Dhanbad, including Sudamdih PS. Ramesh Tuddu, JMM district president, said, “Shankar was an active JMM leader and the manner in which he and his wife were killed requires serious investigation.” Ragini, BJP leader and wife for former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, said, “The law and order situation in the district has dipped ever since the new government came in power.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP falls back on old war horses for Dumka, Bermo bypolls||The BJP will field former social welfare minister Louise Marandi in Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ in Bermo for the November 3 bylections, the party said on Sunday. Both Marandi and Mahto lost in the 2019 Assembly elections. In Dumka, chief minister Hemant Soren (JMM) defeated Marandi, while in Bermo, Congress’s Rajendra Prasad Singh decimated Mahto. The two seats fell vacant after Hemant decided to leave Dumka and retain Barhait in January, while sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died in Bermo in May. BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “Based on the feedback from the state leadership, BJP high command has announced Louise Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto for Dumka and Bermo seats respectively. Both are grounded to their constituency which they had last represented between 2014-19 and are sure to undo the past loss.” Reacting to her nomination, Louise said, “I am thankful to the party leadership for showing its faith in me. People in Dumka have realised their past mistake after seeing 7 months of misrule of the present government in all sectors, be it law and order, transparency in governance or execution of schemes meant for them. An anti-JMM wave is brewing strong in Dumka.” Yogeshwar, on the other hand, did not answer calls when The TelegraphOnline tried to reach him for comments. BJP sources said that the party initially thought of fielding new faces in both the seats but fell back on old war horses owing to a lack of trusted faces. “In Dumka, certain sections within the party first proposed the name of Babulal Marandi, who is currently the leader of legislative party and Dhanwar MLA. In past elections, Babulal had defeated JMM supremo Shibu Soren and is an acceptable Santhali face in this region. He, however, didn’t wish to take the risk,” claimed a party veteran. In Bermo, the BJP had zeroed in on Yogeshwar and former Giridih MP Ravindra Kumar Pandey, who was benched in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after the seat went to AJSU-P as part of the BJP-AJSU alliance. “Yogeshwar was preferred over Pandey because of past records. In the Opposition, our focus now is to carefully capitalise on available limited opportunities to increase our tally in the state Assembly,” said the party insider. Following Sunday’s announcement, the battlelines for the November 3 byelections are clearly drawn between the ruling mahagatbandhan of JMM, Congress and RJD versus the NDA after the Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU-P extended its support to the BJP. The JMM-Congress-RJD combine has named Hemant’s younger brother Basant and Kumar Jaimangal, son of Rajendra Prasad, in Dumka and Bermo respectively. Basant will file his nominations on Monday (October 12) while Jaimangal will do so on October 14, said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey. BJP is yet to say when it intends to file nominations of its candidates. But sources said the party was expected to do so on October 14. Currently, the ruling coalition has 46 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 78 after the demise of JMM minister and Madhupur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari on October 3. In the 2019 Assembly polls, JMM originally won 29 seats, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav (Poriyahat) _ joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Rain likely during first two days of Durga Puja||As if the virus wasn’t enough, rain may also play spoilsport this Puja. Weathermen warned on Sunday that satellite pictures were indicating the formation of a low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal around October 15, something that could impact Jharkhand's weather. “It would result in cloud cover and moderate rain over the state between October 15 and 23," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He, however, ruled out the possibility of heavy rainfall. This year, Durga Puja begins with Mahasashthi on October 22. Dashami falls on October 26. As per the IMD forecast, there could be rain on the initial two days of Puja. A duty officer at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta corroborated the forecast of Ranchi Met Centre. “We cannot rule out the possibility of rain during Puja as the monsoon is yet to withdraw from Jharkhand, something that will happen only after October 20. Two back-to-back weather systems originating from the Bay of Bengal will extend the monsoon in Jharkhand this year," the duty officer told The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. Weathermen at Patna Meteorological Centre said Jharkhand would not face heavy rain, but did not rule out the possibility of intermittent showers during the first two days of Puja. "The southwest monsoon is yet to withdraw from Jharkhand. So, there is a possibility of rain during Puja," said a senior weather analyst at the Patna Met Centre. The climate analyst added that satellite study revealed chances of thunderstorm and lightning over north-west, central and southern Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. Under normal conditions, monsoon usually withdraws from Jharkhand between October 10 and 12. However, over the past few years, rain-bearing winds have been withdrawing past the scheduled date. Earlier, weathermen at Ranchi Met Centre had predicted the exit of monsoon from Jharkhand by October 10. The withdrawal process had begun on time from Rajasthan. But a prevailing depression over West Central Bay of Bengal and the upcoming low-pressure, which is expected to impact the weather in the state from October 15, has held up the withdrawal. Hence, the southwest monsoon is expected to overstay for over 10 days, beyond October 20, confirmed weathermen. Last year, the weather God was benevolent, providing a rain-less Puja to most parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro. Humidity was low, and the weather was perfect for pandal-hopping. Year 2018 had also seen an absolutely dry Puja. Rains had played spoilsport on Puja days in 2017 and 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand||Surgical relief for a bird in Daltonganj, who is set to fly again||In a small town like Daltonganj, where broken bones are set right only after a visit to the state capital, a bird’s fractured leg was amputated to relieve it of its pain, as our feathered friends do not use crutches. A cattle egret weighing 325g was amputated by a young touring mobile veterinary officer Jeeani Abha Melgandi, who had carried out the procedure in pets in the past. However, this was her maiden experience with a bird. “On Thursday, this cattle egret, a water bird, was brought to me. A noted wildlife lover-cum-snake and bird rescuer Jyoti Kumari had brought this bird along in her lap,” said Melgandi while talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “The bird was in great agony, writhing with pain. There was a severe left leg fracture. The bird had made moved with the fractured leg, further worsening her condition,” she said. Melgandi said she had first thought of bandaging the leg, but the fracture was severe. No external support could have made her miseries any lesser. “The fractured leg’s lower part was becoming almost lifeless. Reflexes were missing. Amputation was the only choice with this luckless bird. I didn’t take much time and told Kumari that I will go ahead with the procedure,” said Melgandi, adding that it was not a happy choice. “I wanted this bird to fly again and also to make her get rid of the acute trauma and shock that she was in,” she said. The procedure took about half an hour. “The bird was given a suspension of antibiotics and Jyoti took her back home like a good sister to a bird in distress,” said Melgandi. Jyoti Kumari said a boy brought the injured bird to her on October 5 from Daltonganj’s Kandu Mohalla. “I immediately telephoned a highly experienced vet doctor Vishal Patel in Gujarat and sent him the pictures of her leg via WhatsApp for advice,” she said. Patel suggested amputation. Kumari said she had called many local vets but to no avail. “I then contacted Melgandi and persuaded her to take chance and risk to save her,” said Jyoti adding that the bird’s pain brought tears to her eyes. The egret made a spectacular recovery and her recuperation has been tremendous. Kumari said this bird is still in her cage laid in one corner of her house and that she is like any other member of our family. She gets 6 to 7 pieces of small fish for food that Kumari arranges for her. “I used to work as a computer operator at the Palamau Tiger Reserve, but I have been unceremoniously laid off by its officials,” said Kumari. “The tiger reserve officials had slashed my monthly remuneration arbitrarily which I resisted, only to get out of the job and come here.” An IFS officer, the now-retired Anil Kumar Mishra whom The Telegraph Online spoke to on Sunday, has trained Kumari. “More than three dozen birds in distress, having physical afflictions ranging from blunt injuries down to fractures have been rescued from January to October this year by Jyoti and her team who are associated with our Adhikari Foundation For Nature Conservation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
11-10-2020||Jharkhand|| Register online to visit Chatra temple||Devotees who want to visit the Bhadrakali temple in Chatra’s Itkhori block will have to register themselves online a day in advance. The devotees will also have to input their Aadhar details on jharkhanddarshan.nic.in. The new rule will be applicable from Monday, though registrations open a day earlier. Temple committee secretary Baijnath Kamti, who is also the circle officer of Itkhori, said that after registering on the website, devotees will also have to mention the time of visit and the number of visitors. A list of registered devotees will be displayed near the main entrance gate everyday, Kamti said. Those visiting the temple without registration will have to remain outside the sanctum sanctorum, he added. The BJP has begun its campaign in tribal-dominated Dumka ahead of the November 3 bypolls. Former chief minister Raghuabr Das conducted a mahila jan choupal programme on Saturday. Das cited how his government between 2014-19 came up with several pro-tribal initiatives and also spoke of the Union government's women friendly drives including LPG schemes, jan-dhan accounts among others for marginalised sections of the society. BJP lost to JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in the 2019 assembly polls. In Dumka, BJP's sitting MLA and minister Louise Marandi had lost to present chief minister Hemant Soren. Soren left the seat to retain Barhait making bypoll a necessary here. Ruling JMM has now named Hemant's brother Basant for Dumka election while BJP is likely to give Louise another chance. An 18-year-old girl and two minor children drowned at two spots in Hazaribagh district on Saturday. Villagers managed to find one of their bodies. Neighbours Faizan Ansari, 9, and Ainul Ansari, 10, drowned in the Barwana river near Konarkhurd Masjid Tola in Barkatha block, 65km from the district headquarters. While taking a bath, Faizan slipped into the river. Ainul jumped into the water to save him but he too went missing. Faizan’s body was found a few kilometres away. Bulbul Kumari drowned in the Kewta river in Padma block, 25km from the district headquarters, while she was washing clothes. Efforts to find her body proved fruitless. Jahida Khatoon, a 40-year-old resident of Sukudih police station area in Dhanbad’s Hariharpur, was killed when she was hit by a motorcycle at her village while crossing the road on Saturday morning around 10am. Local residents blocked the road near the accident spot for more than three hours. Italian photographer Riccardo Busi, who is president of the Federation of International Art Photography (FIAP), showcased his work during a webinar organised by the Dhanbad Camera Club on Saturday. Anil Risal Singh, former president of the Federation of Indian Photography, who is the chief advisor of the Dhanbad Camera Club, welcomed Busi and introduced him to participants. Barun Kumar Sinha, secretary-general, Federation of Indian Photography, recalled his memories with Busi at several international meets. Mukesh Srivastava, president of the Dhanbad Camera Club, surprised Busi by exhibiting a number of his photographs during visits to India in 1985 and 2010. Busi had visited iconic places such as Kashmir, Ladakh, Rajasthan and Agra in 1985. In 2010, he was the chief guest at the 15th FIAP Nature Biennial World Cup in Bangalore. Srivastava also exhibited the photographs from the 33rd FIAP congress held in South Korea in 2016, showing Busi in action as well as in discussion with delegates from India. During his conversation with Busi, Srivastava also asked about his journey as a photographer as well as about his plans. Busi was also conferred the first honorary fellowship of the Dhanbad Camera Club by Srivastava. He was also presented a certificate and memento on the occasion. The Dhanbad Camera Club has been organising webinars since August on a fortnightly basis due to constraints brought about by the pandemic. K.K. Thakur joined Bokaro Power Supply Private Company Limited (BPSCL) as chief executive officer (CEO) on Satursday. BPSCL, a joint venture of SAIL-DVC, supplies its entire electricity to Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). Thakur was the Chief General Manager in Turbo Blower Station of BSL.The CEO post of BPSCL was vacant for the last one and a half years. The senior officers of BPSCL were operating the company in the absence of a CEO. A migrant labourer of Kharbariya village in Giridih committed suicide on Saturday over unemployment during lockdown. The deceased Manoj Kumar used to work as a labourer in Surat. He had returned to his village during the coronavirus induced lockdown. With no employment opportunities, his family started facing financial problems. Two cyber criminals were caught by police in Giridih from an ATM on Saturday. The cyber police station had received information about the whereabouts of two cyber criminals in the Nagar police station area. The duo identified as Sanjay Kumar Mandal and Dilip Kumar Rai had come to an HDFC Bank ATM located near Bada Chowk to withdraw money. Police personnel deployed next to the ATM caught them. Cyber police station in-charge Sahadev Prasad said that during interrogation both the criminals have admitted to their involvement in multiple cyber crimes and confessed to have illegally earned about five lakh rupees in two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-270
