12-10-2020||Calcutta||An argument for open, unbroken space||Santanu Chatterjee is looking a little warily at November. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed the Bengal government’s plea to allow Chhath Puja in Rabindra Sarobar, the Dhakuria lakes. But the government is likely to move the Supreme Court on the matter. In any case, Chatterjee is apprehensive about what will happen on the day of the puja this year. Chhath Puja is being performed in the lake grounds for almost a decade now, causing much pollution in the lake waters, and protests from lake-goers and environmentalists have been able to stop the practice. Last year, thousands of worshippers forced their way through police security to perform the puja at the waterside. “There is nothing to protect the sanctity of the environment,” says Chatterjee, 55, a veteran lake-goer. Recently he has turned activist for the lakes. He looks around as we walk briskly through the grounds. It is about eight in the morning. The lake grounds are now open from 5.30am to 9.30am, due to lockdown. It is as if he is treading on precarious ground. Chatterjee knows the grounds like the back of his hand. He knows how many CCTV cameras are installed on the grounds and where, where dead branches are piled up, where a dead tree trunk needs to be uprooted, where the fish are most visible. Chhath Puja is not the only concern. The grounds still bear signs of devastation from Cyclone Amphan. Some of the other problems are much older. Chatterjee, a Kalighat resident, has been coming to the lakes since childhood. He feels protective about the place, but sometimes is also filled with a sense of futility. However much lake-lovers try to keep the grounds undisturbed, problems encroach. In the shape of unauthorised construction, or intruders, or pollution. More often than not they seem strong enough to displace the rightful claim of the city to the lakes as that rare bit of large, open space in contemporary Calcutta, choking with cars and construction. The lakes, artificially created by the British after acquiring 192 acres of marshy land in the 1920s under a Calcutta Improvement Trust (CIT) project, have been called the lungs of Calcutta.Chatterjee, a graduate from South City College, joined his father’s business of advertisement boards in the mid-Eighties. The boards would be set up on building terraces or streets. But his business began to slow down from the last decade. About four years ago, he shut shop. And turned to a place beloved from childhood, the lakes. “I used to come here with my parents. We would visit the lily pool,” he says. It was an area meant for children. But more than the pool, in which he does not remember the lilies, he talks about the mini zoo there with birds, monkeys and deer that attracted the children. The zoo is gone; the pool looks different. In the winter, the waters would be covered by migratory birds. They have almost disappeared. “And there was the hanging bridge, which still exists. So do the many fish under it. But much of the grounds then were unkempt. There were many more trees, but all parts were not accessible,” Chatterjee said. As he grew up, he got caught up in the life of his Kalighat neighbourhood. When Kalighat park, where he would play football and basketball with his friends, got taken over by the Metro project, he came back to the lakes. And after closing down his advertisement business, Chatterjee, a single man, returned to the lakes with renewed interest. In these decades, the lake grounds had been spruced up; they were much more people-friendly. A lot had been achieved by Sumita Banerjee, “the lady of the lakes”. Among her many achievements was being part of a successful campaign to stall the construction of a ladies hostel on the grounds. Chatterjee is part of National Lake Morning Walkers’ Guild, of which the convenor is environmentalist Soumendra Mohan Ghosh, who has constantly highlighted the importance of cleaning the waters. One persistent problem is the emissions from the swimming and rowing clubs on the northern and southern sides of the lakes. “They are polluting the lake waters,” says Chatterjee. “We have been talking about this for long.” The Chhath Puja will add to the pollution of waters. “And there needs to be constant gardening and beautification. By beautification we mean no construction, but landscaping, and addition of hedges, let’s say, of Kamini trees,” Chatterjee said. “And we must know that fish don’t need to be fed sliced bread. And the trees are getting fewer and fewer in number at the lakes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Students from 4 nations fight it out with wits||Debates over truth, technology and how charity can or cannot alleviate poverty were held over two days at a time the world is grappling with a pandemic. The BP Khaitan Memorial Discourse 2020, an international online debate competition, was organised by The BSS School in collaboration with Calcutta Debating Circle and in association with The Telegraph Young Metro on Friday and Saturday. “We had to connect everyone on a virtual platform within a specific time limit and ensure that we do not lose out participants while they are speaking. Students from four countries and as many as 10 cities living in different time zones participated in an online war of wit... everyone had to be more alert and proactive,” said Sunita Sen, the principal of the school. “Our students and teachers have really learnt to face real-time challenges and if efforts are honest, results will always show.” Twelve schools participated in the prelims on Friday and six of them made it to the final. The topics for the prelims were “Technology has dulled the human mind” and “Charity is wasted as it cannot alleviate poverty”. One of the prelims was moderated by communications coach S.V. Raman and the other prelim and the final by Swati Gautam, trustee, Calcutta Debating Circle. The topic of the final round, held on Sunday, was “Truth is what the masses believe in”. The topics were shared with the students three hours before the debate. “We wanted to choose a topic that was universal in its appeal, relevant and contextual and that made maximum impact in times of fake news. We also wanted to bring our youngsters in touch with what is the ultimate truth,” Gautam, said before starting the finals. “Debating isn’t as much about winning arguments as it is about finding common ground and bringing both sides together. Our founder president, B.P. Khaitan, a well known solicitor, would at times use this principle in his legal practice,” said G.K. Khaitan, trustee and secretary, The BSS School. The participating institutions were Harrow School, UK; Headington School, Oxford; Delhi Public School, RK Puram; Delhi Public School, Sharjah; Gems Modern Academy, UAE; Pathways School, Aravalli; Podar International School, Mumbai; Seth MR Jaipuria Schools, Benaras; Sunbeam School Lahartara, Varanasi; The Assam Valley School, Assam; The Bishop's School, Pune; and The BSS School, Calcutta. The winning team was Bishop's School, Pune. The first and second runners-up were Harrow School, UK and DPS Sharjah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Fever clinics  in Salt Lake||Fever clinics where one can consult a doctor and get medicines for free will be set up in various places of Salt Lake and adjoining areas such as Teghoria, Kaikhali, Baguiati and Rajarhat, said an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The civic body decided to set up the clinics following a spike in the number of Covid cases in almost all 41 wards, the official said. Some of the areas where the spike in positive cases has been maximum include Duttabad (which borders Salt Lake), Kaikhali, Chinar Park and Teghoria. People running a temperature can walk into a clinic and get examined by a doctor. “If needed, doctors will advise Covid-19 tests and they can head to a testing centre run by us and get tested,” the official said. The civic body is running two testing centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||No more JEE board exams now||The state joint entrance examination board will not hold any more tests this year because of the Covid pandemic and has initiated a process to finalise alternative modes of admission, said an official of the board. The board took the decision on October 6 in consultation with the education department. “This year, given the rise in Covid cases, the JEE board will not hold any more tests and alternative modes of admission are being finalised,” said an official of the department. The JEE board, apart from holding the entrance test for engineering courses, conducts exams for admission to evening engineering courses at JU, nursing and other allied courses, and  undergraduate and postgraduate courses at Presidency University. Among these tests, only the JEE for admission to BTech courses could be held this year. The exams were held in February before the pandemic set in. The board was waiting for the situation to improve so that other tests could be held. “But considering the situation, we have decided against holding any further admission test this year,” said a board member. A notice issued by the JEE board on October 8 says JENPAS for admission to BSc (nursing) and eight other health related courses could not be held because of the ongoing “unprecedented pandemic” and the department of health and family welfare has entrusted the board to conduct centralised online counselling based on Plus-II board marks. The board was supposed to hold JEEDEC for admission to five-year evening courses for bachelor’s degree in civil/electrical/mechanical engineering at Jadavpur University. Chiranjeeb Bhattacharya, a pro-vice-chancellor of JU, said the university had decided on an alternative mode of selection as the board would not hold the test. “Students who have passed diploma examination in mechanical, electrical and civil engineering will be admitted based on their performance in the last qualifying exams,” Bhattacharya said. The board had earlier scrapped the admission test for undergraduate courses at Presidency. Now, it has scrapped the admission test for postgraduate courses as well. “We will admit students to masters’ programmes based on the marks at the final-year graduating exams,” said a Presidency official. A board official said they would soon issue notifications announcing the alternative mode for admission to the master of computer application (MCA) course, second year (3rd semester) of the four-year undergraduate courses in engineering/technology and the undergraduate course in hotel management and catering technology. Repeated calls to the JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Arm lost in Metro suicide bid||Metro services were disrupted for an hour on Sunday afternoon after a woman jumped in front of a train at Belgachhia station. The 25-year-old survived but her left arm had to be amputated. She was first taken to RG Kar hospital from where she was shifted to a private hospital in Salt Lake. “Her left arm was amputated.... She has a fractured rib and needs multiple surgeries,” said an official of the hospital. The suicide bid happened at 11.20am, said a Metro official. The driver of the New Garia-bound train applied the brakes but the woman still got under the train. Train services from both ends resumed after 12.20pm. The disruption left many passengers stranded. Metro passenger count on Sunday was 19,176.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Group seeks disability survey||A disability rights group has asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to create a database of people with disabilities so the authorities would know who would need special care if infected by the coronavirus. The civic body has recently prepared a database of people with comorbidities in an attempt to further fine-tune the government’s Covid response. Covid patients with comorbidities — such as hypertension, diabetes and COPD — are more at risk of developing a critical form of the disease than others. In a letter to Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, Sruti Disability Rights Centre has suggested that the civic body include a column on people with disabilities in forms being used to collect information about comorbidities. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had said in a publication in March that “those with disability may be impacted more significantly by Covid-19”. When contacted by Metro on Sunday, Hakim said the CMC would implement the proposal during the next phase of the survey. “I am not aware of the letter but this is a good proposal. I am going to adopt it,” he said. Avijit Chowdhury, public health expert and mentor of Covid Care Network, which conducted the comorbidity survey along with the CMC, agreed that “there should be a column to identify people with disabilities in the next phase of the survey”. The rights group said in its letter to Hakim that when people with disabilities were getting infected by the coronavirus, they needed facilities that were different from others. The hospitals were not equipped to deal with these people, they said. Bahni Bhattacharya, a Dum Dum resident whose 24-year-old daughter suffers from autism, felt the lack of facilities for the disabled when she, her husband and her daughter tested positive for Covid-19 in September. After her husband and she were advised hospitalisation, she called the helpline of the state health department. “I requested them to admit us in the same hospital because my daughter would not have been able to manage on her own. The people I spoke over the phone said they were not sure whether such an arrangement could be made in any government hospital. Nor could they tell me whether any hospital had staff trained to deal with people with disabilities,” Bhattacharya said. The family finally got themselves admitted in a private hospital, where they were given beds in the same ward. “The treatment was expensive but I could not have left my daughter in untrained hands,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid data glare on hospitals||The state government is putting on notice private hospitals that have not joined an initiative to enter treatment details of each Covid patient every day in a system so the government could monitor whether the protocol is being followed. The Covid Patient Management System (CPMS) was introduced by the state health department on June 14 to monitor the condition of patients who have tested positive for Covid-19. “The system helps us in real-time monitoring of every patient across the state. Our experts visit critical patients to monitor their treatment. The system played a key role in bringing down the Covid case fatality rate in Bengal from around eight per cent to one per cent,” said a health department official. It also helps the government ascertain whether a patient has been made to undergo unnecessary diagnostic tests or made to stay in intensive care units without a valid reason, officials said. On the day CPMS was introduced, only three government hospitals had uploaded the data. More than 150 hospitals, including a few run by the government, later joined the initiative, officials said. However, data reveals that several private hospitals are not uploading details of their patients. CPMS data available with Metro for a few days in September and October revealed that some hospitals had not uploaded data even once on those days. “Most big private hospitals are uploading data every day but a few are not doing so. We are asking them to upload the relevant data every day,” an official said. There are four categories of hospitals, ranked on the basis of transparency index. The hospitals uploading all data are in the green box, and those are followed by the ones in the blue, yellow and red boxes. “PMS updation percentage is 0 per cent. The hospitals within this category have failed to comply with orders issued vide health and family welfare department’s order,” the note below the daily performance list states about the hospitals in the red category. Among the hospitals that were in the red category over the last few days were Ekbalpur Nursing Home (which data showed was treating 21 Covid patients), Tata Medical Center (four patients) and AMRI Hospitals Mukundapur (78 patients). According to a list prepared by the state health department, these hospitals were in the red category on Saturday, too. “We were uploading all data till recently. But the staff dedicated for the work have left. We’ll resume uploading data soon,” said an official of Ekbalpur Nursing Home. A Tata Medical Center official said they had written to the health department explaining why the data could not be uploaded. “The health department monitoring team had come to our hospital a few days back and were satisfied with our protocol,” he said. An official of the AMRI Hospitals group said their team was updating data in the later part of the day. A health department official said CPMS helped the government track and monitor online every Covid patient in hospital till his or her final outcome. It also aims to reduce mortality rate and improve recovery rate. “If the condition of a critical Covid patient improves and there is no need to keep him or her in the ICU, we ask the hospital to immediately shift the patient to the general ward,” the official said. “We have a dedicated team of five people that upload data of every patient daily. They have to visit every patient, take protections and note down all data and then compile those and update,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “The cut-off time to upload the date is midnight and our five-member team completes uploading all the data late in the night every day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region, Narayana Health group of hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Brush with choice, for a day||A 10-year-old girl has seen her father rummage through garbage in dustbins outside a mall on Rashbehari Avenue. On Sunday, the ragpicker’s daughter spent close to 30 minutes at the kidswear section of the mall, from where she got a denim dungaree for herself. Moyna Mandal was part of around 25 children from destitute families who were taken to the mall by volunteers of two NGOs. They bought each of the children a set of clothes in the run-up to the festive season. “I have seen this dress on actors,” a beaming Moyna told The Telegraph. Most of the children who had the day out live on the pavement near the gurdwara on Rashbehari Avenue. Some are from slums around Kalighat. Many of their parents are ragpickers and some beg outside the Kalighat temple. A handful are labourers who have seen their income vanish amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The group reached the Triangular Park mall around 10.30pm in a mini-van and two cars. The volunteers guided the children to the kids’ section on the first floor. Twins Lab and Kush Sardar, 11, were spoilt for choice. Intent on buying similar clothes, they had almost zeroed in on two round-neck T-shirts and two pairs of denims. But a shiny black shirt hanging in a row forced a change in the decision. “Erokom ar akta hobe?” Kush asked a volunteer who in turn sought the help of a store employee. A tense wait of around 10 minutes ended with the staff finding another similar black shirt. The brothers, who study in Class V of a school run by the civic body, lost their father during the lockdown. Their mother works as a domestic help. “The children are used to getting used clothes. New clothes are like a dream for many. We could have given money to their parents to buy clothes but many of them would not, given the circumstances,” said Anish Dasgupta of We — Together We Can Foundation, that organised the trip with another NGO called Nari Sriniketan. The NGOs work with street and slum children in Calcutta. On Saturday, a group of children from north Calcutta were given a set of new clothes. “We wanted the children to come to a mall and buy new clothes and get soaked in the festive atmosphere, even if for one day,” said Sohini Chakraborty, another organiser. The two foundations comprise around 20 members. The projects are till now funded by the members themselves. Shopping done on Sunday, the kids came out of the mall, their faces beaming and the packets held tightly. But there was another round of goodies. After getting into the vehicles, each was given a box from a popular confectionary brand. Not everyone ate on the spot though. “I will take this home and share with my mother,” said Jay Sardar, 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||Park order brightens stall hopes for pujas||Puja committees across Calcutta are gearing up to accept proposals for setting up stalls after the civic body decided to keep parks open from Friday, the desperation reflecting an overwhelming urge to find some source of revenue in Covid-hit times. A little more than 250 of the 756 pujas in the city are held in parks that are maintained by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a majority of them depend heavily on stalls for their income. Amid the Covid pandemic, earnings from advertisements have been reduced to almost nil and sponsors, too, have remained lukewarm to proposals for setting up stalls from most puja committees. A number of puja organisers have seen a glimmer of hope of raising some money in the civic body’s decision to open the parks for pujas. Almost all organisers have decided there will be fewer stalls than previous years but stalls there will be. “We spoke to some stall owners on Saturday and have taken advance from a few. This year, we will possibly have around 20 stalls, half of what we had last year,” said Pabitra Basak, of Kumartuli Park puja committee. “These stalls will fetch us a little over a lakh. That's quite an amount for us in these times.” The organisers of a puja at Tallah Park met stall owners on Sunday to decide on the final rates. “We will reduce the number by a fourth. But some stalls are required. Residents of our locality depend on them on the festive days,” said Joydeep Saha of Belgachia Sadharan Durgostav. Between Saptami and Navami, stalls across pujas are usually the principal supplier of food to pandal-hoppers as well as residents of the respective neighbourhoods as many people prefer to stay away from the kitchen on the festive occasion. And not just food, some of the stalls sell myriad other items including costume jewellery and dress materials. “We will earn around Rs 10 lakh from 30 stalls,” said Avishek Bhattacharya of Tallah Barowari Durgostav Committee. This year the police in several parts of Calcutta have asked puja organisers to avoid setting up stalls to prevent gatherings, as a precaution against Covid-19. Fairs have been stopped and unless there is adequate space, organisers have been requested not to allow stalls. “We have around 20 gates and this year no agency has come forward to sponsor even one,” said Sandip Chakraborty of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. “Without stalls how will we survive?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
12-10-2020||Calcutta||TV actor among 15 arrested in spa raids||Fifteen persons, including a television serial actor, have been arrested and a minor has been detained from two parlour-cum-spas in the city for their alleged involvement in a sleaze racket. Police said the addresses on Rashbehari Avenue and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road were operating as sleaze dens. All those arrested have been booked under the Indian Penal Code section related to criminal conspiracy and various sections of the Immoral Trafficking Act. The police said a joint team of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department and the special task force of Calcutta police raided the two establishments on Saturday following a tip-off and rescued several women who were allegedly subjected to flesh trade. “In one of the spas we found a television serial actor who had gone there as a client. He, too, has been arrested and booked under the same charges,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Sources said 11 people were arrested from the spa on Rashbehari Avenue, including the owner, manager, an alleged middleman and seven customers. Five persons were arrested from the spa on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and one minor was detained. Hundreds of parlours and spas have mushroomed across the city and many of them function as sleaze dens, the police said. “Many of these establishments run sex rackets in the guise of spa or parlour. The businesses had taken a hit because of the pandemic. But now we are getting information that these have started running again,” the officer said. The women rescued from the two parlours have been sent to a government home. According to official records, a large number of women who are trafficked and forced into prostitution are either misguided by their own family members with the intention to earn money for the family or cheated by men who pretend to be their friend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
12-10-2020||Calcutta||To the malls, with masks and eye on AC||The shopping meter peaked across the city's malls despite Covid fears on Sunday. With just one weekend left before Durga Puja, a steady stream of men, women and children wearing masks poured into City Centre in Salt Lake, South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Acropolis Mall near Kasba. The crowd swelled as evening set in. The Telegraph went around to witness the buying spree The lights and the decoration on the mall’s facade drew admiring glances from passing motorists as well as those headed for shopping. On Sunday afternoon, a stream of cars, app cabs and two-wheelers was seen headed to the shopping destination and traffic slowed considerably as one got closer to it. The ground floor of the mall was an instant hit among photography enthusiasts and selfie addicts. The entire floor has been decorated with lights and models of some enduring symbols of the city such as tram, yellow taxi and hand-pulled rickshaw. Deep Biswas, the general manager of South City Mall, said footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend and things have been looking up since last week. He put Sunday’s footfall in excess of 40,000. Last Sunday, more than 35,000 people had visited the mall. “Footfall has been on the rise steadily and we are expecting things to look up from now as there will be an added rush of last-minute shoppers. We are taking all precautionary measures and the mall is staying open till 10pm,” Biswas said. An employee of an apparel outlet at the mall said there had been a marked increase in the number of buyers compared with last Sunday. “Sales are picking up as people are out puja shopping,” he said. Pooja Chettri, a cabin crew member of an airline, visited the mall with friends Natasha Biswa and Yeshmee Gurung to shop as well as to eat out. “We are all wearing masks and also carrying sanitiser. With the festive season so close, we did not want to spend the weekend at home,” Chettri said. The area around City Centre in Salt Lake was bustling with people as well as traffic on Sunday evening. The mall authorities said the footfall had been increasing steadily over the past few weekends.The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business and several had people queuing up in front. Srijita Saha, 22, who is pursuing a course in economics at Calcutta University, said nearly everybody in their group had been longing to step out and they decided to do some puja shopping together. “We decided to come here as the mall is open and is airy compared with other city malls. Everyone has the pandemic in the back of their minds and we did not want to visit a place that has central air-conditioning everywhere. We will have dinner before heading home,” said Saha. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said the footfall had been rising over the last couple of weekends. On Sunday, he said, more than 22,000 people visited the mall. “The sales are picking up and we are going the extra mile to ensure everybody is safe. People have realised that the virus is here to stay and are taking adequate precautions themselves,” Mukherjee said. At Acropolis Mall, too, Sunday witnessed a bigger turnout compared with the last weekend. The day’s footfall, an official said, touched 12,000. The general.manager of the mall, K. Vijayan, said they had been noticing an upward trend in terms of footfall over the past couple of weeks. “The turnout is increasing at 8 to 11 per cent on a daily basis. We are expecting the sales to surge even more as Durga Puja is still 10 days away and last-minute shoppers will drop in as well,” said Vijayan. The mall has been decorated with a floral theme aimed at “lifting the spirits of everyone”. “Our mall will remain open from 10.30am to 11pm till October 20. Sales were encouraging on Sunday. The restaurants and the food court, too, did good business,” another official of the mall said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-275
12-10-2020||Business||Sebi has added a new category to its MF risk-o-meter||Risk, as identified by the securities regulator for the mutual fund industry, seems somewhat like separation these days — there are six degrees of it. An altogether new category has been added to “risk-o-meter”, the pictorial marker that is used to tab a fund on the basis of its risk-level. Product labelling for mutual fund investors now has “very high risk” as a distinct identifier. In ascending order, the five existing levels of risk are: low, low to moderate, moderate, moderately high and high. The latest inclusion, however, has jimmied a rather rusty doorknob, bringing certain elementary issues to the fore. In a highly commoditised world of financial products, these issues concern all investors, big and small. But, first, if you please, a bit about the risk-o-meter. Introduced by Sebi a few years ago, this is a well-intentioned initiative aimed at enabling investors to take meaningful decisions. To invest (or to abstain from investing) in complex products such as mutual funds, there needs to be a clear understanding of the risks involved, something that the regulatory agency wants to inculcate. Product labelling on the basis of risk, it is felt, needs to be as perfect as possible. An asset management company is required to assign a risk-level to a new fund right at the time of its launch. This is depicted in the risk-o-meter, which has to be evaluated on a regular basis and divulged as part of the overall portfolio disclosure. The product label has to be displayed prominently in all critical documents (such as Key Information Memorandum), which the investing public is expected to comprehend. So, a liquid fund is typically branded “low” on the risk scale, while a mid-cap equity fund bears the “high” tag. In both cases, the indicator dutifully marks the appropriate slot; in essence, it underscores an age-old dictum — the higher the risk, the higher is the potential return. This inevitable risk-return metric is a vital concept, an understanding of which is an absolute necessity in today’s world. Let me dwell a bit more on the idea and its application in real life. It is generally felt that equity is an extremely high-risk asset class. It is subject to great volatility, there can be absolutely no assurances of any kind of performance from the stock market. Debt, on the other hand, is a lot more sedate. There is instability here too, and debt allocations are not without attendant risks. Nevertheless, at certain levels, returns from the debt market are not so unpredictable. Its seemingly predictable feature, in fact, adds to its core appeal. Specific categories of debt funds draw their basic strength from their evergreen nature, and their impressive year-round sales figures are often a direct consequence of the same. It can be generally inferred, therefore, that equity is a high-risk category of assets, while debt is its low-risk counterpart. That is of course a sweeping statement, as there are multiple sub-classifications at both ends of the spectrum. Such sub-classifications, therefore, require differentiated labels. An investor, for instance, must understand that equity funds do bear all sorts of tags, including diversified, thematic and sectoral. It is also important to realise that a diversified equity fund can be somewhat less risky, while a sector fund will be located somewhere higher on the risk scale because of its inherent nature. The risk-o-meter really cannot capture such fine differentiation in just a single pictorial format; yet it does give a preliminary idea of a fund’s risk content in a friendly manner. Irrespective of what the visuals may suggest, investors would do well to ask pertinent questions before actually allocating resources to Fund A while staying away from Fund B. The choice — here, it doesn’t really matter what assets it holds in its portfolio — must match their risk profile. Is Fund A a perfect fit for me? Or should I actually choose Fund B instead? These posers are extremely critical when there is great diversity of products. Selection is everything. Risk analysis in this context deals with the degree of risk — a comparative benchmarking that must be done on the basis of a fund’s core characteristics, investment objectives, and the universe of securities from where it draws up its portfolio. In real life, a comparative degree such as this is not an absolute element, nor is it iron-clad in any way. It is actually a matter of perception, which is determined by an investor’s risk appetite. What is risky for you may not be so risky for me; each investor has a unique set of opportunities and challenges. However, the application of the new-look, extended risk-o-meter is still quite necessary. It is a useful guide for all. It helps us understand that an equity fund is riskier by far than a debt fund, a sector fund is riskier than a diversified fund, a low-duration debt fund is a lot less risky when compared to a credit risk fund. As things stand, there are quite a few standard classifications of funds, each with risks of its own. I have created a roster of debt and equity funds as well as their risks. These are grouped according to risk in an ascending order, numbered 1 to 4 on the debt side where product differentiation is extremely sharp. At the lowest rung are overnight, liquid, ultra short duration funds and so on. At the highest stratum are dynamic bond and credit risk funds. On the equity side, I have worked out another set of four groups, again on the basis of their salient features. You will notice, only the most relevant categories have been chosen. I have kept the likes of gilt funds, arbitrage funds and gold funds out of its ambit. A whole bunch of hybrid categories, as well as miscellaneous others like asset allocation funds, have not been considered. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Steel industry seeks royalty relief on iron ore||The country’s steel players are demanding a reduction in the royalties on iron ore which will reduce their production costs to make them more competitive and also meet the government's ambitious target to produce 300 million tonnes (mt) by 2030. Sources said the industry has approached the steel ministry to cut royalties, which will also benefit many other industries which used steel as an input such as cars and construction. The royalty on iron ore fines is 15 per cent — one of the highest in the world — and the industry wants it reduced to 5 per cent to bring them on a par with other nations. Steel ministry officials said the issue would be taken up at the highest level soon as it would incentivise manufacturing within the country. In its annual report for 2019-20, the steel ministry said it had submitted a proposal to its mines counterpart to reduce the royalty to 5 per cent from 15 per cent to incentivise the beneficiation (cleaning) and pelletisation of ore as well as reduce the stockpile of low-grade fines dumped at the mine heads. The ministry in the annual report had warned the industry was facing challenges both in the short and long-term because of raw material security. Iron ore and coking coal are the two key raw materials used for steel making. India’s steel industry. Biswajit Dhar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University said, “The government should encourage value added exports as the shipment of raw material does not boost the atmanirbhar philosophy of the government. Steel is the mother industry and its encouragement would boost other sectors, especially at a time the country is trying to give an infrastructure push.” Steel ministry officials said the issue of royalty reduction would be taken up at the highest level soon as it would incentivise manufacturing in the country.” Though India has done well to emerge as the world’s second-largest steel-maker, overtaking Japan, many challenges remain in achieving the ambitious target of 300mt in another 10 years. Aggregate production is just 140mt. Achieving another 160mt of capacity will be an uphill task unless the Indian companies are able to increase their competitiveness significantly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||IndiGrid to double asset base by 2022||IndiGrid, a listed infrastructure investment trust (InvIT), backed by global investors such as GIC and KKR, aims to build an asset under management of around Rs 30,000 crore by 2022, buoyed by the monetisation opportunities of power transmission projects in the country. IndiGrid’s current assets under management is around Rs 13,500 crore, meaning it aims to double assets in just two years. This includes projects in 14 states, including in Bengal. “Around Rs 6,000-7,000 crore worth of assets are in the pipeline for which we have exclusive agreements in place and over the next two years, our ability to find another Rs 10,000 crore is not a daunting task. The market is good and there is sufficient appetite,” said Harsh Shah, chief executive officer, IndiGrid. According to estimates, there is a potential to monetise assets worth Rs 45,000-60,000 crore of central and state power transmission firms and investment through the InvIT route would allow a wider participation of both domestic and overseas institutional investors as well as retail investors. At least two government bodies in the infrastructure space have already announced their intention to tap the InvIT route for asset monetisation. The Union cabinet committee on economic affairs had last month approved the first lot of monetisation of the assets of Powergrid through the InvIT route with gross block value of around Rs 7,000 crore. In July, the NHAI had announced plans to set up an InvIT. InvITs and REITs have raised equity of around Rs 40,000 crore with assets under management worth over Rs 1,15,000 crore over the last three years across roads, power transmission, real estate and telecom assets. While the segment has seen several policy changes over the past few years, there are a couple of areas where companies and investors are in favour of regulatory intervention. The first change relates to the trading lot size. Although  Sebi has lowered the trading lot size to Rs 1 lakh, sources said that there is scope for further reduction. Moreover, insurance companies and pension funds should be allowed to subscribe to the debt securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Honda check on inventory across country||Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India (HMSI) Ltd is keeping a close watch on the inventory levels with its dealers across the country as there is a tendency to hoard stocks ahead of the festive season to cater to a rise in demand. The company remains “cautiously optimistic” about the upcoming festive season “which is going to be like no other festive season before”, said Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, marketing and sales, HMSI. Amid reports of inventories in the two-wheeler segment climbing to 45-50 days and retail sales down 13 per cent in September, Guleria clarified: “We are far less in terms of inventory in our network  compared with others. We are in touch with our regional dealers and keeping a close watch on the build-up of inventory.” The company is only allowing a “cash and carry” for dealers and are not allowing any credit system. “The bankers are also cautious in providing inventory funds. They are providing a third-party check on build-up of inventories,” said Guleria, adding that the company has witnessed a 43 per cent jump in bookings in the first eight days of October. On the decreasing share of scooters in the company’s total sales, Guleria said: “The contribution of scooters was 32 per cent in 2018-19 and 2019-20. In 2020-21, it has dropped to 28 per cent but that is because majority of the volume of scooter sales comes from urban areas which has witnessed lockdowns. Once these areas opened up, we have been adding to our volumes month-on-month.” He added that there was no change in trend in the usage pattern. The company  has been launching products in the mid-sized and premium segments such as the Hornet 2.0 and most recently the Highness CB 350 that will retail at Rs 1.85 lakh (ex showroom Gurgaon). However, it has been losing out on sales at the entry-level category. Acknowledging that the company has no products in the entry-level segment, Guleria said: “The company sees a lot of potential in the mid-sized segment. The Highness is booked for this month’s production. But we are also aware that we need products at the entry level and we are working towards filling up the gaps.” The 350cc Highness will be sold from the company’s Big Wing sales network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||RBI sees V-shaped recovery in next fiscal||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to go in for another 25-50-basis-point cuts in the policy repo rate during this fiscal and follow it up with an extended pause with the domestic economy projected to show a sharp rise in real GDP growth during the next fiscal. After the three-day meeting of its reconstituted monetary policy committee (MPC) that concluded on Friday, Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das projected a “three-speed recovery” with the pace of growth varying across different sectors. However, the MPC has projected a sharp recovery quarter-on-quarter: the record contraction seen in the first quarter (23.9 per cent decline) will narrow down to -9.8 per cent in the second quarter of this fiscal. Contraction will be lower at 5.6 per cent in the third quarter, followed by a marginal growth of 0.5 per cent in the fourth quarter, the MPC said. For the year as a whole, the economy is expected to contract  9.5 per cent. In the first quarter of the next fiscal, real GDP growth will jump 20.6 per cent, the MPC said. Though the MPC did not give a growth projection for 2021-22, the RBI’s monetary policy report which accompanies the MPC statement projected real GDP will grow 10.1 per cent. This is more than the median projection of professional forecasters at 8.2 per cent. The RBI’s optimism with regard to growth is shared by others as well, though this will largely be because of the base effect. Standard & Poor’s has said  economic activity in India will begin to normalise in 2021-22, resulting in real GDP growth of about 10 per cent pointing out that “a significant proportion of this rebound will be due to the very weak base in the current fiscal year”. On the other hand, a Jefferies report puts 2021-22 real GDP growth at 12 per cent, helped by the low base in the first half. Analysts  said  the supply of vaccine will be a key factor to shape up the economic activity. The monetary policy report is assuming supply chains are fully restored with the availability of effective vaccines and a normal monsoon. MPC also expects no major exogenous or policy shocks along with a large favourable base effect. The panel noted that in such an environment, the significant monetary accommodation already provided through cuts in the policy repo rate and ample liquidity infusion through conventional and unconventional measures would add to the upside. Besides, the fiscal stimulus and other structural reform measures announced by the government would be expected to play their part. Economists expect there is room for another 25-50 basis points cut in the current fiscal and in 2021-22, the interest rate setting panel will go for a pause should the recovery take off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||India to face limited impact of US levy on aluminium sheets||India will not be significantly affected by the anti-dumping duty imposed by the US on its common alloy aluminium sheets as the material is exported in small amounts out of the country to the US. “As we sell such sheets in limited quantity to the US, the impact would not be significant. It is a reflection of the countries impacted by Covid-19 adopting protectionist measures on one pretext or another,” Biswajit Dhar of the JNU said. Over 70 countries across the globe have notified the WTO of having taken protectionist measures since the outbreak of Covid-19. India and some other countries have not done so despite taking such measures as New Delhi is not a signatory to some WTO agreements. “The department’s aluminium sheet investigations constitute the broadest US trade enforcement action in two decades,” said US secretary of commerce Wilbur Ross in a statement. German exports have faced the highest duties ranging from 52-132 per cent. Anti-dumping duties on imports from India will range from 0-47.92 per cent, the US Commerce Department said. Analysts said the anti-dumping measures would not have a significant impact on the forthcoming third round of 2+2 ministerial dialogue on 26-27 October between India and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
12-10-2020||Business||Steel makes rapid recovery||Top Indian steelmakers have been able to sell more steel in the last quarter than they did in the same period last year, backed by an uptick in demand from automobile and consumer durables industries and exports to China and Vietnam. Industry leader Tata Steel recorded a 22 per cent jump in sales, while public sector Steel Authority of India Ltd clocked a 31.3 per cent rise in sales during July-September as India came out of a pandemic-induced lockdown. Steel mills run by the Jindal brothers — JSW Steel and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd — also put up an impressive performance during the period. A sequential spike in sales and production was expected in the second quarter given that the mills operated at a very low capacity during April-May. But what brought cheer to the companies is sales reaching pre-Covid levels. “This quarter was always expected to be better than the first but it is heartening to note that sales have surpassed the second quarter of the last fiscal,” a SAIL spokesperson said. A JSW official said demand from automobile and consumer durables industries was strong. “They use flat products which bring better margin for the steel companies,” the official explained. Production of rolled products in the flat segment rose 5 per cent in the July-September period of 2020 compared with the same period last year, making up for the dip in sale of long products, which is used in the construction sector. The divergence suggests that spending in infrastructure is yet to pick up, while real estate continues to remain sluggish. Sajjan Jindal-promoted JSW does not give out the quarterly sales figure even as it has guided to maintain last fiscal’s number despite a near washout in the first quarter. Domestic demand picked up as more Indians opted to buy small cars to avoid public transport and consumers purchased dishwashers and washing machines amid the pandemic. Export remained strong, too. Exports comprised 38 per cent of the total sales of Navin Jindal-promoted JSPL in the second quarter. The significant role played by exports was also highlighted in Tata Steel’s commentary which noted that even though sales were up, domestic steel consumption was down 7.5 per cent year-on-year, suggesting that overseas shipments formed a major part of the sales. Steel companies have also taken multiple price hikes and the benchmark HRC prices are hovering at Rs 43,200 per tonne. “Steel makers have announced multiple price hikes whereas the input costs are likely to trend lower, largely because of tepid seaborne coking coal prices. This would support a recovery in mill margins from the Q1 lows,” Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president, corporate sector ratings of Icra, said. According to Roy, the third and fourth quarters are traditionally better than the first half, so the momentum of the second quarter should be maintained going forward. However, he had a word of caution. Around 60-65 per cent of Indian steel consumption is driven by the construction and infrastructure sectors and unless a few large projects start moving, the momentum may not sustain for long. This is critical particularly for long products. While large primary integrated players mostly focus on flat products, the long items are produced by small secondary producers. This is the reason why the capacity utilisation of the smaller units have been less than their bigger counterparts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
12-10-2020||Business||Proposal to pay GST dues in cash||The government may consider allowing India Inc to deposit GST on a cash basis to help them tide over the liquidity woes during the Covid-19 pandemic, a PwC report said. Formalising its support strategy for industry in the next phase, PwC said the government could consider suspending GST payments for select sectors during the Covid-19 period. In its report titled “Reimagining GST 3”, PwC said cash liquidity support schemes that advance business continuity are the need of the hour. “The government has announced a timely budgetary support scheme in line with the relief packages of various developed nations. Despite these steps, much ground remains to be covered,” it said. The report said that some key issues which require the immediate attention of the government before taxpayers get entangled in long-drawn litigation include the eligibility of ITC (input tax credit) on expired stock, intermediary services and taxability of discount schemes. “The government should consider issuing clear guidelines around these critical issues, keeping in mind the evolving international taxation principles and business models prevalent in the trade and industry,” it said. On suggestions to overcome the current crisis, the PwC report suggested some measures the government could consider while formalising its support strategy for India Inc in the next phase. These are facility to deposit GST to the treasury on cash basis, suspension of GST payments for select sectors during the pandemic, dispensation of credit reversal requirement on expired stock during this period.It also suggested one-time dispute settlement scheme under GST. The government can also consider introducing a scheme for voluntary disclosure of tax payments before the taxpayer undergoes GST audits, the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
12-10-2020||Business||Non-BJP states push for ministerial panel on GST||The GST Council in its meeting on Monday is likely to discuss the suggestion of non-BJP states to set up a ministerial panel to develop consensus on the issue of compensation, sources said. The council, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state finance ministers, will for the third time in a row discuss the issue of funding the shortfall in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue of states. While some Opposition-ruled states are demanding that a group of ministers be set up to arrive at a decision on the mechanism for funding the compensation shortfall, the BJP-ruled states, which have already opted for the borrowing option given by the Centre, are of the view that they should be given a go-ahead so that they can get the money quickly. In its previous meeting last week, the council had decided to extend the surcharge on taxes on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products beyond June 2022, but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue. The projected total compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. In August, the Centre gave two options to the states — to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from market — and had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following demand by some states, the amount of Rs 97,000 crore was increased to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. As many as 21 states —  which are BJP ruled or have supported it on various issues — have opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. The Centre has released Rs 20,000 crore to the states towards compensation shortfall so far in the current fiscal. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under the 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods, and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The payment of GST compensation to states became an issue after revenues from the imposition of cess started dwindling since August 2019. The Centre had to dive into the excess cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-266
12-10-2020||India||Bollywood stars, producers sue Republic TV and Times Now||In an unprecedented show of unity, major Bollywood producers, including the three Khans, Karan Johar and Akshay Kumar, on Monday approached the Delhi High Court against two TV channels and their editors for allegedly defaming the industry with terms such as scum and druggies . The lawsuit, by four industry associations and 34 producers, seeks the court's direction to Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar and unknown defendants as well as social media platforms to refrain from making or publishing allegedly irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against Bollywood. It also seeks to restrain them from interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with the Hindi film industry. The industry has been under a cloud since actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death in June and the pushback is the first time that the biggest names of the Hindi film industry have banded together in such a way, said industry insiders. The civil suit, which cites reportage of Rajput's death and the subsequent Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probe into the alleged role of some actors following allegations of drug abuse in the industry, is likely to come up for hearing later this week. Those who have approached the court include the Producers Guild of India, Cine and TV Artiste Association, Film and TV Producers Council, Shah Rukh Khan's Red Chillies Entertainment, Aamir Khan Productions, Ajay Devgn Films, Akshay Kumar's Cape of Good Films, Karan Johar's Dharma Productions, Yash Raj Films and Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani's Excel Entertainment. The producers said they are "not seeking a blanket gag order" but want the defendants to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules and to withdraw, recall and take down all the defamatory content published by them against the film industry. "This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as dirt', filth', scum', druggies' and expressions such as it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned', all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood', This is the dirtiest industry in the country', and cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood', the suit filed through DSK Legal firm said. The industry, the filmmakers said, is unique and dependent almost solely on the goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. It is also a big source of employment and the livelihood of persons associated with it is severely impacted by the smear campaign being run by the defendants, the plea said. It pointed to the Covid-19 pandemic that has resulted in the loss of revenue and work. The producers also issued a statement that ended with the hashtag #Bollywood Strikes Back'. "The entire industry was pained by the malicious media trials going on for the past few months now We thought it was about time to unite and fight this and decided to go to the court, a member of the Screenwriters Association told PTI on condition of anonymity. The industry has more than five lakh people working in various capacities. The name calling was affecting even spot boys. This was the last resort and we aim to fight it out legally," he said. A prominent producer added that the idea was to take a dignified approach. This is an initiative championed by the Producers Guild and they have thought about it wisely and we are happy to support anything that is about promoting good and peaceful work in these uncertain times, the producer told PTI. The head of a prominent production house said a serious amount of baggage has been built around the industry by certain channels in the last three-four months. When we talk about Bollywood, it s not about 20 superstars, there are workers, producers, technicians and others who are also a part of the industry. They are killing the whole industry which provides livelihood to millions of people. You can't do a media trial, he said. To say that the entire industry is of drugs and mafia and people here only engaged in immoral activity is absolutely not right, the filmmaker said, expressing his happiness that the industry has come under one umbrella. CINTAA's senior joint secretary Amit Behl echoed his view. All of us stand united against attempts to defame the entire filmmaking community. The film industry is made up of lakhs of hard working individuals and we cannot accept being collectively labeled with all sorts of allegations. We would not like to comment any more as the matter is in court, Behl told PTI. The lawsuit is being seen as an unusual step from an industry, many of whose members are notoriously chary about being drawn into controversy. On Monday, the industry's decision to go after television and social media was hailed by actors and producers on social media. Welcoming the news, director Hansal Mehta wrote, About Time .  Actor-host Simi Garewal tweeted, Bollywood Strikes Back. About time too! These news media channels had crossed all limits. Using stars and abusing them for TRPs!! Why should it be tolerated? Filmmaker Onir said, Finally!!! They are doing what not the biggest of superstars but a bunch (of) brave actors and filmmakers have been doing every single day. He also tagged Mehta, filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, Swara Bhasker, Richa Chadha, Taapsee Pannu and Md Zeeshan Ayyub, lauding them for always speaking out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Party-hopper Kushboo joins BJP after quitting Congress ||Actor-turned-politician Kushboo Sundar joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Monday, hours after she quit the Congress. Speaking to reporters at the joining ceremony, the actor from Tamil Nadu said she had come to the understanding over a period of time that if the nation has to move forward, then someone like Prime Minister Narendra Modi is needed to take the country "in the right direction and to its glory". She said people have reposed their faith in Modi time and again. "You have 128 crore people actually believing in one man and that's our prime minister. I think they're doing something absolutely right," she added. Kushboo said that she was willing to discharge her responsibility as a BJP leader in whatever capacity the party deems fit for her. BJP general secretary C T Ravi and Tamil Nadu BJP president L Murugan were present at the ceremony. She later met BJP president J P Nadda who welcomed her. Assembly polls are due in Tamil Nadu in the first half of the next year, and the BJP hopes the her induction will boost their chances of doing well. The BJP has long been a marginal force in the southern state where two Dravidian parties, the AIADMK and the DMK, have been the main contenders for power. On the occasion, journalist Madan Ravichandran and former IRS officer Saravanan Kumaran from the state also joined the BJP. A national spokesperson of the Congress, Kushboo resigned from the party protesting against what she called some leaders' "dictating terms" and "suppressing" her. She was with the DMK before joining the Congress in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||SC notice to Centre on pleas against farm laws||The Supreme Court Monday sought the Centre's response on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the newly enacted three contentious farm laws. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, in a hearing conducted via video conferencing, issued notice to the central government and sought its reply within four weeks. The bench expressed surprised on seeing a battery of law officers, including Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing in the matter even before the issuance of the notice. "AG, SG, ASG all appear in a matter where there is no cause of action...This in common parlance is called an 'overkill'," it said. Venugopal told the court that the Centre would be filing a consolidated reply to the petitions. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was hearing pleas filed by RJD lawmaker from Rajya Sabha, Manoj Jha and DMK Rajya Sabha MP from Tamil Nadu, Tiruchi Siva, and one by Rakesh Vaishnav of Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress. The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovid's assent. The petitions alleged that these laws would dismantle the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system intended to ensure fair prices for farm products. The bench seemed disinclined to entertain pleas against the farm laws and asked lawyer M L Sharma, who had filed a separate plea, to go a high court. Referring to its earlier verdict, it said that mere passing of a legislation does not give rise to a cause of action. "When you have got a cause of action then come before us. Don't come before us and go to a high court". This led Sharma to withdraw his PIL and the bench proceeded to hear other pleas on the issue. Lawyer K Parmeshwar, appearing for Vaishnav, said that the laws interfered with states power and needed examination by the top court. Jha, who filed the plea through lawyer Fauzia Shakil, said the laws would expose marginal farmers to the exploits of big corporates. Jha said: "The impugned legislations corporatise agriculture and ushers in an unregulated and exploitative regime. A farmer would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best terms with a private company. "This leads to unequal bargaining position in negotiating the farm agreement with corporates would lead to corporates monopolizing the agriculture sector." The plea said the laws have been passed by Parliament "in breach of the Parliamentary Rules and convention and the impugned acts are unconstitutional on the ground that it is discriminatory and manifestly arbitrary and further violates the Basic Structure of the Constitution." These laws encourage "corporatisation" of Indian agriculture which is the lifeline of the poor farmers and key to the survival of the nations agriculture sector, it said. They primarily intend to sacrifice the interest of the farmers and leave them at the mercy of the sponsors without any proper dispute resolution mechanism, it said. "The Acts provide for 'farming agreements' between the farmers (of whom 85% are marginal farmers owning up to 2 acres) and the Corporate entities". It is noteworthy that the farmers by way of these legislations are pitted against the corporates with disproportionate bargaining powers, its said. The price determination mechanism under new laws is only through the agreements between the corporate entities and farmers and do not stipulate that the price should not be below the minimum selling price (MSP) and does not even guarantee the price given by the APMC, it said. Instead of the ensuring MSP, the laws intend to corporatise peasant agriculture and erode the existing legal safeguards that prevent direct invasion of rural agriculture market by the monopoly corporate forces, it said. The laws enable the sponsors to deprive the market committees of their market fee on transaction within the specified Market Yards under the State Mandi Laws, the plea said. "The farmers currently have the freedom to sell their farm produce to anyone anywhere. The freedom however is not real but is bereft of any safety or guarantees, to protect them against the superior bargaining force of the buyers," the plea said. "The Acts have been passed in blatant breach of the principles of federal structure of Constitution as 'agriculture' is a state subject under Entry 14 of List II which does not grant competence to the central government to legislate on the issues relating to 'agriculture'. Only State Legislature have the legislative competence to pass laws dealing with the subject," it said. As per the government, the new law intends to provide a national framework for the farming agreements to protect and empower farmers as they engage with agri-business, food processing firms, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers. Some parts of the country have been witnessing farmer protests against the new laws. DMK MP Siva also raised similar issues against the farm laws and said they are prima facie unconstitutional, illegal and arbitrary. He contended that the Acts are anti-farmer, brought out during the COVID-19 pandemic to benefit few corporations who are close to the corridors of power. The plea of Congress Lok Sabha MP from Kerala, TN Prathapan was not listed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
12-10-2020||India||Centre announces host of measures for employees with an aim to spur demand||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a payment of cash in lieu of LTC and Rs 10,000 festival advance to government employees to stimulate consumer demand during the festival season and boost the economy. She also announced additional capital spending and Rs 12,000 crore, 50-year interest-free loan to states to boost the economy that has been battered by the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. At a news conference, she said the government will give its employees income-tax-exempt cash vouchers in lieu of their entitled travel allowances this year. This cash will have to be spent on buying goods that attract 12 per cent or more GST -- a condition which eliminates the possibility of the cash being spent on food items. Central public sector enterprises and banks will also follow the cue and give cash in place of leave travel concession (LTC) as travelling during the pandemic is near to impossible. Additionally, the government will as a one-time measure give Rs 10,000 salary loan to all its officers and employees as festival advance. These two measures are "expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore", she said. The government, which had in May announced a Rs 20 lakh crore 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' stimulus, is pushing ahead with a full opening to try to boost the economy ahead of the usually high-spending festival season. A tough lockdown imposed to stem the spread of coronavirus had resulted in the economy contracting by a record 23.9 per cent during April-June. Together with the loan to states and additional capital spending, Sitharaman said, "very rough estimate is that potential private sector spending through LTC tax benefit will be at least equal to the government employee-led demand of Rs 28,000 crore and the total additional demand estimated to exceed Rs 1 lakh crore". She further said that the measures by the government to stimulate demand must not burden the common citizen with future inflation and must not put government debt on an unsustainable path. "Today's solution should not cause tomorrow's problem," she added. Sitharaman said the central government employees get LTC in a block of 4 years (one to anywhere in India and one hometown; or two for the home town). Air or rail fare, as per scale/entitlement, is reimbursed and in addition, leave encashment of 10 days (pay plus DA) is paid. Due to COVID-19, employees are not in a position to avail LTC. In lieu of one LTC, a cash payment will be made -- full payment on leave encashment and payment of a fare in 3 flat-rate slabs depending on the class of entitlement. Fair payment will be tax-free. An employee, opting for this scheme, will be required to buy goods/services worth 3-times the fare and 1-time the leave encashment before March 31, 2021, she said adding money must be spent on goods attracting GST of 12 per cent or more from a GST registered vendor and through digital mode. If central government employees opt for it, the cost will be around Rs 5,675 crore. Employees of public sector banks and PSUs will also be allowed this facility and estimated cost for them will be Rs 1,900 crore. The tax concession will be allowed for state government/private sector too, for employees who currently are entitled to LTC, subject to following the guidelines of the central government scheme. Demand infusion in the economy by the central government and central PSE/PSB employees is estimated to be Rs 19,000 crore. Demand infusion by state government employees will be Rs 9,000 crore. She said festival advance along with other similar advances were abolished on the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. It is proposed to restore the festival advance with one-time interest-free advance of Rs 10,000 to be availed by March 31. The amount is supposed to be recovered in maximum 10 instalments. The outgo under the head is expected to be Rs 4,000 crore, she said adding if 50 per cent adoption by states is taken into account, another Rs 4,000 crore festival advances would be disbursed. Employees will get pre-loaded Rupay card of the advance value. The government will bear bank charges in this regard. The finance minister said Rs 25,000 crore additional budget will be provided towards capital expenditure on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment for defence. This is over and above the Rs 4.13 lakh crore capital expenditure announced in the Budget for 2020-21. Also, a special Rs 12,000 crore interest-free, 50-year loan will be given to states for capital expenditure. Of this, Rs 1,600 crore will be for the North-Eastern states and Rs 900 crore for Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. Other states will get Rs 7,500 crore in proportion to their share in Finance Commission devolution -- 50 per cent initially and balance after use of the first instalment, she said adding the remaining Rs 2,000 crore will be given to states that implement pre-agreed reforms. Sitharaman said Rs 36,000 crore additional consumer demand will be created (Rs 28,000 crore through LTC voucher scheme plus Rs 8,000 crore through festival advance scheme). Also, Rs 37,000 crore of additional central and state capital expenditure will be incurred. Total boost to demand is estimated at Rs 73,000 crore by March 31, 2021, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Power outage in Mumbai due to technical failure ||Train services came to a halt, homes and businesses were without electricity and people sweltered in humid heat as a grid failure resulted in massive power outages across Mumbai Monday morning. As the day progressed, power restorations efforts began on war footing . Trains have started to resume operations, beginning with CR's Harbour Line. The trains are carrying only essential services workers at present, which helped minimise the passenger inconvenience. Railway services across city on the Western Railway and Central Railway came to a grinding halt at 1005 hrs as a result of the power outage, with both the networks blaming power cut from Tata Power (their power supplier) for it. State's Power Minister Nitin Raut said the trouble emanated from Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (MSETCL) facilities during a planned maintenance work. Tata Power, which is into both generation and distribution, attributed the power outage to a simultaneous substation tripping at 1010 hrs at state-run transmission company MSETCL's two substations in the suburbs of Kalwa and Kharghar. Raut said power supply will resume soon, as officials were working on it on a war footing. As the afternoon progressed, power at many pockets including the Bandra Kurla Complex business district, Lower Parel and South Mumbai started resuming. With work-from-home (WFH) becoming the norm across vital industries like banking, finance and information technology, employee output was also impacted as the residences do not have electricity backup in a city which generally has stable power. In some instances, the snapping of power came at the most unfortunate moment, which resulted in incidents like employees in an upscale business complex getting stuck in the elevator in the times of social distancing. After a few difficult minutes, the employees were safely evacuated, as per a video doing rounds on social media. With the number of COVID-19 infections still very high and many patients recovering in hospitals including specially-created facilities rendering services like oxygen supply, Municipal Commissioner of Mumbai I S Chahal instructed staff to bolster diesel supply to last up to eight hours and also scout for mobile diesel generator vans which are used at film shoots as a standby. An industry source said it took longer than expected for the power supply to resume because one of the two thermal power stations in the city and its vicinity, which have to act as a ready source as part of an islanding system to avert such situations, took longer to start generating power. Raut said maintenance work was on in MSETCL's 400 kv Kalwa-Padgha line when the technical fault happened in circuit number 2, which was taking the entire load at the time as circuit 1 was shut. MSETCL is responsible for getting power till the Kalwa substation from generating stations across the state, from where distribution companies like Tata Power and Adani Electricity take it to the consumers, the source said. As part of islanding system, a thermal based power plant each of Adani at Dahanu and Tata Power (Trombay) are expected to supply power. Restoration work in is in progress to bring supply from the three hydro units and Trombay units once the MSETCL transmission lines are connected, the Tata Power statement said. \Another official also said that it is a grid failure, and efforts are underway to restore power supply at the earliest with the help of Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company and Power Grid Corporation. Power outages were reported from suburbs like Thane, Panvel, Dombivili and Kalyan as well. It can be noted that economic activity is limping back to normal in many parts of the country as the COVID-19 unlock process is underway. However, there continue to be many restrictions due to the need for social distancing and avoiding further infections. BSE and NSE, the benchmark stock exchanges, which are based in the city, also reported power outages, but added that their operations were continuing normally. A spokesperson of the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport said operations were normal too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Congress national spokesperson Kushboo Sundar quits party||Congress national spokesperson Kushboo Sundar on Monday resigned from the primary membership of the party protesting against what she called some leaders 'dictating terms' and 'suppressing' her. The party, meanwhile, announced in Delhi that Sundar was removed from her post of All India Congress Committee spokesperson with "immediate effect" while Tamil Nadu Congress Committee said her decision was no loss to the party. Sundar, a popular Tamil actor, who was with the DMK before joining the national party in 2014 sent her resignation letter to Congress top leader Sonia Gandhi. "Few elements seated at higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms and people like me who wanted to work for the party sincerely are being pushed and suppressed," she claimed. Her resignation letter was made available to media outlets amid a buzz that she was all set to join the BJP. AICC Secretary In Charge of Communications, Pranav Jha in a statement said: "Kushboo Sundar is hereby dropped as AICC spokesperson with immediate effect." The party she intended to join would not gain anything and her resignation was no loss to the Congress party,TNCC president K S Alagiri said in a statement. Though the party gave her importance and appointed her to the key position of national spokesperson, her involvement in party work over the past few months was "pretty less," Alagiri said. Pointing to her participation in a party held protest over Hathras case days ago here and a press conference to oppose farm laws in addition to her recent denial over joining the BJP, the TNCC leader said only she needed to explain her decision. Kushboo however said in her letter that she decided to end her association with the Congress party only after a long and thorough "thought process" over a period of time. She joined the DMK in May 2010 and when she moved out,she had said that she was stressed when her dedication andhard work continued to be a one-way path. The 50-year old actor-politician had hit out at the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh in the Congress organised demonstration. On October 10, the actor, on her twitter handle, had given a hint of quitting Congress saying: "Many see a change in me. Well as you age, you evolve n grow, learn n unlearn, perceptions change, likes n dislikes too, thoughts n ideas take a new shape, dreams are new, you understand the difference between like n love, between right n wrong. Change is inevitable." Kushboo, wife of noted Tamil filmmaker Sundar C, became a household name in Tamil Nadu after the 1991 Tamil flick 'Chinna Thambi,' became a box-office hit in which she paired with actor Prabhu and she has been popular in television shows as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||More to Jagan Mohan Reddy’s letter ‘than meets the eye’||There is more to the letter Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has written against Justice N.V. Ramana, the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India, than meets the eye, multiple judicial sources in the capital said on Sunday. Jagan had suggested in the letter addressed to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde that Justice Ramana had favoured the chief minister’s political rival and Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu and the judge’s daughters had purchased land under questionable circumstances in Amravati before the site was chosen for the new Andhra capital. Now the second senior-most judge in the Supreme Court, Justice Ramana is scheduled to become the next Chief Justice of India on April 24, 2021, and demit office on August 26, 2022. The judicial sources in New Delhi suspect that Justice Ramana was being targeted because he is heading a bench that has recently passed a series of orders to the Centre, states, Union Territories and all high courts to expedite the trial of criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country within a year. They suspect that attempts are underway to scuttle the initiative to expedite the cases. The issue had been pending with the apex court since 2017. The sources said Jagan himself was facing multiple cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act linked to alleged disproportionate assets and had been earlier arrested by the CBI. In the interest of transparency and propriety in public life, the chief minister should have mentioned these matters in his letter to the Chief Justice, they added. When he was in the Opposition, Jagan had spent nearly 16 months in jail over various cases before being granted bail. “Since the trial against Jagan is on the verge of completion before the special CBI court in Hyderabad, the timing of the letter suggests there is more to it than meets the eye,” said a source. A conviction and harsh sentencing in a corruption case can seal the fate of political careers for long. A convict can stand disqualified for six years from contesting elections from the date when the actual sentence ends. In short, if a public servant is sentenced to 10 years in jail, he or she will be shut out of electoral politics for 16 years. A coincidence also caught the eye of some judicial as well as political figures. Jagan’s letter to the Chief Justice was dated October 6 (although it was made public only on Saturday), the same day the chief minister had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the capital to discuss affairs of state. The meeting was associated with central funds for an irrigation project in Andhra and GST but political meanings were read into it then because the Akalis had pulled out of the NDA by then and it was assumed that the BJP was scouting for new allies to send a message. With Naidu, Jagan’s principal opponent, no longer being part of the NDA, “there could be a convergence of interests” with the BJP, a source said. Jagan’s YSRCP has 21 members in the Lok Sabha and six in the Rajya Sabha. Jagan’s party, despite being in the Opposition, so far has hardly opposed the government. The party had supported the Citizenship Amendment Bill in Parliament and the recent farm bills. The judicial sources saw a pattern. For the past six years, there has been a systematic effort to dent the image of judges who are in line to be the Chief Justice of India, they pointed out. Justice Ramana, who was initially part of the constitution bench headed by then CJI Ranjan Gogoi to deal with the Babri Masjid-Ayodhya land row, had recused himself from the hearing. He had also recused himself from the judges’ committee constituted by Justice Bobde to probe the sexual harassment allegations against Justice Gogoi levelled by a Supreme Court employee. Justice Ramana had recently passed a judgment directing the Union government to set up a committee to restore the Internet services curtailed in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5 last year following the abrogation of Article 370. Several judges this newspaper spoke to said they had never come across anything that cast any aspersion on Justice Ramana’s discharge of his responsibilities. On the land purchase by Justice Ramana’s daughters, one of the senior-most judges of the Supreme Court told The Telegraph: “They are entitled to buy land like any other citizen of the country. If purchasing land in the country is a criminal offence, then the judge’s daughters are guilty.” Several people had bought land in Amravati anticipating a construction boom and spike in prices after Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated. After Jagan came to power, he cancelled the plan to make Amravati the sole capital. The matter is in court. Now, Andhra has three capitals: Visakhapatnam (the executive capital), Amravati (the legislative capital) and Kurnool (the judicial capital).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Stan Swamy’s arrest ‘politically motivated’||The arrest of Fr Stan Lourduswamy, 83, is a violation of human rights. Arrested in Ranchi on October 8 and taken to Mumbai the next morning, he has been sent to judicial custody till October 23. We are distressed and troubled. We express our deep concern over the arrest and demand his immediate release considering his age. Fr Stan Swamy is a Jesuit of the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. A Tamilian by birth, he joined the Jesuits and committed his entire life for the uplift of the tribals and Dalits in India, particularly in Jharkhand. I have known Fr Stan Swamy for many years. He is a veteran fearless tribal rights activist who has worked for over five decades in Jharkhand, fighting for the rights of the Adivasi community. He was part of the Jharkhand Organisation against Uranium Radiation (JOAR), a campaign against Uranium Corporation India Ltd in 1996. Looking at the way this senior Jesuit priest has been arrested, I find myself failing to repeat the words of Christ on the Cross: “Father, forgive them; they do not know what they are doing.” The arrest is politically motivated. As a true Jesuit who follows Christ, Fr Stan Swamy is sharing in the sufferings of Christ for the sake of justice and truth. Fr Stan Swamy is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. The NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days before the arrest. “Now they want me to go to Mumbai…, I have said that I won’t go,” Fr Stan Swamy had said before his arrest, citing his advanced age and the pandemic. “I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused,” he said. He added that he had asked for questioning through videoconference and hoped that better “human sense” would prevail. “...What is happening to me is not something unique, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Fr Stan Swamy said in the video. Fr Stan Swamy said he was part of the process and, in a way, happy to be so because he was not a “silent spectator”. “I am ready to pay the price, whatever be it,” he said. Fr Stan Swamy has often raised his voice against alleged police excesses in Jharkhand, and what he describes as the government’s failure to properly implement the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution in the state. The Fifth Schedule stipulates that a “Tribes Advisory Council (TAC)”, composed solely of members from the Adivasi community, advise governors of tribal-inhabited states on their well-being and development. Fr Stan Swamy has claimed that none of the governors — the discretionary heads of these councils — has ever reached out to the Adivasis to understand and work on their problems. He has also taken exception to how the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA), 1996, has been “neatly ignored” and “deliberately… left unimplemented in all the nine states” with a tribal population. The Act, according to him, was the first to recognise the fact that the Adivasi communities in India have had a rich social and cultural tradition of self-governance through the gram sabha. In 2017, he mobilised the Adivasis to fight for the rights granted to them under PESA, and this lead to the Pathalgadi movement. Fr Stan Swamy and many others were booked for alleged sedition for the movement under the state’s erstwhile BJP government, but the cases have been revoked under the current JMM-Congress dispensation. Fr Stan Swamy has also been a vocal advocate for the release of undertrials. He says they have been unfairly lodged in jails and labelled Maoists. In 2010, he published a book about this, titled Jail Mein Band Qaidiyon ka Sach (The truth of undertrials).” In the book, he states that the family income of the youths arrested was less than Rs 5,000 in 97 per cent of the cases, and they could not afford lawyers to represent them. He claimed 98 per cent of those arrested were falsely implicated and had no links to the Naxalite movement. Fr Stan Swamy has sought to represent those who are yet to get rights to land under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, which seeks to recognise forest-dwelling communities’ claim to land they have inhabited for generations. It is time now for all academicians, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice. Our intervention at this juncture will definitely put the wheels of our country on the right track. What German Bishop Niemoler said about the situation under Hitler might teach us something: “When Nazis put communists in the concentration camp, I did not protest because I was not a communist; when they persecuted the social democrats, I did not protest because I was not a social democrat; when they massacred the Jews, I did not protest because I was not a Jew; When they banned all political parties and trade unions, I did not protest because I was not one of them; when they came for me, there was no one to speak for me.” Rev. Fr J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St. Xavier’s University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Covid: No God says ‘go to pandal’||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday exhorted people to avoid crowding during the coming festivals, cautioning about the risk of a Covid-19 surge and asserting that “no religion or God” asks people to observe practices that might endanger lives. His warning came against the backdrop of an infection spike in Kerala, blamed on the Onam festivities that concluded on September 2, and ahead of a series of festivals such as Durga Puja, Navratri, Dussehra, Karva Chauth, Diwali, Kali Puja, Bhai Phonta, Chhath and Christmas. Vardhan, responding via social media platforms to questions sent to him by members of the public, said he would encourage people to observe the festivals at home with their families and use masks and adhere to physical distancing if they go out. “We need to be very cautious,” the minister said. “No religion or God says that you have to celebrate in an ostentatious way; that you have to visit pandals and temples and mosques to pray. These are extraordinary circumstances and they must draw extraordinary responses.” Vardhan’s call came amid concern among health officials and medical experts that after a near-steady fall in daily new cases since September 16, crowding during festivals might trigger fresh surges. The seven-day average of daily new infections fell from 97,894 cases on September 16 to 72,062 on October 10, a downward trend that has lasted more than three weeks and prompted speculation in medical circles whether India has passed its epidemic peak. But Vardhan, echoing worries expressed by public health experts, cautioned that any deviation from appropriate Covid-season behaviour could push the infections upward again. “You can take this as my warning or my advice. This is the truth,” he said. “There is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion. If we do this, we may be heading for big trouble. Lord Krishna says, concentrate on your goal. Our goal is to finish this virus and save humanity.” Health experts said the minister’s call was timely and much-needed, keeping in mind the sharp rise in daily new cases seen in Kerala from about a week after Onam. Kerala’s seven-day average of daily new cases increased five-fold from 2,200 on September 8 to 11,755 on October 10. “What happened in Kerala has a lesson for the rest of India — the moment the virus gets opportunities to spread among susceptible people, it will spread quickly,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist in Lucknow. Reddy, who is also a member of an epidemiology and surveillance group for Covid-19 under the Indian Council of Medical Research, said that while the nationwide dip was “pleasing”, surveys suggested that large proportions of populations across India were still susceptible. A nationwide ICMR survey had suggested that 15 per cent of the people in urban slums, 8 per cent in non-slum urban areas, and 4 per cent in rural areas had been infected by August. Many experts believe that the percentages have risen significantly since then, while stressing that substantial proportions of people across the country remain susceptible. On October 10, the new cases detected in Kerala for the first time exceeded Maharashtra’s tally of 11,416. Maharashtra had till then consistently documented the highest numbers of daily new cases. Experts said it was still too early to determine whether Kerala would now take that position. “Increases and decreases over one or two days might keep happening; the seven-day average is a good measure of change,” Reddy said. “We have seen the seven-day average fall in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. But it is rising in Kerala. Nothing can protect people from this infection better than their own actions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Dalit lives don’t matter for many Indians: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human, articulating concern about the foremost structural problem of Indian society without mincing words or playing safe. “The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human. The (Uttar Pradesh) Chief Minister & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE,” the Congress leader tweeted, commenting on a BBC report about attempts to deny rape of the Dalit girl in Hathras in spite of her dying declaration. Few leaders in recent decades have addressed the evils of caste and religious hatred in such stark terms after the stalwarts of the freedom struggle gave a Constitution that guaranteed equality of every citizen. B.R. Ambedkar, who not only drafted the Constitution but forced the Congress leadership to adopt social justice as a critical responsibility, wrote: “No society (except India’s) has an official gradation laid down, fixed and permanent, with an ascending scale of reverence and a descending scale of contempt.” Although a national consensus exists — if only in words, not deed — about the immorality of inflicting atrocities on Dalits and tribal people, this concept of social justice does not cover Muslims. After an agonising period in which the minority community has suffered the worst hate attacks, including a spiral of lynchings, with barely an acknowledgement from the government, Rahul has told it like it is — without caring for the impact this might have in the Bihar elections this month or that in Uttar Pradesh next year. The capacity of the RSS-BJP to hijack the national discourse had terrorised the secular parties, including the Congress, so badly that they became wary of forcefully protesting against the persecution of Muslims. Although a tweet by itself means little, what Rahul said stands out because no other leader from a mainstream party has formally recorded this sentiment with such clarity. While atrocities against Dalits have become more pronounced under the Narendra Modi regime, the BJP has succeeded to a large extent in winning the support of Dalits and tribals over the past two decades. The RSS-BJP, which has completely ignored the lynching of Muslims, has often tried to assuage the feelings of Dalits because of electoral compulsions. Some Congress leaders were not very comfortable with Rahul’s blunt tweet. One of them told The Telegraph: “It is wrong to lay emphasis on Muslims as Rahul has always stood by the oppressed group. That has been his politics; he fights for the poor, the marginalised and the historically oppressed. He fights for equality and justice.” The Congress took a stand against CAA-NRC but moved very cautiously on the Ayodhya verdict and the foundation-laying ceremony of Ram temple. If Rahul sincerely decides to execute the spirit behind his tweet, he will have to demonstrate his intent through an action plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Covid: Reinfection survey plan||India’s health research agency plans to initiate an exercise to determine the true burden of reinfections among coronavirus disease survivors in the country amid genome sequence analyses confirming six anecdotal reports of such an occurrence. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a study to assess the burden of Covid-19 reinfections, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, asserting the need to distinguish between residual viral loads and true reinfections. Medical researchers say although reinfections with the new coronavirus thus far appear to be rare events, they need to be documented and studied as the rate of reinfections may have implications on the effectiveness of vaccines. The clinical diagnosis of Covid-19 is based on the highly sensitive RT-PCR test that looks for viral genetic material in either throat or nasal swabs and can detect even residual dead virus shed for weeks or even months after a patient has recovered from the infection. While sporadic reports of reinfection have emerged in various states, Vardhan said, an examination of the ICMR’s database has suggested that many of these cases have been “misclassified”. Patients who have recovered may have been labelled as positive through the detection of shed virus. “The ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of reinfected cases,” he said. A senior ICMR official said the primary objective of the exercise would be to determine the magnitude of the problem. “Reinfection is of course an important health issue for the affected patients, but we need to assess its actual magnitude to know if it is also a public health problem.” The official said a possible study on reinfections was under discussion. The ICMR maintains a database of the country’s Covid-19 infections which, researchers believe, would make it possible to quickly identify suspected reinfections that could be confirmed through viral genome sequence studies. Some studies have suggested that the levels of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can significantly fall within weeks after the infection. But other studies have shown that SARS-CoV-2 infections might also trigger another arm of the immune system called memory T cell responses that could play a role in preventing recurrent episodes of severe disease. Two independent studies from Sweden and the US in August this year indicated that although antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 may weaken over time, immune memory might still be possible through virus-specific memory T cells. “Given the available data, it appears that reinfections are rare occurrences,” said Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Agrawal and his colleagues had last month collaborating with doctors in Mumbai and confirmed through genome sequencing analyses four reinfections among healthcare workers in Mumbai. Earlier, IGIB scientists had also confirmed two reinfections in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections: BJP cheer for Congress-RJD||The Congress-RJD-Left combine has suddenly become upbeat about the election result in Bihar because they believe the “dubious strategy” of the BJP aimed at hurting the prospects of Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United would damage the ruling alliance in entirety, multiplying the adverse effects of anti-incumbency factor. Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders intend to highlight the “hidden agenda” of the BJP to restrict the JDU’s tally to ensure that Nitish can be ousted from the chief minister’s office. While they believe Nitish had clearly lost the charisma that provided the decisive edge to any coalition because of the fatigue factor setting in after 15 years, they also insist the mismanagement of Covid-19 and lockdown demolished the myth of his administrative skills. Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Shakeel Ahmed told The Telegraph: “Nitish is definitely facing image crisis in this election. While the betrayal of the mandate given by the people in 2015 had already dented his moral authority, Nitish now holds no promise for the future. So is the case with Narendra Modi. “People have seen through his hollow promises. After all, Modi’s failures — from economy to unemployment — has hurt Hindus also. It will be difficult for him to fool the voters now.” Ahmed added: “Coupled with this negative sentiment is the bad strategy of the BJP. People realise the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) candidates are actually the BJP candidates. This will create a huge confusion and prove to be a self-defeatist strategy. “While the forward castes won’t vote for the LJP as aggressively the BJP would hope for, the JDU voters too will not take this dubious game kindly. They ultimately may not support the BJP if they realise this game of hurting Nitish Kumar. Such cunning strategies rarely succeed on the ground.” RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha said: “The BJP is definitely operating at two levels. There is a direct alliance with the JDU and there is an indirect alliance with the LJP. Voters of Bihar have never seen such Machiavellian tricks. This will show in results. While we know voters have made up their mind for change, it is also now clear that the BJP doesn’t want to see Nitish Kumar as chief minister again.” The emergence of a third front, which includes so called secular forces like Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), has also not rattled the RJD-Congress as they believe voters will see through this hidden agenda as well. Congress leaders insist that Mayawati and Owaisi both are working to help the BJP and their operations will fail here as Bihari voters are more political than other states where such strategies succeeded. While Owaisi damaged the Congress-NCP in Maharashtra, Mayawati has played this game in states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Mayawati has announced the BSP’s plan to contest all 28 seats in the Madhya Pradesh by-election. The BSP usually avoids contesting by-elections even in its native Uttar Pradesh. Their Grand Democratic Secular Front got some muscles as Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) also joined them after quitting the RJD-led alliance. Asked about Owaisi’s politics, Shakeel Ahmed said: “His intention is clear as he contested just eight seats in his home state Telangana to ensure that Muslim votes are not divided as that would help the BJP. But he contested 44 seats in Maharashtra and planned to contest over 40 in Bihar. “Also, he talks of Muslim unity and relies on religion to mobilise support. How can anybody question BJP’s Hindu politics if he or she supports politics in the name of Muslims? The Congress opposed the divisive politics of Jinnah and we still oppose the Owaisi brand politics. Even Muslims should ponder over this.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, who has been given the charge to look after media in Bihar election, said: “Be it Nitish Kumar, Modi, Mayawati or Owaisi… people now understand their reality and their dubious games. Voters have seen enough of them and now it will be difficult to fool the people.” “Bihar election will prove that insincerity and non-performance will be punished by the voters. We have no doubt that voters are itching to punish every leader who betrayed their trust,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: CBI keeps off ‘conspiracy’||The CBI has said it will probe only the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras and not the separate cases, lodged by the state administration, about an “international” conspiracy to trigger a caste conflagration and destabilise Yogi Adityanath’s government. This will allow the state government to investigate its own allegation about the “conspiracy” and target critics, opponents and favourite whipping boys, including the Opposition parties and “anti-nationals” whose involvement it has hinted at. “After taking over the probe, the agency today registered an FIR and booked the accused for murder, gang rape and violation of the SC/ST Atrocities Act,” CBI spokesperson R.K. Gaur said on Sunday. Asked about the “conspiracy” cases, lodged through 19 FIRs in 7 districts, he said: “The agency is only probing the alleged rape and murder of the Dalit girl.” The Uttar Pradesh government had in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on October 5 sought an apex-court monitored CBI inquiry into both the gang-rape-and-murder case and the conspiracy charges. However, it remains unclear whether, while writing to the Centre for a CBI investigation, the state had mentioned the conspiracy cases too. A senior official from the department of personnel and training, which administers the CBI and reports to the Prime Minister’s Office, declined to say whether Lucknow had recommended CBI investigations in both the matters. CBI sources said the Centre had issued a notification on Saturday night sanctioning the agency’s takeover of the Hathras probe. A team of officers from the Ghaziabad branch of the agency’s Lucknow zone will probe the case. “The sleuths will visit the crime scene along with forensic experts and recreate the crime. They will also look for fresh evidence. The case needs to be reinvestigated thoroughly,” an agency official said. Adityanath’s government had on October 4 filed the 19 FIRs alleging an “international” conspiracy by political groups and other organisations to incite caste violence. It named the Popular Front of India, an extremist Muslim organisation, and a website, justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co, which has since been taken down. Adityanath had told reporters without mentioning names that Opposition parties and “anti-nationals”, aided by foreign funding, were trying to destabilise his government. One of the 19 FIRs invokes the charge of sedition, under which a Kerala journalist and three others have been arrested while trying to visit Hathras. The rest of the FIRs carry charges such as promoting enmity between groups and criminal conspiracy. According to the state government, foreign residents were coordinating with local people and organisations through the website — justiceforhathrasvictim.carrd.co — to incite caste riots on the lines of race clashes in the US.The website was allegedly being used to post morphed photos, collect funds, target the police and administrative officials, and peddle hate speech. On Monday, the victim’s family members will be at Allahabad High Court to attend a hearing into allegations that the police had hijacked the girl’s body after her death at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital and cursorily cremated it without her family’s consent. The high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter after media reports quoted the family as saying the police had locked them inside their home and burnt the body with fuel from a jerry can. The court has summoned the victim’s family members along with top administration and police officials of the state and the district. The state government has told the apex court that the victim was given a proper cremation in the presence of family members, without specifying who they were. Adityanath’s government has faced widespread condemnation over the handling of the Hathras atrocity. According to the victim’s family, the police had waited eight days before invoking the gang-rape charges and denied the girl the best possible treatment. Four upper caste men allegedly gang-raped the victim on September 14 and broke her neck. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. According to the state’s October 5 affidavit in the Supreme Court, the girl had told the investigating officer on September 22 in an Aligarh hospital that the four accused had gang-raped her and tried to strangle her. A woman head constable was present when the statement was taken and the procedures were video-graphed. Police officers have, however, contested the rape complaint citing the absence of sperm in a forensic analysis of samples collected eight days after the incident. The police have explained the delay by saying the girl had first spoken of rape on September 22. However, the family members say they mentioned gang rape in their original complaint of September 14. The report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, has confirmed two deep injuries in the victim’s vagina.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
12-10-2020||India||Hathras atrocity reflects hatred against Dalits, says thinker and former UGC chairman||The Hathras atrocity reflects the deep hatred that many among the dominant castes harbour towards Dalits under the ideological influence of Brahmanism, Dalit thinker and former UGC chairperson Sukhadeo Thorat told The Telegraph in a recent interview. He says that despite Bhimrao Ambedkar’s expectation that the dominant castes would try to reform the caste system, the trend in recent years has been towards caste consolidation. Attacks on Dalits have been increasing since 2014. Thorat believes the only way forward is to provide separate rural settlements, as Ambedker had proposed, with little social or economic contact between Dalits and the socially privileged. Excerpts from the interview: Q: What underlying social dynamics do you see in the alleged Hathras gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman? Thorat: This incident reflects the growing influence of the social ideology of Brahmanism — not Brahmans as individuals — which directly and indirectly lends support to the caste system, and (the growing) antagonism and violence against the untouchables. These actions by people are the outcome of their faith in a system of castes. The dominant castes, as individuals, need not be blamed; what is to be blamed is the religious and social ideology that propagates contempt towards the untouchables. The growing tendency of sexual violence against Dalit women is part of this antagonistic attitude towards the untouchables (that has gained momentum) since the mid-2000s. In Uttar Pradesh, the number of cases of sexual violence against Scheduled Caste women increased from 1,188 in 2014 to 1,568 in 2019, with a high of 2,026 in 2016, which shows the trend. Q: Why do you feel the influence of the Brahmanical ideology is increasing? Thorat: Bhimrao Ambedkar advocated reforms to annihilate the caste system. Who should take the initiative to annihilate caste? The Dalits are doing their bit. But caste reforms have to be undertaken by those who practise it, because it is the dominant castes who have to change their behaviour towards the untouchables and bring it in tune with constitutional values. However, the trend in the recent past has been the opposite. Caste consolidation is happening in a big way among the dominant castes, through caste organisations. We can see the formation of caste organisations like the Brahman Sabha, Maratha Sabha, Rajput Sabha, Jat Sabha, and so on. They do not propagate caste (discrimination) openly, but by forming organisations based in the names of castes, (they) serve to preserve caste consciousness, rather than reforming the caste system. The growing influence of the social ideology of Brahmanism has given a boost to caste consciousness and to an attitude of antagonism towards the untouchables. The expectation that the majority among the dominant castes would undertake reforms to achieve social equality is now a distant dream. The happenings of the last six years have taken the agenda of caste reform in a reverse direction. Caste is increasingly becoming a factor in social and political action. Political parties galvanise support by appealing to caste during elections. Earlier, caste was not so openly used and talked about for political purposes. Q: The Constitution speaks about social and economic equality. Do you think large sections of the population are not abiding by constitutional values? Thorat: There is a contradiction between what the Constitution upholds and what the majority among dominant caste people practise as far as equality and non-discrimination are concerned, despite some improvement. In the rural areas there is some improvement but the practice of untouchability is still present in several public spheres. In 2019, a total of 41,793 cases were registered under the (SC and ST Prevention of) Atrocities Act, which indicates the denial of equal rights to them. In urban areas they have suffered from discrimination in housing. Q: What are the new forms that the caste system has assumed? Thorat: In 2010, Action Aid did a study of untouchability in rural areas, (across) about 500 villages, drawing samples from 11 states. (It found that) untouchability had reduced in some spheres but was present in many other spheres. The denial of access to public amenities and facilities was one of them. The traditional restrictions continue, which include the residential segregation of untouchables, about which we do not feel ashamed. Restrictions on inter-caste dining and marriages are most stringently practised. The new forms of discrimination include discrimination in panchayat offices, (in access to) tap water, in access to canal water, in access to government schemes, in schools and in voting rights. In urban areas the untouchables face discrimination in housing — in rentals or ownership of houses or flats — in employment, wages and occupation, and in business and trade. This means they are yet to become full citizens. Q: What role do you think the dominant castes should have in reducing caste discrimination? Do you think the dominant castes are doing enough to annihilate caste? Thorat: The minimum expectation from the organisations upholding traditional religious views is condemnation of the gruesome incident like this gang rape and murder in Hathras. But we do not see any condemnation from Hindu organisations or the heads of the Hindu faith — there seems virtual silence. It is the responsibility of the dominant castes to undertake reform of the caste system. But there is virtually no anti-caste or anti-untouchability movement within the high-caste civil society. On the contrary, there is growing consolidation of caste, which is reflected in the increasing number of caste organisations. This caste consolidation has induced caste consciousness in a new form. The new trend is about indirect support to the caste system. Some groups openly supporting the Manusmriti and placing a statue of Manu in front of Rajasthan High Court is one of many such examples. There is increasing propagation of Hindu religious books — which is the religious right of Hindus who believe in them — but this is done without realising that these texts also support caste and the varna system. No opinion is expressed against the provision of the caste system in the religious books. In preaching religious values from the religious books, Hindus need to draw a distinction between religious values and social values that support the caste system. Q: Now that caste consolidation, instead of reforms, is happening among the dominant castes, what is the way forward for Dalits? Thorat: Ambedkar proposed the destruction of Hindus’ faith in those principles of the Hindu religion that preach caste and inequality. However, while this goal will take a long time (to achieve), for immediate relief to the untouchables he proposed separate villages for them — in a way supporting the principle of “separate but equal”. In the villages, the Dalits are demographically in a minority and hopelessly dependent on the dominant castes for their livelihood. In such an unequal equation of demographic and economic power between the untouchables and the dominant castes in the villages, there is no hope of a discrimination-free and violence-free life for them. So Ambedkar proposed a disconnect, economic and demographic, between the untouchables and the dominant castes in the villages. This he said was possible by having separate settlements or villages of untouchables away from the high castes’ localities, with independent means of livelihood. We have the example of the resettlement of the Hindu population that crossed over from Pakistan during the Partition —we resettled them by giving them a certain amount of money and a plot of land. We can do the same for the untouchables. In any case, in all villages the untouchables are residentially separate and socially isolated. So this separation will not be altogether new and different. Q: There is a narrative that caste hierarchy exists among Dalits too, and that social reform should start from there. What would you say? Thorat: Yes, there are sub-castes within all castes — low, high or middle. This is the creation of, as one author put it, a masterstroke of Brahmanical scholarship. So, sub-castes are there among the untouchables too. This brings about some differences between them, including discrimination in some spheres, but they do not indulge in actual discrimination, or violence and atrocities among themselves the way high castes do towards the untouchables. The untouchables from all sub-castes have suffered from untouchability and atrocities. In any case, the presence of sub-castes among the untouchables does not justify the caste discrimination and violent attacks against Dalits. Q: Do you expect justice in the Hathras case? Thorat: If I go by past experience, I’m less optimistic. Studies on atrocities (including) the one I have done for Maharashtra indicate that the acquittal rate is too high and the conviction rate too low. Ambedkar had observed that the reason for the high acquittal rate was that the administration — from the lower levels in the police stations up to the judiciary — was biased against the untouchables. Studies show that crucial loopholes are left right from the beginning, during the filing of the cases, which are then used by lawyers in the courts to bring about the high acquittal rate. A high percentage of cases are disposed of on the ground of procedural lapses rather than the fact of the violence. We know how in Hathras the police and the district administration tried to bypass procedure and make the case weak. If social media is to be believed, the case was filed in a manner that left little hope of justice for the victim. If poor untouchable victims face discrimination and unfair treatment at each level of the administration, how will they succeed in seeking justice? The very high acquittal rate is proof of the low chances of justice in this case as well. Even in high-profile cases such as Gohana and others, the accused were acquitted. (A mob had burnt down dozens of Dalit homes in Gohana, Haryana, in 2005.)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
12-10-2020||India||MP birthday bash battle in Odisha||The Odisha government on Saturday sealed the office of Bhubaneswar MP and BJP national spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi for 15 days over her alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines. Soon after the closure of her office, Aparajita opened a makeshift office on the roadside and demanded that the office of the ruling Biju Janata Dal should be sealed immediately and alleged that double standard should not be adopted in following Covid-19 guidelines. Aparajita on Sunday began hearing  public grievances outside her office and announced that she would continue to work on her development agenda. “I have no ill feelings towards anyone. My sole objective is to continue development work.” She also sent a letter to the chief minister asking him eight questions to which she expects answers. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation sealed her office and asked her to submit the names of the persons who attended her birthday party on Wednesday in violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The corporation said they need to undergo Covid-19 testing. Aparajita subsequently called a news conference and announced that she would continue to listen to the grievances of the people sitting on the roadside. She said, “I quit the IAS 11 years before my retirement to join politics so that I could work for the people. No one can stop me from doing that. Steps have been taken against me with a vindictive motive.” Making an oblique attack on chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Aparajita said, “I have to go and mix with the people adhering to the Covid guidelines. But here the administration is being run through virtual meetings from within the confines of the residence.” She pointed out that even school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was seen attending the funeral ceremony of a former minister allegedly without a mask. Aparajita also shared 17 photos and a video which allegedly show Covid-19 guidelines being violated in the BJD office. “The BJD office should be closed immediately for 15 days. Those who had attended various programmes there had violated the Covid-19 guidelines,” she said. She said she also had pictures of state home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra violating the norms in his district while attending a meeting. “I will soon write a letter to the Hon’ble chief minister on the issue and seek an answer from him,” she said and committed to following the Covid-19 guidelines. On Friday, Mishra had written a letter to Union minister of state for home Nityananda Rai alleging that Aparajita was not following Covid-19 guidelines and making a “mockery of the struggles and sufferings that ordinary people are going through”. “In this  backdrop Honourable MP celebrating her birthday in disregard of Covid guidelines makes a complete mockery of the struggles and sufferings that ordinary people are going through,” the letter said. Mishra also urged Rai to bring the issue to the notice of the Prime Minister and Union home minister and advise the MP not to endanger the lives of people in Bhubaneswar. After Aparajita raised the issue of double standards being adopted while dealing with cases of violation of Covid-19 guidelines, police lodged an FIR against BJD legislator Umakanta Samantray who had attended the funeral procession of former minister and BJD lawmaker Pradeep Maharathy despite testing positive for Covid-19. Samantray has, however, apologised for his conduct. “I tested positive for Covid-19  out of emotion, I turned up at the funeral procession,” he said. BJD spokesperson Sulata Deo said, “The decision to seal the Bhubaneswar MP’s office is an administrative decision. Even more buildings and hotels will be sealed. The BJD has nothing to say on the matter.” In another development, Jagannath Sena, a political outfit, lodged a complaint on Saturday against Dash and his ministerial colleague Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi for alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
12-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh land row attack on sadhu in temple||A sadhu has been shot and critically wounded on a village temple’s premises in Gonda district, allegedly by the panchayat chief and his henchmen who are accused of trying to grab the shrine’s land. Mahant Samrat Das alias Atul Baba, one of two sadhus who officiated as priests at the Ram Janaki temple in village Tirre Manorama, was attacked around 2am on Sunday while sleeping in a room at the temple. Doctors at the King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, where he is fighting for his life, said he had been shot in the left side of his chest. A case has been registered against panchayat chief Amar Singh and three others on a complaint from the temple’s other priest, Mahant Sitaram Das, who too is a sadhu. “The panchayat chief and three other members of his caste had been pressuring us for a long time to hand over the entire 120 bighas on which the temple stood,” Sitaram, the head priest, told reporters in Lucknow. A case had been filed in a local court laying claim to the temple land on behalf of the four accused. Sitaram said Amar and his men had for the past two years been preventing devotees from visiting the temple, which was now virtually defunct apart from the two sadhus performing daily rituals. “We filed a complaint two years ago but the local police did nothing,” Sitaram said. However, state police authorities in Lucknow did provide the sadhus with security after they complained of threats from the accused, Sitaram said. Sitaram got one armed and one unarmed constable and Samrat got an unarmed home guard. Sitaram said he, Samrat and the security personnel were sleeping in different rooms at the temple when, around 2am on Sunday, the sound of “commotion” woke him. “I then heard a gunshot and rushed to the spot,” he said. “Samrat Das lay blood-splattered. He told me on the way to the district hospital (from where he was later referred to King George’s) that Amar Singh and his men had been there and one of them had shot him point-blank from a pistol.”Gonda superintendent of police Shailendra Pandey said: “We have detained two people from the village and are interrogating them. The other two, including the panchayat chief, are in hiding.” The temple belongs to the Tapasvi Ki Chhawani math in Ayodhya. Its patron is senior Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader and former BJP parliamentarian Ram Vilas Vedanti.Vedanti said: “We knew there was a land dispute involving the temple. The matter is in court. I’m sure the government will not tolerate an attack on a sadhu.” At least four sadhus have been murdered in Uttar Pradesh in the past six months. Two unidentified sadhus were found drowned on September 24, one in a pond at village Tikri in Baghpat district and the other in a canal in Meerut. The police said the bodies bore injury marks. The case remains unsolved. On April 28, sadhus Sewa Das and Jagan Das were bludgeoned to death while asleep. A drug addict has been arrested in village Pagauna, Bulandshahar district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
12-10-2020||India||Blue Flag certification for Puri beach ||The golden beach at Puri has bagged the coveted blue flag certification from  the international jury for its effort to curb pollution, maintain cleanliness and provide sustainable amenities to tourists. The global eco-label “blue flag” certification is given to shorelines under the Beach Environment and Aesthetic Management System (BEAMS). Hailing this unique achievement of Puri beach, chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted, “Glad to share that the Golden Beach of Puri has received coveted Blue Flag certification by FEE Denmark by conforming to the stringent environmental norm and ensuring world class sustainable tourist amenities. The renowned eco-label will add to the charm of the World Heritage City.” President of Beach Protection Council, Jagannath Bastia said, “Puri sea beach and seven other beaches of country — Shivrajpur (Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kasarkod (Karnataka), Padubidri (Karnataka), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda ( Andhra) and Radhanagar ( Andaman) have bagged International Blue Flag certificate from Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE), Denmark. It will help attract more tourists, especially foreigners and also boost the development of beach tourism in Odisha. The state government should take steps for development of the entire stretch of 8km long golden beach of Puri and should not confine itself to promoting only a particular patch of the beach.” Earlier in September, the Centre had recommended the Puri breach for blue flag certification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Over six lakh truckers go on a 72-hour strike in Bengal||Supply of essential commodities in Bengal is likely to be disrupted as around six lakh truckers went on a 72-hour strike from Monday, demanding immediate implementation of revised carrying capacity for goods vehicles among others. Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators' Association president Subhas Bose said the strike has been called mainly to demand a 25 per cent increase in maximum safe axle weight for goods vehicles plying in West Bengal, claiming that other states have already implemented the rule. "Revised norms of safe axle weights for transport vehicles have been implemented across the country except West Bengal," he said. Barring a few, around six lakh trucks have gone off- road in the state in support of the strike, Bose said. "We have requested all the truckers' associations to join the 72-hour strike. Most of the organisations participated in the protest but some have not," Bose said. A body of truckers operating at the port here and the Calcutta Goods Transport Association have not participated in the strike. The truck operators also demanded the removal of unnecessary no-entry points on highways, withdrawal of tax levied at toll plazas and waiving off the road tax for the current fiscal in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The FWBTOA had earlier written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to withdraw the tax levied at toll plazas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Rock this Durga Puja with Pantaloons Puja Collection||Get in the spirit for festivities because the biggest celebration of Bengal - Durgostsav is only a few weeks away! As we anticipate all the fun, frolic, delight, and prepare ahead to turn around in the most attention-stealing looks for it! Though this year, Durga puja will be a little bit different due to covid-19 scenario. But still, Bengal is all set to celebrate the festival in their own new way. So in this festive season, lets set your wardrobe with pantaloons extravagant puja collection for 5 days of puja. 1. Sasthi: Modern fashion Lets’s start the first day of Durga puja with something modern and special. Draw some inspiration from bohemian fashion and go for a shimmery jumpsuit paired with a textured jacket in bright hues. Or try something fusion like cop tops, long sheer jackets with palazzo pants. 2. Saptami:  A simple, monotone lehenga On Saptami, spend the entire day with your family and try something new! For ethnic wear options, get a simple lehenga set in a bright tone. This can be jazzed up with beautiful silver and oxidized jewelry. It’s also a great go-to for sober desi commitments during the day! 3. Astami: At least one saree Astami is all about sandhi puja, dhunuchi naach. And on this day you can’t deny the grace and beauty of a simple sari. For any kind of festive season, Sari is woman’s all-time favorite attire. And if this traditional outfit is not your go to option, then perhaps a contemporary variation of the same can do the trick for you. Reinvent the Bengali drape and compliment it by draping it the casual way with Pantaloons Sari. 4. Navami: Coordinary sets One, amidst all your outfits is good enough, but having at least one is absolutely necessary. Coordinary sets that are bright and flirty go a long way. They’re super fuss-free and extremely comfortable! And, for navami adda this can definitely be your new favorite outfit. 5. Dashami: Hand woven Kurta Set The most eagerly awaited fiesta is nearing its end; and after all the glamorous Puja parikrama you need one last ensemble to give it a befitting finish. As you smear each other with sindoor and pray for happiness, blossom in a classic hand-woven kurta set and enjoy the visarjan ceremony.  So, what are you waiting for? Visit your nearest pantaloons stores or visit www.pantaloons.com to explore the gorgeous Pujo collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
12-10-2020||West Bengal||IISER-K centre to seed entrepreneurs||An incubation centre was launched on the IISER-K campus in Nadia’s Mohanpur last week in an endeavour to encourage science and technology-based entrepreneurship and start-ups among youngsters in the eastern and north eastern parts of the country, The IISER-K will act as the chief patron of the incubation centre, titled Research Innovation and Scientific Entrepreneurship Foundation IISER, which is slated to act as a nodal hub for creating job opportunities and strengthening the local economy. The department of science and technology (DST) has promised to provide all necessary support and funds of Rs 13 crore to the incubation centre, which has been developed and registered as a company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2018. Sources said RISE had been inaugurated last week by IISER director Professor Sourav Pal. The incubation centre has begun functioning temporarily at the Pre-Fab III building located at the southern end of the campus in Mohanpur. “The DST, despite its assurances, has not released the fund apparently because of Covid-19. We hope to begin work once the funds are received,” an RISE official said. To begin with, officials said, RISE will organise short-term workshops, facilitating interactions between industries and academia. “In real terms, the incubation centre will act as a transmission unit of interdisciplinary research initiative for human benefit. We will use local resources with grassroots-level innovation and explore the marketing opportunities encouraging the young generation for entrepreneurship,” said Professor Ayan Banerjee, attached to the department of physical sciences of IISER-K and one of the directors of RISE. An official in the ministry of human resources development said the government expected that the science and technological research initiatives should be aimed for a better future for the country. “We are aware of it,” said another official of RISE. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his address at the Indian Science Congress in Imphal, had drawn a road map refining the meaning of ‘R&D’ as research and development of the ‘Nation.” RISE intends to offer management training, business consultation and assistance in business plan creation. It also helps in setting up companies ensuring business viability and eventual success of the start-ups, IISER authorities said in a communication. “Our objective is to serve as a key player in the creation of an innovation eco system in Bengal utilising the intellectual property of IISER-K and other higher educational and research institutes in Kalyani and adjoining areas,” one of the directors of RISE said. “The incubation centre is located in an area mixed with rural and urban populations. We have a lot of potential at the local level with a host of top institutes like National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, AIIMS, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya (BCKV) located around us. We would like to collaborate with them for transmission of research output and to lay the foundation for entrepreneurship in the area,” Professor Banerjee said. “We have already tied up with some of these institutes. We are hopeful that this will help us a lot and explore new avenues in developing entrepreneurship,” he added. To mark the launch of the RISE, a Kalyani-based start-up launched ‘Corocross’, a non-alcoholic and water-based hand-sanitiser that has been certified by DBT-THSTI, which is capable of destroying Sars-Coronavirus2 and other bacterial pathogens with 99.99 per cent efficacy, a RISE communication stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri police seize 8kg gold found in SUV||Acting on a tip-off, the police in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri intercepted an SUV headed towards Siliguri from Assam on Saturday night and seized over 8 kilos of gold bars worth more than Rs 4.5 crore. Three persons, Mumbai resident Santosh Gajape and Assam residents Krishna Majumdar and Mantosh Biswas, have been arrested in this connection. D. Sherpa, the additional superintendent of police (rural) of Jalpaiguri, said on Sunday that Nagrakata police station OC Sanju Burman got information of gold being smuggled by road via the Dooars from Assam to Siliguri in an SUV. Burman immediately instructed his officers to start checking all vehicles moving through NH31. At night, they stopped an SUV coming from Assam. Frisking the vehicle, the police team found concealed gold bars. “The three persons in the car were arrested. We have sent them to court on Sunday and will file a petition to seek police custody. They need to be interrogated on their links and whether they are only carriers or members of a gold smuggling racket,” said Sherpa. According to him, the gold bars altogether weigh 8.297 kilos, the value of which is over Rs 4.5 crore. The vehicle has also been seized.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Mask vending machines in Birbhum for Puja crowds||The district administration in Birbhum has taken up the initiative to install three automated vending machines to dispense masks made by groups of migrant workers in three big towns of the district in the run-up to Durga Puja. The move is a bid to help migrant workers during a difficult year and help people stay safe amid the anticipated festive crowding, said sources. “In addition to assisting migrant workers during a year like this (because of the pandemic), we also want to encourage among all the habit of wearing masks by increasing their availability and lowering their price,” said an official, adding the masks would be made by workers. “The price of a mask will be between Rs 10 and Rs 15.” Orders for three such automated machines have been placed, and the machines would be installed in crowded points at three subdivisional towns Bolpur, Suri and Rampurhat. Sources added that apart from vending points, migrant labourers would also be allowed to sell their masks at pandals. Each cloth mask will have two or three layers. District officials plan to produce over 10,000 masks for the festive season. “The move has been taken for twofold benefits — helping out a group of migrants who know tailoring and also to make masks available in the market during the festive season. Apart from three automated vending machines, masks will be sold manually as well,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, referring to the added risk of infection during festival crowds. In Birbhum, nearly 30,000 migrant workers returned home after losing out-of-state jobs during the lockdown, according to a district database. Using the database, officials are tracking down labourers with tailoring skills so that they can make masks. Officials this week have contacted around a hundred such migrant workers with this proposal. “We will provide those migrant workers with raw materials and remuneration for making masks. It will help them earn some money before the festive seasons,” said an official. Officials explained that apart from three subdivisional towns, there are three more municipal towns in the district where at least 40 large-scale Durga Pujas are organised. The administration has accordingly planned to allow the sale of masks manually by forming small groups of migrant workers for the mask project. “Crowd flocks to Puja pandals in towns like Dubrajpur and Sainthia too. We plan to engage mask makers to sell their produce manually in those places,” said a source. Babu Mallick of Suri, who worked as a tailor in Mumbai and returned home in June, welcomed the mask project. “It will help us earn some money before the festive season. But we need regular work to survive in the long term,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||NFR to run two trains to Calcutta||The Northeast Frontier Railway has decided to introduce two more express trains between north Bengal and Calcutta from October 15. Only one train — Padatik Express — was running on the route because of the lockdown. “It has been decided that two special trains will run between north Bengal and Calcutta. While one of the trains will follow the Darjeeling Mail’s route, timing and stoppages and will run between Sealdah and New Jalpaiguri, the other train will run between New Alipurduar and Sealdah, along the Teesta Torsha Express route,” said a source in the NFR. The sources said that the NFR has been decided to run these two special pair of trains till November 30. Added to these, the NFR is also planning to run four pairs of air-conditioned special trains from October 12 and onwards. Among these include a bi-weekly AC special and a weekly special train between Dibrugarh and New Delhi, a weekly AC special between Kamakhya and Yesvantpur, another weekly AC special between Kamakhya and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||3,612 new cases and 59 deaths||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,612 new Covid-19 cases, yet another 24-hour high, as the total number of patients went past 2.94 lakh, including nearly 2.59 lakh who were cured of the pathogen and 5,622 who succumbed to the disease. The state also reported 59 deaths and 3,110 recoveries. The recovery rate fell from 87.98 on Tuesday to 87.84 per cent. The national rate is 86.18 per cent. “On nine out of 11 days so far in October, the record for the intra-day spike has been reset. It is a very worrisome sign with barely two weeks to go for Durga Puja,” said a Bengal minister. “This month has been rather difficult with the problems likely to be compounded by the last week,” he added. With a rise by 443, to 30,236 now, Bengal reported a jump in the total number of active Covid-19 cases for the 33rd consecutive day, which came right after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. “This is the first time that our total of active cases went past 30,000. It had fallen to as low as 23,000 a few weeks ago,” said the minister. “We have been getting over 1,500 new cases from just two high-incidence districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) regularly. When that happens, keeping the overall count low becomes a huge challenge,” he added. The state reported 42,611 tests on Sunday, taking the total past 36.93 lakh, at 41,040 tests per million people. “We have been logging one lakh tests every two days for a while now. We are on track for crossing the total of 45 lakh by the end of this month,” said the minister. The positive confirmation rate is 7.98 per cent now. Of the total 5,622 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,877, with 16 reported on Sunday. With 18 more deaths on Sunday, North 24-Parganas reported a Covid-19 toll of 1,265. The state reported 4,763 deaths (84.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.9, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.53 per cent. The state reported 37.4 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Besides, over 3.19 lakh telemedicine consultations were also reported till Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Boy at knifepoint, lakhs looted from mom||Three masked criminals entered the home of a wholesale potato trader in Falakata of Alipurduar district on Saturday night, held his 13-year-old son at knifepoint and took away Rs 11 lakh in cash and his wife’s gold ornaments. Around 9pm on Saturday, the men with faces covered by towels reached the house of potato trader Parimal Sarkar at Jogendrapur in Falakata, and pressed the doorbell. As Parimal’s wife Putul opened the door, they told her they had come to collect Durga Puja subscription. Parimal was not at home then. With most people wearing masks amid the pandemic, an unsuspecting Putul ushered them into the drawing room. Within minutes, the trio shut the door from inside, and one of them drew a knife and asked Putul to keep quiet. Their 13-year-old son who was in another room heard the voices and came into the drawing room. Seeing him, one of the three men dragged him and held him at knifepoint, said a police officer, quoting the boy’s mother. “Threatening to kill him, they asked Putul Sarkar to hand over Rs 11 lakh in cash that was in the house. They also gagged her so that she could not shout. Finding no other alternative, she took out the money and gave it to them,” the police officer said. Putul said they had also snatched the gold ornaments she had on. “But their faces were covered and I could not recognise anyone,” she said. The trio disconnected the power supply of the house and fled the spot in a motorcycle. Parimal filed a complaint with Falakata police. Police sources said on Saturday, Parimal brought the cash at home as he could not deposit it in the bank. “We suspect that those involved in the crime are known to the trader and his family. They had prior information about the cash, even that Parimal divided the amount and kept it in two places. Our officers are working on inputs,” said district police chief Amitabha Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Spurned suitor’ fires at woman, misses aim||The wife of a primary schoolteacher at Kaliachak in Malda narrowly averted death on Friday evening after two bullets, allegedly fired at her by her neighbour, missed their target. This youth, she alleged, had been mentally torturing her for the past few months with amorous proposals. She has filed a complaint with police against the attacker and his relatives. The police are probing the case. The homemaker, 33, from Choto Sujapur under Kaliachak police station, alleged her neighbour Abu Bakkar, 25, would pass lewd remarks at her. She filed a complaint against him on May 15, but  he became all the more aggressive and started threatening her with dire consequences every now and then, she said. “My family, including my small son, are all scared. The youth entered my house recently and attacked my family members,” she said, adding a second complaint against him was lodged on October 2. On Friday, elders of the locality convened a “salishi sabha (kangaroo court)” to resolve the issue where both the complainant and the accused were called. There, the youth was reprimanded by elders, which he “took as an insult”, said sources. After the meeting, when the woman was on her way back home, the youth and his relatives charged at her. “They shoved me and I fell. Suddenly, the accused took out a firearm and fired one round at me. I had a close shave. As I ran, they kept chasing me. Another round was fired and the second bullet hit a wall nearby,” she said, adding that she suffered bruises when she fell. Her husband brought her to Malda Medical College and Hospital. “I was released from hospital after treatment on Saturday. After my release, I lodged a third police complaint against him,” she said. A police officer said the youth had been detained. Asish Das, inspector-in-charge of Kaliachak police station, said the complaint was being probed into. Some residents told the police that the complainant and the accused were distant relatives. Congress MLA of Sujapur Isha Khan Choudhury said that the police should take necessary action in the case to resolve the matter quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown solace for ‘book thieves’ ||Srijana Subba, 39, a teacher from this tiny hamlet set on a rolling tea garden, some 34km from Darjeeling, is teaching her students something that they are enjoying thoroughly amid the pandemic as schools stay closed. An avid reader and writer, Srijana, who’s the physical science teacher of Pokhriabong Girls' Higher Secondary School, opened an innovative “no-rules” library that she named the Book Thief Open Library in her garage attached to her home way back in 2015. The irreverently named library that invites children to browse through hundreds of books freely and take what they want as “book thieves”. The children maintain their own register of the books they have taken. Srijana, who recently penned a book on freedom fighter INA Captain Dal Bahadur Thapa, said she was inspired to create a library with a difference after reading Australian author Markus Zusak’s acclaimed novel, The Book Thief. “I’d always think that the world would be so beautiful if young minds were book thieves rather than engaging in non-productive activities,” she said, echoing the universal grumble of parents that kids spend too much time with their phones. Children used to come to her library earlier too, but numbers shot up — to over 30 students a day — during the Covid-induced shutdown of schools. The library, which is painted in bright colours, has books stacked inside out-of-use refrigerators and jeep carriers. Tyres have been painted for décor and locally available bamboos and wood carved into chairs and tables. “There are no rules, no librarians, children run the show, they maintain their own register, and this probably attracts them to the library,” said Srijana. She added that during the lockdown, the library is also a “playground of minds”. “In this tea garden area, there are hardly any physical spaces open for children. There are no parks for children here. So the children come to the library for books,” she said. “I only ensure that the place is not crowded at any time,” she added, referring to social distancing. How did the library come up? “I realised one fine morning that my cosy room was getting cluttered with books. I thought it would be nice to share my books. I told my parents I’d use the garage as a library,” she said, adding that the library started with her own collection but over the years grew with well-wishers and writers sending her books. For teenagers like Sakshi Rai, a Class XII student of Nagri Farm Higher Secondary School, the library is her time-out zone. “We are staying indoors as much as possible (because of the Covid-19 pandemic) but we drop at the library for some books,” Sakshi said. “The books here are nice. I’d really love to read some science fiction and general knowledge books too,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Richa named in T20 Challenge||Teen sensation Richa Ghosh will play in the Women’s T20 Challenge Trophy cricket tournament to be held at UAE early next month. A complete package, the 17-year-old who made her Team India debut last year, bats, is a wicket-keeper and a medium-pace bowler. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), which will host the tournament from November 4 to 9, on Sunday announced names of 45 women cricketers to play in three teams, Supernova, Trailblazers and Velocity. According to the BCCI announcement, Richa will represent Trailblazers led by Smriti Mandhana, who in 2018 was named the Best Women’s International Cricketer by the BCCI. Mithali Raj, former Indian skipper of the women’s team, will lead Velocity. Harmanpreet Kaur, the present captain of Indian women team, will lead Supernova. “I came to know about her (Richa’s) selection in one of the teams for the upcoming women’s challenge trophy on Sunday afternoon. What I learnt from her is that all the players will congregate in Mumbai on October 13 where they will be in week-long quarantine. The teams will leave for UAE on October 22,” Manabendra Ghosh, Richa’s father and former cricketer, said on Sunday. He added: “She has been in Calcutta since September 29 but has not started formal practice. These days, she is doing physical training under the guidelines of the Cricket Association of Bengal.” Among others in the Trailblazers team is another ace cricketer from Bengal Jhulan Goswami. Deepti Sharma and Rajeshwari Gayakwad are some of the prominent faces in Trailblazers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Bagdogra airport set for expansion||The Airports Authority of India will spend around Rs 600 crore to build a new terminal and set up allied infrastructure at the Bagdogra airport, decks for whose expansion were cleared by the transfer of 104 acres of land by the Bengal government recently. AAI sources told The Telegraph that the expansion would result in the 12-fold increase in the size of the terminal and a jump in the annual passenger traffic capacity by 17 times. “The present terminal is spread over around 8,000 square metres and after the expansion, the floor area will be increased to one lakh square metres. The building will have the capacity to handle 1.25 crore passengers a year,” said a source. According to him, the existing infrastructure can handle only 7.5 lakh passengers annually, while the airport served more than 30 lakh travellers last year. “The airport has seen a tremendous surge in passenger traffic because of an increase in the number of flights in recent years,” said the source. But the paucity of space has been inconveniencing out-bound passengers. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, who is also the chairman of the Bagdogra Airport Advisory Committee, said the proposed expansion would change the travelling experience at Bagdogra. “I have been informed that all proposed diagrams and plans are ready. The proposed new terminal and allied infrastructure will radically change the travelling experience at Bagdogra,” said Bista. Asked why the long-pending augmentation of the infrastructure was being delayed, the BJP MP said the Trinamul Congress-led state government had taken a long time to transfer the land required for the expansion to the AAI. The sources said the AAI soon would apply for environmental clearance and complete other formalities to finalise the contract, a process that should be over in “six to nine months”. Since the Bengal government had waived surcharge on aviation turbine fuel at Bagdogra in 2013, the number of flights has gone up from 10-11 a day to 37. Now, Bagdogra is the 15th busiest airport in India. The installation of the Instrument Landing System (ILS), which helps in landing and take-off in low visibility, and the Centre’s decision to allow flights to operate in evenings, also helped Bagdogra climb up in the chart of busy airports. Tourism stakeholders in the region welcomed the expansion plan and demanded introduction of international flights, especially from Bangladesh and Nepal. “Now that the AAI has decided to kick-start the expansion, we feel the Union civil aviation ministry should see that flights from Nepal and Bangladesh are introduced at Bagdogra,” said Debasish Maitra, the president of the Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. As of now, flights from Paro in Bhutan to Bangkok and vice-versa make a stopover at Bagdogra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-346
12-10-2020||West Bengal||Twin streetlight launches shed light on TMC feud||Two separate inaugurations of one state-funded street light project by rival Trinamul leaders within a span of an hour in West Burdwan’s Kulti on Saturday shed light on the ruling party’s factional feuds here. Both Trinamul leaders in question — Asansol deputy mayor Tabassum Ara and Kulti MLA Ujjwal Chatterjee — claimed sole credit for the initiative. On Saturday, Tabassum Ara inaugurated the Rs 2.42-crore street light project in Kulti around 5.30pm with her followers in attendance, barely an hour before it was scheduled for flag-off by Chatterjee, who is also deputy chairman of Asansol-Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA), which executed the project. Tabassum claimed on Sunday that she had taken initiative for the project and urged urban development minister Firhad Hakim for funds. “It is my project and I had taken the entire initiative, arranging funds after talking to our urban development minister. I work for the people and so I have the right to inaugurate it,” said Tabassum. She also accused Trinamul MLA Chatterjee of “not doing” any development work in Kulti. “He (Chatterjee) has been the MLA from Kulti for the past 15 years but what has he done for his Assembly area? Mamata Banerjee wants to develop Bengal and I am her soldier,” she said. Chatterjee, who along with his followers, inaugurated the same project around 6.30pm on Saturday, refused to respond to Tabassum’s comments. “I am not aware of what she has done. They (her claims) are her matter. All I know is that I took initiative for the project and yesterday (Saturday) I inaugurated it,” Chatterjee said on Sunday. The streetlight project along the Neamatpur-Dishergarh road in Kulti was sanctioned and funded by the state urban development department a year ago. Trinamul sources said Tabassum and Chatterjee are at loggerheads over contesting from Kulti in the 2021 Assembly polls. Chatterjee is reportedly close to Asansol mayor and party president in West Burdwan Jitendra Kumar Tiwari. Likewise, Tabassum is said to be close to minister and recently appointed party chairman Molay Ghatak. Kulti is among the five Assembly segments — out of seven under the Asansol Lok Sabha seat — where the BJP’s Babul Supriyo has been defeating Trinamul since 2014 to become the MP. In the Kulti segment, the saffron brigade secured a lead of 50,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls while in 2014 the lead had been around 45,000. Sources in Trinamul said infighting was one of the prime reasons behind the party’s 2019 poll debacle from here. “Didi (Mamata Banerjee) wants to see us united in the party but such incidents malign her image,” said a Trinamul leader in Asansol. Asansol mayor Jitendra Kumar Tiwari said he had informed the matter to Trinamul higher-ups in Calcutta. “I have been told by the Kulti MLA (Chatterjee) about the incident and I have forwarded the matter to our Calcutta leadership,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-347
12-10-2020||Opinion||Injustice league: Rhea Chakraborty's bail||The principle of equality is the bedrock of justice. It is pertinent that the Bombay High Court, in its welcome decision to grant bail to Rhea Chakraborty, had to reiterate this very point by saying that every citizen, whether a celebrity or an ordinary person, is equal before the eyes of the law. It is a pity that the court’s humane vision is increasingly becoming a rare phenomenon in a country that seems to seek perverse pleasure from the culture of instant justice meted out by institutions eager to play judge and jury. The shrill rhetoric of ‘Justice for Sushant’ disseminated by a cartel of television channels with alleged blessings from the powers that be is a case in point. Nearly every allegation against Ms Chakraborty — a pawn in the Great Game — that was concocted by this vengeful nexus has now collapsed. The court found Ms Chakraborty innocent of the serious charge of drug-peddling and harbouring offenders. The Narcotics Control Bureau, which reports to its master — the Union home ministry — has now been left with egg on its face. Earlier, the forensic medical board of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences had ruled out the possibility of foul play in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The Central Bureau of Investigation, which is looking into the tragedy, has agreed with the AIIMS’s assessment and also ruled out the angle of financial impropriety on Ms Chakraborty’s part. The charges against Ms Chakraborty seem to be falling like ninepins. Unsubstantiated — motivated — allegations often do. But that should not deflect public attention from the larger problem. The toxic cocktail of political imperatives and sensationalism perpetrated by an acquiescent media has no qualms about stripping citizens’ dignity — that of Ms Chakraborty in this instance — when they are at their most vulnerable. There are whispers that the entire witch-hunt against Ms Chakraborty was orchestrated to score political points. Bihar — the late actor’s home state — is bound for polls; additionally the ruling dispensation in Maharashtra needed to be cornered as well. A large segment of the media that takes its role of cheerleading for this government willingly played accomplice. Truth and justice are the inevitable victims of this kind of complicity between the pillars that claim to hold the edifice of democracy aloft. The ‘Injustice for Rhea’ campaign is only one instance of this wicked subversion in recent times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Food for thought: Nobel Peace Prize for UN programme||Sir — It is heartening that this year’s Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the United Nations World Food Programme. This will prioritize the importance of alleviating global hunger amidst the Covid-19 pandemic (“Hunger rising, Nobel nod to food soldiers”, Oct 10). The scourge of hunger has been exacerbated by the pandemic and the concomitant loss of income, along with climate change and never-ending conflict around the world. Millions of people the world over are desperate for food and face the prospect of dying of hunger. In this context, the work done by WFP is literally life-saving. Pangs of hunger have to be experienced to understand what hunger is. It would be a betrayal of all sense of humanity to avert our eyes from the hungry. This is the moment to be altruistic and help those in need. Money is not the only way in which we can help others — there is need for empathy and the will to help the WFP in delivering food and other basic essentials, and creating communities capable of sustainable food production. A quarter of the world’s population does not have access to safe and nutritious food. Eradicating global hunger is one of the UN’s sustainable development goals. The hard-working and dedicated staff of the WFP are front-line fighters; they are braving Covid-19 and the fear of getting caught in the crossfires in conflict zones. They tackle huge logistical problems and go above and beyond the call of duty to avert starvation deaths. In places where hunger is used as a weapon of warfare, their work becomes harder. The WFP needs more financial support to feed the rising tide of hungry people. Affluent nations must give generously to the WFP for the success of its mission. Countries, both rich and poor, should come together and make efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and the hunger pandemic with renewed determination. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The most important statement made by the Nobel Committee while awarding the peace prize was this: “We are sending a signal to every nation who raises objections to international cooperation.” This sends an unequivocal message to the likes of Donald Trump — ironically enough some people nominated him for this prize — who withdrew crucial monetary help from aid organizations during an ongoing humanitarian crisis. One hopes the prize money makes up for lost funds. Debarati Sinha,Calcutta Modern art Sir — Classical art — both Western and Indian — has found a new life in memes. Paintings by Caravaggio and Raja Ravi Varma alike have lit the creative fires in the minds of those who make memes. Some of these are actually witty and hilarious. While art aficionados are up in arms about such ‘corruption’, this should be seen as a comment on the versatility of good art, which can find relevance in newer contexts to newer audiences. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Wise appeal: India, South Africa to WTO||India and South Africa recently appealed to the World Trade Organization to exempt medical products pertaining to Covid-19 vaccines that are being developed from intellectual property rights requirements. The first vaccine is expected to be available in the market within the next few months. According to the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement, the owner of a patent for a pharmaceutical product will be granted an exclusive marketing right to sell it for 20 years. No other producer can produce and sell the product without permission from the owner of the IPR during this period. In the event of a patented medicinal drug being considered an essential item to prevent largescale incidence of a medical condition for which the drug has therapeutic value or is an accepted prophylactic, such as a vaccine, exceptions could be made to the IPR restrictions. In such an eventuality, only a government may use it for non-commercial purposes. Even in such a case, the government must make efforts to negotiate with the patent owner to obtain a licence for use at a consideration that represents a fair economic value. There is a race among nations to obtain an effective and adequately tested vaccine for Covid-19. It appears to be a free-for-all in a $597 billion industry. On top of it, there are political pressures, such as Donald Trump prodding pharmaceutical companies to get a vaccine ready by the day of the presidential elections in the United States of America. Even the Food and Drug Administration is under pressure to relax the review process before declaring a drug ready for commercial use. The demand for a vaccine is going to be massive, and developed countries with economic clout may have the edge over emerging economies to gain access to adequate quantities for their own populations. In the midst of a likely scramble for the vaccine when it arrives, India has two disadvantages: the nation requires a very large quantity, and it must be available at an affordable price. Hence, in this context, it makes strategic sense for India to begin to put pressure on the WTO to exempt the vaccine from the IPR clause. If successful, this will give India the opportunity to manufacture the vaccine as a generic product at an affordable price. If not, at least it might gain a bargaining advantage over the producer, especially if India can get together other developing nations to join the pressure group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||Dialogue with dissent: Maoist movement||Speculation over Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathy, the former general-secretary of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), surrendering is rife. The possibility of Ganapathy’s surrender not only signals the fall of the ‘revolutionary ideology’ but also highlights factionalism among the Maoist leadership. Having lost substantial ground to the security forces, the Maoists are now limited to pockets in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Maharashtra. With Nambala Keshav Rao alias Basavaraj taking over the mantle of general-secretary and Madvi Hidma, a tribal from Sukma, the chief of the Central Military Commission, the ideological imperatives of the Maoists may be taking a back seat. Basavaraj’s prime strategy, it seems, is to scotch the growing perception that the Maoist movement is on its last legs. While their movement is losing support base and is not being able to spread to new areas, it wouldn’t be right to write the Maoists off. The killing of 17 security personnel in Sukma in March this year and, again, 15 of them in Gadchiroli, Maharashtra, in May 2019 demonstrate the ability of Maoists to launch strikes. The State may have an upper hand but it has not been able to end the conflict. While dealing with the Maoist conflict, the Indian State has adopted the twin approach of security and development along with surrender and rehabilitation and ensuring the rights of local communities. The development initiatives, the State claims, have been ‘effective’ but the challenge has remained. Similarly, in their decades-long movement, the Maoists are yet to achieve any of their stated objectives. In a conflict in which both parties are engaged in violence and counter-violence, the only option that could reduce risks is dialogue. The State does not have a rich experience in this respect. Peace talks between the Maoists and the government of undivided Andhra Pradesh ended abruptly adding to mutual bitterness; the West Bengal government’s intention to hold peace talks did not materialize either. A number of well-meaning civil society organizations have, however, underlined the need for dialogue between the State and the Maoists. The role of the State is critical in facilitating a dialogue. It is the State that must create the conditions that would convince the Maoists to sit across the table for negotiation. As a first step, the withdrawal of the Central Armed Police Forces deployed in and around areas with Maoist presence would send out a positive message. Since Maoist violence is on the decline, a temporary withdrawal of the CAPF merits scrutiny. The Maoists should reciprocate by shunning violence completely. A second step should be the identification of civil society groups, especially those working at the local level, which can articulate the demands of the Maoists and reason with the State’s perspective. These organizations must be able to identify local issues integral to the dialogue. This is because contrary to the popular idea that the Maoist insurgency concerns overarching national issues, the grievances at the local level differ substantially. The Maoists must come up with clear demands concerning the people they claim to represent. Coating such demands with ideological rhetoric creates ambiguities in the entire process. The absence of a formal dialogue between the State and the Maoists notwithstanding, there are reports of informal negotiations between the Maoists and the local people, political parties and social organizations across multiple spaces and fora. Formal negotiations might consider drawing ideas from these exchanges. But attempts by one party to win over the other could potentially derail the process. This, in turn, would have disastrous implications for the people that both warring parties claim to represent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||History repeats itself in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a repetition of what it saw way back in the 1950s against the first elected communist government in India led by E.M.S Namboodiripad. Known as the ‘Vimochana Samaram’ (Liberation Struggle), this has been recognized as an organized political coup that compelled the communist government to step down in 1959 and was followed up by the imposition of president’s rule. The anti-communist protests were carried out by a wide range of political, community and caste groups in the wake of two bills introduced in the assembly. Dealing with education, agriculture and land, these bills were perceived to have harmed the privileges of what can be described as the church-caste-community nexus. The protagonists of this rainbow coup presented the bills as a communist conspiracy against Christians, Muslims and the upper castes and were strongly supported by the Congress, the Muslim League, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh as well as caste organizations such as the Nair Service Society. The protests were also supported by major media houses and Kerala’s mercantile giants. Mannathu Padmanabha Pillai, one of the leading catalysts of the coup, had warned, “It would be better for the communist ministers to quit voluntarily without giving room for unrest and bloodshed. If they try to stick on to the ministerial chairs, the consequences will be terrible. If people wrest power from these ministers and subject them to trial, their ears and noses will have to be chopped off or they will have to be whipped in public.” In another speech, he demanded that “all communists should be hated like lepers and not a single communist can be admitted to any house. There is no way other than dragging them by their legs and hurling them on the ground.” Similarly, religious discourses across the state projected communism to be an antithesis to religion. Priests across communities envisaged the coup as a theologically desirable project. Since they presented ‘communism’ as a pervasive enemy that required eternal prohibition, a large number of ordinary Muslims and Christian migrant settlers allied with the coup leadership. Close observation of recent political developments in Kerala reveals uncanny similarities with what happened in the late 1950s. There is a strong chance of the Left coming back to power in the forthcoming assembly elections despite a long history that goes against such continuity. This possibility has unsettled an undeclared, but tangible, rainbow alliance. The intention of this perceived collective has been expressed by P.K. Kunhalikutty, the leader of the Indian Union Muslim League. “Power should be wrested from the Left by any means,” said Kunhalikutty, “to ensure the survival of the UDF [United Democratic Front] alliance system.” This reaction may be the result of the perception that the Left Democratic Front government has been appreciated for its management of the recurring floods and Covid-19 even though there is considerable disgruntlement with the police administration. The Opposition has got an opportunity to stir up trouble, courtesy the ‘gold smuggling case’, which, it has been alleged, was conducted by contract staffers in the government via the diplomatic channels of the Dubai consulate. The case is now being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. Much like the first rainbow coup, a sensational narrative, designed by the Bharatiya Janata Party in this instance, is being carried forward by the Congress, the Muslim League and some sections in the church. The collective has picked on K.T. Jaleel, one of the visible Muslim faces of the current government, to manufacture an Islamophobic narrative. The narrative thread spun by the rainbow alliance has concentrated on ‘charity food’ that was apparently sent to various religious institutes by the Dubai consulate during Ramazan. Even though the majority in Kerala think that such transactions are integral to soft diplomacy between India and Dubai, the sangh parivar has expended its energies on creating Islamophobic spectacles on the streets, deviating from the seriousness of gold smuggling and its global networks that could destabilize the financial apparatus of the country. Facilitating creative political engagements based on substantial issues is a tried-and-tested method for Opposition parties. But the rainbow collective is leaving no stone unturned to polarize Kerala along religious lines. Correction The earlier version of the piece erroneously mentioned that K.C. Mammen Mappillai, the second Chief Editor of Malayala Manorama, "got Atal Bihari Vajpayee to inaugurate a major coup meeting in southern Kerala in 1959." Mr Mappillai had passed away in 1953. We apologize for the mistake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Opinion||The other hero||From the time of publication of Man-Eaters of Kumaon in August 1944, the name of Jim Corbett has been synonymous with India’s wildlife. He was no trigger-happy hunter. He labelled the tiger “a gentleman of the forest” who turned to killing cattle or humans out of dire necessity. Yet wildlife aficionados have a hero of their own. In his own writings, Corbett had hailed this forester as a pioneer of wildlife photography in India. This was a man who had served in the First World War on the Northwest Frontier and put away his guns (except for game meat in the open season). Instead, he had sought out the tiger not with gun but with camera. Frederick Walter Champion (picture) served in UP for over a quarter century. Like Corbett, he left for East Africa soon after Indian Independence. He found it easiest to photograph tigers by trip-wire photography. The tiger tripped the wire on its own path and took its own picture. The book, With a Camera in Tiger-Land, published in 1927 had no precedent. Not only did he photograph tigers but he depicted them in their natural state, not fleeing beaters or about to be shot dead by sport hunters. Tigers remained elusive. Of the 200 camera traps placed by Champion, tigers came by on only 18 occasions. In all, he had 11 shots of nine individuals, but this was enough to prove how each animal had distinct stripe patterns. This was a path-breaker in every sense. Over the last three decades, scientists the world over working with far more advanced cameras and aided by software can tell a tiger by his or her stripes. It is now a widely used technique worldwide, and its pioneer was a deputy conservator of forests nearly a hundred years ago. Away in East Africa, Champion missed India and its tigers. Writing to the British tea planter and naturalist, Edward Pritchard Gee, he confided that “Animal photography here is too easy.” Tired of taking photos of lions, “which completely ignore motor cars” (in the national parks), he longed “for my friends, the tigers of India, which can at no time be photographed easily.” The dense foliage and the quality of light made taking quality photographs difficult. By this time, wild animal photography was being taken over by bigger players like the American company, Walt Disney. Colour photographs were to replace the black-and-white images that Champion had excelled at. Wildlife protection had had an early start in colonial Africa as opposed to British-ruled India. The Kruger National Park in South Africa and Parc National Albert in the Belgian Congo were established in the mid-1920s. By then, the French already had a national park in their North African possessions. India’s first national park, Hailey, was established in 1935. The Shivaliks where Champion had served with distinction contained the shooting blocks of the governor-general. The viceroys, down to Mountbatten, had taken shikar very seriously. Both Linlithgow and Wavell had their tiger shoots organized by none less than Corbett. But Rajaji, the first Indian governor- general, was disapproving of hunts. In 1948, a sanctuary was carved out of the shooting blocks in the Shivaliks. Champion was concerned about the depletion of tigers by sport-hunting. His response was to allot shooting blocks where there were likely to be no tigers for hunters to shoot. The law now stepped in. Rajaji, as the sanctuary was then named, is now a vastly expanded tiger reserve, a safe haven for fauna as much as for flora. F.W. Champion died in 1970 aged 76. By then, the tide had turned. In January that year, acting on a letter received from Loucia Stephens-Holmberg, a Canadian citizen living in Montreal, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi expressed shared concerns and promised “determined actions to prevent encroachment and also find ways to encourage wildlife to grow”. In September 1970, the Indian government banned the export of tiger skin. It marked the end of an era. An obituary of Champion appeared the same month. The Commonwealth Forestry Review noted how, “Most young forest officers in those days were keen on shooting big game,” but Champion spent spare time trying to film the elusive tiger. He was commended for being “the first person to get really good photos of tigers in their natural wild state.” The last qualification is important. There were pictures galore of animals killed in shoots. Of course the forester-naturalist was not alone in stalking animals with a camera. There were others treading a similar path. The Swedish ornithologist (and Nazi fellow traveller), Bengt Berg, filmed tigers in Kanha and rhinos in Jalpaiguri but his book, Tiger und Menschen, was published in 1935. The Calcutta-based businessman and photo-shop owner, Arthur Musselwhite, brought out Behind the Lens in Tiger Land two years earlier. Yet the black-and-white images of a tiger padding down a forest path by Champion stand out for quality. These are wild animals at peace going about their daily life, portraits that stand out almost a century on. His second work, The Jungle in Sunlight and Shadow (1934), is a book in its own class. It explored the world of the forest beyond the tiger. Champion was an acute observer of creatures great and small. His images of the nocturnal ratel or ‘honey badger’ and of the now endangered scaly ant-eater or pangolin were equally notable. His record of the huge herds of swamp deer in the Raja of Singahi’s hunting ground is all that remains as the grassland and the deer have long vanished. He likened its cry of “Ring-hon” to a sound “exactly resembling the drone of a Highlander’s bagpipes”. This was a private reserve where both Champion and Corbett pursued the already rare deer with cameras. Right to the 1970s, many animals were classed as vermin and shot, snared or poisoned with rewards being given to those who dispatched them. Champion was unusual in his sympathetic accounts of the jackal, wild dog and leopard. “Every creature”, he wrote, “has its place in nature’s balanced scheme of wildlife.” In this, he was way ahead of changes in the United States of America or South Africa where park rangers were still hunting down predators at the time. He argued that predators were not cruel and bloodthirsty and killed mostly for need. Best to leave them be. Champion believed his department to be the best equipped agency to protect nature. But among foresters he spoke out in favour of stricter protection, especially of the fauna. Interestingly, his brother, Harry, also a forester, was accomplished at botany and co-authored the standard book on forest types of India. Champion’s legacy has undergone a revival. Project Tiger’s first director, Kailash Sankhala, quipped had tigers been given a vote, the Corbett Park would be renamed after the real hero! In his book, Champion as early conservationist was without peer. Of course, such renaming may do less than justice to either man. The challenge is of keeping these living landscapes intact. The web of life enriches humans, making civilizations possible. Those black-and-white images were a celebration of that awareness. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrests 21 people in Garhwa mob violence incident||Garhwa police arrested 21 people involved in an incident where three women and a man were allegedly stripped, paraded naked and thrashed on suspiscion of practicing witchcraft by a mob of around 50 people. The incident took place at Narayanpur village on Thursday night, police said.  After the incident Garhwa SP Khotre Srikant Suresh Rao constituted a police team led by  SDPO Bahman Tuti to arrest the accused. "We have arrested 21 people involved in the incident after continuous raids", the SDPO said. Two people were arrested on the day of the incident. "Soon after receiving information, a police team reached the village and found around 50 people present at the spot," he added The women and the man were accused of practicing witchcraft after two daughters of one Bali Rajwar, a resident of the village, fell sick, police said. Rajwar's family members. along with Vikas Kumar Saw, Bablu Ram, Rajad Paswan, Ravi Kumar Ram and Raju Ram, among others, allegedly stripped the victims, thrashed them and then paraded them throughout the area, as per the case lodged by the police. The case was lodged under sections of 354/354b/323 IPC and 3/4 Prevention of Witchcraft Act. All arrested have been sent to judicial custody and the police are conducting raids to arrest the rest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM’s Basant Soren files nomination in Dumka||With battlelines drawn between the ruling mahagatbandhan and the NDA for the November 3 byelections in two Assembly seats of the state, JMM’s Basant Soren filed his nomination for Dumka on Monday. Accompanied by JMM central committee member Vijay Singh, Basant first  offered prayers at Disom Manjhi Than, a place of religious significance for tribals, and then drove to the returning officer  at the district collectorate without supporters in the wake of Covid-19 restrictions. Chief minister and Basant’s elder brother Hemant Soren, ministers Alamgir Alam (rural development) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture), and a host of MLAs and party workers belonging to the ruling alliance, were present in Dumka. But they refrained from crowding the venue. Dumka is JMM’s traditional stronghold. For 42-year-old Basant, this will be his electoral debut in an election although he contested Rajya Sabha polls in 2016 as JMM candidate and lost. Later, Hemant told reporters at Khajuria that the JMM was confident of retaining its bastion in the Santhal Pargana. “The results will be no different and we will clinch the seat this time too by a good margin. Dumka is the place where Baba Shibu Soren began his political journey. In the 2019 elections, people of this state rejected the BJP to give us a clear mandate for the next five years. We are committed to the people,” he said. Elections in both seats will be a test of popularity for the ruling coalition of Congress-JMM-RJD, which ousted BJP-AJSU-P combine in the 2019 Assembly elections. In Bermo, the Congress has fielded former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son, Kumar Jaimangal. He will file his nomination on Wednesday. BJP candidates Louise Marandi will file her nomination in Dumka on Tuesday while Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ will do so for Bermo on Wednesday. NDA partners BJP and AJSU-P jointly surfaced before the media on Monday, the first time after the two parties joined hands. State BJP president Deepak Prakash, Dhanwar MLA and BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi, along with Sudesh Mahto and AJSU-P’s Giridih MP Chandra Prakash Choudhary, spoke to the media together. Babulal Marandi said, “This bypoll will be significant in more ways than one. First, this will be a fight between the NDA and political dynasts (read JMM and Congress). Secondly, it will also mark the downfall of the ruling alliance as people are frustrated over mis-governance and a spurt in lawlessness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||No bhog at Ghaghidih Central Jail Puja this year||The administration of Ghaghidih Central Jail has decided to organise Durga Puja at the jail premises, but on low-scale. The Durga Puja organising committee of the central jail has dropped the practice of preparing `bhog', a primary attraction among prisoners lodged in the jail every year. The committee has not made orders for the idols of Goddess Durga and her children this year as it has decided to buy them from the market a day before Puja begins. Talking about the puja in the central jail, superintendent, Ghaghidih central jail, NK Singh said that they have already started arranging for the four-day-long grand event. "We are going to hold the Puja in accordance with the government guidelines, so we are doing whatever necessary for hosting the Puja oon a small scale,” said Singh talking to The Telegraph Online adding that the bhog will be skipped. He said a small pandal will be set up near the jail-gate, but there will be no lighting arrangement or cultural programme as would usually be carried out by the staff of jail administration earlier. The superintendent said the Puja is organised outside the main building, and the bhog is prepared on jail premises "We do not want the bhog to enter the jail for the prisoners. If it gets contaminated with the coronavirus, the disease will spread among the 17,000-plus inmates. This is the reason we have dropped the preparation of the bhog this year with a heavy heart," the superintendent pointed out. For the Ghaghidih Central Puja committee preparation of bhog and its distribution among the prisoners and outsiders used to be the main work every year. The prisoners would get special bhog on all four days of the Puja.  The central jail Puja committee would spend as much as 80 percent of the Rs 2 lakh Puja budget of on bhog only. This year, those prisoners who would like to celebrate Navratri on an individual basis inside the jail will be allowed to do so. "Though we have dropped bhog from the Puja arrangement, those prisoners who want to hold the Puja by setting up kalash or performing Navratri on an individual basis inside the jail can do so without any restriction.  After all, it is a matter of faith," said the superintendent. Over 50 persons, including 32 prisoners, had been infected with the coronavirus at the Ghaghidih Central Jail earlier. The jail administration successfully made the central jail Covid-free by providing treatment to the infected persons in the jail hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital while at the same time taking stricter measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against 10 relatives for murder of JMM leader, wife  ||Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz visited the home of JMM town president Shankar Rawani and his wife Balika Devi at Gaurkhunti in Sudamdih on Monday to investigate their murder and also spoke to local policemen to ascertain facts about the case. Minz also took details of the killing from residents of nearby areas and later visited Sudamdih police station where he held a meeting with policemen to discuss Saturday’s (October 10) double murder. Talking to the media after the site inspection, Minz said, “Although Karan Rawani, the son of the deceased duo, had suspected the involvement of some members of his extended family as they had held a grudge, we are investigating the case from several other angles.” The SSP was alluding to deceased Shankar Rawani’s cousin Dhiren Rawani. The two had fallen out after having together started a lottery business in their village at Gaurkhunti more than two decades ago. Asked whether professional gunmen were used in the murder, Minz said they could not say for sure as investigations were still on. “There are several aspects to the case. While on the one hand, a dagger and some bullet shells have been recovered from site, suggesting that these had been used, on the other hand there is also evidence of scuffle, perhaps with Rawani’s attackers,” he said. Sudamdih police registered an FIR against 10 persons of Gaurkhunti in Bhowra on the basis of a complaint of Karan Rawani, the son of the deceased, Shankar Rawani. Those named in the FIR are Varun Rawani (brother of Dhiren), Vishnu Rawani (business partner of Dhiren), Pinki Rawani (wife of Dhiren Rawani), Abhijeet Rawani, Amar Rawani, Nishant Rawani, Tarapad Rawani, Dileshwar Rawani, Ajay Rawani and Prakash Rawani. Deceased Shankar Rawani and his cousin Dhiren also launched a chit fund company, Nagmani, in the early 90s after which there was a dispute and the two parted ways. Shankar Rawani established his own chit fund company, Rainbow, which was later renamed Rainbow Smart Cooperative Society. Dhiren, however, shifted to Mithu Road in Dhanbad town from his ancestral place at Gaurkhunti. Both Shankar Rawani and Dhiren Rawani lodged several cases against each other in various police stations of Dhanbad, including the one at Sudamdih. Dhiren Rawani was killed on August 18, 2017 outside his ancestral home in Gaurkhunti when he reached there on occasion on Mansa Puja. An irate mob suspecting the role of Kunal Rawani, elder son of Shankar Rawani, in the Dhiren’s murder, attacked him with boulders and beat him up severely. Kunal died the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport tops in customer satisfaction survey||The Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has bagged the top position in India in customer satisfaction index (CSI), as per a survey conducted by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) through a third-party, officials said on Monday. The largest airport in Jharkhand secured 4.79 out of five in the grading system of the survey, conducted by AAI through a third party, leaving behind Gaya, Surat, Agartala, Bhopal, Khajuraho, Vijaywada and 10 other “medium sized” airports, officials added. Director of Birsa Munda Airport Vinod Sharma said facilities at various airports were judged on 33 parameters including cleanliness, hassle-free check-in and check-out, availability of clean toilets, availability of restaurants, quality of food and beverages, shopping experience, parking and the all-round ambience. “The survey is done separately for large airports, which have a passenger density of over 25 lakh. Medium-sized airports like ours fall in a separate category, while small airports have a different category,” said Sharma. “The survey period was January to June. Birsa Munda Airport has topped among 17 airports in the survey, and we see this as an opportunity to do even better in the future,” he added. This is the first time that Birsa Munda Airport participated in the CSI survey, airport officials said, adding that additional measures were taken during the survey period to ensure hassle-free experience to passengers flying to and from Ranchi. Ranchi’s survey score was followed by Gaya airport in Bihar, which secured 4.77. Surat scored 4.64, while Agartala, Bhopal and Khajuraho scored 4.62, 4.62 and 4.61 respectively. Vijaywada secured 4.60 in the grading. The Birsa Munda Airport is fast growing in terms of connectivity with other cities. The largest airport in Jharkhand has 30 flights connecting Ranchi to cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore and Hyderabad. However, many of these flights have not resumed after the lockdown this year. The airport also has an international bay but it’s yet to get any international flights. The airport in Ranchi is also likely to extend its runway, increase the length of the basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the cabinet gives its nod to the airport’s expansion plans, officials said. Currently, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, would be increased to 140 meter once the expansion plan is approved. He added the behaviour of staff at the airport also played a crucial role in ensuring a good CSI rating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players on strict diet to keep themselves fit ahead of ISL||The players of Jamshedpur FC, who are in isolation in Goa for Indian Super League (ISL) starting next month, have been put under strict diet regime with spicy and oily stuff finding no place on their platter. With stakes high and the Tata Steel-owned club keen to make it to the play-offs this time, serious efforts have been made on the food front in Covid times. “From grilled meats and fish, vegetables prepared in a manner that retains most of the nutritive value , whole fruits and lentils to barring processed foodstuffs and sugar, the diet of the players may appear boring to the outside world . However, it is with performance in mind that decisions around nutrition are taken. In this regard, there is no emotion involved when taking decisions that have a potentially far reaching impact on performance,” said strength and conditioning coach Adrian Dias. He said another aspect is the nutrition that plays a critical role not only in achieving high performance but ensuring that the body is healthy to combat any potential illness let alone the deadly novel coronavirus. “Since the inception of the club, the emphasis has always been to ensure that nutrition and the nutritive value of the food consumed by the players is of the highest quality,” Dias emphasised while speaking from Goa. “Having the luxury of a chef at the team hotel who understands the importance of the adage `you are what you eat’ and the major food groups that we insist on being part of the meals served, has helped ensure that the players consume the best to play at their best. The way the food is prepared is of utmost importance to a sport which requires the players to be powerful yet nimble over the course of 90 minutes,” the JFC strength and conditioning coach added. “We have been having some staff video meetings to discuss everything required for our preseason training and I have been watching a lot of games and players having lots of video calls to their family,” said head coach Owen Coyle who has a huge responsibility in helping JFC make an impression in the cash-rich league this time. With the ISL just over a month away from commencing behind closed doors, players have started reporting for preseason going straight into quarantine to ensure safety of the individual as well as the teams. This presents the technical and support staff with unique but exciting obstacles as they work towards ensuring the players hit the tournament well prepared for the rigors during the highly competitive fixture. JFC has stitched a strong unit this time by adding top performers Peter Hartley (England), Nerijus Valskis (Lithuania) and Stephen Eze (Nigeria) to name a few. The club, which has not made it to the play-offs since making ISL debut three seasons back,  finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriondo in the last calendar. The preseason is expected to unfold at Sangolda ground near Panjim once the players complete their isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Foresters want trench to prevent jumbos from venturing into Chandil||A 4,000ft-long trench can well be the solution for  preventing elephants from neighbouring Bengal slipping into the Chandil forest range in Seraikela-Kharsawan. The hapless foresters of Chandil forest range, who are at their wit’s end when it comes to shepherding jumbos back to Bengal, have stuck to the idea of digging a trench along the Jharkhand-Bengal border. Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar said the trench was the only option to restrict the elephants to Bengal jungles. “To be honest, we are not able to prevent elephants coming to our forest range from Bengal. We had managed to drive away separate herds of 30 elephants to the neighbouring state some days back but 14 jumbos again forced their way into our forests late last night,” he added. According to him, the 4,000ft long, 10ft deep and 8ft wide trench would be dug at Biyasiserum  village along the Bengal border. The trench is perhaps the only answer when to comes to stopping the elephants. “We have to speak to the villagers as some part of the land along the border is raiyati and owned by the rurals. Some part is forest land,” the range officer said. Kumar added that herds of elephants arrive in Chandil forest range from Ayodhya hills in the Purulia district of Bengal. “The herds walk from the Ayodhya hills, pass through Bengal jungles and finally slip into Chandil. We have been trying very hard to drive them back to their home. Sometime we are successful and sometime not. It’s a tiring effort to say the least,” he said. Pointing out that digging a trench along the border was extremely necessary, the range officer said the elephants are also damaging standing crops. “The real problem will arise when the crops are harvested by the next month. Farmers will store the produce at their homes. This will attract the elephants and result in man-animal conflict. So a trench seems to be the only way out,” Kumar explained. “We would be meeting in a day or two and try to explain to villagers the importance of digging a trench. After all, they are at the receiving end of the elephant menace,” Kumar emphasised. Elephants damaged the home of Sudhir Pramanik at Ramchandarpur last month and also wiped out rice crop. Another herd destroyed and devoured vegetables grown by Bhrigu Bhagat on Asanbani the same day. Foresters get assistance from village youths for driving away herds of elephants. The forest patrol parties move in jeeps and keep the villagers armed with mashals (torches) and crackers. The patrol remain busy throughout the night. However, the villagers don’t venture out of their homes for fear of elephants. A forester said that the elephants usually don’t attack unless they are teased. ”Villagers tend to drive away elephants by throwing stones and coming close to the animals. We are lucky that the elephant herds from Bengal have not killed anyone but man-animal conflict can take place if villagers continue teasing the elephants,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Nod to poll rallies in Dumka, Bermo amid strict Covid norms  ||The state government has allowed political gatherings in non-containment zones of Bermo and Dumka Assembly constituencies, slated to go to polls on November 3, provided that strict precautionary measures are taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. A notification issued by the home, prison and disaster management department on Sunday night said that in closed spaces, a maximum of 50 per cent of the capacity of the facility will be allowed for political gatherings. The count, it further said, will have a ceiling of 200. In open areas, the political party holding the rally has to ensure that people maintain a gap of six feet during rallies. Besides, every attendee at these political rallies must wear a face mask and maintain hand hygiene. In case, a candidate calls for a rally, then he has to ensure that the due precautionary measures are adhered to, the notification stated. As per the SOP set by the government, prior permission from district authorities must be obtained for holding election rallies, and the district administration must decide the number of attendees that are to be allowed in a particular rally. Dumka and Bermo had relatively fewer cases of Covid-19 than Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As per figures with the state health department, there were 174 active cases of infection in Dumka district and 381 in Bokaro, under which Bermo constituency falls. However, thermal scanners and hand sanitizers must be made available during all the rallies. Circles must be marked on the ground to ensure distance between people, the SOP stated. For venues where attendees are expected to sit, chairs should be placed at a distance of at least six feet. All indoor venues must also be sanitized prior to such gatherings, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
12-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh autos flout Covid norms||Autos in Hazaribagh are rampantly flouting Covid-19 protocols by taking more passengers than allowed for maintaining social distance. Police have failed to take any action against the drivers of these autos. A 21-year-old youth damaged a 350-year-old Hanuman idol at a temple after getting drunk. Jitendra Saw, a resident of Karanj Mor, admitted to breaking the idol under the influence of alcohol after tension erupted in the Vishnugarh block when villagers discovered its broken pieces. Vishnugarh police have arrested Jitendra. Villagers of Vishnugarh and Kusumbha had jointly called a meeting on Tuesday to decide on the reconstruction of the idol. The placement cell of BIT Sindri on Sunday organised a webinar on ‘Career Building’. Saroj Kumar Nayak, director of Global Archer Consultancy provided tips to students who participated. Nayak laid stress on the need to focus on goals and prioritise work in college. "College life lays the foundation of professional career of an individual, and it's very essential to properly utilise it," said Naik. "During the age of globalisation, it is very important that we broaden the horizon of our thoughts and reach out to different corners of the world instead of being stagnant," tipped Nayak. He highlighted the need for the students develop skills other than academics in order to be distinguished from others. The session was followed by an interaction session with students. Family members of a pregnant woman who died during treatment at PMCH staged a demonstration in the hospital on Sunday alleging negligence in treatment. The woman, Nilu Hazra, from Kumardubi area died during treatment at PMCH on Sunday morning. Doctors in the gynaecology department denied any negligence on their part and claimed that Hazra died due to sudden rise in blood pressure. She was admitted two days ago by her husband. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Dasrath Chandra Das on Sunday carried out inspection of the Jamadoba based water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. Das supervised the repair work at the plant. He instructed officials to complete the repair work at the earliest. More the 5 lakh Jharia residents are facing acute water crisis since the last eight days due to technical snag in the motors of Jamadoba Water Plant which supplies water to Jharia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
