13-10-2020||Calcutta||After Hathras, Nandana Sen translates mother Nabaneeta Dev Sen’s poem||Nandana Dev Sen, daughter of the late author Nabaneeta Dev Sen and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, has translated her mother’s poem in reaction to the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit teenager in Hathras and said “a divisive age will be defeated and spurned”. Two lines in that poem go: “Thus, a divisive age will be defeated and spurned/ Though it brings on great wars, it will lose every time.” Speaking to The Telegraph, she described what moved her into translating the poem: “As the child protection ambassador for Save the Children India, I wanted to dedicate a poem to all girls on the International Day of the Girl. Violence against women and children is disturbingly on the rise, including sexual assault and exploitation. The unspeakably brutal rape and murder of the Dalit girl in Hathras has created a deep and collective trauma in our nation’s consciousness. “The utter horror and outrage of it are unimaginable and insupportable, and our vulnerable young girls feel more at risk now than ever.” On September 14, a teenager and her mother were collecting grass for their cattle from two distant parts of a large field when a group of upper-caste men allegedly overpowered the girl, gang-raped her, chopped her tongue and broke her spinal cord, paralysing her from the waist down. The brother of the victim had registered an FIR against the four accused on September 14. The girl had spoken about the atrocities on her from her hospital bed days before her death. The right-wing ecosystem of the country is bent on maligning the girl since her death. They have denied rape despite her own declaration. Uttar Pradesh police allegedly hijacked the body of the brutalised teen and cremated it in the absence of her immediate family on September 30. October 11 was the International Day of the Girl. Nandana said that while she was looking for a poem to dedicate to the girls on the occasion, she chose Ei Kaal: Chirokaal (Right Now: Forever) because of the “message of invincibility” that the words reflected. “I would have dedicated a poem to girls on the day in any case, but I think I chose this one because of Hathras,” she said. Actor-writer-child rights activist Nandana had translated 25 of writer-poet Nabaneeta Dev Sen’s Bengali poems into English in 2016. “This is a new translation I’ve just completed. It will be included in the forthcoming book of my translations of Ma’s poetry, titled Acrobat,” she said. Asked how Nabaneeta, who passed away in November 2019, would have reacted to such atrocities, considering the robust voice she has been, daughter Nandana said: “Ma always spoke out fearlessly against social injustices, especially hate-based violence, including in her poems like Najma and Utsab. I chose to translate Ma’s Ei Kaal: Chirokaal, one of her most beloved and iconic poems, because it has such an inspiring message of invincibility — powerful words that young people in our country truly need to hear right now, I feel.” Ever since the images of the body of the brutalised Hathras teenager being set ablaze by the police on a barren ground in the dead of night without the consent of her parents emerged, students across the country have taken to the streets though campuses are closed because of the Covid pandemic. Reflecting on the poem, Nandana said: “It is a difficult poem to translate, especially because I wanted to remain true not only to its voice but also its meter and rhyming, as well as her mighty mix of classical and colloquial language and epic metaphors. A challenge but one that I loved.” Time has not the power to extinguish me, Don’t think for a moment that I wait upon Time. Let Time keep on playing his absurd battle game, Every time he strips me, I rise clothed without shame; With the force of prayer, of spells magic and divine, All that was untimely will turn auspicious, sublime. In a just war, the rebel stands forever unafraid For her ally is Eternity, who, divinely arrayed, Guides her chariot, destroying the enemy line. Thus, a divisive age will be defeated and spurned — Though it brings on great wars, it will lose every time; From all our scriptures, this is the truth I have learned. Please know that I am cherished by an undivided, infinite age: Time will never have the power to scorch me with its rage. www.nandanadevsen.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Truck strike fuels food price hike fears in Calcutta||Vegetables, eggs, fruits, fish and other items can become costlier down the week following a three-day strike by truckers starting Monday. Thousands of trucks carrying essential items to the state have stopped on the way in response to the strike call. Around 25,000 trucks enter the state from outside every day on an average and most are headed for wholesale markets in and around Calcutta. Members of the West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association said nearly 70 per cent of the trucks did not enter the city during the day, sparking fears that the prices of some essential items may go up. “It has been nearly two years now that we have been asking the state government to allow trucks to carry more load in keeping with the revised norms of axle weight laid down by the ministry of road transport and highways,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, the general secretary of the association. “We have been forced to go on this three-day strike since the government is reluctant to accept our demand.” The ministry had on August 7, 2018, revised the axle weight of transport vehicles and increased it by around 25 per cent to bring down incidences of overloading. Following the new directive, the Bengal government allowed new trucks to carry additional weight. But the older ones have not been given the permission to prevent wear and tear of roads. Around this time of the year, Calcutta receives its supply of several vegetables other states. “We receive around 90 tonnes of onions from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh daily. Almost an equal volume of cabbages reach us from Maharashtra every day,” said Kamal Dey, of the West Bengal Vendors Association. “If trucks don’t reach the Calcutta markets, the impact will be felt from Tuesday.” Rows of trucks came to a halt in Dankuni and Rishra (both in Hooghly), Basanti (South 24-Parganas) and Bongaon (North 24-Parganas). Egg prices could also go north as a large part of the city’s daily supply comes from Andhra Pradesh. Egg traders said the supply-demand mismatch could result in the price inching towards Rs 8 a piece, up by a rupee per piece.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: Calcutta local club to the aid of idol-maker||Kesto Das’s makeshift studio, on a slice of the footpath in Manasatala Lane, got ravaged by Cyclone Amphan and his earnings for the entire festive season looked uncertain. But a local club has come forward to offer him space to make not only their idol but also any number of idols he gets orders for. Not just for Durga Puja but for Kali Puja as well. “Visitors to our puja can even book his Kali idols, which we will display in our pandal,” joint secretary of Khidirpur Sarbojanin Avijeet Das said. The club has a permanent raised platform on which it performs puja. It is here that Das can be seen working away on six sets of Durga idols, including the club’s own. Another adjacent space, under a tin roof, is where 10 under-preparation Kali idols stand. Kesto Das could not be more grateful for the opportunity. “Amphan destroyed work worth about Rs 35,000. There were Annapurna, Radha Krishna and Sherawali idols ready in my studio. The clients were supposed to collect them after the lockdown. The cyclone blew the plastic sheet off the roof. All I was left with were lumps of clay in a flooded studio.” The idol-maker was resigned to the prospect of sitting idle before Puja. “I had no cash in hand. How would I have bought raw materials for making idols or repaired my shed?” But when he reported his inability to deliver to the local club, they responded by offering him the puja venue to work in. “I am making as many Kali idols as I can in the little spare time I have in case I get orders from visitors during Durga Puja.” The club, which had a puja budget of Rs 6.5 lakh last year, will make do with Rs 1.25 lakh this time. They are thanking a local tradition they have for taking care of the lion’s share of the cost of rituals. “We hand each of the women who come on Dashami a gift packet, which includes a Lakshmir bhar (piggy bank). They put in whatever they can round the year and hand it to us before Puja the next year,” joint secretary Das said. “In previous years, we used it for charity.” The collection, this time, came to about Rs15,000 and will sponsor the puja samogri. The club will felicitate 100 Covid warriors. Among them will be joint secretary Das’s mother, a nurse at Command Hospital. The family had faced hostility from neighbours in Adarsha Pally, Behala, when she had tested positive for the coronavirus. “We were accused of spreading the virus in the locality. My insulin-dependent father and I survived on biscuits, instant noodles and milk for days as no one helped us with supplies. We were forbidden to open our windows and warned against stepping out, even though we weren’t infected,” he said, recalling the “harrowing days” in August. “Garbage collectors stopped picking our litter. My mother, who volunteered to work in the Covid ward as soon as she recovered, asked me if she was at fault for being a healthcare worker.” He has put the past behind him. “The neighbour who had threatened me got infected this month. Against the advice of friends, I went to his house with health supplements and supplies.” He believes in lending a shoulder to those in need. The idol-maker vouches for that. “My son will appear for Madhyamik next year. Had they not come forward to help me, I don’t know how I would have supported my family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Private hospitals to not refuse patients during Durga and Kali Puja||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked all private hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and not refuse any patient during Durga Puja and Kali Puja. Also, the hospitals cannot bill a second day’s bed charge before a patient completes 24 hours’ stay and ambulances cannot charge more than Rs 3,000 to ferry patients within Calcutta and its suburbs, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Monday. Officials of private hospitals in the state, at a meeting with Banerjee during the day, pledged around 500 additional beds during Puja. Banerjee asked the hospitals to have the additional beds ready by October 22 (Sashthi), said officials of private hospitals who attended the meeting. The hospitals have to submit the augmentation plans by Wednesday evening. Doctors fear the number of Covid-19 cases in the city could rise sharply during Puja or after Puja. Banerjee also asked the hospitals to ensure no patient was refused treatment and be more transparent in their billing procedure. “We discussed increasing the number of Covid beds during Puja. About 30 hospitals with 150 or more beds came for the meeting. They have together pledged to increase 500 Covid beds during Puja. A good number of the additional beds will be ICU beds,” Banerjee said at a news conference after the meeting. “No hospital should refuse a patient. In case there are no vacant beds, they should provide the patient the necessary medical aid and arrange a bed in a hospital that has vacant beds. There should not be a case of patient refusal,” Banerjee said. He asked hospitals to not bill a second day’s bed charge till the patient spent 24 hours at a hospital. “Suppose a patient got admitted at 6pm. Hospitals are billing one day’s bed charge till next noon. After that they are billing a new day’s bed charge. We have said you cannot do that. You can bill a second day’s bed charge only after the patient has stayed more than 24 hours in the hospital,” he said. Several hospitals said they had already started the process to increase the Covid bed count. “We have initiated the process. Admission of patients dips during Durga Puja. It will not be difficult to convert some non-Covid beds into Covid beds during Puja,” said Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. R. Venkatesh, the eastern region director of Narayana Health, which runs the Rabindranath Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said the hospital would add 25 beds, taking the Covid bed count from 105 to 130. “We will take 7-8 days to add the beds,” said Venkatesh. Banerjee said the commission would issue an advisory capping the ambulance charge at Rs 3,000 for ferrying patients within Calcutta and its suburbs. “The government is providing ambulances to take patients to private hospitals. The private hospitals should provide a free service to patients returning home,” he said. The commission will issue an advisory fixing various rates like Rs 500/hour for oxygen, Rs 300 for sanitisa-tion, Rs 25/km for air-conditioned ambulances and Rs 20/km for non-air-conditioned ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Dine Out to Help Out: 20%, 4-day discount||Restaurants in eastern India are taking a cue from the Boris Johnson government’s “Eat Out to Help Out” scheme to increase footfall during the festive period. The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) said on Monday it had devised a scheme called “Dine Out to Help Out” to influence diners to support local restaurants, whose businesses have taken a hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed in March to slow down the spread of the disease. According to the scheme, participating establishments can offer a flat 20 per cent discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages to all their patrons from Monday to Thursday between October 12 and November 12. The minimum bill has to be Rs 500 for the discount to come into effect. The idea, according to HRAEI, is inspired by the initiative taken by the UK government in August. British politician and chancellor of the exchequer Rishi Sunak (son-in-law of N.R. Narayana Murthy) devised a scheme whereby diners got a 50 per cent discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages, upto GBP 10 per diner, when eating at a restaurant. The half-price scheme became popular and reportedly around 100 million meals were eaten at restaurants in the UK by the end of August. Here, there is no government support but members of HRAEI said already over 100 restaurants — including those in leading hotels in the city such as Taj Bengal, The Park, JW Marriott, Hyatt Regency, Novotel, Vivanta, HHI, Westin, Fairfield and Pride Plaza — were among those that had shown interest in the scheme. Hotels and restaurants in Guwahati, Kalimpong and Durgapur, too, are willing to participate in the scheme. The offer will not be available on the six days of Durga Puja — October 21 to 26. The association said member establishments were free to run the scheme at all or some of their outlets. “We have done a survey in the market among regular diners, who are currently avoiding eating out for fear of the virus or because they are being restrained about expenses. With the present dip in the economic situation in the country, discount offers like these are expected to be received with enthusiasm among guests. This will gradually increase the footfall in our members’ establishments, which is imperative for businesses to succeed,” said Sudesh Poddar, the president of the HRAEI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro passenger count inches up||A month into the resumption of commercial services, the Metro passenger count is inching towards what the authorities had geared up for. The passenger count on Monday was 77,565. The count was over 71,000 on Friday, too. The weekend saw around 56,000 passengers on Saturday and around 19,000 on Sunday. When service had resumed for all on September 14, Metro officials had said they were prepared for 100,000 passengers. The number of trains for the first few days was 110. The number of passengers for the first few days was under 30,000. It crossed 50,000 on September 25. The number has since gone up to 146 trains daily from Monday to Saturday. Before the services were suspended because of the pandemic, the carrier used to run 288 trains every weekday and the passenger count was more than 600,000 daily. The difference between the number of e-passes booked and actual trips made has not dropped the way it was expected to. An e-pass needs to be booked to enter a station and a smart card is needed to enter the platform. “Over 200,000 e-passes were booked on Monday. The conversion rate (of trips made from e-passes booked) is a little over 65 per cent. That is how it has been for around two weeks now,” a representative of the agency that designed the e-pass system said. The interval between two trains is around eight minutes in the morning and evening rush hour. The other intervals are 10 and 15 minutes. The last trains now leave the terminal stations at 8.30pm. Metro officials believe the count will go past 100,000 once the timings are extended further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Unrecognised faces behind Covid shields in Calcutta||He has not gone home for five-and-a-half months. A community hall in north Calcutta, not far from his Shyambazar home, has been his address for all these months during the Covid pandemic. The reason for his staying away from home for so long? To protect his family from Covid-19 because the work he does is something most in the city would refuse – to physically remove bodies of the people who die of the disease and take them for cremation. He has removed more than 200 such bodies since the Covid outbreak started in Calcutta, till September. There are many like him in the city but few recognise their toil. The man did not want to be named for fear that his family would be ostracised by neighbours. Let’s call him Surajit (name changed). Around 25-30 of Surajit’s colleagues involved in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s hearse service at the Ambulance Headquarters on CR Avenue have voluntarily taken up the job of carrying bodies of Covid-19 patients and are working for up to 17 hours a day. Even family members are staying away from most of the bodies fearing infection. At present, eight hearses are operational to carry bodies of Covid patients in the CMC area. Officials at the Ambulance Headquarters said all bodies of patients who die of Covid-19 have to be taken to any of the earmarked crematoria in a government hearse or a private vehicle arranged by the family after getting clearance from the CMC. “Initially, the thought of touching a Covid-19 (patient’s) body used to scare me. But now it does not,” said Surajit. His elderly parents live in his Shyambazar home. His wife is now in her parental home because staying in their one-room home in Shyambazar has become difficult during the pandemic. Similar is the story of one of his colleagues, who makes fortnightly visits to his family but does not cross the boundary wall of their house near Chetla. “I go till the wall to meet my wife and she hands me some food. Our young daughter fails to understand why her father is not returning home. Every time I get to leave, she cries,” he said. Many have completely stopped visiting their homes, fearing jibes from neighbours who feel they are a potential threat to the safety of the people in the neighbourhood. “That used to be a big problem. Now, people have understood to some extent. But still I avoid going to my neighbourhood. I can see from their body language that they feel a little scared when I am around. So I prefer meeting my family over WhatsApp video calls,” he said. The men work in teams, each comprising three members — a driver and two attendants. Once they get a call, each of them puts on fresh PPE which they often cannot remove for the next eight-10 hours, one of them said. Their “official” duty entails physically removing the body from the hospital stretcher to the hearse, driving to the crematorium and then taking the body out of the vehicle. In reality, in the absence of any family members, they often have to stay back till the bodies enter the electric chamber. How does it feel to touch the body of a Covid-19 patient? “We take all the precautions and wear PPE, rubber gloves and goggles. We have to wear the PPE for eight-10 hours at a stretch if there are multiple calls. But more than the physical discomfort, it is very traumatic to see a child’s body, unattended by relatives,” said a hearse vehicle attendant, who removed the body of a two-and-a-half-year-old child at Bagmari a few weeks ago. While carrying the child’s body, he was reminded of his own daughter whom he had not seen for months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Government Covid test labs to run during Durga Puja    ||Covid test centres in all government medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta will remain operational during Durga Puja. Each will have 14 laboratory technicians working in three shifts under the supervision of molecular biologists, the health department has decided. A team of four technicians will be present in each of the three shifts at each of the six medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta, including College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati, where Covid tests are being conducted. Two technicians will be kept on standby in case of manpower shortage. A similar arrangement will be kept ready at the School of Tropical Medicine and MR Bangur Hospital, too, where Covid tests are being done. The health department has recently completed the process of recruiting additional laboratory technicians at a monthly salary in the range of Rs 16,560-17,220. All of them have been sent to testing laboratories in Calcutta and in the districts. “There will be no holidays for laboratory technicians during Durga Puja. If any technician wants a leave, he/she may go on leave for a day or two now,” a health department official said after a coordination meeting with institutional heads on Monday. “A molecular biologist on duty at a particular laboratory will interpret the test results. The heads will have to draw up duty rosters accordingly,” the official said. On September 24, during a coordination meeting with puja organisers, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked the health department to ensure there were adequate arrangements across all hospitals during Durga Puja. No patient should face any difficulty, she had said. On Monday, health department officials discussed ways of running laboratories during the festive days so that no Covid suspect is denied an opportunity to get him/herself tested. Among the various steps discussed, it was decided if needed required laboratory technicians would have to work “overtime” and that they would be adequately compensated. Arrangements will be made for late-night home drops for technicians during the puja days if needed. The School of Tropical Medicine receives samples from Howrah and RG Kar Medical College and Hospital receives a part of its daily samples from North 24-Parganas for Covid tests. “All institutional heads have been told to ensure every laboratory nodal officer remains in touch with district magistrates to receive samples from the adjoining districts,” a health department official said. Bengal has been testing 38,000-40,000 samples every day and the health department official said they were gearing up to take on additional load in case there was a spike in the Covid numbers during or after the pujas. “In Calcutta, more than 90 per cent of Covid tests are being done through the RT-PCR method and not the rapid antigen way,” a senior doctor Sasthya Bhavan overseeing the arrangements said. “Accordingly, reagents and other necessary laboratory items have been sent to various test locations.” On Friday, the state’s chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, had held a meeting with health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam to discuss the preparedness of both government and private hospitals during the Pujas. The meeting at Sasthya Bhavan on Monday follows that. “We are trying to put in place a system in all government hospitals to enhance their services during the festive season. Tests will remain a crucial part of this arrangement,” a health department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Online Covid gear cheats arrested in Salt Lake||Two men were arrested in the Bidhannagar area on Sunday on charges of cheating people in the name of online delivery of hand sanitisers, face shields, gloves, and masks, police said. They apparently cheated a person with an order worth Rs 5 lakh by posing as a facilitator. They would act as contacts between wholesale dealers and customers who did not want to step out to collect their orders. As part of their modus operandi, the two would tell people they would contact a wholesale dealer of such items before getting a bill issued against orders placed. They would take the bill to a client and collect the sum, promising to deliver the items at their homes, the police said. “But they would make excuses and say the consignment had been delivered at a wrong address,” an officer of Bidhannagar North police station where a complaint had been lodged on September 4. It was only when the complainant was told the same thing a couple of times — goods he had ordered had been delivered to a wrong address and it would take some time for the goods to reach him — did he realise the fraud. Cops started investigating the matter based on his complaint and found the involvement of the two men. They have identified as Biswajit Das and Abhijit Dey. They have been booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. They were produced in Bidhannagar court on Monday. The pandemic has forced many people to shift to the online mode for making payments and purchases, which they did not do earlier. “Hundreds of people are falling prey to online crimes… people tend to believe online advertisements and start calling up numbers they see on the Internet without realising the numbers could be fake,” an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Refund order to two Calcutta private hospitals||The state’s clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 80,000 to a patient’s family for overcharging them. The commission also fined the private hospital Rs 20,000 for its “inhuman conduct” in not allowing the family to see the patient’s body before it was taken away for cremation. R Flemming Hospital, another private unit, has been asked to refund Rs 1 lakh to a patient’s family. Karun Ranjan Chatterjee, 70, passed away at Desun Hospital on August 14. His son Samik Chatterjee told the commission during a hearing on Monday that he and his mother could not have a last look at his father because the hospital did not inform them when the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) took away the body. Samik also alleged that the hospital did not arrange any conversation between the patient and his family since the septuagenarian’s admission on July 28. “Denying the family a chance to have a last look at their loved one was inhuman. We have said in our order that such hospitals should be shut down, but that cannot be done keeping in mind the plight of patients. We have fined the hospital Rs 20,000 for not telling the family when the body would be taken away,” retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said. “The man’s son also said they could not talk to him since his admission. The hospital allegedly did not arrange any video call,” said Banerjee. Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, denied the allegations. “We told the family to come and see the body. The patient spoke to his family several times over the phone. I do not know whether any video call was arranged because at that time few employees were willing to go close to a Covid-19 patient and organise a video call,” said Mukherjee. Banerjee said the commission asked the hospital to return Rs 80,000 to the family because they were charged more than the market rates for some pathological tests and treatments. “The charges for blood gas test and liver function test were more than what most other hospitals ask for,” he said. The total bill was Rs 7.84 lakh, of which Rs 2.5 lakh was paid by the insurance company, Rs 4 lakh was paid by the patient’s family and the hospital gave a discount of Rs 1.34 lakh. The commission’s order to return Rs 1 lakh is not part of the discount. The commission also asked R Flemming Hospital in Topsia to return Rs 1 lakh, out of the Rs 8.9 lakh the family of Shyambazar resident Tanusree Bose had paid during her discharge in July. “We found that some of the costs of treatment were on the higher side and ordered them to return Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. He said the family alleged the hospital put the woman on ventilation when they wanted to take her away. The woman is now fine and at home, said Banerjee. “It is not true that we had put the patient on ventilation after the family wanted to take her away. The patient was on ventilation for 15 days. During her discharge we had given a discount of Rs 1.29 lakh. I cannot comment on the commission’s order till I see a copy,” said Sahid Khan, the manager of R Flemming Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Psychologist spells out strategy for Calcutta kids||Jotting down the positives every day and not dwelling on when the pandemic will end but adapting to changing demands can help kids deal with stress triggered by staying indoors, speakers at a workshop said on Thursday. Ishita Sanyal, a clinical psychologist and mental health activist, said she had found children enjoyed unsupervised online sessions with friends in the absence of parents and teachers. Allowing children the freedom to chat with friends between online classes, similar to what they enjoyed during breaks in school will help them cope with stress, she said. Sanyal, however, said there were many people who were unable to deal with stress and that spelling out strategies would help them. “There are many positives emerging from staying indoors. I often tell people to write in a diary the positives that emerge before them every day,” she told Metro. “Jot down what you feel are the positives of staying at home… remember them to feel happy in this atmosphere of gloom around us.” The workshop on coping with stress during the pandemic was organised by the US Consulate General Kolkata, in association with Turning Point, Calcutta, and Eastside Institute,  New York. Sanyal, the founder-director of Turning Point, an organisation which works with specially-abled children, spoke about the strategies adopted at the centre. On Fridays, students of Turning Point are allowed to chat with each other online and none from Turning Point supervise these sessions, she said. “Some parents told me that children chat for hours during these unsupervised sessions. They love it. They are again bonding with friends, something that had stopped when physical assembly at the centre had stopped because of the pandemic.” All schools can try such a strategy to let children bond better with friends and peers, “essential for the mental well-being of children”, Sanyal said. Forced to drop plans of pandal-hopping this year, teachers at Turning Point have asked students to enact the roles of Durga and her family as part of the strategy to cope with the change. There will be other cultural programmes, but students will participate online. Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School at Ekbalpore, was another speaker at the workshop. He said he always told people “this too shall pass” whenever someone complained of becoming restless. “I tell everyone this too shall pass. We have not been created to deal with the pandemic; we have been created for a greater purpose.” Kirandip Kaur, a student of Asian International School, said at the workshop people would do better to stop thinking when the pandemic would be over. “The more we think of it as something that will pass, the more we will resist changes. It is better if we accept the present and adapt ourselves to it.” A good number of people have adapted to the changed situation but there are many who are struggling when it comes to dealing with the fear of the disease and the stress. Many of these people are invisible; they are in their homes, Sanyal said. “Someone needs to reach out to them with the strategy of coping with stress. This is why it will be beneficial if such strategies are spelt out… if at least one from every family knows the strategy, others will benefit,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Food for 600 families in Calcutta and Sunderbans||Over 600 families in Calcutta and the Sunderbans got dry ration on Sunday, thanks to a campaign by the Dawoodi Bohra community of the city. The country is moving towards resumption of normal economic activities but many families are still without livelihood and struggling for two square meals a day. On Sunday, a team of volunteers visited several areas in the city and Salt Lake and distributed around 500 packets, each containing a kilo of rice, 250g of daal and soya chunks. The packets were distributed at Moulali, Eco Park and Golpark, under the Gariahat flyover and at Shalimar Ghat in Howrah. The recipients lived in slums, on pavements and under flyovers. They are out-of-work labourers, rickshaw pullers and cobblers, who have been hit the hardest by the Covid pandemic. The team then drove to Chandipur village in Gosaba block of the Sunderbans, around 90km from Calcutta. The destitute families in the mangrove delta are grappling with the aftereffects of Cyclone Amphan, in addition to the pandemic-induced slump. Around 150 packets were distributed in the Sunderbans. The Sunday drive, in the run-up to World Food Day on October 16, was part of Project Rise, a philanthrPopic endeavour by the Dawoodi Bohra community across the world. “As the name suggests, its aim is to raise and elevate the less fortunate among us. It strives to foster a culture of empathy, awareness and generosity such that no individual is neglected, overlooked or marginalised,” reads a poster of the campaign. The Dawoodi Bohra community has around one million members all over the world, including around 1,100 families in Calcutta. The community had organised multiple campaigns to provide food to the needy during the lockdown. The younger members of the community took the lead in Sunday’s drive. It was organised by Hizb us Saifiyatil Burhaniyah (HSB), an association of former students of MSB Educational Institute, a school run by the Dawoodi Bohra community. “Visiting the Sunderbans was a different experience. You have to see their plight to believe it,” said Khuzema Tasira, the secretary of the association. The packets were sorted at Faiz-ul-Mawaid-e-Burhaniyah, a community kitchen of the Dawoodi Bohras in Calcutta. Two NGOs collaborated in the Sunday drive, helping the organisers in selecting the recipients and with logistical issues. The distribution in the Sunderbans was in collaboration with Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation, a city-based organisation that has fed thousands of families during the lockdown. The campaign in and around Calcutta was done in collaboration with Robin Hood Army, a non-profit that collects excess food from restaurants to feed the poor. “Many people in the Sunderbans are in urgent need of relief. NGOs from the city are reaching out to them but many families are still left out,” said Zeeshan Majeed, of the Anti-Hunger Squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Cycle stand for last-mile connectivity in in New Town||A cycle stand has been set up in New Town’s Action Area I where people can park their cycles and head to their workplaces. The move is an attempt to improve last-mile connectivity and to encourage cycling as a mode of transport, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. The stand where 70 cycles can be parked has come up near Nazrul Tirtha, home to several offices. The NKDA official said many officegoers had started using cycles to commute to ensure distancing rules were followed. So, the NKDA decided to build the stand “urgently”, the official said. The stand is close to an upcoming Metro station on the Airport-New Garia route. Once the Metro is operational, people will be able to park their cycles at the stand and take a train, the official said. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said they were trying to encourage people to take up cycling and consider it as “a serious means of transport”. “The lockdown has shown people how cycles can be used easily for commuting. We have cycle tracks in New Town and we want to encourage this non-polluting form of transport,” Sen said. The stand is equipped with CCTV cameras, mobile phone chargers and two large LCD screens to show the distance to landmarks in New Town, including the Unitech crossing, Eco Park and Sector V, from the stand, an NKDA official said. People will be able to lock their cycles. Two guards will be posted as well, the NKDA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-273
13-10-2020||Calcutta||Mamata appeals  for caution during Durga Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday warned against carelessness this Durga Puja amid the pandemic, urging revellers not to disregard the safety protocols at a time the outbreak appears to have reached the community transmission stage. Mamata’s warning came hours before Bengal reported 3,583 new cases and 60 deaths, besides 3,155 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The total Covid cases rose to 2.98 lakh, including 2.62 lakh recoveries and 5,682 deaths. “Puja is almost here now, practically begins from Monday…. I want everybody to have a good time this Puja. But I will, once again, humbly request each and everyone to wear a mask. Now the spread of the pathogen is increasing,” she told a news conference after a state cabinet meeting. “Community spread (transmission) is certainly happening… whether one admits it or not. Covid-19 is getting airborne too,” she added. The recovery rate, which started falling after months last week, fell from 87.98 on October 6 to 87.84 per cent on Sunday. It remained unchanged on Monday. The national rate is 86.39 per cent. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.9, behind the national rate of 1.53 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-274
13-10-2020||Business||Indian economy to contract by 10.3% in 2020: IMF||The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China's projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest 'World Economic Outlook' report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract by 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America's economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a positive growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. "As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021," it said. In 2019, India's growth rate was 4.2 per cent. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World bank said India's GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. "India's GDP is expected to contract 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year that started in March," the World Bank said in its latest issue of the South Asia Economic Focus report. "The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before," Hans Timmer, World Bank Chief Economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. "It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook," he said. There was a 25 per cent decline in GDP in the second quarter of the year, which is the first quarter of the current fiscal year in India. In the report, the World bank said the spread of the virus and containment measures have severely disrupted supply and demand conditions in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||British Airways replaces CEO as part of shake-up||British Airways has replaced CEO Alex Cruz after more than four years on the job as part of a broad shake-up as the Covid-19 pandemic pummels airlines around the world. International Airlines Group, British Airways’ parent company, on Monday named Sean Doyle, previously the boss of Aer Lingus, another carrier in the group, as BA’s new chief executive. Cruz will remain non-executive chairman during an unspecified transition period. BA’s passenger traffic dropped 95 per cent from a year earlier in the second quarter, leading to a first-half operating loss of 4.04 billion euros ($4.77 billion). In recent months, unions have criticised the way Cruz handled 12,000 job cuts linked to the pandemic. The shakeup comes just a month after Luis Gallego became CEO of IAG, promising to shore up the group’s finances and adapt to the “new normal” of air travel during the pandemic. Gallego led a cost-cutting drive at Iberia Airlines after it merged with British Airways to create IAG. He replaced long-time CEO Willie Walsh. Airlines around the world have seen passenger numbers plummet amid government-imposed travel restrictions and concerns about the safety of air travel during the pandemic. British airlines have been particularly hard hit because travelers from most countries are required to quarantine themselves for 14 days after arrival, killing off most business and holiday travel. “This is a sign that the new chief executive of IAG, Luis Gallego, is flexing his muscles and trying to demonstrate he’ll make the changes necessary to lead a sustained recovery for the airline group,” said Susannah Streeter, a market analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown. “Sean Doyle will have his work cut out to make immediate progress given that British Airways is facing the toughest challenge in its history as demand for international travel has plummeted and quarantine restrictions continue to constrain bookings.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Portfolio reshuffle at RBI after deputy governor addition||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday re-allocated the portfolios of deputy governors following the appointment of Rajeshwar Rao. Rao took over as the fourth deputy governor of the RBI on October 9 for a period of three years. He replaced N.S. Vishwanathan who had retired in March. He was the executive director of the Reserve Bank before being elevated to the post of deputy governor. It took around six months for the government to announce the appointment of Rao and till then the portfolios were with the three other deputy governors — B.P. Kanungo, M.K. Jain and Michael D Patra. As deputy governor, Rao will now look after the department of regulation, the department of communication, the enforcement department, inspection department, legal department and the risk monitoring department. The crucial monetary policy department will continue to be headed by Patra along with various other departments. Kanungo will have 10 portfolios. He will be in charge of co-ordination, department of currency management, while Jain will handle the crucial department of supervision, Central Security Cell among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Stocks cold to Centre's festive stimulus measures||Equity benchmarks pared early gains but managed to end modestly higher on Monday after the finance minister announced fresh stimulus measures to revive festive demand and boost the economy. After rallying nearly 400 points in the morning, the 30-share BSE Sensex buckled under selling pressure in afternoon trade, before ending 84.31 points, or 0.21 per cent higher, at 40593.80. The NSE Nifty rose 16.75 points, or 0.14 per cent, to close at 11930.95. According to Arjun Yash Mahajan, head of institutional business at Reliance Securities, the government’s effort to stimulate consumers demand by offering advances and cash voucher schemes looks to be short term in nature and lacks commitment to have a sustainable growth. “This may lead to a kind of destocking led demand improvement ahead of festivals. However, it may not necessarily result in a sustainable recovery,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Interest-free loan of Rs 12,000 crore offered to states||The Centre is offering Rs 12,000 crore in special interest free 50-year loans to states for additional capital spending to boost the economy that has been battered by the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. The sum has been parcelled among the states in three ways: the eight north eastern states will get Rs 200 crore each, while Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will get Rs 450 crore each, aggregating Rs 2,500 crore. A sum of Rs 7,500 will go to the other states according to the Finance Commission's devolution formula. Another Rs 2,000 crore will go to the states which implement at least 3 out of the 4 reforms spelled out in the government's earlier stimulus package. Analysts estimated the boost to capital spending would be a modest one. Aditi Nayar, principal economist with Icra, said the allocation to states “appears to be rather modest, ranging from Rs 32 crore for Goa to Rs 1,485 crore for Uttar Pradesh. “The relatively small magnitude of the long-term loans to be provided by the Centre to the states, is unlikely to provide any meaningful boost to capex in 2020-21. “In our assessment, it may allow for an accelerated settlement of pending dues of contractors or suppliers,” she said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also said Rs 25,000 crore would be provided towards capital expenditure on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment for defence. This is over and above the Rs 4.13 lakh crore capital expenditure announced in the budget for 2020-21. “The capital expenditure is a positive measure as it will help the state government to finance the ongoing capital projects,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said. The fiscal impact of the additional expenditure by the central government will be around 0.2 per cent of GDP. “We expect the fiscal deficit to be around 9.2 per cent for 2020-21 assuming these funds have to be raised by the Centre this year to finance such spending,” Sabnavis said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
13-10-2020||Business||Factory show dismal, food prices pinch||In a double whammy for the economy, industrial production declined 8 per cent in August, while retail inflation rose to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, further delaying a rate cut by the central bank to bolster the shrinking economy. Lower output in the manufacturing, mining and power generation sectors dragged down industrial output, which had contracted 1.4 per cent in August 2019. Production of the manufacturing sector fell 8.6 per cent, while the output of the mining and power segments was down 9.8 per cent and 1.8 per cent, respectively. “It may not be appropriate to compare the IIP in the post pandemic months with the IIP for months preceding the pandemic,” the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said in a statement. The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, fell 15.4 per cent in August against a contraction of 20.9 per cent earlier. Consumer durables output also declined 10.3 per cent against a contraction of 9.7 per cent in August 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 3.3 per cent compared with a growth of 3.1 per cent a year ago. Meanwhile, the contraction in IIP in July has been revised to (-)10.8 per cent from the (-) 10.4 per cent provisional data released last month. The May IIP has been revised marginally to a 33.4 per cent contraction from a 33.9 per cent decline. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, the Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) crossed the double-digit mark and was 10.68 per cent in September. The inflation in the vegetable segment was 20.73 per cent in September, significantly up from 11.41 per cent in the preceding month. The rate of price rise in protein-rich eggs was 15.47 per cent in September compared with 10.11 per cent in August. Economists said food prices soared because of a pick-up in demand ahead of the festival season and supply-side disruptions caused by the coronavirus lockdown. The Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was 6.69 per cent in August and 3.99 per cent in September 2019. Retail inflation has remained above 4 per cent, the middle-point of the RBI’s target of 2-6 per cent, for a year. The previous high in the CPI was witnessed at 7.59 per cent in January 2020. “Our concerns on stagflation appear to be getting stronger and while the RBI has communicated its decision on continuing with an accommodative environment well into next fiscal, such increasing levels of inflation will clearly be a concern for policymakers,” said Suman Chowdhury, chief analytical officer, Acuite Ratings & Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||Unused LTC as stimulus bait in festive season||At a time air and train travel has virtually dried up, the Modi government is looking to unlock spending in the leave travel concession (LTC) which is not being availed and by reintroducing the Rs 10,000 festival advance. “This is expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, voicing a plan to boost the economy ahead of the festival season when people tend to spend more. There is a rider: employees will need to spend three times their entitlements in order to qualify for the tax breaks they get. LTC is tax free for government employees in two years out of a block of every four years. The plan is to persuade government employees to spend the LTC amount on purchases of GST items that attract a rate of 12 per cent or more. This  will hopefully catalyse spending in white goods and home appliances, she said. The festival advance scheme is being brought back as a one-time measure and will involve a disbursal of Rs 4,000 crore. Govt employees will get prepaid Rupay cards with a spending limit of Rs 10,000 that must be spent by March 31 next year when the cards will expire. They cannot be used at ATMs to withdraw cash and can be used only at points of sale. Unspent money will lapse on May 31 next year. The amount is being given in the form of an interest-free advance and will be recovered in 10 equal monthly instalments next year. The Centre says if all the states also adopt the scheme, the spending will go up by another Rs 8,000 crore. However, economists feel the move would not significantly boost consumption at a time Covid-19 related uncertainties remain and the spending measures are not something new. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said: “The consumption push is not really any fresh money in the system... Employees could prefer to use the facility for travel as and when it would be possible – maybe a year down the line rather than spend the money now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||GST Council fails to arrive at borrowing consensus||The GST Council on Monday again failed to arrive at a consensus on how to compensate the states for the shortfall in collections. But finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman appeared to charge the Opposition-ruled states for blocking those who want to take up borrowing option one to meet the shortfall. “Does the collective conscience of the GST Council in its quest for unanimity, which I too strived for, allow us to hold back states which have opted for a borrowing option, saying we have to hold you back till a consensus is arrived at? I asked this to the members,” Sitharaman said after a five-hour council meeting. She said  the Centre would be ready to facilitate those states which have opted for option one and their borrowing rights cannot be held back by others. The political slugfest continued to act as a stumbling block in arriving at a consensus as the 10 opposition states, including Bengal, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, have refused to go by the Centre’s proposals. “The Centre has issued a borrowing calendar, if I go beyond that to borrow, the G-Sec deals which are used as a benchmark for every other borrowing will go up. This will increase borrowing costs for states and the private sector too,” the finance minister said. “An increased borrowed cost is not something we can afford at a time India is looking at more money to invest and to borrow to do business.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac slammed Sitharaman for her move to facilitate the borrowing for the BJP states and those who support the party on various issues. In a tweet, Isaac said: “It is unfortunate that the Union FM does not propose a decision in the Council or even make a statement what she is going to do but chose to make the announcement in the press conference. Why does the Centre refuse to take a decision in the Council? Total disregard for democratic norms.” “The Union FM’s announcement that she is going to permit 21 states to borrow under Option one is illegal. Option one involves deferment of compensation payment beyond five years for which a Council decision is necessary according to the AG’s opinion. No such decision has been made in the Council,” Isaac said in the tweet. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra was equally scathing of Sitharaman. “Today, will @nsitharaman with (PM) Modi’s direction ignore & muzzle views of 10 states at the GST Council, using brute majoritarianism? If she does, it will impart a death blow to cooperative federalism already on ventilator. Will today be marked a black day for India's democracy,” Mitra said in his tweet. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said:  “A stalemate seems to be continuing on the issue of cess. The only certainty is that the levy of cess will continue beyond 2022 which means that eventually it is the consumers who will be funding the shortfall.” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte, said, “Businesses would be keenly waiting to know the period and the terms on which the compensation cess would be extended as that would have a significant bearing on their business plans.” Sitharaman said that majority of the states have agreed on option one where states can borrow up to Rs 1.1 lakh crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI. Other states are of the view that a consensus should be reached. However, Sitharaman said that a lot of members discussed whether the Council has any authority to stop them from going and borrowing funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||Business||Demand tonic: central LTC for shopping, Rs 10,000 advance  ||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced another faux stimulus package that seeks to boost demand in India’s pandemic-battered economy by Rs 73,000 crore this fiscal by persuading high-saving central government employees to open up their wallets during the looming festive season. The central government employees have been allowed to tap into their tax-exempt leave travel concession (LTC) and spend it on a range of white goods, home appliances and other consumer products that attract a goods and services tax rate of 12 per cent and higher. These allowances might have lapsed if employees — who have been loath to go on a holiday during the pandemic — did not use them. Each employee will also be given a pre-paid Rupay card for Rs 10,000 under a special festival advance scheme — an idea being resurrected from the Sixth Pay Commission report — to ignite spending. The interest-free loan will be recovered in 10 instalments next year, officials said. Employees will be allowed to use the card till March 31 after which it will lapse. But like the first stimulus package announced in May, the Narendra Modi government is making very little upfront funding commitments. It will, therefore, not move the needle on its gross borrowings which, officials said, would stay pegged at Rs 12 lakh crore this year. The government is hoping to crank up demand by Rs 36,000 crore by “incentivising” government employees to spend more. Of this, a sum of Rs 28,000 crore will come from an leave travel concession (LTC) voucher scheme and Rs 8,000 crore from a festival advance scheme. It also expects an additional capital expenditure of Rs 37,000 crore by the Centre and the states. An additional capital expenditure of Rs 25,000 crore will be provided in the budget over and above the Rs 4.14 lakh crore allotted. This capital expenditure will be spent on roads, defence infrastructure, water supply, urban development, and domestically produced capital investment. “All these measures are likely to create an additional demand of Rs 73,000 crore),” Sitharaman told a media conference where she unveiled the new package, adding the proposals would stimulate demand in a “fiscally prudent way”. She refused to indicate whether the government was prepared to consider additional stimulus measures between now and the budget which is traditionally presented on the first working day of February. “Let us wait and see the response to these proposals,” she said. “There will be no change in the borrowing target for the current fiscal,” said economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj. “We have taken into account estimates for the stimulus that we would be taking. At this point of time, our estimate remains at Rs 12 lakh crore for the current fiscal,” he said. Economists said the measures were intended to spur consumer and capital spending but their fiscal cost and impact on economic activity appears to be fairly modest. N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics University, Bangalore, said: “The demand side measures would have an immediate impact but the supply side measures would start showing its results with a lag. The stimulus packages announced so far give an indication that the country’s nominal GDP for the current fiscal would be positive. One has to watch out the inflation numbers if the supply constraint fails to cope up with the demand.” Retail inflation rose to 7.34 per cent in September, far above the comfort level of the Reserve Bank of India which prompt the central bank to hold interest rates in the coming months. “The fiscal impact of the additional expenditure by the central government will be around 0.2 per cent of GDP. We expect the fiscal deficit to be around 9.2 per cent for this fiscal assuming these funds have to be raised by the Centre this year to finance such spending,”  said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said: “We anticipate that the LTC and festival advance schemes will result in a temporary boost to consumer sentiment and economic activity, with a sharper pick up in festive season sales that would subsequently fizzle out…. The relatively small magnitude of the long-term loans to be provided by the Centre to the states is unlikely to provide any meaningful boost to capex in FY2021, in our assessment, although it may allow for an accelerated settlement of pending dues of contractors or suppliers.” “The timing of these announcements is just right as we are entering the festival season and this should help improve consumer sentiment and demand in the economy. These announcements also give us additional reasons to review the GDP growth forecast for the full year and we hope to be back in the positive growth terrain by the last quarter of this fiscal,” said Ficci president Sangita Reddy. Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of CII, said: “The two-pronged strategy will provide a huge impetus to spending both by consumers and government which in turn will accelerate economic activity.” This is the third stimulus package since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government announced the Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKP) in March to protect poor and vulnerable from the impact of the Covid-19 crisis. It was followed by Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore in May, which was largely focused on supply side and long-term reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-265
13-10-2020||India||Modi govt betraying farmers, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again attacked the Centre over the recently enacted agriculture-related legislations, saying the farmers gave the country food security, but the Modi government just "betrayed" them. The three farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. Tagging a video which had snippets from his recent visits to Punjab and Haryana during which he held tractor rallies and public meetings against the laws, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, "The farmers gave the country food security, and the Modi government only betrayed them. But not anymore." The 3.31-minute video also featured comments of farmers saying they will protest against and oppose these laws vehemently. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against these legislations, claiming these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Earlier in the day, Gandhi also tagged a video report by a media portal on caste discrimination prevailing in Hathras and said the video was for those who "were running away from reality". "We will change, the country will change," he said in a tweet in Hindi. In a tweet on Sunday, Gandhi had said the shameful truth is many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human. The Congress has been attacking the UP government over the Hathras incident in which a 19-year-old Dalit woman from the district was allegedly raped and attacked by four men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Nitish mocks RJD claims in his second virtual poll rally||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday mocked rivals claim of bringing qualitative changes in the health and other fields if voted to power, asking them to look back at their track record during 15 years they were in power in the state. After he took reins of the state in 2005 end, a survey was conducted in February 2006 in which it came to light that only 39 people used to visit a primary health centre in the state in a month before him, while the figure now stands at 10,000 visitors per month because of substantive improvement in the healthcare system, he said. Kumar was addressing a virtual poll rally in support of JD(U) candidates trying their luck in the first phase of voting on October 28. Kumar, who also heads the ruling JD(U), kicked off election campaign Monday. He has already announced that from Wednesday he would start touring constituencies to garner vote in favour of the NDA nominees. The JD(U) chief who has already made it clear that "15 years vs 15 years" would be the narrative for the present elections, reeled out comparative data during the two equal periods in different fields and urged voters to make a judgement and then vote. Without taking any name, Kumar sought to make light of the "tall claims" made by the rival RJD leaders of "bringing heaven on the earth" if voted to power. The Bihar chief minister had Monday ridiculed the RJD's claim of approving 10 lakh government jobs at the very first cabinet on coming to power and wondered whether cabinet meetings were held properly during the 15 years of its rule. "See our work. We know how to do a work and how to get it done from others. On the other hand there are people who don't have any experience...what is needed in Bihar they have neither any idea nor any experience to perform," the JD (U) star campaigner said wryly. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad's younger son Tejashwi Yadav has been declared as chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance which also comprises of Congress and the Left parties. Tejashwi, less than half the age of Kumar whom he addresses as "chacha" (uncle), is pitted against experienced Kumar who is seeking fourth straight term in power in the current elections. The RJD was in power in Bihar from 1990 to 2005. Kumar is at the helm of state affairs since then. Altogether 71 constituencies will be held in Bihar's first phase of Assembly election. The JD(U) president reiterated that if voters give him another chance, his government would unroll "Saat Nischay" (Seven resolves) part II, to take up more developmental programmes in the state. Seven resolves part I, launched by the Nitish Kumar administration for its 2015-20 term, comprised seven schemes to ensure basic necessities such as supply of piped drinking water, construction of toilets and concrete drains and electricity connection to every household. Most of the projects have been completed. Its second part will focus on enhancing skill of youths to brighten their jobs prospect, promoting entrepreneurship among women by providing them financial assistance, irrigation facility to every agriculture field and additional health facilities for people and animals. Seeking to puncture the opponents claim on job creation, he said, during their 15 years rule a total of 95,734 people got recruitment in the government when even Jharkhand was part of it for the first 10 years. "During our 15 years, over 6 lakh youth received jobs," Kumar said. Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000. In a bid to reach out to the minority muslim voters, Kumar, the CM face of the NDA, refered to 1989-90 commnunal riots in Bhagalpur in which over 1000 people were killed in the communal clashes. "They seek vote in the name of minorities but did they do anything for them?" when we came to power the victim families of Bhagalpur riots were given a monthly pension of Rs 2500 every month which was doubled to Rs 5000 in 2013," he said. Bihar has a GDP of Rs 4,14,977 crore now which was a meagre Rs 88,000 crore in 2006-07, he underscored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Farm reforms to help turn farmers into entrepreneurs, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government's 'historic' farm reforms will create opportunities to take farmers to entrepreneurship and added his regime is focused on increasing their income. Modi was speaking after releasing the autobiography of former Union Minister Balasaheb Vikhe Patil and renaming the Pravara Rural Education Society in Ahmednagar district after the Padma Bhushan recipient, via video conferencing. Terming the farm reforms as historic, the prime minister said, "Today opportunities are being created to take farming and farmers from the role of annadata (food provider) to entrepreneurship." Referring to high milk, sugar, and wheat production in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana and Punjab, Modi said such models of local enterprise will take the country forward. He said there was a time after Independence when the country did not have sufficient food stock. "The governments priority then was to increase food production. So the entire focus was on increasing production.Farmers toiled hard to achieve the objective. "But the attention of the governments and policies, while being concerned about increasing productivity, did not go towards profitability of farmers," Modi said. "People forgot about income for farmers. But for the first time, this thinking has been changed," he said and listed steps the Centre has taken for the welfare of farmers. Modi listed measures taken by his government like implementing and increasing MSP, urea neem coating and better crop insurance for "doing away worries of farmers". He also spoke of direct transfer of Rs one lakh crore in the bank accounts of farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. "And there are no middlemen (involved). Not only this, there has been unprecedented work on setting up cold chains, mega food parks and agro processing infrastructure," he said. In Maharashtra, efforts were strengthened after 2014 (when the BJP came to power) to supply water for drinking and agriculture purposes, he said. Under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayi Yojana, 26 long-pending irrigation schemes from Maharashtra were expedited and work on nine of them was completed, Modi said. These schemes will help provide irrigation to five lakh hectare area, he said. "In July 2018, work on 90 irrigation schemes was initiated. Around four lakh hectare land will be provided irrigation facility when these schemes are completed in two- three years," he said. Modi said microfinance has a special role in the economy and social order of villages, adding that under the Centres Mudra Yojana, self-employment possibilities have gone up. Seven crore women of self-help groups have been given loans of over Rs three lakh crore in the country, he said. Noting that the Covid-19 threat still persists, Modi said people should not show dhilaai (laxity) towards COVID-19, observe social distancing norms and maintain personal hygiene till a vaccine is available. Modi said the concern is more in Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India. "I request people of Maharashtra that there should be no lax attitude towards wearing face masks, washing hands regularly, maintaining cleanliness and observing physical distance norms. "We have to always remember that there should be no laxity till there is a vaccine. We will definitely win this battle," he added. Modi eulogised Balasaheb Vikhe Patil for dedicating his life for the welfare of the poor, farmers and villagers and also lauded his work in education sector, adding his contribution in these areas and the cooperative movement will inspire generations. The 713-page Marathi autobiography is titled Deh Vechava Karani. Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, son of late Balasaheb Vikhe Patil, said Modi had agreed to come to Loni in Ahmednagar district in April to launch the book, but the event could not happen due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took part in the event via video conferencing. State BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil also spoke at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Wear masks, save 1.27 lakh Indians||The universal use of masks as advocated by health authorities could save over 127,000 lives in India by reducing coronavirus death counts by a third up to February, US researchers have predicted through a modelling exercise. The researchers have predicted that coronavirus disease deaths in India would reduce from their projections of 349,000 by February 1, 2021, to 222,000, if mask use increased to 95 per cent from the current estimated 70 per cent. The India calculations are part of a broader effort by the University of Washington researchers to forecast Covid-19 epidemic’s trajectories worldwide under universal use of masks that they say can reduce infections for mask-wearers by at least one-third. Although India has recorded a near-steady decline in daily new Covid-19 cases for over three weeks — from a seven-day average of 97,800 on September 16 to 70,960 on October 11 — public health experts remain apprehensive about a surge in infections. The UW model has forecast large increases in infections and deaths in many countries, including India, in the northern hemisphere, due to seasonal disease transmission patterns, declining use of masks and increasing people-to-people contact. The researchers used online social media platforms to estimate observed mask use across the world and estimated the average mask use in India was nearly 70 per cent. At this same level of mask use, the study predicts around 349,000 deaths by February 1 next year. But if mask use was to increase within a week to 95 per cent — meaning 95 per cent people would wear masks whenever they move out of their homes — the death counts fall to 222,000, a 36 per cent decline. “Masks are a low-cost intervention available and accessible to all people regardless of socio-economic status,” Emmanuela Gakidou, professor of global health and health metrics sciences at the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation at University of Washington who led the study, told The Telegraph via email. Gakidou and her colleagues have posted their study — which is not peer-reviewed yet — on medRxiv, an online archive for preprints. Their latest analysis — available online as an interactive visualisation tool — also predicts state-specific reductions in deaths in India through universal mask use. For instance, their current model analysis has predicted Delhi’s Covid-19 death counts would cross 13,000 by February 1 under default mask use of around 67 per cent, but drop to 10,000 under universal mask use. Similarly, universal mask use would reduce Bengal’s counts from 35,000 to 16,000, while Maharashtra’s counts would fall from 83,000 to 68,000. Some health experts have cautioned that such forecasts are based on numerous assumptions that might not reflect reality. Human behaviour, for instance, which determines mask use and physical distancing is hard to model into epidemiological forecasts, said a senior virologist. However, all health experts underscore the need to promote universal mask use. The UW analysis has found countries such as Argentina, Singapore and Spain have achieved over 90 per cent mask use, showing that 95 per cent is a tangible goal. The UW study’s projections of a sharp rise in the numbers of infections and deaths in India from mid-November onward is something many health experts in the country are already concerned about. “We should be anticipating more cases in the winter months and the possibility of super spreading during the festive season,” said Ramanan Laxminarayanan, an epidemiologist and director of the US-based research think tank Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy. Gakidou said the study highlights the potential of masks to significantly reduce death counts. “It is rare to encounter effective, low-cost and universally available interventions that can save lives immediately, equitably and safely,” she said. “Ensuring all individuals and local and national decision-makers are doing everything to achieve the highest rates of mask use is of the best strategies to mitigate the toll of the pandemic in the months to come.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Bollywood production houses, organisations sue Republic TV and Times now||Many of the biggest names in the Hindi film industry have closed ranks for an unparalleled initiative to file a petition in Delhi High Court seeking succour from a vicious “smear campaign” being pursued by two television channels and their studio spearheads. As many as four industry organisations and 34 production houses associated with the who’s who of Bollywood have filed the lawsuit seeking a restraining order on Republic TV, Times Now, their lead anchors and social media platforms that have been targeting the industry in the guise of seeking “justice” for the late actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. The plea seeks a court directive to Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar and unknown defendants to refrain from making or publishing irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks against the film industry. The petition marks a milestone moment in showbiz that usually fights shy of stepping up and taking a collective stand on raging issues. Regardless of the outcome of the legal measure and the durability of the solidarity, the initiative is all the more remarkable because of a perception that the slander campaign has the tacit approval of the Centre that is eager to keep the diversionary pot boiling. Bollywood’s decision not to take it lying down anymore also comes at a time any sign of dissent or defiance is being crushed using the instruments of State. The production houses which have signed up include that of Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Anil Ambani, Ramesh Sippy and Karan Johar. (See chart) The petitioners include the Producers Guild of India, the Cine and TV Artistes Association, the Film and TV Producers Council and the Screenwriters Association. A standout name among the production houses is Cape of Good Hope Films, a subsidiary of Hari Om Entertainment that is owned by Akshay Kumar. The star had hit the headlines just before the last general election when he interviewed Narendra Modi and helped enlighten the nation on the mango-munching style of the Prime Minister. Industry sources suggested that not all who had lent their names necessarily share the same views but they had little option but to join the parade in the face of such a concerted drive that also mentioned how livelihoods are being put at risk because of the television campaign. Reacting to the petition, Suhas Palshikar, a Pune-based political scientist, tweeted: “Filing suit is fine. Real test will be whether the industry succumbs to pressures about what it should and should not place before the public. The war is over culture. And of course who it gives money to and what political stand it takes.’’ Some critics described the petition as an attack on freedom of expression. But the petition makes it clear that it is not seeking a gag order. The petitioners said they are “not seeking a blanket gag order” but want the defendants to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules and to recall and take down all the defamatory content published by them against the film industry. “This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as ‘dirt’, ‘filth’, ‘scum’, ‘druggies’ and expressions such as ‘it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned’, ‘all the perfumes of Arabia cannot take away the stench and the stink of this filth and scum of the underbelly of Bollywood’, ‘this is the dirtiest industry in the country’, and ‘cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood’,” the suit filed through DSK Legal firm said. The industry, the filmmakers said, is unique and dependent almost solely on the goodwill, appreciation and acceptance of its audience. It is also a big source of employment and the livelihood of persons associated with it is “severely impacted” by the smear campaign being run by the defendants, the plea said. The producers also issued a statement that ended with the hashtag #Bollywood Strikes Back. “The entire industry was pained by the malicious media trials going on for the past few months now…. We thought it was about time to unite and fight this and decided to go to the court,” a member of the Screenwriters Association told PTI. “The industry has more than 5 lakh people working in various capacities. The name-calling was affecting even spot boys. This was the last resort and we aim to fight it out legally,” he said. A prominent producer added that the idea was to take a dignified approach. “This is an initiative championed by the Producers Guild and they have thought about it wisely and we are happy to support anything that is about promoting good and peaceful work in these uncertain times,” the producer said. The head of a prominent production house said:  “When we talk about Bollywood, it is not about 20 superstars, there are workers, producers, technicians and others who are also a part of the industry. They are killing the whole industry, which provides livelihood to millions of people. You can’t conduct a media trial.” Several filmmakers welcomed the initiative — the mood summed up by director Hansal Mehta’s tweet: “About Time”. Unsurprisingly, a contrarian was actress Kangana Ranaut who tweeted: “Bullywood the gutter of drugs, exploitation, nepotism and jihad….” Times Now group editor Navika Kumar responded to the petition by tweeting: “If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on. All the a-listers can come together but India will continue to fight for the truth. You can’t intimidate us…..” She tagged Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and Karan Johar, prompting many on Twitter to point out that she had not tagged Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn. Did she not think the two were A-listers, the Twitterati asked. Others joked that she had not dared to tag Bhai, possibly a reference to Salman Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Independent probe into Delhi riots||Several senior retired judges and bureaucrats have formed a committee headed by former Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur to probe the Delhi riots, in the light of “extensive critical commentary” of the investigations by Delhi police. Besides Justice Lokur, others in the committee include Justices A.P. Shah, former chief justice of the Madras and Delhi high courts and former chairman of the Law Commission of India; Justice R.S. Sodhi, former judge of Delhi High Court; Justice Anjana Prakash, former judge of Patna High Court; former Union home secretary G.K. Pillai and Meeran Chadha Borwankar, who retired as director-general, Bureau of Police Research and Development. All of them are part of the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), a collective that has spoken out against the harassment of anti-CAA activists on the pretext of investigation into the riots. A member of the panel told The Telegraph: “We cannot force anyone to testify, but notices will be issued to ask people to submit affidavits. We will also ask the authorities to explain what they are doing. We will examine information such as FIRs and chargesheets which are in the public domain.” The source added: “The objective is to bring correct facts in front of the public. It may not be admissible in a court of law… We will conduct the proceedings on the lines a commission of inquiry follows.” In 2018, Justice Lokur had addressed a news conference along with fellow apex court judges Ranjan Gogoi, Kurian Joseph and J. Chelameswar, to speak out against the functioning of then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra. Pillai had criticised the previous Congress-led government for giving two affidavits on the Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case, one of which omitted to mention that those killed were members of the Lashkar-e-Toiba. The collective said in a statement: “Considering the horrific nature of the riots in North-East Delhi in February 2020, the scale of violence, the loss of lives and the resulting communal divide between communities, we felt that an expert body should carry out a thorough examination of what transpired before, during and after the riots. This has become even more necessary as the investigation carried out into the riots by the Delhi police has evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times. We therefore conclude that a Committee with credible reputations in the higher judiciary, the civil service and the police would be best suited to contribute to an objective and fair understanding of the riots and their aftermath.” The terms of reference, stated by the group, are: “1. To inquire into the events that transpired before and during the riots, including the response of the state machinery in dealing with the violence, restoring law and order, and related matters; 2. To analyse and assess the response of the police in investigating the riots; 3. To examine the role of the mainstream and social media in spreading information, both genuine and fake, before, during and after the riots, and its impact on events, and 4. To assess the civic administration’s efforts at providing relief and extending reparations to the victims of riots.” In the recent past, the police had ignored requests for information from a Delhi Minority Commission probe that accused BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, of inciting the riots in February that killed 53 people. No “commission of inquiry” has been instituted for the riots so far. In Delhi, only the Centre has the powers to set up such a commission before whom witnesses can be compelled to depose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||Congress: Govt does not understand economy||The Congress on Monday yet again questioned the Narendra Modi government’s basic understanding of the economy, asserting that wrong policies were more an outcome of “misguided thinking” than “misplaced priorities”. Responding to the fresh “stimulus package” announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “This government does not understand how the economy functions. When all the economists suggested measures to generate demand, the government offered loans. Now the wisdom has dawned on them that the demand side needs to be addressed, but they fail to offer anything substantive.” Vallabh added: “They played havoc with the economy because of their poor understanding. It all started with demonetisation, followed by a flawed GST. They talked of a stimulus package worth Rs 20 lakh crore, which turned out to be less than Rs 2 lakh crore. All their remedies ended up hurting the economy more. Initially, the global agencies estimated the Indian economy will contract by around 3 per cent. After the much hyped Rs 20 lakh crore package, they lowered the estimate to 6 per cent and now they say the contraction will be minus 10-14 per cent.” The party’s data analytics department chairman, Praveen Chakravarty, said: “The experts, the World Bank and the IMF are saying this is not the time to think about rating downgrade. But we are letting millions of people slip into poverty because some foreign rating agencies are blackmailing us. I thought we got independence in 1947.” On whether the government had misplaced priorities, Chakravarty said: “No it is misguided thinking. They have no idea. They gave tax relief to the corporates… what happened? It’s all confused and muddled. We saw this for six years now. Now they are telling government employees how to spend their own money. They have done nothing for the 40-crore poor people. The Rs 20 lakh crore package did nothing, this new package will do nothing. The economy is not Modi’s cabinet, which will get stimulated by one man’s words and headline management.” Vallabh and Chakravarty said in a joint statement: “The government employees already have leave travel allowance as part of their salary. Today, the finance minister told them that they should now spend this on goods with greater than 12 per cent GST at a GST-registered store in non-cash form. Essentially, the minister ordered government employees how to spend their own money and called it a stimulus for demand. We have been vouching for the NYAY scheme to be implemented. Only money in the hands of the people can stimulate demand.” Arguing that the package should truly be in the form of cash in hand and not diversion of cash from one area to another, like the government has announced in case of LTC cash voucher scheme and festival advance,the statement explained, “The finance minister forgot the most basic lesson about money — it is fungible. Whether it is called LTC or festival advance, money is money for the individual... Unless there is additional money, the individual is not going to spend more. So, where is the question of a demand stimulus?” They added, “How much more money was given to states? Rs 12,000 crore, which is a paltry 1.3 per cent of the states’ total capital expenditure budget for the financial year which is Rs 9 lakh crore. Overall, there was no extra spending to boost demand and the increase in states’ capital expenditure is paltry and untimely. A stimulus by definition means extra or additional. Did the announcements made today provide anything substantially extra or additional for the economy? The finance minister concluded by saying ‘today’s solutions should not become tomorrow’s problems’. We would like to conclude by saying — today’s problems could become tomorrow’s nightmares.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
13-10-2020||India||DU caste certificate hurdle for OBC student ||A student from Uttar Pradesh got a big jolt on Monday when her application for admission into a Delhi University college under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) non-creamy layer category was rejected on the grounds of inadequate caste document. The girl belonging to the Halwai caste, traditionally in the sweet-making business, had obtained a caste certificate mentioning that Halwai is a caste on the OBC list in Uttar Pradesh. But DU, a central university, wanted a certificate that stated that the caste was on the central OBC list. “Halwai is a caste in the central OBC list too. But because of lockdown and corona fear, we did not go to the office of the tehsildar to correct the OBC certificate. Today DU rejected my application. If they give me two days, I will get it corrected,” the student said. Several OBC students had similar complaints about rejection of application by the university on the ground of deficiencies in their caste documents. The university rejected candidates who had certificates mentioning the caste on the central list if the certificates were issued in the last financial year. The university insisted that the students have to produce certificates issued in the current financial year. This is in violation of instructions issued by department of personnel and training (DoPT), the nodal ministry for issuing guidelines for implementation of reservation norms. The department had said candidates lacking latest documents may be given provisional admission and reasonable time to produce the required documents for confirmation. The National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) has also disapproved the DU’s admission criteria that requires submission of a non-creamy layer certificate issued after March 31, 2020. Sudhansu Kumar, a teacher, alleged that DU was insisting on a caste certificate for the latest year for OBC students while it was lenient for students under the economically weaker sections (EWS) who have to produce income certificates. Students from OBC non-creamy layer are entitled for 27 per cent reservation while EWS students from privileged castes get 10 per cent reservation. “DU is entertaining the certificates obtained by EWS students before March 31 but not considering the genuine grievances of OBC candidates. This is discrimination. We will challenge it in all forums, including the NCBC,” said Kumar. The NCBC on July 10 wrote to the University Grants Commission (UGC) that institutions should not insist on non-creamy layer certificates issued after March 31, 2020, for the 2019-20 financial year. It had received representations from students of various institutions on the discriminatory approach of universities towards OBC students seeking admission under 27 per cent reservation meant for non-creamy layer groups. The criterion for non-creamy layer status is annual parental income of Rs 8 lakh. The institutions usually ask for non-creamy layer certificate issued in the current financial year for the last financial year while giving admission. The DU prospectus states that students may register for admission without the latest creamy layer certificate but that they will have to produce the document at the time of admission. The commission ordered that the requirement as mentioned in the DU prospectus should be in line with the norms of DoPT, which is the nodal ministry for the reservation issue. “In the present corona situation asking for a certificate issued after 31st March 2020 or later is against any government’s repeated declaration of lockdown and precaution against spread of pandemic,” the NCBC order said. Hansraj Suman, another teacher, said that many seats meant for OBCs will remain vacant this year because of the rigid attitude of the university. Despite calls to the university’s dean (admissions), Prof. Shobha Bagai, no comments could be obtained. An email sent to the vice-chancellor was not answered. The DU started its first phase of admissions on Monday for 66,000 seats in 60 colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Sikkim paragliders wait in the wings||Doors to Sikkim were thrown open for tourists on Saturday, but it would take a little while before the skies, too, are opened up for thrill-seekers among the visitors. The Sikkim Paragliding Association (SPA) is still in preparation mode following seven months of not flying because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 50-odd commercial paragliders of the association are readying to take wings latest by November 1. “We had kept our equipment under locks for seven months. We are now in the process of unlocking them. It will take some more days before they are all tested and ready to be used for flying. We should be up and flying latest by November 1,” Arjun Rai, the technical head of SPA, told The Telegraph. Paragliding is one of the major attractions for tourists seeking adventure. The SPA carries out two categories of paid sorties for tourists. The short duration middle flight takes off from an altitude of 1450m and lands at an altitude of 1,100m and the longer high flight from 2,100m to 1,100m. During the tourist season, on an average, about 150 thrill-seekers enjoy paragliding every day. The tandem flights have a passenger besides the pilot. “We charge Rs 3,000 for the middle flight which is for five to ten minutes of duration and Rs 6,000 for the high flight which can extend from 15 to 30 minutes. During the tourist season, we conduct about 150 flights per day,” said Rai. Paragliding provides direct employment to about 100 youths. “Our association has about 100 members, but not all are into commercial flying. Only 50-odd of us are commercial pilots. However, there are boys who help us with packing and unpacking. There are flying marshals who help us at the take-off points. Then, there are drivers. In all, about 100 of us find gainful employment through paragliding,” said the SPA president. Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association (SHRA) would conduct a three-day training programme from Tuesday to familiarise the hotel operators with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and the official portal of the state tourism department. The SHRA has invited all hotels to attend the training programme which will be held at the Orange Village Resort in Gangtok. The first day’s programme would begin at 1pm and the subsequent two days at 11am. An SOP training completion certificate would be provided to all the participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Dalit woman gang-raped in Bihar||A Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped and her five-year-old son killed by five persons in Bihar’s Buxar district on Saturday, leading to an outcry from various sections of the society. The perpetrators, who were allegedly inebriated, tied the woman and her son with wire and threw them into a canal. The woman survived but the child drowned. According to the woman’s father, she had gone to withdraw money from a bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Khushbu joins BJP, hails Modi’s leadership||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar on Monday quit the Congress and joined the BJP, hailing the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I have come to the understanding that if the nation has to move forward then we need somebody like Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the country in the right direction,” Khushbu, who had attacked Modi in the past, said. The BJP saw the joining as a big catch and hoped it would help the party expand wings in Tamil Nadu, due for elections next year. Khushbu joined the BJP hours after the Congress removed her from the post of spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Mumbai hit by power outage ||Millions went without power in India’s financial capital Mumbai and surrounding areas for hours on Monday after a grid failure triggered its first major blackout in more than two years. The outage stranded thousands of train passengers, disrupted online classes and affected mobile telephone services before power was restored to most parts of the city of some 20 million. The grid failure was caused by “technical problems” during maintenance work, Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut said. In mid-2018, a fire at a transformer sparked similar power cuts in the city and its suburbs. Throughout Monday’s breakdown, Mumbai’s international airport and the country’s two main stock exchanges in the city, the NSE and the BSE, operated normally. “Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai, suburbs... have been restored. Non-essential services will also be restored shortly,” Raut said on Twitter. The government-run Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport agency, Adani Power and Tata Power — the three main suppliers to Mumbai — had all been affected by the outage that extended to hospitals, many of which are treating Covid patients. Mumbai municipal commissioner I.S. Chahal instructed the staff to bolster diesel supply to last up to eight hours and also scout for mobile diesel generator vans that are used at film shoots as a standby. Mumbai’s trains resumed operations after more than two hours of inactivity. Train services in the city have been curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and they are carrying far fewer passengers than usual. Still, social media was splashed with pictures of people stranded inside dark trains and in railway stations. The disruptions did not curb Mumbaikars’ sense of humour though. “Do you have ice-cream in your freezer, Mumbaikar? Eat it now,” tweeted a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Defence minister hints at Pakistan, China border threat ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday hinted at a collusive threat from Pakistan and China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh and stressed the need for better road connectivity along border areas with the two countries. “You are well aware of the situation created along our northern and eastern borders. First Pakistan, and now also by China, as if a border dispute is being created under a mission by the two countries. We have a border of about 7,000km with these countries,” Singh said during the inauguration of 44 bridges at an online event. The defence minister’s statement comes amid the latest intelligence report which has suggested that Chinese troops were conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region. Last week, the Indian Air Force chief, Air Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, had also highlighted how the Chinese and Pakistani armies were carrying out joint exercises. Inaugurating 44 bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, the defence minister said improved border infrastructure will significantly help armed forces in ensuring quick movement of troops and weapons. “These roads are not only for strategic needs, but they also reflect equal participation of all stakeholders in the development of the nation,” he said. Most of these bridges, including eight in Ladakh, enhance connectivity to areas leading up to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as a push to infrastructure amid the India-China standoff. Ten of these bridges are in Jammu and Kashmir and will improve road connectivity to the Line of Control with Pakistan. Rajnath also laid the foundation stone of the strategically important Nechiphu Tunnel on the road to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. This 450-metre-long, bi-lane tunnel will ensure all-weather connectivity across Nechiphu pass, besides providing safe and secure passage through accident-prone areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||India||Allahabad HC begins hearing Hathras case||The Hathras victim’s family appeared before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday, which heard the matter for two hours before posting the next hearing for November 2. Taking suo motu cognisance of reports of police burning the body of the 19-year-old gangrape-and-murder victim on September 30 without the consent of her parents, the court had on October 1 issued summons to senior administrative and police officers of Uttar Pradesh and also asked the victim’s family to be present before it. The victim’s parents and officials appeared before the bench of Justice Pankaj Mittal and Justice Rajan Roy. Seema Kushwaha, counsel for the family, told reporters the bench was concerned about the burning of the girl’s body without the knowledge of her family. Kushwaha said the court rebuked Uttar Pradesh additional director-general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar for making a public statement that it was not a case of gangrape. “The court questioned the way the officer made the statement and asked him to see the changes brought in the act with regard to the definition of rape in 2013. The court asked the officers whether they would have treated the dead in a similar manner if she belonged to a rich family,” Kushwaha added. Vinod Rai, additional advocate-general of state government, said: “The court has to take a decision with regard to the cremation of the victim. The case has been listed for November 2.” Besides Prashant Kumar, additional chief secretary of the home department Avanish Awasthi, director-general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi, Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar and the then superintendent of police Vikram Veer, who was suspended on October 1, were present in the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-617
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee is doing marginally better||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who is in hospital after testing positive for coronavirus, remained "critical" on Tuesday though his health condition improved a little in the afternoon prompting doctors to put on hold invasive ventilation. The 85-year-old thespian, who has several comorbidities including prostatic carcinoma and probable lung metastasis, was administered oxygen therapy, docgtors treating him said. He is haemodynamically stable and not on medication to raise low blood pressure. "Following it we have decided to keep a hold on invasive airway protection," they said. There is marginal improvement in Chatterjee's neurological status and no structural neurological abnormality was detected in his NCCT brain and MRI. He, however, continues to be restless, arousable, has mild agitation and involuntary limb movements but no focal or generalised seizure event occurred, the doctors said. "Chatterjee is still in a confusional state which is progressive in nature with Covid-related encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy (brain disease)," they said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. The Dada Saheb Phalke awardee has been running high fever since Sunday afternoon. Doctors are planning to conduct another test to check if the high fever was due to the Covid- 19 infection. His daughter Poulomi Basu said in a statement, "My father is doing marginally better, he is slightly more stable, there has been improvement if only 1 per cent. "He was removed from BI-PAP support this morning... As of now the doctors are not considering invasive ventilation," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Cultural gigs at Bengal-run resorts to boost tourism||The state tourism department has decided to engage folk artistes and cultural troupes to entertain tourists who check into resorts and lodges run by the department across Bengal. The aim of the initiative is two-fold, said department sources. While tourists will get the opportunity to experience local folk and tribal culture, artistes can make some money. In north Bengal, particularly in the Dooars, folk troupes regularly  perform at government and private resorts and lodges in the evening hours to entertain visitors, but the pandemic-induced lockdown dried up their income. “That is why the initiative has been planned along with the state information and cultural affairs department. We will start such cultural evenings from next week in all our lodges and resorts,” said Jyoti Ghosh, deputy director of tourism in north Bengal. Sources revealed that the information and cultural affairs department will sent the troupes to the properties run by the tourism department. Among these are Bhorer Alo in Gajoldoba, Tilabari, Murti Tourism Resort near Gorumara National Park, and the tourist lodge in Madarihat, the entry point to the Jaldapara National Park. “The troupes will perform in their traditional attire and play traditional musical instruments. It will be a new experience for tourists, thousands of whom are expected to visit the region from next week onwards during the festive season,” said a tourism official. Surya Banerjee, the district information & cultural officer (DICO) of Jalpaiguri, said they were planning to host 45-minute events in each venue. Initially, such events will be held thrice a week, on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. “But if we get good response and there are tourists in these accommodations on other days, we will sent cultural troupes to the resorts every day. For each performance, we will hand over an honorarium to artistes,” Banerjee said. To contact them, his department will use its database of folk artistes. In Bengal, thousands of folk artistes and groups/troupes are enrolled with the department. The DICO added that troupes would obey social distancing and perform in open spaces at resorts. If there is no such space in a property, banquet or conference halls would be used. Microphones won’t be used at because all these properties are near reserve forests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul talks tough on train routes||TMC leaders in Jalpaiguri have threatened to launch a movement against the railways’ decision to run two special trains that bypass Jalpaiguri and Haldibari. From October 15, two special trains will run on the routes of Teesta-Torsha Express and Darjeeling Mail. While one will connect New Alipurduar with Sealdah, the other New Jalpaiguri with Sealdah. For years now, link coaches of both trains originate and terminate in Haldibari every day. The coaches move via Jalpaiguri Town station and are attached with the main train in Raninagar-Jalpaiguri and New Jalpaiguri stations. “However, railways announced that rakes of these two trains will now run as special trains, and originate and terminate at NJP (New Jalpaiguri) and New Alipurduar stations. This means residents of Haldibari and Jalpaiguri will have to reach other stations by road to take these trains. We find no logic as to why the link coaches won’t run on this route. If the railways do not change their decision, we will launch a movement,” said K.K. Kalyani, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul chief. Jayanta Roy, the BJP MP of Jalpaiguri, said TMC was making an unnecessary fuss over special trains. “These are special trains. Once situation becomes normal and all train services are restored, Darjeeling Mail and Teesta-Torsha Express will run on their old routes and so will link coaches. Trinamul is trying to prove that these trains will never move through Jalpaiguri, which is completely wrong. They are trying to play politics,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda girl missing, kin suspect kidnap||Family members of a 13-year-old girl who went missing from a village in Malda district on October 9 suspect she was abducted and trafficked. The girl’s relatives alleged police inaction and demanded immediate action to trace her. The law enforcers, however, said they had identified the suspected abductor, registered a case against him and were trying to find out the girl’s whereabouts. Sources said the Class VII student had left her home to take private tuitions on October 9 and did not return. “We enquired with the tutor who said she did not attend the tuition on that day. It seems she was abducted soon after she had stepped out of home. We have learnt from some people that one youth kidnapped her. We are worried over her safety and suspect she was trafficked,” said the girl’s brother. The youth suspected of having kidnapped the girl hasn’t been at his home for the past few days, the sources said. The inspector-in-charge of the police station where the case was registered against the accused said: “We are searching for him. We have received some inputs about the girl’s probable current location. The information is being verified and if it is correct, police will rescue her immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Truck mows down three pedestrians on NH12||Three persons were killed on NH12 near Tokipur village in Murshidabad district’s Rejinagar around 5am on Monday when a speeding truck careened off the highway and ran over them. Dilwar Hossain, 58, Ketab Sheikh, 50, and Manirul Sheikh, 30, were walking back home after prayers at the local mosque when the mishap occurred. Eyewitnesses said the truck rammed into a tree and an electrical pole before running over the three men, with Dilwar and Ketab dying on the spot. Manirul succumbed on way to the hospital. “The incident occurred on the Behrampore-bound flank of the highway,” said a police officer, adding that the thoroughfare was a vital link for vehicles between Calcutta and Siliguri. As news of the deaths spread, angry residents of Tokipur blocked the highway for over two hours, causing a 3km jam of heavy vehicles on the highway. Police dispersed the roadblock shortly after 7am after convincing the villagers that they would arrest the absconding truck driver. Sources said the truck, abandoned by the side of the highway, was seized by the police later in the day. Police suspected the driver had fallen asleep at the wheel. “The bodies have been handed to the families after post-mortem and cases of unnatural death lodged. We will initiate legal action against the absconding driver,” said district police chief K. Sabari Rajkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Staff at Midnapore Covid hospital thrashed, 4 youths held||Three youths from Calcutta, part of a larger group of 12, and a Panskura resident, were arrested early on Monday for allegedly thrashing a security guard, a doctor, and other employees of Boroma Multispecialty Hospital, a dedicated Covid facility, in East Midnapore’s Panskura. Sources said the youths lost their temper when one of their friends — a young woman with stomach pain — was refused treatment under the coronavirus protocol that governs the dedicated Covid-19 facility. The four arrested youths were produced in the Tamluk chief judicial magistrate's court that remanded them to three days of police custody. Syed M.M. Hasan, additional superintendent of police (headquarters), East Midnapore, said: “Three of those arrested are residents of Calcutta’s Science City area, and the fourth is from Panskura.” Sources said the youths had come to the hospital late on Sunday evening with a 26-year-old woman with stomach pain and demanded that she be admitted for treatment. “When the guard refused them entry, the four youths thrashed him mercilessly and then forced their way up into the Covid ward with the patient,” said an eyewitness. It could not be confirmed as per eyewitnesses whether the youths were intoxicated at the time of the incident. “When doctors and nurses refused them treatment at the ward, they thrashed them too, and ransacked property, including computers,” added hospital superintendent Debopam Hazra. He explained that the youths were unwilling to listen to the pleas of doctors regarding government Covid protocol that prevented them from providing treatment. Sources said that as Boroma is a Covid-dedicated hospital, one of the four in the district, its emergency facilities are exclusively meant for Covid patients at the moment. Sources said that the arrested four and the woman were a part of a group of 12 who had driven to Panskura on Sunday night for a party during which the woman fell ill. Following the violence at the hospital, more than 70 personnel from Panskura police station were sent but most could not enter the hospital owing to Covid norms. Finally, after an hour, the youths were taken into custody from Panskura. “The woman in question was taken to Panskura Super Speciality Hospital where a simple antacid relieved her of her pain,” said a source. More than 100 employees of the hospital held a protest demanding the arrest of the culprits. District chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal dubbed the incident “unfortunate”. “I have asked the police to reinforce their presence on our hospital premises,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to launch big-ticket Durga Pujas online||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that her Durga Puja inaugurations this year would be done virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic — a departure from her tradition of visiting some of the most prominent pujas in Calcutta and connecting with people. The chief minister, who inaugurated senior cabinet and party colleague Firhad Hakim’s Chetla Agrani Puja in the evening, told a news meet earlier in the day that it would be the only one that would not be part of the virtual inaugurations this year. Mamata said she would inaugurate handpicked north Calcutta Pujas on Thursday, Behala-Jadavpur Pujas on Friday, and some other south Calcutta Pujas on Saturday. “You know how much I like doing this (read: inaugurating pujas personally), but this year, everything is different…. This is my humble request to all of you. Only for this year, to avoid unnecessary crowding for such events, let’s do the inaugurations virtually…. Those who have emailed the chief minister’s office, asking for inaugurations, we can get all of them for this, virtually, and get it done,” said Mamata on Monday, instructing chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to oversee the process. Mamata, who has been inaugurating 70-odd big-ticket pujas — picked from over 10,000 invites — in and around Calcutta for the past couple of years, takes this job seriously in view of the festival’s emotive appeal. Puja activities have been part of Mamata’s autumnal routine in a big way since her stint as the Union railways minister in the UPA II regime, when her ascent to power in Bengal was deemed a foregone conclusion. Most big-ticket pujas in Calcutta and its surrounding areas are conducted by the heavyweights of her party. The BJP, despite its stellar Lok Sabha results in the state last year, had tried and failed to erode her hegemony in this domain, despite adding the likes of Union home minister Amit Shah and party national chief J.P. Nadda to the mix. “Let’s do this virtually from Nabanna. I will come and do this from here, on all three days. At 5pm. I have a lot of social activities that I have to undertake during this period, but these three evenings, I am keeping (aside) for this,” said Mamata. “I will sit with a ceremonial lamp here. They will all have their ceremonial lamps at the venues. We will all get together, virtually, and get this done. Only for this year,” she added. A Trinamul leader justified her decision, underscoring the need for safety amid the pandemic. Till the 2011 “Poribartan”, the biggest social festival in Bengal used to see many divides north versus south of Calcutta, theme versus tradition, neighbourhood versus neighbourhood. Since 2011, the greatest “divide” is the one that separates Mamata’s trusted lieutenants who vie to make their respective Pujas the biggest crowd-puller. While some, like Ekdalia Evergreen veteran Subrata Mukherjee, have been in the game since the ’70s, others, such as Aroop Biswas of Suruchi Sangha, are the newer heavyweights, having emerged on the scene in the past decade. “They are all equals...united in the cause of Mamata Banerjee. But every autumn, they turn into fierce competitors, not in politics, but Puja,” said the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury does balancing act in Congress revamp||The Congress national leadership on Monday approved the restructuring of the Bengal unit with state party president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury bringing in his favourites but apparently also attempting a balance with inclusion of leaders of various factions. The AICC issued a long list of the restructured committees and office-bearers, which state leaders had been looking forward to for some time. “When Chowdhury was the chief the last time (2014-18), he had been notorious for filling the ranks with his favourites and alienating leaders who were not part of his faction. Chowdhury’s actions had then triggered desertions. This time, he is apparently trying a different approach,” said a state Congress leader. The Behrampore MP was made the Bengal president of the Congress following the death of Somen Mitra. Chowdhury’s nominee, Shadab Khan, had defeated Mitra’s son Rohan in the election to the post of the state youth wing chief in 2018. But Chowdhury has not only elevated Rohan to the post of general-secretary of the parent party but also kept a number of key leaders favoured by the deceased state Congress chief. “Leaders such as Amitabha Chakraborti (convenor, manifesto committee), Sardar Amjad Ali (vice-president), Badal Bhattacharya (convenor, coordination committee) and Santosh Pathak (treasurer) finding themselves on committees is an indicator that Chowdhury wants to do things differently this time,” said a state leader. “For instance, he (Chowdhury) took special care this time to reach out to senior north Bengal leader Deba Prasad Roy who is made a vice-president and included in several committees. He had been displeased with being isolated the last time,” said an MLA close to Chowdhury. The list includes 11 vice-presidents, 14 general-secretaries, committees for coordination, campaign, manifesto, outreach and communication, discipline, state elections, executive members and permanent invitees. “Questions are still being raised over why hardworking leaders such as Chakraborti and Pathak did not find themselves on the crucial 16-member election committee (headed by Chowdhury),” said the leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Give us jobs and ration, chant migrant returnees||Some 200 migrant workers, jobless after being forced to come back home here amid the Covid-induced lockdown, went to the office of the district magistrate and demanded jobs under the 100-days work scheme, free ration and monthly financial aid to survive. In the wake of the nationwide lockdown in March, around 23,000 migrant workers came back to Jalpaiguri in phases. Many of them are jobless or scouting for options. Kamal Roy, a resident of Maynaguri block, said most of them used to work in Kerala. “Ever since we have come back, most of us have not got jobs here. That is why we organised the demonstration and have urged the administration to see that we are provided with jobs under the 100-days work scheme (MGNREGS) and free ration. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and many senior officials in the state government have time and again said that we would get such facilities,” said Roy, who had joined the protest organised under the banner of the Jalpaiguri Zilla Parijayi Shramik Samiti. Umesh Roy, who is from Manikganj in Jalpaiguri Sadar block, said they also wanted the state to give them a monthly aid of Rs 7,500. He added that he was jobless for five months. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary said they would ensure that all these workers get free ration. “So far, around 11,000 migrant workers have been given jobs under the 100-days-scheme. But there are many who have been working in other states and do not have job cards (mandatory for jobs under MGNREGS). They need to be provided with job cards. We are working on the issue,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 600 more beds for Bengal patients ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to add 600 ICU (intensive care unit) and HDU (high dependency unit) beds to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals across the state in the next few weeks in anticipation of a spike in the number of patients during the festive period. The decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet on Monday afternoon where the chief minister discussed the possibility of a surge in Covid cases over the next few months. The cabinet also decided to bring down the cost of RT-PCR test to Rs 1,500 from Rs 2,250 at private establishments. “The state wants to bring down the RT-PCR test to Rs 1,500 from Rs 2,250 at private establishments. Moreover, about 600 ICU and HDU beds would be added to the Covid hospitals in the next two to three weeks,” chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Monday. The decisions, senior government officials said, were in response to the rise in the number of positive cases across the state since the first week of October. “The steps would help the state deal with the rise in cases in the coming days. It is being apprehended that cases would rise alarmingly after Durga Puja. The steps hint that the state is preparing itself to deal with a tough situation after Puja,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the government has already added 48 ICU beds at ESI hospital in Baltukuri near Calcutta and 56 such beds will be set up at M.R. Bangur Hospital here soon. Moreover, 496 ICU or HDU beds would be added to Covid hospitals in the state in the next two to three weeks. At present, the state has a total of 1,247 ICU or HDU beds at the Covid hospitals. With 600 new ICU and HDU beds, the total number of such beds would go up to 1,847. The sources said the state was forced to take the decision after demand for ICU or HDU beds, which help provide necessary life support to critical Covid patients, had increased alarmingly. “The demand for such beds is very high in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. I know some critical patients who had to wait for 24 hours or more to get a bed in ICU at the Covid hospitals in Calcutta. The government had to do something considering the huge demand for ICU beds,” said a senior health department official. The situation has turned critical after the daily counts of positive cases crossed 750 each in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas though the number had come down to 450 and 500 in the two districts, respectively, in mid-September. The decision of bringing down the cost of RT-PCR test at private labs would help the government identify positive patients at the earliest. “This will help in containing the spread in Calcutta where people are comfortable in getting themselves tested at private labs,” said an official. He said a private lab in Calcutta had tested 1.18 lakh samples, while the SSKM Hospital had examined 1.55 lakh swabs till Sunday. “This gives an indication that bringing down the rate of test at private hospitals would help increase the number of tests in Calcutta,” said the official. The cabinet also decided to cancel leaves for all those associated with emergency services, including health services, during the pujas. “They will be given compensatory leaves after the pujas,” said the chief secretary. Sources in the health department said while the state had taken all possible steps to deal with a critical situation after the festival, a lot would depend on the behaviour of people. “We should learn from Kerala where daily Covid positive cases have gone up to more than 11,000 a day after Onam. Bengal could face a similar situation after the pujas if people don’t follow protocol of wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. If such a situation arrives, it would be difficult for the state to accommodate all the patients requiring life support,” said a senior government official. The state cabinet approved a proposal to deploy 2,475 nurses at the Covid hospitals across the state. The government also urged the authorities concerned to reduce the ambulance fare across the state. The sources said the state was receiving complaints that agencies running ambulance services were demanding exorbitant fares. “Though the state government provides free ambulance services, may people prefer private services and they are facing troubles. That is why the state wants to ensure that nobody faces trouble during the pandemic,” said an official. Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said the Covid test would be done at Rs 1,500, the rate capped by the government, though the amount was not viable. “We would like to urge the government to reconsider the rate as there are many expenses involved in the tests. Contrary to the popular belief, private hospitals have been incurring losses for the past eight months and this will further affect us.” Barua is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Cry to restart suburban trains in Howrah||A group of people whose primary mode of communication to workplaces is local trains held protests at Liluah and Chinsurah railway stations in Howrah district on Monday against non-resumption of suburban services. Those living in the suburbs and working in Calcutta have been facing the problem of reaching their workplace as local trains remained suspended to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The trigger of the protests was the railway police’s crackdown on commutters who were illegally travelling by trains meant for the railway staff. Such passengers got off at Liluah and started agitating. A few of them also ransacked flower tubs at the station. At Chinsurah, another group of passengers blocked tracks for an hour on Monday demanding resumption of local trains. The blockade was withdrawn after the railway police promised to allow them to board the train.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Narendra Modi’s virtual Durga Puja address on October 22||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the people of Bengal virtually on October 22 on the occasion of Durga Puja, Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s minder for the state, said on Monday. He also said Union home minister Amit Shah would visit Siliguri on October 17 and hold a meeting with BJP leaders of north Bengal, where the party had won seven out of eight Lok Sabha seats. Announcing Modi’s virtual address, Vijayvargiya said: “We are happy that the Prime Minister will participate in Durga Puja with us.” The five-day Puja celebration this year begins on October 22. Ananda Burman, the general secretary of the BJP’s Siliguri organisational district, said preparation were for Shah’s October 17 visit to the city. “The Union home minister will hold a meeting with district BJP presidents and conveners in north Bengal. The MPs and MLAs of the party, the zonal in-charge of the BJP’s north Bengal wing and some senior workers will join the meeting,” said Burman. There will be a restriction on the number of people who could attend the meeting because of Covid-19 protocol. In total, around 200 people would be allowed at the meeting that is likely to be held somewhere on Sevoke Road in Siliguri, said sources. Modi’s address is a part of the BJP’s continuous endeavour to strike the right chord with the electorate in the state. Last year, Shah had visited Bengal to inaugurate a community Durga Puja in Calcutta’s satellite township Salt Lake. Had it not been for the Covid-19 pandemic, the party would have similar plans this year as well. “Durga Puja offers a big opportunity to connect to the people. It is only natural that we will exploit this opportunity,” a source in the party said. He added that the state leaders had requested Modi’s time during the puja. “We have received the go-ahead from his office,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea belt bucks job-cut trend with few takers for plucking||At a time of mounting job cuts across sectors amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Darjeeling tea industry stands out with jobs available by the hundreds, but very few takers. Darjeeling gardens have been reporting absenteeism between 35 and 50 per cent for over a decade now. The industry employs around 55,000 permanent and 15,000 temporary workers across 87 tea gardens. With migrant workers coming back to villages — more than 20,000 people returned to the hills because of the pandemic — the Darjeeling tea industry was hoping that their problem of labour supply lagging behind demand would be solved. Figures from the various gardens here, however, suggest nothing much has changed during the pandemic months. “Not a single person came to me seeking for a job.” a planter said. “Yes, we were expecting people to join work (in the gardens),” said Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association. But the reluctance of the returnees to work in tea gardens, he added, was now prompting the DTA to mull a study to work towards reversing the trend. “The industry is looking at coming out with a study to reverse the trend on absenteeism,” said Mukherjee. A garden manager said worker strength in his garden was 426 but absenteeism stood at 50 per cent. “Also, out of the total strength (of 426), 135 vacancies have cropped up because we could not find persons to fill up jobs of workers who have retired,” said the official. In the tea gardens, the job of a retired worker goes to his family member. A planter of another garden that employs 813 workers but has an absentee rate of 45 per cent said “one person did apply for a job” in these pandemic months. “He, however, was not a migrant. Following his application I asked trade union leaders if they could give a list of willing workers so that we could recruit them. No one turned up,” the planter said. A garden very near Darjeeling town, however, did see a drop in absenteeism of around 5 to 6 per cent during July this year. “This is because some people who used to work in construction sites in the town did join work in our garden. However, we are back to square one now,” said the manager, adding their worker strength is a little over 200. Planters in unison said field work no longer interested youths, office work did. Many planters spoke of the current perception that “garden work meant low social status”. “You can’t blame the youths as many are now educated and they don’t want to pluck leaves. They would rather move to cities and acquire new skills in various sectors,” said a resident. Many veterans argued that the daily tea wage of Rs 176 per day did not attract youngsters. “They prefer to work at construction sites that pay not less than Rs 350 or join another profession,” said a retired tea garden worker. DTA official Mukherjee said many returnees were buying time instead of joining tea gardens. “They are waiting for their place of occupation or market to open. Sustenance is not really a major problem as they have free ration, livestock to sell and home-grown vegetables,” said Mukherjee. “It is by choice that they don’t attend work, indicating a change in mindset,” he added. A young returnee in his mid-20s explained why he was not interested in plucking leaves. “I have acquired skills in hotel management and there is no way I would want to pluck leaves which I have never done in my life. I want to get out of this cycle (of tea plucking).” Planters said absenteeism had a cascading affect on tea gardens and production. “Thin attendance means one cannot complete a round of plucking after every six to seven days. If plucking speed is slow, tea leaves overgrow and this affects quality. Low rate of plucking also means a dip in production and increase in cost of production,” Mukherjee said. Many planters fear that Darjeeling tea might turn into a “boutique industry” because of the lack of labour force. Some are looking for solutions. Suggestions of mechanised plucking instead of manual are doing the rounds, but many say mechanisation is not easy on hilly terrain. “The mental set-up of workers, worker unions and senior management of tea estates has to change to accept new realities. Some unions just oppose for the sake of opposing,” said a planter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||West Bengal||College fee protest hits National Highway 12||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-345
13-10-2020||North East||App to help travellers, small businesses||A trip to Mahabalipuram in Tamil Nadu by an IIT Guwahati student and the difficulties he and his family faced there has resulted in the development of a mobile application that will “not” only help those travelling to a new place but also small businesses do their business online. Sahara, a hyperlocal tech start-up began by IIT Guwahati students, has launched a mobile app by the same name that lets business owners “create” synergy with customers and potential business partners on a global platform with the power of digitalisation. The start-up members are Sai Vara Prasad, co-founder and chief operating officer; Sai Praneeth, co-founder and chief executive officer; Rahul Nagurtha, technical adviser; Praveen Kumar, business adviser; and Shiv Kumar, operations adviser. Co-founder Praneeth, a second year student of chemical science and technology at IIT Guwahati, told The Telegraph from Hyderabad on Wednesday that the idea for the app was born after a family vacation to Mahabalipuram in December last year. “During the trip, we had trouble looking for services suitable for us when we reached a new place. So, we wanted to create a platform where travellers can easily explore the best services and local cultures instantly when they travel or enter a new city or place,” 18-year-old Praneeth said. “All businesses are going through a rough patch because of the Covid-19 pandemic. So, we thought what if there is a platform that can show all the businesses and their products or services easily. A customer can then order/book products or services from these businesses in a simple way without taking a risk by going out during the pandemic. This app can be highly helpful for both travellers and normal consumers. Our entire team has worked very hard to  make this happen,” Praneeth said. Work on the Sahara app started in February and was officially launched on September 30, Praneeth said. He said they were looking for investors to scale up the app features. The app can display shops and business within a 15km radius. Sai Vara Prasad, elder brother of Praneeth, is a co-founder. “The only aim of Sahara is to provide you the best services wherever you go,” he said. Inspired by the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat and Digital India initiatives, this “entrepreneurial endeavour is determined” to deliver “Made in India” solutions by providing the best services to the people and “encouraging” existing offline businesses to move online and have diverse opportunities. With the idea of one-stop solution for everything that people require, from food to shelter, the aim is to provide services that stand up to international quality standards at fairly low costs, the institution said in a statement. Union Education minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted on Monday evening about the startup, Sahara, developing a mobile application to help local businesses go online. “ ...The app will help business owners attract more customers aarts well as potential business partners. Wonderful initiative leading to #AatmaNirbharBharat!” the tweet said. The Sahara app is designed keeping in mind to “provide” a seamless experience to individuals and retailers who may not have had any prior knowledge of the application. It enables businesses to register through their mobile app in simple and easy steps which includes submission of details related to the consumer/business product, phone-based verification and their respective geolocation. Considering the operational benefits it can provide and its mission to convert every offline business to online, Sahara app is available on the Google Play store, the statement said. According to Praneeth, a Neilsen report estimates there are about 12 million local kirana stores in India with a humongous 98 per cent share of the retail grocery market pumping monetary transactions into the economy worth billions of rupees. Sadly, 98 per cent of these establishments fall in the unorganised sector because they lack access to a basic digital infrastructure secluding them from the outreach of potential customers, he added. “We have set out to reclaim this space. We will empower them (small businesses) to earn their equity in the booming digital economy. It’s a win-win game,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||Naga groups 'agree in principle' to aid talks||The Opposition Naga People’s Front-constituted Political Affairs Mission to help facilitate the ongoing peace talks to resolve the Naga political issue has said that the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) and the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) have “agreed in principle” to come together and discuss across the table issues related to the peace process. The development assumes significance because the Centre is negotiating with both the groups which have differences over a couple of issues related to the ongoing talks. The NSCN (IM) had last week said it has made its stand  “very loud and clear” during the ongoing talks that there “is no way forward” without finalising on Naga flag and constitution. The NPF-PAM in a statement said their objective is to bring the NSCN (IM) and the NNPGs, made up of seven outfits,  to a common understanding as both the groups are now engaged in negotiation with the Government of India for a political solution. After withdrawing from the Joint Legislators Forum (JLF) on Naga political issue in August, the NPF constituted the PAM with the objective of  “further strengthening” the ongoing talks between the Naga Nationalist Groups and the Government of India while continuing to play the role of an active facilitator on the Naga political issue. The statement said the two sides have agreed in principle to come together and discuss across the table as proposed by the NPF-PAM in a separate meeting with both the groups. The NPF-PAM said it will also reach out to all the other groups who are yet to join the peace process once tangible progress is made in its endeavour to bring the NSCN(IM) and the NNPGs to a certain level of understanding. The recent trip of NPF-PAM members to Delhi has been quite encouraging they have been briefed by the Centre’s representatives  that the political dialogue has been put on track although there was “some hitch” for some time. “The Collective Leadership of the NSCN (IM) has also conveyed that they would definitely keep their words by way of participating in the effort of the NPF-PAM to bring the NSCN (IM) and the 7 NNPGs to sit across the table,” the statement said. NPF-PAM will figure out the date and venue very soon in consultation with both NSCN (IM) and the NNPGs. The NPF-PAM has had held a series of consultative meetings with the NSCN (IM), the NNPGs working committee, various Naga civil societies and also with authorities representing the Centre directly involved with the Naga negotiators. During the course of interaction with various civil societies, it was reconfirmed that every Naga wanted an early solution while also noting that the past Agreement and Accord had taught us “enough lesson on how ample dissension had been brought into our Society instead of uniting our people” .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||25 convicted in Assam doctor lynching case ||A court in Jorhat on Monday convicted 25 persons in the 2019 Dr Deben Dutta lynching case, the investigation of which “stood out” for the police’s promptness in filing a “foolproof” chargesheet in 22 days and the steps taken for “protection” of witnesses. Of the 32 accused, six were acquitted by the Jorhat District and Sessions Judge Robin Phukan. One died during the trail. Dr Dutta, 73, senior medical officer of Teok Tea Estate dispensary in upper Assam’s Jorhat district was lynched by a mob on August 31, 2019, for allegedly delaying the treatment of a worker, Somra Majhi. Dutta died on way to the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital. The mob not only bashed him up but also used sharp weapons during the assault. The lynching sparked off a huge uproar with a series of street protests and the Indian Medical Association threatening to withdraw doctors from garden hospitals if prompt action was not taken to punish the guilty. The accused (case no 434/2019) were charged under Sections 302/ 341/ 342/ 353/ 427/ 506/ 143/ 144/ 147/ 148 r/w 149/186/ 109 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of The Assam Medicare Service Persons & Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence & Damage to Property) Act, 2011. The sections deal with murder (302), wrongful confinement, 147 (rioting), 353 (use of criminal force to deter public servants on duty), 149 (unlawful assembly of people with common objective). The quantum of punishment would be pronounced on October 19 but the minimum punishment under the sections could be life term. Special public prosecutor Durga Prasad Jaiswal told The Telegraph that the case stood out for two reasons. “First was the speed at which the foolproof chargesheet was filed, 22 days to be precise. Secondly, this is also the first case in the country wherein witness identity ‘concealment’ approach was adopted. There were seven witnesses whose identity I too don’t know,” Jaiswal said. There were altogether 60 witnesses but 56 were examined during the trial. A four-member special investigation team headed by Dr Siva Prasad, DIG, Eastern Range, investigated and concluded the case in a “record” time of 21 days and filed an elaborate 602-page chargesheet on September 21, 2019, sources said, adding that the other SIT members included V.C. Nimbalkar, Prakash Sonowal and Dipankar Gogoi. Family members of the deceased were relieved and happy with the conviction of so many people because it will serve as a deterrent. The daughter of the deceased said she wanted that at least the person who “cut him” should get death sentence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||Concern over Assam govt's transport full-occupancy nod  ||The Assam government’s decision to allow public transporters to operate at 100 per cent capacity from Friday has not only triggered concern but also seems to be going against its own campaign to maintain social distancing norms amid the pandemic. Senior advocate Nilay Dutta tweeted his concern on Friday night: “The GoA (government of Assam) has officially abandoned social distancing norms of ‘Do Gaz ki Duri’ in public transport in Gauhati city. Is @PMOIndia aware of this decision of GoA to allow 100 per cent capacity in city bus transport. Does @himantabiswa and the Health Department agree to this move.” Dutta added, “...Transport Department decision to allow 100% capacity in public transport is fraught with dangerous possibilities. All good work may be set at naught with this crucial decision.” There are many who share Dutta’s concern as coronavirus cases continue to rise in the state. Altogether 192,416 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Assam since March. Till Friday, there were 29,710 active cases and 802 deaths. Most here feel a significant section of the population were “anyway not adhering” to the preventive measures to check the spread but the government’s decision will make matters worse. A response to Dutta’s tweet reflected the concern, “If you are connected with the citizens… you would have found that almost all buses are running with more than 100 percent capacity.” Like Dutta, they too referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the masses in his speeches and tweets to adhere to social distancing by maintaining do gaj ki doori (a distance of two yards), wearing masks and practising personal hygiene to defeat the coronavirus. Modi had made the pitch in his Mann Ki Baat talk on August 30 and during the launch of the nationwide mass awareness drive against coronavirus on Thursday. A recent Modi tweet said, “Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori’. Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19.” He had earlier praised villagefolk for practising do gaj ki doori, which most believe is an important step in the fight against the pandemic. The state also fears that there could a major spike after the Durga Puja festivities. The decision to allow 100 per cent occupancy is also being seen as a move by Dispur to “shift the responsibility of staying alert and safe” to the public following the rising demand to restore economic activities affected because of the pandemic since March. A senior member of the Indian Medical Association told The Telegraph that the decision to open up businesses was along expected lines. “The government is gradually shifting the responsibility of staying alert and safe to the public. With businesses opening up, the onus of staying safe is on the public. One has to be extra careful till we get a vaccine and seek medical help if they display any symptoms. If things go wrong, the government will again revert to the lockdown,” he said. A National Health Mission official said the government is opening up businesses but it has “not” said one has to travel by public transport or enjoy a film in a cinema hall. “That is a personal choice but the government has to unlock businesses to keep the economy running. We have to live with Covid by maintaining all safety protocols. We need to decide where to go and how to go and what to avoid. Today or tomorrow, we will have to open up. The public has to understand that and behave accordingly, ” he said. The government decision was triggered by the All Assam Motor Transport Association indefinite chakka bandh from October 5, seeking a 100 per cent fare hike and lowering of road tax by 50 per cent if they have to run with 50 per cent seat capacity, among other demands. They government did not agree to the hike on account of approaching elections but allowed 100 per cent seat occupancy by adhering to other safety protocols like wearing masks and ensuring proper sanitisation. Assam goes to polls in April-May next year. Association member Pradip Das said they lifted the strike once they were allowed to run at full capacity. “We are adhering to Covid protocols and are also keeping a watch on our drivers so they don’t pick more passengers than the seating capacity,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||Opinion||Freedom at last: Bombay HC grants Rhea bail||Sir — The decision of the Bombay High Court to grant bail to Rhea Chakraborty in a drug-related case lodged against her is a slap on the face of the Narcotics Control Bureau which put the actress through the wringer (“Drug charges on actress collapse in high court”, Oct 8). The actress was accused of buying drugs for and ‘concealing’ the drug habit of the deceased actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, allegations which amount to financing drug trafficking and harbouring offenders. If that was not enough, the vilification campaign run by certain channels against Chakraborty has tarnished her reputation beyond repair and has, undoubtedly, caused immense psychological trauma. Several TV anchors pronounced their judgment on the actress before there was any concrete evidence against her. Chakraborty has been painted as the villain in the drama surrounding the death of Rajput all along. It is to her credit that in spite of the stream of vitriol unleashed against her, the actress remained calm in the face of trouble and refrained from pointing fingers at anybody. She also fully cooperated with the NCB in matters concerning the supply of drugs. It goes without saying that the Mumbai police was deliberately sidelined in the case. The 28 days that she spent in Byculla jail in Mumbai must have been extremely nerve-racking. It now seems that the witch-hunt against her was politically motivated in view of the impending elections in Bihar. Going by the unabated feeding frenzy of TV channels these days, it is not difficult to imagine that if it is Chakraborty today, tomorrow there might be someone else who would have to go through the same trauma to prove their innocence. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — The observation by the Bombay High Court while granting conditional bail to the 28-year-old actress, Rhea Chakraborty, that she “is not part of the chain of drug dealers” nor were drugs allegedly procured by her for profit or other benefits, raises questions about the functioning of the NCB. The court also rejected the agency’s allegation that she was financing Sushant Singh Rajput’s drug habit and also harbouring him, an alleged drug offender. It also took note of the fact that the NCB failed to seize any drugs from the possession of either Chakraborty or Rajput. Further, even if the actress had spent money to procure drugs for Rajput, it still did not mean that “she had financed illicit traffic”. It seems that the NCB, in its rush to prove Chakraborty guilty, went a little too far in invoking various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, including Section 27A, which puts the onus of proving innocence onto the accused. This is absolutely preposterous and points to a lack of professionalism. The investigation against Chakraborty was biased to begin with. Certain sections of the media, too, milked the opportunity to villainize the actress much before court procedures had begun. The case should have been dealt with fair and square from the very beginning. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Sir — It was high time that Rhea Chakraborty was granted bail in the case of drug peddling that has been lodged against her. This comes as a respite to the actress whose life has turned into a Shakespearean drama since the passing of her partner, Sushant Singh Rajput. Several TV channels had appropriated this personal tragedy to boost their television rating points, dragging Chakraborty through a rabid media trial. It is shameful how the media have handled the reporting of the incident. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai  Colourful tale Sir — It seems that the Uttar Pradesh government is stooping to new lows to justify its gross mishandling of the Hathras case — a 19-year-old Dalit woman was attacked and gang-raped by four upper-caste men, ultimately leading to her death — by raising the spectre of a ‘foreign hand’ (“Twisted plot”, Oct 9). While the administration has harassed people extending their support to the bereaved family, it looked the other way when a gathering of upper-caste individuals in support of the accused had taken place. The state authorities are leaving no stone unturned to exert pressure on the woman’s family to withdraw the case. Its actions — sealing Hathras, putting the district under Section 144 to quell protests and preventing politicians from meeting the woman’s family and journalists from covering the incident — show that the Yogi Adityanath government is scrambling to hide its failures. It seems that the government is doing all it can to suppress the truth. S.S. Paul,Nadia Need for action Sir — It was deeply disturbing to learn that a global study has found that online abuse is increasingly driving girls to quit social media, with nearly 60 per cent of them having reportedly faced harassment. Finding reporting tools to be ineffective, the researchers have called on social media companies as well as governments to take urgent action to address the issue. Women, it seems, are unsafe even in the virtual space. As the pandemic moves our lives online, social media has become our primary mode of interaction. Unless the situation is remedied, the online space, much like physical spaces, will come to be dominated by men. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Use of fear: Witness protection in India||The intimidation of witnesses or survivors of a crime is not new in India; it did not begin with the alleged gang rape and death of the Dalit girl in Hathras. In that case, however, the family complained of pressure from the district magistrate, while a senior police officer claimed that there was no rape. The role of the State is blatant here, but the State’s passivity is evident in the fact that no system of witness protection is operative although a scheme for it was evolved in 2018 — astonishingly late, especially compared to many other countries. The Citizens for Justice and Peace, a non-governmental organization fighting for witness protection, has filed an intervention application in the Supreme Court asking, among other things, that witnesses in the Hathras case be given protection by Central paramilitary forces and the trial be moved to Delhi. A law against criminal intimidation of witnesses was introduced in 2006: it has not stopped murders, abductions and threats to witnesses, as in the Asaram case — they led to the formulation of the witness protection scheme in 2018 — or in the 2017 Unnao rape case, or the murder of the rape survivor of 2019, when she was going for a hearing. Threats to life and property, and imprisonment of witnesses on some charge or other, are easiest when the criminals come from dominant castes or sections of society and the victims are marginalized or underprivileged. A Human Rights Watch report of 2017 confirms this in the case of sexual crimes. Had the State wished to correct this imbalance of power and ensure justice, a witness protection programme would not have been lacking. Witnesses are supposed to be the eyes and ears of the justice system; with nothing to protect them from fear of death, loss or injury, numerous criminal cases in Indian courts end in acquittals because witnesses turn hostile. The process of justice should include the assessment of threat perception to witnesses and methods of protection, such as change of name and address if necessary, and a determination of the period of protection. India’s unequal society and the links of many politicians with criminals demand investment in, and trained manpower for, witness protection. The State’s lethargy in this matter cannot be regarded as innocent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Telly trouble: Republic TV's TRP scam||The nation does want to know what the fuss is all about. Mumbai police are currently investigating a case in which television rating points have been allegedly manipulated by three channels — Republic TV is among the accused — by soliciting viewers to watch these channels in exchange of payment. Hopefully, a fair and transparent investigation, free from meddling by the powers that be, would unearth the murky truth. That outcome is a matter of conjecture. But what is evident is that the television industry — a FICCI-EY report estimated it to be worth Rs 78,700 crore last year — has its share of skeletons that can have serious consequences. Manipulation of TRPs could lead to anomalies in the assessment of television content, popularizing programmes that do not, in effect, have a mass following. This is not merely a blot on the spirit of fair competition. It is also an infringement of the autonomy of choice exercised by consumers. The result is a distortion of people’s — effectively the nation’s — right to know. This breach of faith has another, equally important, dimension. TRPs have a decisive influence on advertisers’ spending. The possibility of manipulation implies that advertisers are also being taken on a less-than-joyous ride, shelling out money on channels that do not quite have the viewership that they claim. What is shocking is that regulatory oversight seems to have a long history in the television industry. Television Audience Measurement, the entity that preceded the Broadcast Audience Research Council, had been accused of corruption. BARC, conceived as an institution to encourage regulation, has not fared better. The information and broadcasting ministry had once accused it of under-reporting the viewership of Doordarshan. It has not been effective in minimizing the contamination of sample size: a smaller sample is apparently more vulnerable to manipulation. The absence of a specific legal framework has further undermined BARC’s ability to negate the tampering of panels and viewership. These anomalies also raise serious questions about the efficacy of the existing template of appraisal of the television audience. The way forward must involve unbiased reflection on some notable limitations. A way must be found to obtain, without encroaching upon the privacy of viewers, foolproof data on television audience. The collation and interpretation of this data must also be done transparently. Opacity is an impediment to the nation’s right to knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
13-10-2020||Opinion||Quite uncertain: US Elections 2020||The United States of America is set to witness its 59th quadrennial presidential election on November 3, with a campaign enmeshed in an unprecedented quagmire, compounded by a pandemic and its spinoffs. A key format of the electioneering comprises debates between the contestants. Sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates, the first of the three debates took place on September 29, while the second one, slated for October 15, has been cancelled. The Republican president, Donald Trump, and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, squared off in the first debate (if it could be called that) at Cleveland, Ohio, with social media agog on whether the remaining two debates should be called off since political oratory (of the Obama era) was replaced by chaos, interjections and taunts. A Covid-positive president rushed home from hospital determined to head for Miami for the second debate and is baulking at the prospect of a virtual one. The third debate, however, will be held on schedule. The vice-presidential debate last week was more mature, but still fell short of expectations. For the voters, these debates are a major campaign plank. Several universities even organize gatherings at the union room to watch the debate, where a professor moderates a follow-up discussion. Unlike in India, where voters are decidedly secretive about their choice of parties and candidates, American citizens believe in blatant exhibition of their choice. Balconies or driveways don banners and placards announcing their choice of candidate. This year, the pandemic has restricted large gatherings, although Trump’s supporters have been out in large numbers. Covid-19 also ensured that Trump and Biden abandon the traditional courtesy of shaking hands before the first debate, although neither seemed to mind having dispensed with this formality. Asked what was so significant about this election, a veteran American said, “First, efforts by other governments to influence public opinion are called a hoax by our president but firmly verified by our security agencies. It definitely occurred in the 2016 election. Second is the pandemic, which leaves many reluctant to join crowds in a voting place, preferring to mail their ballot. Third, the president sows doubt about the trustworthiness of the voting system, claiming widespread fraud in mail-in voting, and conspicuously takes covert actions to swing the vote in his favour. Finally, the incumbent has declared his reservations about accepting the conclusions of the vote count, hinting at lengthy legal action if he loses.” Will the stand of the significant population of Americans of Indian origin be different? Sanjukta Ray, who lives in Maryland, said the election posed some serious questions for her. “The systemic racism has impacted not just the black community but brown people as well. There were horrific instances of Indian Americans being targeted violently all over [the] US,” she said. “Besides, how much will US foreign policy impact India, given China’s expansionist movements? The Trump administration is quite vocal in its support for India’s right to defend its sovereignty. Biden made some serious uninformed remarks about Kashmir, which has alienated the vast majority of Indian Americans. Is his choosing of Kamala Harris as his running mate or his overtures to the Sikh community a campaign stunt?” She added that Biden’s stand on China can considerably affect the balance of power in Asia. “In the domestic arena, Trump’s handling of the pandemic is criminal, as is his unfortunate tendency to ignore climate change and stoke internal dissent with the protesters. Are we seeing Biden as the magic pill if elected? I am not optimistic about either of them. Will it be like jumping from the frying pan into the fire?” With voters like her undecided barely three weeks before the die is cast, and given the pathetic debates so far, the US election 2020 is quite precariously poised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
13-10-2020||Opinion||Distant echoes||(Plot spoiler alert for the film, Trumbo) At around the halfway point in Jay Roach’s film, Trumbo, the main character finds himself standing naked in a penitentiary cell in Kentucky, being checked over by a contemptuous prison guard. He opens his mouth and turns his head to the left and to the right. He obeys instructions to display different aspects of his nether regions. He bends, he lifts, he straightens, entirely at the mercy of the State and its prison system. As you watch, Bryan Cranston’s brilliantly played Dalton Trumbo is shrunk down to the bare essentials of his body, shorn of all dignity and humanity. From being one of Hollywood’s leading scriptwriters and one of the most highly-paid scribes in the world, Trumbo is now reduced to serving time in jail, branded as a traitor to his country, or what in today’s India might be termed ‘anti-national’. Like several others working in Hollywood, people with a certain belief in equality and justice, Trumbo had joined the Communist Party of the United States of America in 1943. At that point, neither the Party nor joining it was illegal; Soviet Russia was a key ally of the US in the war against Germany and Japan. Shortly after the war though, unbridled suspicion and surreptitious conflict grew between the two powers, leading to the beginning of the Cold War that would last for forty years. The start of this Cold War was braided together with the rise of a heinous right-wing movement in American politics that was both powered and piggy-backed upon by all kinds of vicious scamsters and ruthlessly amoral power-seekers that included Joseph McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and John Wayne. If the dubious slogan today is ‘Make America Great Again’, at that time it was ‘Make America Safe from Communism’. While there was a very real and brutal struggle between Stalin’s Russia and Truman’s US, by the end of the 1940s these small-eyed vigilantes of the American Right had launched their witch-hunts in academia, art, theatre, literature and, not least, the film industry in Hollywood, which was obviously recognized as hugely popular and influential. Trumbo is a gripping film that lays out the story of these witch-hunts and blacklists that damaged (and sometimes even took) the lives of so many of Hollywood’s most talented people. At first, when we see the much-sought-after Dalton Trumbo at the peak of his fame, he and his friends find all the talk of the forthcoming enquiries into ‘Un-American Activities’ risible. Soon, however, all the humour seeps out of the situation. In a progression that we in India will recognize today, the rumours solidify into targeted action by powerful politicians working in tandem with ambitious and unscrupulous members of the media; soon, official black cars are driving up to people’s houses, government agents interrupting family meals as they deliver subpoenas, summoning Trumbo and his colleagues across the country to Washington to undergo questioning at Congressional hearings. Neighbours become self-appointed monitors set upon ‘cleansing’ the country of ‘Commies’. The only crime these scriptwriters, actors and other cinema people are guilty of is espousing political views that run counter to those of the reactionary populists. At no point have they ever ventured near any violence, espionage or treachery. Yet, in a short time, these targeted men are ensconced in meetings with lawyers, discussing what they can legally do to protect themselves. What is at stake is freedom of speech and freedom of political affiliation, two central tenets of the American Constitution. In one telling scene, Trumbo convinces his cohorts that they should take printed pamphlets about the First Amendment, which guarantees freedom of speech, and wait outside a meeting of the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals, the right-wing group formed by people like John Wayne and Hedda Hopper, a powerful Hollywood newspaper columnist. When people coming out of the meeting are handed the pamphlets, they fling them away or tear them up. There is a confrontation when Trumbo points out to Wayne that all the pamphlet is saying is that Congress has no right to investigate how people vote, how they pray or how they make movies. Wayne replies that the new era dawning has no time for Trumbo and his ‘kind’ — people who have no idea why America just fought and won the Second World War. Trumbo points out that he and many of his comrades had actually seen action at the front while Wayne “spent the war on a film set, shooting blanks”. Again, the scene could remind an Indian sharply of the current rash of ‘patriots’, most of whom belong to an organization that actively subverted our freedom struggle and didn’t recognize the Tricolour till recent spikes of hypocrisy and expediency sent them scurrying to construct outsized flags. As Trumbo and others serve out the jail sentences imposed by a corrupt cabal of Congressmen, as they negotiate years in the workless wilderness brought about by the unofficial but fearsomely imposed blacklist, we see the slow decline and downfall of the confidence tricksters peddling their poisonous patriotism. When people begin to suspect that not one but two scriptwriting Oscars have been won by Trumbo writing under pseudonyms, the press starts to ask questions. In a television interview, Trumbo suggests that perhaps it’s time for the House Un-American Activities Committee itself to be put under the scanner. “They were convened to uncover enemy agents, expose Communist conspiracies... well, here we are, thousands of hours and millions of dollars later. Agents uncovered? Zero. Conspiracies exposed? Zero.” Trumbo then continues about the blacklist. “I’ve seen the horror, cruelty, and the hideous waste of lives it has produced.” We live in a very different context, separated from that time by geography, culture and sixty-plus years. Nevertheless, the echoes come up, not just when looking at the recent assault on sections of the Bombay film world but also when seeing the patently false cases and malicious framing of social activists, students and academics around the country. It’s hard to be optimistic about India right now and seeing the US drop deeper and deeper into a trough of racism and illiberality doesn’t help either. Yet, there must be hope that the same discrediting and disgrace that consigned the Un-American Activities Circus to the hazardous waste dustbin will also happen to the nefarious Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. There must be hope that one day these investigating agencies will themselves be investigated by fair and stern examiners, that one day these chest-thumping jingoists will themselves be interrogated and punished for their betrayal of our Constitution, that one day these hectoring, braying anchors on our TV screens will have to answer for their greed-driven misdeeds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-134
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Devotees flock to Bokaro Durga temple with a wish for daughter||In a country beset with the problem of foeticide, the Durga temple at Chakuliya village in Bokaro’s Chas block is a study in contrast. Devotees have been visiting the temple for the past 170 years to pray for daughters. Several couples, many from faraway places, make the journey to the temple each year. A traditional Durga Puja is celebrated at the temple by villagers. “A local resident, Kalicharan Dubey, was the first to pray for a daughter here more than a hundred years ago, a wish which was fulfilled. Since then, many devotees have come wishing for a daughter. Dubey’s descendants still offer prayers to the deity regularly,” said Suryakant Singh, a resident of the village. Singh said: “I too had a son and offered prayers at this temple for a daughter, which the goddess has fulfilled.” Many local residents echo Singh. A growing number of devotees make their way to the temple each year. Another resident, Katayani Devi, said she had named her daughter Bhawani after the goddess. Manohar Dubey, who is the priest of the temple, said: “The number of devotees is increasing. People come from far-flung areas with a wish to have daughters and offer prayers to the goddess. A grand statue of Siddhidatri goddess Durga has been installed at the temple. The tradition continues from more than 100 years.” He added that the temple has a kalash (pot) made of copper which is more than 150 years old. “During every Durga Puja, we use the pot in puja (ghatstahapana).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Body of tribal girl, allegedly gangraped and murdered, exhumed for probe||The body of a 13-year-old tribal girl, who was allegedly gangraped and murdered in Sahibganj last week, was exhumed by district police on Tuesday for examination. Four people were also detained later in the day for questioning. Police said that the victim’s family buried the body on Sunday after it was recovered on Saturday from their neighbourhood. The police weren't informed allegedly under pressure from the village panchayat. Unconfirmed reports, however, suggested that local Ranga police didn’t lodge an FIR when the victim’s parents had initially approached them on Saturday to complain of rape and murder. They were asked to settle the matter with the panchayat. The incident occurred in Lakhipur village under Pathna block, which falls under chief minister Hemant Soren’s assembly constituency in Barhait. As the news broke, BJP went on offensive against the state government over rising instances of crime against women and children in Santhal Parganas and elsewhere. The state BJP unit also formally issued an appeal to Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her intervention in the falling law and order situtaion in the state, while the party’s Ranchi unit held a candle light protest at the capital’s Albert Ekka chowk at night. Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta talking has denied police negligence. He said they have lodged an FIR on the basis of a statement by the victim’s friend and sent a team to Lakhipur village, around 30km from district headquarters, to exhume the body for medical test. “The victim, along with her friend, had gone to Taljhari village on Wednesday last week to meet their boyfriends. They stayed there for two days. While returning on Friday (October 9), a few young men apprehended them. On Saturday (October 10), the victim’s body was found abandoned near an under construction house, few meters away from her residence in Lakhipur village,” Kispotta said. He added that soon after they learnt about the incident on Monday evening, a team was sent to the village and on Tuesday, a special team was set up under a magistrate to exhume the body to conduct logical probe and book culprits. “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the statement from victim’s friend who said that she had escaped when some youths apprehended them on Friday. We have detained four persons for questioning. Further investigation is on,” he said, adding that the panchayat and local police's roled will also be probed. On the other hand, BJP’ Babulal Marandi claimed that the victim’s parents had gone to Ranga police station to file a complaint but were made to return asking them to sort out the issue in Panchayat. “After getting no help from anywhere, they buried the body. The role of police is questionable,” he said. State BJP president Deepak Prakash demanded the governor to intervene. “The girl’s father in his statement has clearly stated that his daughter was raped and killed; still the police didn't file an FIR. Not just Barhait (CM’s constituency), but entire Santhal Parganas and Jharkhand are shocked over the incident which once again exposes that women and children aren’t safe anymore,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Comic book on Galwan martyr Ganesh Hansda's life to be out soon||The cover page of a comic based on the life of soldier Ganesh Hansda, who martyred in a clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley on June 15, was released on his birth anniversary from his home at Kosafalia village in Baharagora block of East Singhbhum, 100 km east of Jamshedpur, on Tuesday. The simple unveiling ceremony took place in the presence of Hansda’s parents Subda and Kapra and villagers of Kosafalia. The comic ‘The fighter of Galwan Valley’ is based on Hansda’s struggle. The cover page has a picture of the martyr and other Indian soldiers protecting the border with the national flag fluttering in their hands. The script of the comic is being written by a team from Nischay Foundation, a Jamshedpur-based social outfit. According to Tarun Kumar, founder of Nischay Foundation, work on the comic has started in the right ernest. “We have started working on the comic which will have the life story and interesting incidents related to Hansda. Children love to read comics. The comic on Ganesh Hansda’s life would inspire the children and youths to fulfill their dreams by following the ideals of Hansda who parted with his life for the country,” he added. The Nischay Foundation founder, who is writing the story and dialogues, said the comic will be  designed by Jamshedpur-based artist Anupam Pal and Invincible Studio. The comic will be launched on June 15, on the death anniversary of martyr Hansda,”Kumar informed. Students of Veer Shahid Ganesh Hansda Pustakalaya at Bhandarshol and Ladhnashol garlanded the picture of the martyr and cut a cake to mark his birthday. A football tournament was also organized at Kosafalia village in which eight teams under Chingra panchayat took part. Hansda (21) was pursuing his intermediate from LBSM College in Karandih, a Jamshedpur suburb, but dropped out in the second year in 2015. He went to train with NCC for three years and was selected for the Army during a direct recruitment drive held at  Morabadi ground in Ranchi in 2018. After completing  nine months of training at Danapur in Bihar, he was posted at Leh. The martyr is being held in high esteem in the region and several youths believe in his ideals and want to follow in his footsteps. “Yeh karyakarm bahut achha laga. Bete ke jeevi par ek kitab aa rahan hai. Yeh kitab gaon ke baccho ke liye prenashrot hoga (Felt good with today’s function.  A comic is coming out in my son’s name. This comic will inspire the youths of the village),” said Hansda’s father Subda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Louise seeks divine intervention before filing nomination||Former social welfare minister Louise Marandi (55) paid a visit to over half a dozen religious places in the morning before filing her nomination as the BJP candidate for the November 3 byelection at the district collectorate on Tuesday. Marandi, a tribal Christian, will be backed by NDA partners AJSU-P, JD (U), and LJP. She began her visits with Shiv pahari followed by Dharamsthan, Durgasthan, Sai Mandir, Disom Manjhisthan, Pagla Baba mandir, Thakurbari and Rani Sati Mandir. After filing her papers, she said, “My nomination is on behalf of Dumka which is supporting the daughter of their soil this time.” BJP veterans—former chief minister and Dhanwar MLA, state party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash _ and representatives of the Sudesh Mahto-led AJSU-P _ were among those present in Dumka while she filed her papers. However, all of them stayed away from the district collectorate in the wake of Covid restrictions. Talking to reporters at the BJP office in Dumka, Marandi reiterated the party’s poll plank. “The utter lawlessness in the state is being felt by the public and we are committed to rid Dumka and the state from the incumbent government that has given criminals a free hand,” she said, citing recent incidents of crimes like rape, murder and dacoity. Chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant will take her on in Dumka as the candidate of the JMM-Congress-RJD grand alliance. Dumka is a seat reserved for scheduled tribes. In the 2019 Assembly polls, Marandi was unseated by Hemant by a margin of over 13,000 votes. After assuming charge, Hemant vacated the seat to retain Barhait paving way for the bypolls. BJP delegation at EC door A delegation of the BJP headed by state party general secretary Aditya Sahu submitted a memorandum at the office of the chief electoral officer, accusing the ruling dispensation of misusing government machinery for the elections. Citing an instance, the delegation demanded transfer of Bermo sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) from the area till the election was over. Along with Dumka, Bermo will also hold byelections on November 3. The memorandum read, “A month back, he was posted at DSP headquarters in Bokaro but was transferred as SDPO in Bermo within the same district in violation of transfer posting rules. This clearly indicates that the government is posting officials of its choice in poll-bound regions to influence elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Woman arrested for possession of fake currency notes at Chaibasa||Police booked a 35-year-old woman on Tuesday after they recovered fake currency notes amounting to Rs 30,500 from her house in West Singhbhum, about 65km from Jamshedpur. The arrested woman, identified as Malaya Hembram, wife of former BJP MLA Putkal Hembram, is a resident of Gaushala Road in Chaibasa Muffasil area. Malaya prodcued a Rs 2000 note to pay for shopping at a cloth shop on Monday evening.  The shopkeeper, a woman named Jayanti Devgam, refused to accept the note as it appeared to be fake. On getting refused, the accused got furious and started quarrelling with the shopkeeper, attracting several people to gather at the scene. The quarrel aggravated, leading to a fight.  Meanwhile, someone informed the cops, leading a police party to reach the spot. Officials searched Malaya's bag and found another Rs 2,000 denomination, similar to the one she tried to pay the shopkeeper with. She was taken into custody soon after. A joint team of Chaibasa Muffasil thana and Chaibasa Mahila thana raided Malaya's house later at night and recovered 13 more Rs 2,000 notes and a Rs 500 note. On inspecting, and getting verified by bank employees, the police found all the currency notes to be fake. OC, Chaibasa Muffasil thana, Ashutosh Kumar said preliminary investigations suggest Malaya Hembram is part an unknown gang of fake currency racketeers. "The accused hails from Assam, where here parents still live. She moved to Jharkhand afte her marriage to Putkal Hembram, a former BJP MLA from Chaibasa.  It is possible that she came in contact with some fake currency racket while visiting her parents in Assam.  We are trying to find out the source from where she obtained the fake currencies," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC also said that Malaya has been sent to Chaibasa Divisional Jail on the charge of running a racket of fake currency notes. She will soon be taken into police remand and questioned. "Once we get her in police remand, we will not only try to find out the source of the fake currency notes, but also detect whether she succeeded in transacting with some of those in the market.  We will also dig into details about the single fake Rs 500 note," Kumar said. The OC further informed that during the search at Malaya's home, police found several papers related to bank transactions. He said those papers are being verified by functionaries of the local branch to find out whether she managed to slip some of the fake currency in the bank too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||What holds back tribal students in an urban milieu?  ||The Tribal Research Institute (TRI) in Ranchi will soon start holistic research on the psychological changes that tribal adolescents from rural areas undergo while studying in an urban set up and also explore the triggers that stop them from opening up and excelling in educational institutions. Ranendra, the director of the institute run by the Union ministry of tribal affairs, said the  research was aimed at exploring the psychological factors that contribute to the shy nature of tribal students, especially the ones who come to cities from villages to pursue education. The institute, he added, has roped in expert psychiatrists and psychotherapists from the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi to conduct the research that is being funded by the state government. “Children in the age bracket of eight to 17 years will be studied. The process has begun. We are primarily targeting schools, universities and colleges in Jharkhand,” said Ranendra said on Tuesday. “The psychological response of tribal students in at least 10 districts of Jharkhand will be studied during the course of the research,” he added. He said in order to get better results, the institute will consider students from tribal-dominated districts as well as districts where the tribal population was not sizeable. “We will collect data from Khunti and Simdega where the tribal population is quite high. We will also collect data from Koderma and Palamau where the percentage of tribal population is not that high,” said Ranendra. One of the objectives behind this research, Ranendra said, was to identify the psychological barriers that make tribal children behave in a particular way, and eventually address those issues in order to help them overcome their psychological challenges. “If you take a walk in the campus of any college in Ranchi, you will notice the difference in the body language of tribal students who come from a rural background and the ones who were born in the cities,” said the TRI director. “There has to be a psychological stimulus making them act the way they act, and nobody has ever tried to study the factors that ultimately lead to such behavioral changes,” he added. As per the 2011 census, around 27 per cent of the 3.29 crore people in Jharkhand are tribals. More than three-fourth of the tribal population, as per government data, lives in rural areas and are mostly dependent on agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||More than 500 cases, 11 deaths in a day in Jharkhand||Nearly a dozen more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the toll in the state close to 800, figures released by the health department stated. Of the 11 Covid casualties reported in the state on Monday, six occurred in Ranchi and East Singhbhum. Both the districts reported three Covid deaths, taking the toll in East Singhbhum to 318 and that in Ranchi to 147, government data highlighted. Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih, Bokaro and Chatra reported one Covid death each. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 798 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand during treatment. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.85 per cent after Monday’s findings. Meanwhile, Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on Monday, dragging the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 90.78 per cent. As many as 510 people were found infected on the day, while 890 patients recovered from the infection, the NHM bulletin stated. Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum reported a dip in the number of active cases on Monday. As many as 308 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi against 199 fresh cases in 24 hours, bringing the number of active cases down at 2,560. In East Singhbhum, 80 people were found infected against 106 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases down to 1,556. Dhanbad reported 20 cases of infection, while Gumla, Godda and Giridih reported 14, 12 and 11 fresh cases respectively. As many as 34 people were found infected in Hazaribag, but the number of active cases dropped there as well as 47 people recovered from the infection. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 28,522 people and less than 5 per cent of them tested positive. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 26.76 lakh people and tested 26.74 lakh of them. Of the nearly 27 lakh people tested so far, 93,035 were found infected. The number of active cases dropped further down at 7776 on Monday, government data highlighted. The doubling rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand reached 85.21 days against the national average of 64.03 days on Monday. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.79 per cent against the national growth rate of 1.07 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Shatabdi Express resumes operations||South Eastern Railway on Monday announced the resumption of Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Express special from October-15. The service was suspended on March 22 due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The train will run according to its pre-pandemic schedule. According to railway sources, Ranchi-Howrah Shatabdi Express will reach Howrah from Ranchi via Muri, Bokaro Steel City, Chandrapura, Dhanbad, Asansol, Raniganj and Durgapur. The link between Bokaro and Howrah that was completely cut off with no interstate bus service, will now be restored. The state government has granted permission to hold political rallies for the Bermo by-elections. According to the order, issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, if there is an election program in a hall, then 50 percent of the capacity or maximum 200 people can be present there. There will be no compulsion of numbers during the open ground meeting, but social distancing of six feet will be mandatory. For every election programme, permission has to be obtained from the district administration concerned. The district administration will decide on the number of people who can gather. The distance between the two chairs on a podium has to be six feet. During a political meeting or rally, the candidate will have to arrange a thermal scanner, face masks and sanitisers. Face masks are mandatory for all events. Two persons died and three sustained serious injuries near Shiladih Mor on GT road in Gorhar of Barkatha block when their car hit a stationary truck from behind. Gorhar police said driver Rahul Burnawal lost control of the car which hit the truck killing Yasmatia Devi(45) and her son Sanoj Paswan(30) on the spot. Injured included Rahul(22), Manisha Kumari(10) and Chandani Kumari(22) were sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital for treatment. The victims are residents of Aurangabad in Bihar. BJP national vice president and former chief minister Raghubar Das who was in Dhanbad on Monday for a party programme. Das charged that the Hemant Soren led government has failed to fulfill any of its promises including the Rs 7000 unemployment allowance to postgraduate persons, Rs 5000 allowance to graduates and pension to widows. "People who have voted to JMM led government are now repenting over their decision as they are feeling deceived," said Das. President of Industries and Commerce Association, B.N. Singh, on Monday wrote a letter to General Manager of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited demanding improvement in the power situation. Singh pointed that Baliapur block has power for only 5-6 hours, causing difficulties in nine Hard Coke Industries operations. "Though some improvement in power supply situation took place after a similar letter written by me on September 29 for a week, the situation again turned pathetic," said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi fast against Stan Swamy's arrest||Over 60 representatives of public organisations and tribal activists staged a hunger strike near tribal icon Birsa Munda’s memorial in Ranchi on Monday to protest against the arrest of 83-year-old Jesuit priest and rights activist Father Stan Swamy while national Opposition leaders condemned the NIA’s October 8 action. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a coalition of human rights groups) member and women’s rights advocate Aloka Kujur termed the arrest an attack on Birsa Munda’s legacy. “The arrest of 83-year-old (Father) Stan Swamy by the NIA is an attack on Birsa Munda’s legacy and this is what prompted us to stage the hunger strike (between 10am and 4pm) at the tribal icon’s samadhi sthal. Everyone in the state and the country knows the role played by Stan Swamy in raising his voice for the tribals, work on displacement, land alienation and rights of gram sabhas and for innocent Adivasis languishing in jails. “The NIA at the behest of the central government has arrested him on fabricated charges. We demand his release and repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is being used by political parties to harass those who raise voices of dissent,” said Kujur. Tribal Advisory Committee member Ratan Tirkey, who had met Fr Swamy at his Bagaicha residence at Namkum, Ranchi, a few hours before he was taken away by the NIA, urged chief minister Hemant Soren to immediately write to the Centre for release of the elderly priest. “We know that the chief minister has voiced his support for Stan Swamy through his tweets but we would like Hemantji to also write to the Union government for the release of the priest and also to stop the misuse of NIA by the Centre and take a stand as has been taken by other Opposition-ruled states like Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Kerala,” said Tirkey. Soren had tweeted on his official handle on Friday night: “What message does the BJP government at the Centre want to send by arresting octogenarian Stan Swamy who has been raising his voice for the poor, the deprived and the tribals? Why is the Centre adamant on stifling all voices of dissent?” A few hours later on Friday, the chief minister re-tweeted the JMM Lohardaga unit’s post questioning the arrest of Fr Swamy: “What problem does the Centre have with those who raise their voice in support of the tribals? Stan Swamy, who had fought for rights of tribals throughout his life, has been arrested by the NIA at the behest of the Union government. Is it a crime to raise voice for tribals?” On Sunday, Soren told reporters in Ranchi that the arrest was a part of the BJP-led central government’s hidden agenda. “Stan Swamy has been working for the Adivasis and the poor since decades and his arrest is part of the BJP’s hidden agenda and an attack on democratic institutions,” he had said. Congress MP from Kerala and former Union minister Shashi Tharoor on Monday  condemned the arrest in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. “Arresting an 83-year-old social worker (Fr Swamy) who has brought help to the helpless for decades is a national disgrace. It’s also eroding our country’s standing as a liberal democracy in the eyes of the world,” Tharoor tweeted. On Saturday, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh had condemned the arrest. “This is truly, truly outrageous. I have known Father Swamy and am well aware of his work with the adivasis. This is Modi Sarkar’s tactics of browbeating and intimidation against social activists. ATROCIOUS!” Ramesh had tweeted. Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Jharkhand spokesperson Smita Lakra and Mandar Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey also condemned Fr Swamy’s arrest in news conferences on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
13-10-2020||Jharkhand||BSL employees and workers demonstrate against management||Thousands of employees and contract workers of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) staged a massive demonstration on Monday, with demands which incled payment of bonus, election of labour unions, improvement in health facilities and others. Under the banner of Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS), a wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JJM), they they marched to Ispat Bhawan, raising slogans and waving placards against the BSL management. The demonstration disrupted traffic on the busy road between Nayamoad to Ispat Bhawan for about an hour. JJMS believes that BSL, a unit of SAIL running under union steel ministry, is ignorant of their 9335 employees and about 15,000 contract workers dedicatedly working in the steel making process. BSL has witnessed more than a dozen demonstrations by different groups in the past 30 days. Frequent demonstrations inside the plant and township areas by displaced groups, dependent outfits, labour unions and others has virtually shown the failure of the BSL management in sorting out the issues. The workers are sad with the management's ignorance, which has registered a turnaround in September achieving more than the production target. Thousands of JJMS workers demonstrated inside the plant last month. The industrial relation department of BSL fails in pacifying the growing resentment among workers and other outfits, disturbing industrial peace. General secretary of JJMS, B K Chaudhary said “We have been asking the BSL management to conduct labour union over the past several years. Other SAIL units in Bhilai, Durgapur, Rourkela conduct regular labour union elections. But in BSL, it has not been conducted for more than three-four decades. Why does BSL not want a union election?”. JJMS said that they have submitted a 13-point demand related to welfare of employees and workers of BSL. As BSL has registered considerable profit in the last financial year and performed exemplary well during Covid-19 lockdown period, BSL employees are expecting a good bonus. “Durga puja is round the corner, but there is no announcement of bonus for BSL employees,” added Chaudhary. JJMS is demanding atleast Rs 30,000 bonus before Durga Puja, apart from wage revision, leave encashment and other allowances. Chaudhary also asserted that things have deteriorated in BSL plant and township. “BSL plant was running without a CEO for the last 10 months. We have asked the newly joined director incharge Amarendu Prakash to assess the problems faced by employees”. He pointed that “The condition of roads, streetlights, water supply has deteriorated in BSL township. Encroachment on BSL’s land is growing in all sectors. Health services in Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) have deteriorated to the extent that employees were refused admission many times." JJMS demanded that the director incharge should personally visit every department inside the plant and communicate directly with the employees. Chaudhary said, “We are preparing to intensify our agitation if our demand is not met and the situation doesn’t improve”. A massive demonstration was organised two days after the director incharge met with leaders of all the trade unions and got acquainted with the problems of workers and their demands. There are nine labour unions in the BSL, of which seven are functional. Almost all the unions are demanding a bonus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-269
