14-10-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University hands smartphones to students ||Somen Saren, a student of engineering at Jadavpur University, was missing out on online classes as he did not have a smartphone. The boy from Purulia, who is staying at his sister’s house in Sodepur (the university’s hostel is closed because of the Covid pandemic), would wait for his brother-in-law to return home from work at night and then use his mobile phone to access the recorded lectures uploaded on JU’s website. A fourth-year student of food technology and bio-chemical engineering, Somen heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when the university handed him a smartphone. “I missed out on live classes for want of a smartphone.... I am relieved now as I have got a smartphone,” said Somen, who turned up on the campus during the day to collect his phone. “Our family income is Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 a month. My father can’t afford to buy me a smartphone,” Somen said. JU is handing smartphones to 200 students to bridge the digital divide and enable them to attend classes on digital platforms amid the pandemic, which has forced colleges and universities to discontinue in-person classes. A combination of live and recorded classes are being conducted under the distant digital mode. JU officials said around 20 students had visited the campus since Monday to collect smartphones. “Those who cannot come will get their phones through courier,” said Gourkrishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU. JU is also buying 800 students data packs for three months. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: “We are taking all steps to reach out to students who cannot afford the devices.” The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has extended till November 16 the time for “submission of eligibility request and registration” of Class XI students for the 2020-21 academic session. The council had received requests from school principals all over the country for candidates who were "either in containment zones or had moved to their hometown" in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Court’s stand on minority-run schools ||The high court on Tuesday clarified that it had included minority-run institutions in the order not to meddle “in the internal affairs of these institutions” but to figure out “a best-fit” among a disparate set of schools and guardians and “that also for a limited period of time, with the paramount interest of the students in mind.” Article 30(1) of the Constitution, which protects the rights of the minorities, says that “all minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educa-tional institutions of their choice”. The junior judge on the division bench, Moushumi Bhattacharya, said in her part of the 68-page order that in ordinary parlance, “to administer is to manage or run the affairs of, and entails control in matters of everyday governance and being essentially of a non-transitory nature”. She said “matters of admission of students, selection procedures for such, appointment of teachers and staff, choice of courses to be taught, orientation or character given to the educational methods adopted, all form part of the right to administer”. She went on to add: “In the case at hand, our aim is not to intermeddle in the internal affairs of these institutions or supplant the present governing bodies of these institu-tions with a court-appointed agency; but to figure out a best-fit in a disparate set of schools and guardians and that also for a limited period of time, with the paramount interest of the students in mind.” Schools run by the Church of North India (CNI) had also cited the right to privacy to not disclose details of their account books before a court-appointed committee. Justice Bhattacharya wrote in the order: “The right to privacy, taken at its most obvious connotation, is the right of a person to draw his or her boundaries in terms of sharing information. It is a pro-individual right where the person can choose the company he keeps and the time and the agency to disclose what he wishes to. It is a right aimed at preserving the spatial and intellectual integrity of an individual in matters of choice and acts as a springboard for the connected freedoms which are guaranteed under the Constitution. “The argument against disclosing of accounts by the schools is not acceptable for two reasons. First, there is an unfounded apprehension that court is trying to ferret information out to the detriment of the concerned schools…. Second, a comparative assessment of financial solvency is to facilitate the process of reaching a solution. The schools cannot be permitted to take an unreasonable position to put speedbreakers in that path…. Article 30 (1) was contemplated by the framers to serve as a shield and not as a sword.” Six missionary schools run by the Calcutta diocese of the CNI had moved a special leave petition before the Supreme Court saying that minority schools enjoy financial autonomy to run their institutions, a freedom guaranteed by Article 30 of the Constitution. But the apex court of the country sent back the appellant schools to Calcutta High Court for recalling of the court's order. In about 15 pages of the 68-page order, there are references to minority institutions. A member of the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools said that they would study the order. “After studying the order if we find that it is interfering with the minority rights, we will challenge it,” said the member. “The minority institutions have freedom to administer as long as there is no maladministration. Charging reasonable fees is not maladministration,” said the head of a CNI school. Justice Bhattacharya said in her part of the order that “the cause of the dispute is the economic downturn brought about by the pandemic”. “The effect is physical attendance being substituted by online classes. The consequence is that guardians are being made to pay for facilities which their wards are unable to avail of. The endeavour of the court is that students must not be caught in the crossfire between their parents and the school authorities,” she said. Several schools said they were worried about possible “consequences” of Tuesday’s order. “The tuition fee component is used to pay salary to the teachers. So will we have to use all the reserve that schools have. There are families where a male teacher is the only earning member,” said the head of a private English medium school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Call to avoid Puja crowd to battle Covid||Public health experts have suggested measures such as social media campaigns with messages from doctors and regulation of public transport “to avoid crowding” during Durga Puja. They were speaking at an online meeting on Monday evening. “We are right in the middle of a major crisis, and after the Puja, a tsunami-like health emergency may occur unless we can avoid crowding at any cost,” said Hiralal Konar, a convenor of the joint platform of doctors, at the meeting. “The Puja is only days away. If pandal-hopping happens like earlier years, it will be suicidal,” said Dulal Bose, a physician and former sheriff of Calcutta at the beginning of the meeting. Most agreed that restrictions like wearing masks or using sanitisers will be ignored if huge crowds hit the roads together. Every year, millions visit city pandals during the Puja. Visitors often have to wait for hours in long queues with hardly any space between two persons. Manash Gumta, a physician associated with government health services, pointed out that the public health infrastructure was under severe stress and the situation might spin out of control if the number of Covid patients suddenly jumped after Puja. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar underlined the warning, saying availability of beds had already shrunk in most hospitals, particularly at private hospitals. He warned the virus would spiral out of control if there was any gathering of more than 20 to 25 people in an enclosed area. “Many come to the city from outside to see pujas. Suburban trains should not start before the Puja and public transport needs to be regulated so people cannot come to the city in huge numbers during the Puja.” said Arunabha Majumdar, a public health specialist and former director at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. Ajay Sarkar, a physician leading the Covid unit at a private hospital, observed that apart from discouraging thousands who were planning to visit pujas on foot, pandal-hopping in packed cars needs to be avoided. “The only way to drum up sense is to circulate messages from doctors combined with targeted social media campaign,” observed academic Sukanta Chaudhuri. “The clubs and local police should coordinate to avoid major crowding,” said Sandhi Mukherjee, a retired police officer. “It’s preferable not to play the microphones as far as possible, because if microphones blare, people will have to speak loudly to be heard, which, in turn, may increase release of viruses,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a public health expert. “We will soon write to the chief minister to share the suggestions and will urge her to see that crowding during Puja is avoided at any cost,” said social activist Naba Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta|| Blast in club rocks Beleghata||An explosion early on Tuesday inside a club in Beleghata destroyed a portion of the wall and the asbestos roof of a small room on the rooftop. Bricks from the damaged concrete wall flew and landed around 40ft away leaving people of the locality terrified. No one was injured, police said. Several residents said they heard a deafening sound around 6.30am. Some said the sound could be heard almost half a kilometre away, close to Gandhi Bhawan. “It was quite early in the morning… there were a few people on the road. I had stepped out for a cup of tea from a nearby stall when there was this sudden loud noise… we could see black smoke from a distance,” Tapas Malakar, a resident of the area, said. “It took us a while to understand the explosion had occurred inside the club building. Sometime later members of the bomb disposal squad arrived.” The police have sealed the Beleghata Gandhi Math Friends Circle Club, a double-storey building with a small room on the rooftop. A team of investigators from the city police’s detective department, along with officers of the dog squad and from Beleghata police station visited the club several times during the day, collecting samples and talking to some club members. “Such an impact usually happens when some high explosive substance is stored in a small place. There has to be the presence of ammonium nitrate that got mixed with fuel oil,” P.K. Ghosh, a former senior scientist with the Central Forensic Science Laboratory in Calcutta, said. “Left untouched a mixture of ammonium nitrate and fuel oil will not explode. There must have been some trigger through some shock.” There is presence of soot on the wall. “We will examine the place once again on Wednesday to get a clear understanding of the nature of explosion,” a member of the forensic team said. Some club members said no explosive material had been stored inside the club building. They told cops that people on motorcycles with their faces covered had hurled bombs at the building. A few members said gas cylinders had been kept on the second floor and that they had exploded. It will take some time to piece together the information that has been emerging before arriving at a conclusion, senior police officers, speaking off the record, said. “The most crucial will be the preliminary forensic report,” an officer overseeing the investigation said. BJP leader Locket Chatterjee demanded the National Investigation Agency look into the blast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal inspection starts; airflow tops checklist||A team of police officers on Tuesday inspected Durga Puja pandals across Calcutta to see if there was adequate provision for free airflow across the structure. The officers checked if puja committees had made adequate arrangements for unhindered flow of visitors in small numbers to pandals. The team of officers, led by Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint police commissioner, visited 20 puja pandals during the day to inspect the arrangements that have been made for the entry and exit of visitors and if pandals had been built in keeping with the government norms. Pandals should be built in such a way that there is unhindered airflow, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said at a meeting with puja organisers on September 24. Either the top or the three sides of a pandal should be kept open for air to flow freely and organisers should ensure there is no gathering of visitors to avoid the spread of the coronavirus. Tuesday’s inspection began with Kumartuli Park in the north and covered several other prominent pujas, including Mohammad Ali Park on Central Avenue, College Square, Santosh Mitra Square, Bosepukur Sitalamandir in Kasba, Ekdalia Evergreen, Deshapriya Park, Naktala Udyan Sangha, Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore and Behala Notun Dal. “Most puja committees have adhered to the norms laid down by the government for the construction of pandals to ensure free circulation of air,” Sarkar said. “We have instructed puja committees to ensure there are adequate arrangements for masks and sanitisers.” At Kumartuli, organisers told the police team that they would keep the top open for air to flow and that there would be several exit gates for quick movement of visitors. “The police team was more or less satisfied with our arrangements,” Pabitra Basak of Kumartuli Park said. “Officers, however, said volunteers should wear face shields. We will now have to think how to arrange them for so many volunteers,” he said. Apart from the entry/exit arrangements, the team wanted to check how organisers had decided to restrict the number of people converging before idols at a time, an officer said. Fewer people in front of idols would mean longer queues outside and the police wanted to check if there were enough arrangements to manage such long queues, the officer said. At Shibmandir in Mudiali, officers went through the entry/exit arrangements and spoke with organisers about people converging in front of the idol. “Pandal-hoppers needn’t stand. They can keep walking and watch our idol from a distance,” Partho Ghosh of Shibmandir puja committee, said. In Kasba and across parts of Behala and Kalighat, several puja organisers have ensured that visitors don’t have to enter a small zone to watch the idols. “We showed the team this year our gates are far wider than previous years and are more in number,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal said. The chief minister is scheduled to inaugurate this puja on October 16, along with a few others in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court orders 20% school fee waiver||Calcutta High Court has ordered private schools in Bengal, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees between April 2020 and a month after the schools resume physical classes. The schools have been barred from charging for facilities such as labs, sports and craft that students are not using during the pandemic. They can charge session fees but at 20 per cent less. Parents will have to pay the discounted fees by December 8. Many schools said they would appeal the high court order. The order will not apply to schools whose average monthly fees, calculated on an annual basis for April 2020-March 2021, are less than Rs 800.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Metro not to run Puja all-night trains||Metro trains will not run through the night from Saptami to Navami this year as a precaution against Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday. “We do not want to take any chances. Experts are anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases after the Puja. Metro travel is easy and fast and our night trains are packed during the Puja. So, we have decided not to run trains through the night this year,” a Metro official said. In 2019, Metro carried 61.6 lakh passengers between Tritiya and Dashami. On Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 1pm and 4am. “We used to witness maximum rush between 8.30pm and 1am. There would not be an inch of space left to stand,” said the official. “When doctors are insisting on caution this year, we should not encourage such crowding.” A large number of Metro commuters on the Puja days were from suburbs and they would come to the city by suburban trains, which are still suspended because of the pandemic. When Metro services resumed on September 14, the number of daily trains was 110 and the last trains left the terminal stations at 7pm. Since then, the number of trains has gone up and the timings have been extended more than once. From Monday, Metro has been running 146 trains from Monday to Saturday. The last trains now leave the terminal stations at 8.30pm. The authorities want to extend the timings by around an hour by the Puja, sources said. Before the pandemic, the last trains left the terminal stations at 9.55pm. “Nothing has been finalised. The threat of Covid-19 looms large over us. The scale of the crisis is unprecedented and we have to act accordingly,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. Starting Wednesday, senior citizens will be able to enter Metro stations throughout the day without an e-pass. They will just have to show their I-cards at the gates. For others, an e-pass is mandatory to enter a station. A smart card is a must for entering a platform for everyone, irrespective of age. Till now, people aged 60 and above could enter Metro stations from Monday to Saturday without an e-pass between 11.30am and 4.30pm, provided they produced an age proof. Only on Sundays could they enter a station any time by just showing an age proof. “Now, that time bar has been removed in view of the increased train services during the rush hours,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Cinemas resigned to lean footfall till Xmas||Many cinemas are set to open by this weekend or the next but owners are not expecting good business before a couple of months. The absence of big Bollywood releases in the immediate future has dimmed the prospects of a good footfall. The halls that are re-opening, including multiplexes, will have to show re-released Hindi films or a handful of Bengali films due for release on October 21. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, following which the Union ministry of information and broadcasting issued a set of standard operating procedures for halls to re-open in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The seating capacity has been curtailed to 50 per cent of the capacity. Sushant Singh Rajput films are the best bet for many hall owners until new releases arrive. Around 40 halls in Bengal, including some in Calcutta, have opted for Kedarnath, said sources in the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA). Inox said it was “all set to welcome back” audiences from October 15. The chain said it would discontinue paper tickets and issue only e-tickets. On offer will be old films. Single-screen hall owners are aware that old films are unlikely to draw visitors and they have curtailed the number of shows. But they want to open because there has to be a starting point after six months of shutdown. Halls which run Bengali films are also keen to bank on the festive season, traditionally associated with big releases. Owners are desperately waiting for the release of big-ticket Hindi films but that is not likely before Christmas, said exhibitors. The best-case, but unlikely, scenario is the release of one or two big films during Diwali, they said. Pranab Roy, who owns Menoka on Southern Avenue and Asoka in Behala, said both would resume screening films on October 16. But instead of four daily shows, there will be two. He will show Kedarnath and Chhichhore, both old films of Rajput, for now. “I am considering this as a trial run and waiting for our main supply line (big-ticket Bollywood films) to resume,” said Roy. Navin Chokhani, the owner of Navina, said the hall would reopen on October 21 with two new Bengali films. “Even before the pandemic, single-screen halls were not doing great. I am not anticipating a rush soon,” he said. A string of big-banner Hindi films is ready for release but the producers are holding them back because of the uncertainty in the market. Akshay Kumar-starrer Sooryavanshi and Ranveer Singh’s 83 are among the eagerly awaited biggies. “The producers want to wait for some more time…. Even if there is a semblance of normalcy, at least some mid and small budget Hindi films will be released,” said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of SSR Cinemas, which runs multiples in and outside the city. The uncertainty in the overseas market, a big draw for Hindi films, is another reason delaying the release, said Firdausul Hasan, president of the Film Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Plea for ‘permanent’ London flight||The state government will request the Centre to make the direct Calcutta-London flight “permanent”, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. “The Calcutta-London flight has just started. But it is still operating twice a week. I request the civil aviation ministry to increase the frequency and make it permanent,” Mamata said at a programme to unveil two open-roof double-decker buses that would take tourists to heritage spots of the city. Air India is operating twice-a-week flights between Calcutta and London from September. The flights were initially operated under the Vande Bharat programme (launched to bring back Indians stranded abroad during the Covid pandemic) and now as part of an air transport bubble scheme, an understanding between two countries to operate commercial flights. The airline had announced that the flights would operate till October 24 but the date was later extended till March 24. “Calcutta is the gateway to the Northeast and also to Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar. There is a lot of pressure (of passengers) to go to Europe. Many people want to go to Europe. So, we want the frequency (of the Calcutta-London flight) to increase,” she said. Mamata said the previous chief secretary, Rajiva Sinha, had written to the civil aviation ministry on the matter. “I have told the present chief secretary (Alapan Bandyopadhyay) to write another letter,” she said. “We have heard about a problem. When passengers are boarding the flight from there (London), they are getting Covid tests done, which is taking a long time. So, although there are many seats on the plane, passengers are unable to come,” said Mamata. She said the state government could arrange for rapid tests at the Calcutta airport. “The planes can be sanitised. We can also arrange for rapid tests. Those who test positive can be sent to safe houses and hospitals,” the chief minister said. A senior state government official said they were holding talks with Air India. “Officials of Air India have said there are some problems in increasing the frequency and making the flight permanent. But they are trying to find a solution,” said the official. Air India sources said the passenger count on the flights were “not encouraging”. “There is a demand for direct flights to London — from where people can fly to other parts of Europe — at least three times a week, but Air India has to be consistent with its service. Earlier, consistency was a big issue,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||Wanted, a tree-trimming stylist for city||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation is pruning trees along the city’s roads ahead of Durga Puja. But it is not being done on all sides, resulting in one side becoming heavier, naturalists and environmentalists have said. As a result gusty winds can bring down such trees, they have said. The practice of pruning branches without thinking of shedding load equally from all sides has been blamed for trees falling during storms. Improper pruning had resulted in thousands of trees getting uprooted in Calcutta when Cyclone Amphan had struck in May, naturalists have said. In a meeting with civic authorities in the aftermath of the cyclone, several naturalists had highlighted the indiscriminate chopping of tree branches that left their balance distorted. The civic authorities had then promised to look into the matter. The way trees are being pruned across the city, it is difficult to say lessons have been learnt, Arjan Basu Roy, the founder of NGO Nature Mates, said. The NGO works for the conservation of nature. Branches have been chopped off according to convenience. Portions that are easy to access have been cut while the other end has been left untouched. Metro found several instances of such trimming near Deshapriya Park and along Manoharpukur Road in south Calcutta, along SN Banerjee Road in central Calcutta and near Kumartuli on Rabindra Sarani in north Calcutta. “I saw tree branches have been hacked in Dhakuria and on stretches along Rashbehari Avenue. They have been chopped from one side, making the tree heavy on the other side,” Basu Roy said. He and his team have restored many uprooted trees to their old positions. “Unscientific trimming distorts the balance of trees and they tend to fall when there is a storm. Gusty winds uproot trees that are heavier on one side,” Basu Roy, who was among those who met CMC officials in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, said. The CMC had held the meeting to seek suggestions on planting new trees and maintaining existing trees along roads in the city and in parks. The CMC has been repeating the same practice year after year, Mallika Jalan, an urban environmentalist who has surveyed parks in the Calcutta municipal area, said. “It seems no one is bothered about the health of trees in Calcutta. The buck stops with whom? The CMC has a department named parks and gardens but most of its work is done by engineers and contractors. “I am not belittling them, but it is not the job of engineers and contractors to look into the health of trees or how trees should be trimmed.” The system must be overhauled if authorities are serious about maintaining trees in public spaces, Jalan said. There is no available record of the number or the variety of trees in Calcutta’s public spaces, a civic official said. There is no immediate plan to do any such survey either, the official said. The civic body could not employ men to do the trimming of trees this year because the people who do the job have not returned to Calcutta after they left for their hometowns when the Centre announced the lockdown, Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “People on hydraulic ladders are trimming tree branches. If the people who do the job were to be there, they would have climbed the trees if needed to reach the portions that cannot be accessed by the ladder fixed on a vehicle,” he said. “We are trimming a few trees now. The trimming will be done in full force when the men who are experts in the job return.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Calcutta||HC asks private schools to cut fees||The high court on Tuesday ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students between April 2020 and one month after the schools resume on-campus classes. The bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra-curricular activities or the like” till in-person classes resumed. The order for concession will not apply to any school “where the average monthly fee (calculated on an annual basis over the year from April 2020 to March 2021) is less than Rs 800”. However, such schools may voluntarily offer discounts as they deem fit. Highlights of the order ● The schools will not be allowed to increase any fees in this academic year and there will also be no increase in salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff in this academic session. ● The schools have been given the liberty to charge session fees but at 20 per cent less. ● The discounted fees will have to be paid by November 30. Beyond December 8, schools have been given the liberty to disallow students for non-payment. ● Examination fees can be charged separately. ● “The minimum figure of 20 per cent reduction in the monthly tuition fees will be on the basis of the tuition fees charged for the corresponding month in the previous financial year,” the order says. ● The bench said private schools that were not among the 145 respondents would also have to abide by the order. The case will again come up for hearing on December 7. ● “In addition to the across-the-board reduction, every school will entertain applications for further reduction or waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments…” the order says. Every application must be supported by financial statements of the parents or guardians to justify the request. The statements should be certified by a qualified auditor and accompanied by a declaration by the applicant parent or guardian. ● Each application will be considered on merit (by the school). The applications have to be filed by November 15. Every application has to be dealt with separately and the decision communicated to the applicant by December 31. Till the decision is communicated and for a further period of two months thereafter, no coercive action should be taken against the student. ● Parents not happy with the school’s decision may appeal before a committee named by the court on Tuesday. The committee comprises Tilak Bose, senior advocate; Priyanka Agarwal, who appeared for the petitioner parents; and the principal of Heritage School. “The committee must endeavour to dispose of every application within 45 days of the receipt thereof and the decision of the committee will be binding, subject to the relevant schools having a right to apply to this court… for reconsideration there on cogent grounds,” the court has said. By November 30, the committee should indicate a dedicated email account where the appeals against the decisions of the schools on fees may be filed. ● There will be no refund of the fees already paid. “However, to the extent fees have already been paid which are in excess of the directions contained herein, suitable adjustments will be made over the remaining months of the financial year, unless the parents agree in writing otherwise,” the order says. ● For the financial year 2020-2021, a maximum of 5 per cent excess of revenue over expenditure will be permissible; the balance excess (without any mathematical precision) should be passed on by way of general concession or special concession in individual cases of extreme distress. ● If any school makes a loss as a consequence of following these directions, such loss can be made up in course of the next two financial years - 2021-22 and 2022-23 - if normal physical functioning resumes by March 31, 2021. “No amount towards the arrears on account of revision of pay to teachers or other employees can be passed on in the fees for financial year 2020-21. The amount on account of arrears may be recovered in 2021-22 and 2022-23, if normal physical functioning resumes by March 31, 2021,” the order says. It adds: “Parents and guardians of students are requested not to avail of the reduction in school fees if their financial situation does not merit the reduction. However, if any set of guardians or parents obtains the benefit, no questions in such regard can be asked.” ● “No unusual expense should be incurred during financial year 2020-21 and no development or infrastructure expense should be incurred until absolutely unavoidable,” the court said. ● The court’s directive cannot be cited as a precedent. It is only because of the pandemic and “the day's order will remain valid during the closure of schools because of the pandemic”. Counsel appearing for most private schools said af-ter the order that they had no other option left but to move the Supreme Court against the verdict. The bench has decided to monitor the issue till the schools reopen after the pandemic is over. A PIL by social activist Vineet Ruia, who had alleged that several private schools had been disallowing students to attend online classes or write online exams for failing to pay fees during the pandemic. The petitioner had also said the schools were charging fees for services that were not being provided to the students in the absence of on-campus activities. Following the petition, the bench had formed a two member committee headed by Jadavpur University vice chancellor Suranjan Das and directed all 145 respondent schools to submit their income-expenditure accounts to the committee. Tuesday’s order was based on that committee’s report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-272
14-10-2020||Business||Bank of England alert on sub-zero interest rate||The Bank of England has asked commercial banks whether they are ready for negative interest rates, signaling that the central bank is moving closer to cutting its key interest rate below zero. If the benchmark rate were cut to less than zero, from the current 0.1 per cent, commercial banks would have to pay the Bank of England to hold deposits for them. Policy makers have previously indicated that they were willing to consider negative interest rates amid the economic pressures caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. A negative interest rate would encourage banks to lend money out rather than leave it at the Bank of England. A negative interest rate could theoretically result in savers being charged to hold deposits in their bank accounts, but commercial considerations, such as the need to attract deposits, might prevent banks from passing on all their costs to customers. The central bank, in a letter dated Monday, asked the CEOs of commercial banks to provide information on their operational readiness for negative interest rates and challenges presented by such a move. “For a negative Bank Rate to be effective as a policy tool, the financial sector — as the key transmission mechanism of monetary policy — would need to be operationally ready to implement it in a way that does not adversely affect the safety and soundness of firms,” deputy governor Sam Woods said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Coal India auction sales jump||Coal India on Tuesday said it has posted a 65 per cent rise in the sale of fuel through the electronic auction route in the first six months of this fiscal. The public sector miner has booked 41.4 million tonnes (mt) of raw coal through e-auction between April and September 2020 against 25.1 mt a year ago. “Even with the pandemic slowdown, Coal India could net a 10 per cent average premium over the notified value in the first six months compared with 48 per cent in the  previous year. But the aim was to increase volume,” a Coal India official said. To mitigate the liquidity crunch of coal consumers amid Covid-19 pandemic, the miner also brought down the reserve price to lift more coal during the lockdown phase. Spot e-auction, meant for both regulated and non regulated sectors, was at 16 MT during the six month period followed by exclusive action of 13.4 MT for non power consumers. A forward auction for power producers bagged 10 MT while a special spot auction yielded 2 MT during the period. Coal India board has vetted a reserve price of up to a maximum of 10 percent of notified price in October to gauge the market response. Based on the premium fetched, the miner would decide on the reserve price for November. “Power sector showing signs of recovery bodes well for us to ramp up sales,” said the official. Around 80 per cent of the offtake of Coal India is for the power sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Stimulus package size questioned||The actual size of the government’s stimulus package could work out to a modest Rs 40,000 crore and not Rs 73,000 crore, a report from the economic research wing of the State Bank of India (SBI) has said. On Monday, the government  had announced measures to boost demand by allowing central government employees to dip into their leave travel concession (LTC). The LTC amount can be tax free provided the employee spends three times the sum on goods and services which carry GST of 12 per cent or more. Further, the employees will be given a pre-paid Rupay card of Rs 10,000 under a special festival advance scheme. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had put the size of the stimulus at Rs 73,000 crore. While the announcement did not excite the markets, a report from the economic research wing of the SBI said the estimate was overblown and the actual sum  was only Rs 40,000 crore, or 0.21 per cent of  GDP. The LTC Voucher carrot, the report says, will not work because only 10-15 per cent of the employees will avail themselves of the scheme. The obligation on the employee to spend three times the value of the entitled fare in order to claim the tax break puts a disagreeable choice before the employee, the report said. Around 3.5 million central government employees would be entitled to this benefit, the report said. “It is doubtful how many will avail this scheme. If the person has to pay GST then it will be a burden and in fact he would be better off paying taxes on the amount availed by him,’’ the report said. The report also questioned the interest-free loan scheme to states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||GST borrowing door opened for 20 states||The Centre on Tuesday permitted 20 states to raise additional Rs 68,825 crore through open market borrowings to bridge the revenue shortfall caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision comes a day after the GST Council meeting failed to reach a consensus on the stalemate over the Centre’s proposal of states borrowing against future GST collections to make up for the shortfall. The projected total GST compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. “Additional borrowing permission has been granted at the rate of 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to states that have opted for Option 1 out of the two options suggested by the ministry of finance to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation,” an official statement said. In the meeting of the GST Council held on August 27 these two options were put forward and were subsequently communicated to the states on August 29. The final instalment of 0.5 per cent out of this 2 per cent limit was linked to carrying out at least three out of four reforms stipulated by the government. However, in case of states who have exercised Option-1, the condition of carrying out the reforms to avail the final instalment of 0.5 per cent of GSDP has been waived. “The 20 states that have opted for Option-1 are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Eight states are yet to exercise an option,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
14-10-2020||Business||Bane sparks boom for tea growers as prices spike||Tea — the golden elixir — brought some shine back to its hapless producers after a gap of seven years as the pandemic tightened supply by weeding out excess crop from the market and household consumption increased as people preferred to work from home. The ongoing trend of supply outstripping demand as small tea growers flooded the market was reversed from June onwards as the lockdown induced disruption and floods destroyed crops, resulting in more than 50 per cent higher auction prices during the July-September period. Even after factoring in a 20 per cent drop in production, a lot is left on the table for the producers, especially the well-managed ones. Large planters — the garden owners — had their best quarter in this period, helping them wipe off some of their losses of past years. They, however, are unsure if the party will last long as prices have started correcting sharply after hitting a high in mid August. Listed companies will come out with their second-quarter results some weeks later but Atul Asthana, managing director of Goodricke Group, agreed that the second quarter should be better than the first. “Prices were firm and demand was strong. There was an uptick in domestic at-home consumption too. Packet tea is doing good too, making up for the slack in sale of loose tea. I expect the trend to continue at least till September of 2021,” Asthana told The Telegraph. Goodrick is part of Camellia Group Plc, the world’s largest producer of bulk tea. Tea Board data suggests that in the months of July, August and September, north India tea (Assam, Darjeeling, Dooars & Terai) prices at the auction were higher by more than 50 per cent than the corresponding months of 2019. If an annual average is taken, prices are higher by 26 per cent between January and September. So far there has been a 153 million kg crop loss till August, representing an 18.3 per cent cut from 2019. Initial estimates suggest that September production was less than last year too, all but balancing out the 160-170 million kg surplus in the system at the start of the year. As plants remained unattended and leaves grew bigger during the lockdown resulting in minimal production of the first flush, planters took up deep skiffing — a form of pruning — which resulted in good quality tea when plucking started from June. “Packet tea players had bought large quantities in the early period as they had to maintain a certain blend quality throughout the year. However, it appears they are not as aggressive now as they used to be,” an industry insider said. Hindustan Unilever (HUL), India's largest packet tea seller, said it experienced double digit growth in tea sales in the first quarter as it raised prices a bit to offset input cost pressure. Tata Consumer Product Ltd (formerly Tata Tea), the second largest player, said it had 4 per cent volume and 8 per cent value growth in the first quarter. Chandra Kant Dhanuka, past president of the ITA and owner of Dhunseri Tea, said it was about time that prices go up as it was stagnant for seven years while costs increased by 8-10 per cent during this period. Offering an ingenious take on inflation adjusted historical prices, Dhanuka threw up a tantalising proposition: “By profit from 1 kilo of tea, I could buy 10 kilo of potato during 1974-99. Today with the same profit, I may be able to buy just 2 kilo.” Dhanuka said his company would make good profit but the future is hazy as prices have “crashed”. It is a fact that Calcutta auction prices have come down by 17 per cent to Rs 258.59 a kilo by October 10, after hitting a high of Rs 314.22 a kilo in the week ending August 15. Unsold quantities in the auctions are growing, driving a downward pressure on prices. At least one source said packeteers are picking up from that lot but offering extended payment terms. Asthana, however, predicted that next season could start with a shortfall in the pipeline (as against a surplus) this year and the demand-supply will not reach equilibrium before September when usually higher quantities of crop is produced. “By then, there will be a new benchmark in tea prices. Let’s face it. A Rs 100 per kilo rise translates into only Rs 0.25 increase in per cup of tea. I think all consumers can afford it and it would ensure long term survival of Indian tea industry,” he said. ITA secretary Sujit Patra believed that higher domestic consumption could hold up the price going forward. Exports, however, would be lower this year, industry sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Wipro posts 3.4 per cent drop in net profits||Wipro on Tuesday met Street estimates when it posted a 3.4 per cent drop in net profits at Rs 2,465.7 crore for the September quarter of 2020 against Rs 2,552.7 crore a year ago. Analysts were expecting the company to report profits between Rs 2400-2500 crore. Technology firms are largely expected to report strong numbers buoyed by increased spends on technological transformation because of the challenges thrown up by the Covid-19 pandemic. Wipro said it expects the revenue of its IT services business for the December quarter of 2020 to be in the range of $2,022-2,062 million. This translates into a sequential growth of 1.5-3.5 per cent. During the second quarter, US dollar revenues stood at $1.99 billion, which marked a sequential growth of 3.7 per cent. The October-December period is usually a seasonally weak period for IT services companies. “We had an excellent quarter with growth in revenues, expansion of margins and robust cash generation. I am very excited about the opportunities that are ahead of us and encouraged by the acceleration in business momentum we have seen this quarter,’’ said Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director. Wipro has announced a Rs 9,500-crore share buyback programme that may lead to promoters’ stake inching up further. At a board meeting on Tuesday, the directors approved a proposal to repurchase up to 23.75 crore shares representing 4.16 per cent of total paid-up equity capital from the shareholders through the tender route at a price of Rs 400 per share. This is a premium of 6.45 per cent over the closing price of the Wipro share on Tuesday. Wipro is the second technology firm after Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to announce a share buyback. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, the company said that its promoters will also participate in the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||IMF predicts deep global recession ||The IMF on Tuesday predicted a deep global recession this year with world growth contracting 4.4 per cent. The global economic crisis is far from over mainly because of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the Fund added. In its latest World Economic Outlook report, the International Monetary Fund also said the swift recovery in China has surprised all while the global economy’s long ascent back to pre-pandemic levels of activity remains prone to setbacks. “This crisis is, however, far from over. In our latest World Economic Outlook, we continue to project a deep recession in 2020. “Global growth is projected to be -4.4 per cent, an upward revision of 0.8 percentage points compared to our June update,” Gita Gopinath, the chief economist of the IMF, said. This upgrade owes to somewhat less dire outcomes in the second quarter, as well as signs of a stronger recovery in the third quarter, offset partly by downgrades in some emerging and developing economies. According to the report, in 2021, growth is projected to rebound to 5.2 per cent, -0.2 percentage points below its June projection. Noting that the Covid-19 pandemic continues to spread with over one million lives tragically lost so far, the Indian-American economist said living with the novel coronavirus has been a challenge like no other. However, she said the world is adapting as a result of eased lockdowns and the rapid deployment of policy support at an unprecedented scale by central banks and governments around the world. She said governments should support incomes by well targeted cash transfers, wage subsidies and unemployment insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Indian economy: IMF projects 10.3% contraction ||The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China’s projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest ‘World Economic Outlook’ report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America’s economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where gross domestic product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. “As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021,” it said. In June, the IMF had projected 4.9 per cent contraction in the economy. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World Bank said India’s GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. “The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before,” Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. “It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook,” he said. The Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China’s projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest ‘World Economic Outlook’ report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America’s economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, the IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. The IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where gross domestic product (GDP) contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. “As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021,” it said. In June, the IMF had projected 4.9 per cent contraction in the economy. According to the IMF, India is among those likely to suffer the greatest damage from global warming, reflecting its initially high temperatures. For India, the net gains from climate change mitigation-relative to inaction-would be up to 60-80 per cent of GDP by 2100. While estimates of losses from climate change are somewhat smaller for colder regions (for example, Europe, North America, and east Asia), these are likely underestimations as they do not include a number of damages (for example, rise in sea levels, natural disasters, damage to infrastructure from thawing of permafrost in Russia) and negative global spillovers from large economic disruptions in other parts of the world. Last week, the World Bank said India’s GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. “The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before,” Hans Timmer, World Bank chief economist for South Asia, told reporters during a conference call last week. “It is an exceptional situation in India. A very dire outlook,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||Business||Bengal set to get Rs 613 crore loan||Bengal is expected to get about Rs 613 crore from the Centre in 50-year interest free loans as part of the package to boost capital expenditure announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. However, the government did not provide any clarity on how the loan will be given. According to rating agency Icra, three states will get a sum higher than Bengal: Uttar Pradesh, Rs 1,485 crore, Bihar (Rs 820 crore) and Madhya Pradesh (Rs 643 crore). Aditi Nayar, the principal economist with Icra, said the sum allocated to each states was modest. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a sarcastic tweet said: “An example of fiscally prudent stimulus policy of central govt: Rs 12,000 cr 50-year interest free additional loan to states. Kerala is entitled Rs 200 cr. Some stimulus indeed!” The government is keeping the option of coming out with more stimulus steps to boost demand and various measures are being assessed, senior finance ministry officials said on Tuesday. “We are not ruling out further measures, if required,” said the official who did not wish to be identified, a day after the government announced measures to boost consumer spending. The officials said several stimulus measures are under consideration, and they could be sector specific or even tax relief including individual tax payers, which would put money into the pockets of people. The government has been stressing on the need for a fiscally prudent approach at a time several economists have suggested the Centre should increase spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-264
14-10-2020||India||Security deployed to protect Hathras victim's family & witnesses, UP tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that a three-fold protection mechanism has been put in place for security of the victim's family members and witnesses in the Hathras case in which a Dalit girl was allegedly brutally raped and died due to injuries. The state government, which earlier said that probe into the case may be conducted by the CBI in a time-bound manner, has said that the court may direct CBI to submit fortnightly status reports on the investigation to the state government which can be filed by the DGP, UP, in the Supreme Court. The UP government had expressed willingness before the top court to refer the investigation to the CBI on the ground that fake narratives were being spread about the case with political motives. Later, the matter was transferred to the CBI which has already started its probe. In a compliance affidavit filed in the top court, Yogi Adityanath government has said the state is committed to provide complete security to the victim's family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation in the case and adequate forces have been deployed for this. The state government therefore seeks indulgence of this court to be pleased to keep the above petition pending allowing the investigation by the CBI to be conducted under the supervision of this court in a time bound manner, it said. Giving details of protection and security provided to victim's family members and the witnesses, the state government has said that adequate number of security personnel, including up to 15 personnel of armed constabulary, have been deployed near and outside her house and eight CCTV cameras have been installed in the outer surrounding of her residence. The compliance affidavit was filed in pursuance to the October 6 direction of the apex court which had termed the Hathras incident as "horrible" while hearing a plea related to the case and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform it about the steps taken to protect witnesses. The Government of Uttar Pradesh is committed to provide complete security to the victim's family and the witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation, the affidavit said. It said adequate forces have been deployed to ensure protection of the members of the victim's family members -- her parents, two brothers, one sister-in-law and her grandmother -- who are residing at Chandpa village in Hathras district. The affidavit said in order to ensure the security of victim's family/witnesses, three-fold protection mechanism has been devised -- armed constabulary component, civil police component comprising of guard, gunners and shadows and installation of CCTV cameras and lights to keep watch of outer surroundings of the victim's house. It said that at the entrance of victim's village and near her house, a total of 16 police personnel, including two inspectors and four lady constables, have been deployed. It said outside the victim's house, two sub-inspectors have been deployed round the clock shift-wise and 1.5 PAC section, comprising of up to 15 personnel, have been deployed outside her house. The affidavit said guards have been deployed on rotation basis in two shifts to ensure safety of victim's family members/witnesses when they are at their residences. It said personal security gunners/shadows have been deployed for security of family members of victim and a total of 12 constables have been deployed shift-wise for this. It said eight CCTV cameras have been installed in outer surrounding of the victim's house along with fire extinguisher/fire pressure pumps and 10-12 lights have been installed in surrounding of her house. The inspector (in-charge) of police station Chandpa has been made the in-charge of the aforesaid entire arrangements and also to deploy suitable police force for the same. He shall supervise the police force and oversee the security arrangement on a daily basis, it said. The circle officer, Sadabad, is to ensure robust security arrangement by holding regular clear briefings of the police force and in addition, he shall also inform the family members about the security arrangements provided to them, the affidavit said. Further, to deal with any emergency situation, an appropriate QRT team has also been deployed. In addition, the state government has also installed eight CCTVs to ensure 24 hours surveillance/observation of the premises, it said. The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion in the privacy of the victim's family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want, the affidavit said. It said that victim's brother has informed the police in writing that they have engaged advocates on behalf of the family. However, they have requested that the government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf, it said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Heavy downpour kills 15 in Telengana||Fifteen people have died in Hyderabad in rain related incidents, following incessant rainfall that lashed the city and different parts of Telangana, leading to waterlogging on roads and inundation of some low-lying areas. The deaths were reported since Tuesday night as downpour triggered wall and house collapse in different places here, officials said. The state government has declared a holiday on Wednesday and Thursday for all private institutions, offices, non- essential services within Outer Ring Road here in view of rains. People were advised to stay indoors for the next two days as more rains are expected in the state. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K T Rama Rao and Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav held an emergency meeting with senior officials and reviewed the rescue and relief operations in the city. Three members of a family, including a child died in a house collapse in Gaganpahad area of Shamshabad this morning, police said. Ten people, including a toddler died in two wall collapse incidents in Chandrayangutta police station limits. In another incident, a 40-year-old woman and her daughter died after the roof of their house fell on them at Ibrahimpatnam area here after downpour on Tuesday night. Several localities in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits received very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall leading to waterlogging on several roads and low lying areas. Rivulets and other water bodies were in spate in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in the state following heavy rains and the administration has advised people not to travel on or cross such rivulets and inundated roads. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has instructed the officials of all district administrations to remain on high alert. Police teams and personnel of Disaster Response Force (DRF) of GHMC and NDRF evacuated several families from different localities that were flooded, even as rescue efforts were on in many other areas. The GHMC Mayor, Deputy Mayor, MLAs, and other elected representatives and officials have been ordered to be available in the field and continuously monitor and coordinate relief measures. Rama Rao directed the Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy district collectors to coordinate with the police and Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) department to shift people residing in low-lying areas and on the banks of Nalas and Musi rivers to relief shelters. As several trees and electricity poles were uprooted due to the deluge Rama Rao asked the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) officials to coordinate with MAUD and police to ensure power was restored at the earliest. Power supply was suspended in most parts of the state capital on Tuesday as a precaution, the officials said adding the measure was taken for public safety. Traffic jam was witnessed along Vijayawada-Hyderabad highway and commuters were advised to take alternate routes while police personnel diverted vehicular movement on city outskirts. In its weather forecast, the Met department here said thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana on Wednesday. Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places including Hyderabad on Wednesday and Thursday, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Governor to Uddhav: have you suddenly turned ‘secular’?||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has bluntly asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “have you suddenly turned secular?” and appealed to his “Hindutva” credentials while seeking the reopening of places of worship. In response, Uddhav reminded Koshyari that secularism was an inalienable facet of the Constitution and asked whether the governor had forgotten it after taking oath as the constitutional head of the state. Sharad Pawar, whose NCP is part of the Maharashtra coalition government, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to share his “pain” over the “intemperate language” used by the governor and laying stress on the importance of the word “secular” in the Preamble to the Constitution. The BJP sought to fish in the pandemic waters by staging protests outside temples in several cities in Maharashtra, demanding that the shrines be reopened. In Mumbai, BJP workers tried to enter the renowned Siddhivinayak temple. The BJP’s spiritual front, which included sages and mahants, protested outside the Saibaba temple in Shirdi. Governor Koshyari, who had started his career as an RSS pracharak and still sports the outfit’s black inverted boat cap, in his letter in English to Uddhav on Monday urged the chief minister to “announce forthwith” the reopening of places of worship by adhering to pandemic-time precautions. The governor said it was “ironical” that bars and restaurants had been allowed to reopen while “Gods and Goddesses have been condemned to stay in lockdown”. Places of worship in Maharashtra have remained closed since the announcement of the lockdown in March. Maharashtra is India’s worst-affected state, with over 15 lakh Covid cases and more than 40,000 deaths. The state has just begun to show a downward infection trend after months of struggle. The governor wrote to the chief minister on Monday: “You have been a strong votary of Hindutva. You had publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as chief minister. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of places of worship time and again or have you turned ‘secular’ yourselves, a term you hated?” Uddhav replied on Tuesday, saying in a letter in Marathi that his “Hindutva doesn’t need a certificate” from the governor or anyone else and stressed that a decision would be taken on reopening places of worship after careful consideration. “Isn’t secularism a key component of the Constitution you swore on while taking oath as the governor of the state?” Uddhav asked in his letter, adding: “Have you forgotten it?” The chief minister alluded to the governor’s meeting with actress Kangana Ranaut, who had abandoned all civility while publicly referring to Uddhav during a run-in with the Maharashtra government last month. “Inviting people who call Mumbai PoK with smiles does not fall in my definition of Hindutva,” Uddhav wrote. He also pointed out that all three representations the governor had forwarded to him, seeking the reopening of places of worship, were from the BJP. The governor’s letter had claimed he had received demands from various quarters. “While considering the sentiments and beliefs of the people, it is also important to take care of their lives and it’s wrong to impose and lift the lockdown suddenly,” Uddhav replied. In his letter to Modi, Pawar drew a distinction between political and constitutional office. “In the very Preamble of our Constitution the word ‘Secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions and hence the Chair of the Chief Minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution,” the former Union minister wrote. “Unfortunately Hon. Governor’s letter to the Chief Minister invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party,” he added. The NCP leader said that while free exchange of views between the governor and the chief minister was welcome, “the tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the Constitutional post occupied by the individuals”. “I must share my pain with you and the public at the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the Hon. Governor,” Pawar wrote to Modi. Koshyari, 78, who had for long been associated with the BJP and had also been the Uttarakhand chief minister, was seen to have played a key role in the party’s failed effort to wrest power in Maharashtra through a coup last year as part of which he had sworn in Devendra Fadnavis as chief minister early in the morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||Tanishq pulls ad ||Tanishq, India’s biggest jewellery brand co-owned by the Tatas, withdrew an ad that showed an apparent Muslim family organising Hindu baby shower rituals for the Hindu daughter-in-law. The ad was pulled after a bigotry-fuelled backlash, suggesting that even the Tata name can no longer guarantee the execution of business decisions. The ad faced abusive comments that accused Titan, the Tata Group firm, of promoting “Love Jihad”. “Love Jihad” is an unsubstantiated notion that Muslim men are entrapping non-Muslim women through marriage as a form of proselytisation. A Tanishq spokesperson said: “The idea behind the Ekatvam campaign is to celebrate the coming together of people from different walks of life, local communities and families during these challenging times and celebrate the beauty of oneness. This film has stimulated divergent and severe reactions, contrary to its very objective.” The spokesperson added: “We are deeply saddened with the inadvertent stirring of emotions and withdraw this film keeping in mind the hurt sentiments and well being of our employees, partners and store staff.” Titan Company Ltd, a joint venture between the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation and the Tata Group, is the owner of the Tanishq jewellery brand. Even though the TIDCO holds a 27.88 per cent stake and the Tatas 25.03 per cent, the latter manages the joint venture and, in turn, the Tanishq brand. Tamil Nadu is now governed by the AIADMK, an ally of the BJP-led NDA. After Tanishq pulled the ad, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “So Hindutva bigots have called for a boycott of @TanishqJewelry for highlighting Hindu-Muslim unity through this beautiful ad. If Hindu-Muslim ‘ekatvam’ irks them so much, why don’t they boycott the longest surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity in the world — India?” Tanishq had first disabled comments on the brand’s YouTube channel after the trolling. Once hashtags calling for the boycott of the brand trended on Twitter, the ad was taken down from YouTube and other platforms. Actress Kangana Ranaut, a new rallying figure for fundamentalists, tweeted: “This advert is wrong on many levels, Hindu bahu is living with the family for a significant amount of time but acceptance happens only when she is carrying their heir. So what is she just a set of ovaries? This advert does not only promote love-jihad but also sexism.” Deepika Padukone, the actress who had been targeted by Ranaut, is a brand ambassador of Tanishq. Several others in the film industry, such as Konkona Sensharma, Richa Chadha, Swara Bhasker and director Onir have supported the ad. Communication expert N. Chandramouli warned that the withdrawal by a brand backed by the Tatas could set the trend for others to follow. “We can’t say what the reasons are for the pullback. It’s not just the troll impact. Today, you know about those discreet calls that go to the management,” Chandramouli told The Telegraph. Last month, Tata Projects won the bid to build the new Parliament building. Chandramouli added: “Now trolls know that brands will succumb and all brands will feel this forever now. They will quote the Tanishq example and say ‘please don’t make such controversial ads…. They have set a narrative where the people who are bigots have gotten stronger and those who could have taken a stand have actually gotten weaker.” Tanishq is not the first brand to face religious bigotry. Surf Excel was trolled last year for showing a girl dropping a boy to a mosque on Holi, and saving his spotless white kurta by taking the water balloons on herself. Just before this, another Hindustan Unilever brand, Brooke Bond Red Label tea, was trolled for an ad showing a son abandoning his father at the Kumbh fair. In response, the company had tweeted: “RedLabelChai encourages us to hold the hands of those who made us who we are. Watch the heart-warming video #ApnoKoApnao.” Titan’s capitulation comes at a time when others like Bajaj Auto and Parle-G biscuits have refused to advertise on TV channels that promote “aggression and toxicity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||UP govt cremation excuse falls flat||Allahabad High Court has said the Uttar Pradesh government’s hasty cremation of the Hathras teenager without her family’s consent is “prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family”. The court said the administration so far had failed to come up with a convincing reason to justify the urgency. Responding to the Hathras district magistrate’s claim that jerry cans near the pyre “probably” carried “Ganga jal”, and not kerosene, the court said the official “as of now, could not satisfy us about observance of last rites while cremating the victim’s body as per traditions and customs of the family”. The court reminded police that the “mere absence of semen during forensic examination, though a factor for consideration, would not by itself be conclusive as to whether rape had been committed or not, if there are other admissible evidence”. The administration has been trying to suggest the girl was not raped although she had said several times she was sexually assaulted. The high court warned against “character assassination” of the victim and urged restraint by officials, political parties and the media. Efforts had been made to malign the victim by planting reports in a section of the media. Justices Rajan Roy and Pankaj Mittal of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court said in its order on Monday, made public a day later: “We do not at this stage find any good reason on behalf of the administration as to why they could not hand over the body to the family members for some time, say for even half an hour, to enable them to perform their rituals at home and thereafter to cremate it either in the night or the next day. “Admittedly, though the administration may not have categorically refused the family members to see the face of the deceased but the fact remains that it was not shown to any of them in spite of their repeated requests. Thus, the expanded fundamental right to life, to live with dignity and to exist with dignity even after death as well as the right to decent burial/cremation appears to have been infringed, hurting the sentiments of not only the family members but of all persons and relatives assembled at the spot.” The bench added: “Facts and circumstances, as of now, ex facie, reveal that the decision to cremate the victim in the night without handing over the body to the family members or their consent was taken jointly by the administration at the local level and was implemented on the orders of the district magistrate, Hathras. This action of the state authorities, though in the name of law and order situation, is prima facie an infringement upon the human rights of the victim and her family.” The court had earlier taken suo motu cognisance of the allegation that the police burnt the body of the brutalised and murdered Dalit teen without the consent or presence of the family. Her family has alleged that the police burnt the body at 2.30am on September 30 after locking them up. The police and the Uttar Pradesh government have denied the allegation of forcible cremation, claimed that the victim’s family was present and explained the hurry by pointing to the possibility of violence. The high court, which has titled the case “Right To Decent and Dignified Last Rites/Cremation”, will hear the matter again on November 2. The court said that denying a decent cremation was a gross violation of the fundamental rights accorded to the deceased under Articles 21 and 25 of the Constitution. “If so, who is responsible for the same so as to fix their accountability and liability and how will the family of the victim be compensated for it?” the court asked. “The government should come out with appropriate procedures as guidance for district officials to deal with such situations,” the court added in its order. The order noted that the mother of the deceased had lamented that she wanted to see the face of her daughter, but was not allowed and the body bunt at night against her wishes. “She broke down while narrating the entire story starting from the date of the incident when the girl was allegedly raped,” the order said. It specifically pointed out that the sister-in-law of the victim had accused officials of misbehaving with the family. The court said about additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar in the order: “We asked Sri Kumar as to whether it was proper for anyone not directly connected with the investigation to comment on any evidence relating to the offence (and on whether there was) rape or to draw conclusions based thereon as to whether offence was committed or not, when the investigation was still pending and such person was not part of the investigation, he fairly agreed that it should not happen.” Prashant Kumar had told journalists that the girl had not been raped as no semen had been found. The Uttar Pradesh government has taken the same stand in the Supreme Court, citing reports of forensic labs in Aligarh and Agra. The Lucknow bench said in its order: “Without in any manner intending to interfere with the right of freedom of expression, we request the media as also the political parties to air their views in a manner which does not disturb social harmony and/or infringe upon rights of the victim’s family and that of the accused. No one should indulge in character assassination of the victim just as the accused should not be pronounced guilty before a fair trial. The investigating agency and the courts should be allowed to determine these issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||China firm, Kashmir-like festering zone looms||The seventh round of military talks between India and China failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone akin to Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground, an official said. A joint statement issued by the defence ministries on Tuesday night said: “Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible.” The defence ministries’ statement added: “Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” In Beijing, the Chinese foreign ministry pinpointed India’s heightened infrastructure development and military deployment along the border as the “root cause” of tensions. China iterated that Beijing does not recognise the new Union Territory of Ladakh and also Arunachal Pradesh, where 16 of the 44 bridges commissioned by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday are located. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian identified the border infrastructure on the Indian side as the main reason for the face-off between the two countries since May while responding to a specific question at a routine media conference on India opening multiple bridges, many of them providing all-weather access to the disputed border with China. “For a while, the Indian side has been stepping up infrastructure building and military deployment along the border with China. This is the root cause of tensions. We urge the Indian side to earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two sides, refrain from taking actions that will complicate the situation, and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquillity along the border,” Zhao said. The question had specifically referred to eight of the bridges being located in Ladakh and another eight in Arunachal Pradesh, drawing a sharp iteration from Zhao. “China doesn’t recognise the so-called ‘Ladakh Union Territory’ illegally set up by India, or ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, and opposes infrastructure building aimed at military contention in disputed border areas,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
14-10-2020||India||SC glare on reporting ||Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal on Tuesday urged the Supreme Court to lay down guidelines to restrain the media from reporting on sub-judice matters, saying publishing such issues per se amounted to contempt of court and caused “great damage” to the judiciary. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari is dealing with a 2009 contempt petition against advocate Prashant Bhushan for an interview to Tehelka magazine in which he had alleged that half of the 16 former Chief Justices of India were corrupt. Bhushan had, however, said he had no evidence to prove the claim. “The issue of sub judice also needs to be considered by your Lordships as today both the print and electronic media are freely commenting on pending matters and are seeking to influence the judges and also public perception. This is actually causing great damage to the institution. It amounts to contempt of court,” the country’s highest law officer told the bench headed by Justice Khanwilkar. Venugopal, who had earlier argued against advocate Bhushan being punished for contempt of court over tweets on the judiciary, added: “…Another trend, for example, in a case like Rafale, on the day when the bench is taking up the case, there is an article commenting about the case…. The issue needs to be addressed.” Venugopal was referring to the Rafale chopper deal.The apex court had subsequently given the government the clean chit in the case. Venugopal has been asked to assist the court in the 2009 contempt matter as the bench is formulating questions on the right of citizens to make allegations such as those Bhushan has levelled against the judiciary. “Today, when I watch some of the TV channels, I see comments being made about bail applications in pending matters which are based on statements made to the police. It has now become a trend that when a bail matter comes up for hearing, these channels flash conversations between the accused and someone else. Such things can be very damaging to the accused and the case,” Venugopal told the court. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan intervened to say that a five-judge constitution bench had in the Sahara case already laid down guidelines for the media on sub-judice matters, and no fresh parameters were required. Dhavan, quoting Scottish politician turned judge Lord James Baron Reid, said: “When Shylock’s case is on, can we tell the press not to talk about it?” Dhavan said the media could not be restrained from reporting on pending matters. The court refrained from making any observations. The bench adjourned the matter to November 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||IIT chance for students who missed  test||The Indian Institutes of Technology on Tuesday decided to give an additional attempt next year to the candidates who could not appear in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced this year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Joint Admission Board (JAB), the body comprising directors of all IITs as members, held a meeting and decided to give this relaxation as a one-time measure, a press statement issued by IIT Delhi, the organising institute, said. This year, 1.6 lakh candidates had registered for Joint Entrance Examination Advanced, while 1.51 lakh appeared for the exam. JEE Advanced is the second round test conducted by the IITs for selecting candidates for admission into BTech courses. The top 2.5 lakh scorers in JEE Main are eligible to take the JEE Advanced. A student gets two chances to take the JEE Advanced and six chances to appear in JEE Main. “It has been decided to allow all the candidates, who had successfully registered to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020 but were absent in the exam, to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2021, as a one-time measure,” the release said. These 9,000 candidates will not be required to qualify for JEE Main next year. In addition, the usual 2.5 lakh top scorers in JEE Main will be eligible to take the JEE Advanced too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Covid eats into India’s workforce||Nearly half of India’s 1,09,000 coronavirus disease deaths have occurred among patients younger than 60 years, according to data released by the Union health ministry on Tuesday that also show over 1,000 deaths among children below 17 years. The health ministry’s mortality analysis has also found that Covid-19 patients with underlying health disorders such as cardiovascular, diabetes, high blood pressure, kidney disease or cancer have a 15-fold high risk of dying than patients without such so-called comorbidities. The first such analysis after India’s Covid-19 death counts crossed 1,00,000 have corroborated earlier indications that a significant proportion of these deaths have occurred among people aged between 26 and 60 years, representing the most productive workforce years. Ten per cent of the Covid-19 deaths have occurred among patients aged between 26 and 44 years and 35 per cent among patients aged between 45 and 60 years. And given India’s large absolute numbers, the 1 per cent mortality figure translates into more than 1,000 deaths each among children below 17 years and in young people between 18 and 25 years. The analysis has validated early signals that the Covid-19 epidemic is eating into India’s workforce, causing more premature deaths in working-age people in comparison with several other countries. Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention updated on October 7, for instance, shows that 42,069 (21 per cent) of 1,98,809 Covid-19 deaths across the US were among people below 65 years. In India, 47 per cent of deaths are among patients below 60 years. “The massive loss of people in the workforce is likely to have devastating social and economic consequences,” said Sanjay Mohanty, a public health researcher at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai. An independent mortality analysis by Mohanty and his colleagues in June this year — when India’s Covid-19 death toll was less than 15,000 — had found that roughly 58 per cent of deaths had occurred among patients between 30 and 65 years. The health ministry’s latest mortality analysis has also underlined the risk posed by comorbidities. The overall case fatality rate among patients with comorbidities was 17.9 per cent, or nearly 15-fold higher than the 1.2 per cent case fatality rate among patients without comorbidities. The risk of death increases with age and comorbidities. The case fatality rate among patients aged 60 years or older is 24 per cent, compared with 4.8 per cent in patients of this age group without any underlying health disorder. A giant detailed epidemiological study on over 84,000 Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, published last week, had found a relatively low incidence and mortality among people above 65  years, a contrast to patterns observed in Europe and the US. The researchers who had conducted the study had speculated that people in India aged above 65 years enjoy a “survivability bias” — good health, nutrition, and other socio-economic advantages — that likely shields them from the Covid-19 infection and mortality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Guidelines for treating dual infections||The Union health ministry on Tuesday released guidelines for treating coronavirus disease patients simultaneously infected with dengue, malaria or other infections, flagging the risk of seasonal epidemics and underscoring the medical challenges of treating double infections. The health ministry has pointed out that several seasonal epidemic-prone diseases can mimic some symptoms of Covid-19 and diagnostic tests for “co-infections” with dengue, malaria, H1N1 influenza, scrub typhus or bacterial infections must be undertaken whenever suspected. Bacterial co-infections must be suspected in moderate or severe cases of Covid-19 that do not respond to treatment, the ministry said in the guidelines that also recommend different sets of diagnostic tests for malaria, viral or bacterial infections. The guidelines recommend the use of the anti-viral oseltamivir under the prescribed dosage for patients co-infected with influenza. In case of an outbreak of seasonal influenza, oseltamivir “blanket therapy” should be considered for all patients with Covid-19, the ministry said. Infectious disease specialists say the guidelines that emphasise the need for appropriate diagnosis will become increasingly relevant as long-prevalent infections hit patients already infected by Covid-19 with or without symptoms. “This was bound to happen — we’ve been expecting this. Some patients will test positive for Covid-19 along with other infections,” said Anup Warrier, an infectious disease expert in Kochi who has seen Covid-19 patients with dengue, malaria, and leptospirosis, a bacterial infection. Leptospirosis is contracted through exposure to infected rodent urine, often during the monsoon or post-monsoon months. Scrub typhyus is also a bacterial infection contracted through the bites of certain mites. Both leptospirosis and scrub typhus are easily treated with antibiotics. Warrier said co-infections could be particularly challenging because up to 80 per cent of Covid-19 infected persons might have no symptoms. When such patients turn up with a co-infection and high fever, they might be mistakenly classified only as Covid-19 positive patients. “Our approach to fevers should be just as what it was before Covid-19. We have to look for the patterns of illness and symptoms of other possible infections and rule them out,” Warrier said. The ministry’s guidelines call on doctors to maintain a high degree of suspicion for infections that are common in their geographical locations. For instance, leptospirosis and dengue outbreaks have in the past occurred in post-monsoon months. “Sometimes, managing co-infections can be tricky because treatment goals are aimed at opposite directions,” Nitin Gupta, assistant professor of infectious diseases at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, told The Telegraph. Patients with severe Covid-19 are at risk of clotting for which treatment guidelines recommend low-molecular weight heparin (LMHW), a blood thinning medication. However, dengue increases the risk of platelet depletion and bleeding that makes the use of LMWH a challenge. While symptoms such as fever or headache are shared across these infections, Gupta said, there are, however, signs and symptoms that doctors could use to differentiate between them. He recalls a patient with fever who also had red eyes and jaundice which are not typical symptoms of Covid-19. The patient was found positive for both Covid-19 and leptospirosis. Another patient with high fever and a low platelet count was found Covid-19 negative but positive for dengue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Mehbooba freed, finally||Mehbooba Mufti, one of the three former chief ministers jailed last year ahead of the scrapping of Article 370, was freed on Tuesday night after 14 months in captivity. The 61-year-old mother of two daughters was the last of the three chief ministers to be released. Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released months earlier, in March. All the three were booked under the draconian Public Safety Act. They were among thousands detained to prevent unrest over the scrapping of Article 370. Government spokesman Rohit Kansal announced late on Tuesday evening that Mehbooba was being released. Minutes later, Mehbooba’s daughter Iltija Mufti, who has been handling her mother’s Twitter account all these months, announced her release. “As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, I’d like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May Allah protect you,” she tweeted. Mehbooba’s release comes just as the deadline set by the Supreme Court to the government to explain her detention was set to expire. Last month, the apex court had asked whether her detention under the PSA can be extended beyond a year. The bench had fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday. Mehbooba was detained for months at a government facility but was later shifted to her Gupkar home some months back after it was converted into a subordinate jail. People’s Democratic Party sources said she was informed about her release in the evening. Earlier, her detention under the PSA was quashed. “She continues to be at her home. The only difference is that she is free now,” a source said. Politicians of all hues have hailed her release. “I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba,” Omar tweeted. A PDP spokesman announced she will address a news conference on October 16. The PDP was facing a credibility crisis and its popularity had touched an all-time low for its alliance with the BJP. The alliance broke down in 2018 after the BJP withdrew its support. Before her arrest, Mehbooba was accused of resorting to anti-national activities by the BJP for statements like “no Kashmiri will hold the Tricolour in hand if the special status was scrapped”. The prolonged detention and hardline rhetoric is likely to restore her credibility. Late in the night, Mehbooba released an audio message, urging Kashmiris to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue and restoration of state’s special status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Opposition states explore options on GST||A serious confrontation is brewing between the Opposition-ruled states and the Centre over the goods and services tax (GST) issue as some chief ministers are exploring legal options in case their concerns are not satisfactorily addressed. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday hinted at deep disappointment among Opposition-ruled states by saying: “I was told the states raised the issues of dispute settlement and setting up a group of ministers to examine the concerns. But finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman abruptly ended the meeting and left. She didn’t answer the questions. This is not the way to wind up meeting, I was astonished. Debate, come to a consensus.” “We wanted to raise the GST issue in Parliament but we were not allowed. I know some states are exploring options. I have advised patience… let us wait for a few days, give the finance minister a few days to take a decision. After that the states will decide what they want to do,” Chidambaram said. Asked about the Kerala finance minister’s indication of moving the Supreme Court, he said: “That’s a possible view.” Describing Monday’s grand announcement by Sitharaman, Chidambaram said: “It was another sly attempt to dazzle the people with exaggerated numbers and lead them to believe that the government is hands-on and responsive to the needs of the people and the economy. It is also a candid confession that the earlier so-called ‘Rs 20 lakh crore package’ was a massive failure. It was a failure because it was a hoax. The numbers claimed this time, too. are a hoax. The fiscal impact of these announcements is estimated to be a mere 0.1 per cent of the GDP.” Expressing amusement at the use of the phrase “demand infusion” by the finance minister, he said: “I wonder if such a phrase exists. I am not a trained economist as she (Sitharaman) is but I have not heard this phrase ‘demand infusion’. You can say generate demand or stimulate demand.” He took strong objection to the directions issued to government servants on how to spend their own money, describing it as a “retrograde interference” in people’s lives. Chidambaram said: “Just as the BJP has been telling people what to eat, what to wear, what language to speak, who to love, who to marry, etc, it is now trying to control people on their spending preferences. The offer of a tax concession to 35 lakh central government employees on LTC is a pathetic attempt to induce them to spend twice that amount out of their own money to gain a small benefit on tax. If the employee fulfils all the conditions, then he/she can expect a tax benefit of Rs 300 to Rs 7,200. Let us see how many government employees will avail of the minister’s generous gift. Let us also wait for the CAG’s audit report of the scheme after 2-3 years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||CBI takes Hathras kin ‘signature’||A CBI team that visited the village of the Hathras victim on Tuesday took away one of her two brothers for several hours. The brother returned after three hours and told reporters that he had been taken to the “CBI office” and that sleuths took his signature on packets of evidence collected during the investigation earlier in the day, such as blood-marked earth and footwear. He said the CBI did not ask him any questions after taking him to its office. Local police escorted the brother back home. After the five-member CBI team had left in the afternoon, taking him with them, his father had hoped the son would be back soon. “The CBI members said they were taking my son to Chandpa police station because they would ask him some questions about the complaint he had lodged there after the incident. They said he would also be required to be present when they ask the police about the allegation that there was a delay in recording the gang-rape charge,” the father said. The CBI sleuths on Tuesday were at the crime scene for about three hours, recreating the events of September 14. Villagers said that 20 minutes into the investigation, the CBI team on Tuesday sent for the other brother of the victim. The brother was told to return home after half an hour, after which the victim’s mother was called. The mother had been taken to hospital earlier in the day after she had complained of chest pain. She remained with the sleuths for about 30 minutes before being allowed to go home. According to the family of the victim, the mother is the only witness of the crime. She and her daughter had been working in two corners of a field when the 19-year-old was assaulted. The mother had told the police that she had heard her daughter’s cries and rushed to see the four men sexually assaulting her. The CBI team, having a woman officer and accompanied by two forensic experts and over 20 policemen, also visited the agricultural field where the girl’s body was burnt by the police around 2:30am on September 30 against the wishes of her family. The investigators spent around 25 minutes in the field before going to the house of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Acid attack on 3 Dalit sisters in UP||Three young Dalit sisters were attacked with acid in their sleep in the dead of the night in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda district, at a time the Uttar Pradesh government is gearing up to launch a mission to prevent crimes against women and girls. Police said the sisters, aged 19, 12 and eight, were sleeping at home in Paska village when someone threw acid at them through the open door around 1am. The father of the girls, an elected member of the local block development committee, said: “I heard them crying in pain. My eldest daughter came running into our room and buried her face into my chest while shouting that their bed had caught fire. I felt my vest burning and realised that she had acid on her face.” Ram Ashish, a local police officer, said the condition of the eldest sister was serious as she had acid burns on her face. The police later arrested suspect Ashish Kumar after shooting him in the leg when he tried to escape. A farmer who had turned to spirituality has been found dead with injury marks all over his body and a priest has been assaulted over a temple land dispute in the past 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh. In Aligarh, Kunwar Pal, 65, was found dead in a field on Tuesday. An uncle said Kunwar was a religious man and used to mostly wear saffron or white. In Agra, priest Chandramauleshwar Giri, 75, had been hospitalised with injuries after being assaulted by six people on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Bihar salvage bid by Congress||The Congress high command is livid with its Bihar leadership for wrong selection of candidates and yielding too much political space to ally Rashtriya Janata Dal and has intervened with full force to salvage the situation at this late stage. Sources revealed that a coterie of state leaders played mischief not only in selection of candidates but also mysteriously agreed to change some seats despite final agreement, giving up the Congress’s claim on favourable constituencies. The in-charge of Bihar, Shaktisinh Gohil, is said to have strongly registered his protest. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “We started very well and extracted a good bargain from the RJD with 70 seats. But we faltered all of a sudden as vested interests of a few state leaders came into play. It showed the leadership has learnt no lessons from past mistakes and showed undue reliance on state leaders who have survived through politics of networking and accommodation. The central intervention came at a very late stage when the damage had been done.” While some central leaders have started pacifying the strong contenders who were denied tickets, the role of three Bihar leaders — state unit chief Madan Mohan Jha, legislature party leader Sadanand Singh and Rajya Sabha MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh — has been significantly curtailed. Gohil, along with general secretary in-charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, and Rahul Gandhi’s aide K. Raju will now play a decisive role in both selection of constituencies and candidates for the later phases. The mood in the party is reflected in the constitution of the election management and coordination committee headed by Randeep Surjewala, an exceptional intervention at a stage when nominations for the first phase have already been done. This committee interestingly does not include either of the three — Jha, Sadanand and Akhilesh. Other senior leaders from Bihar, who were said to be upset over the mismanagement and malpractices, like Meira Kumar, Nikhil Kumar, Anil Sharma, Tariq Anwar, Shakeel Ahmed, Shatrughan Sinha and Chandan Bagchi, have been included in this key committee. What may have significant bearing on the electoral outcome is the differences within the party on the projection of Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial candidate. Some leaders felt the leadership issue should have been kept vague even as Tejashwi was the natural choice to lead the government as that would have helped the Congress in attracting a larger chunk of forward caste votes. The RJD’s theme song — Is baar Tejashwi tay hai — has also dismayed these leaders who would have preferred much sharper focus on issues and failures of the BJP and chief minister Nitish Kumar, not leadership. These leaders believe a personality clash between Nitish and Tejashwi should have been avoided as the situational logic was anyway hostile towards the ruling alliance and the wiser strategy was to exploit the public resentment. Though work has already started on a common minimum programme, these leaders prefer keeping a safe distance from the RJD and won’t be happy with a joint rally by Rahul and Tejashwi. They even claim that the alliance between the two parties was saved by Priyanka Gandhi’s intervention after preparations were made to go alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Rakhi rider in bail challenged in top court||The Supreme Court will look into a Madhya Pradesh High Court order granting bail to a man charged with forcibly disrobing a woman on the condition that he approach the complainant with the request of tying a rakhi on his wrist. A group of women lawyers and activists has challenged in the apex court the September 30 order of the high court granting the reprieve with such a condition to Vikram, who stands accused of a crime that is punishable with imprisonment up to 10 years. The petitioners’ advocate, Aparna Bhat, and others have submitted that while they are not opposed to the grant of bail to the accused, they have taken exception to the high court trivialising the alleged crime. They have also contended that the high court had chosen to pass such an order despite the fact that Parliament had in the wake of the 2012 Delhi bus gang rape and murder brought in amendments to criminal law to enhance the punishment for offences against women such as rape, stalking and outraging modesty by disrobing a woman. Vikram has been charged under IPC Sections 452 (trespass), 354A (outraging a woman by disrobing her), 323 (causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Of these, Section 354A is the most serious offence, entailing a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. The high court directed Vikram’s release on the following conditions: ⚫The accused and his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a rakhi and a box of sweets and request her to tie the rakhi on his wrist. The accused shall promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. ⚫He shall pay Rs 11,000 to the complainant as part of the customary ritual of brothers offering gifts to sisters on Raksha Bandhan and also seek her blessings. ⚫The accused shall also give Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant to purchase clothes and sweets. ⚫The accused shall furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and a solvent surety of the same amount to the trial court on the condition that he shall remain present before it during trial. The prosecution had alleged that Vikram had barged into the house of his neighbour at 2.30am on April 20 and grabbed her by the hand in an attempt to outrage her modesty. The accused had denied the allegations, saying that he had been falsely implicated by the husband of the woman as the couple owed him money. Vikram had alleged when he went to the neighbour’s house to request the repayment of the loan, the husband levelled the false accusations. The petitioners before the apex court said they were challenging the bail condition on the rakhi “since it reflects the trivialisation of a heinous crime through a simplistic stereotypical solution”. “The impugned order has been passed by a constitutional court such as a high court of a state and there is a strong likelihood that such observations and directions may result in normalising what is essentially a crime and has been recognised to be so by the law. The petitioners herein are not concerned with the merits of the order granting bail and are not challenging the grant of bail to Respondent No. 2 (accused),” their petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-615
14-10-2020||India||Jalpaiguri man held over fake admissions||The Criminal Investigating Department of Sikkim police has arrested a man hailing from Mal Bazar in Jalpaiguri district of Bengal for allegedly duping many people of crores of rupees by promising them admissions to MBBS and postgraduate courses at the Sikkim Manipal Institute of Medical Sciences (SMIMS) in Gangtok. Sumanta Gupta, 41, was arrested from Siliguri on Sunday by a CID team with the help of Bengal police. He was brought to Gangtok and produced in a court on Sunday. The police have secured four-day custody of the accused, who faces charges under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act 2000 for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and impersonation. A senior CID official said Gupta had cheated more than 40 persons of over Rs 3 crore over five years beginning 2015. Three complaints, including one by the SMIMS authorities, had been registered against him at Gangtok Sadar police station in 2015 and many more in other states of the country. “He was a wanted criminal. His case came to us a year back, and we finally managed to arrest him yesterday (Sunday),” said the official. Gupta is a former student of SMIMS, but had failed to complete his Bachelor of Physiotherapy. “His modus operandi was to approach persons and introduce himself as the dean of SMIMS. After gaining their confidence, he used to promise admission to SMIMS against payment of hefty amount. He has duped persons from different parts of the country, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Bengal and Assam,” said the official. Brig. (Dr) V.K. Mehta, the dean of SMIMS, whom Gupta used to impersonate allegedly, expressed happiness at his arrest. “We had been facing the problem of fake admission by this man and his associate for almost five years. Once I took over as dean in February 2019, people started coming to me (saying) that I had spoken to them as dean Brig. V. K. Mehta and told them to deposit some money, a few lakh rupees in some account, and told them to come and report at SMIMS for admission of their wards,” he said. Mehta said Gupta used to contact people after the Medical Council of India (MCI)-set timeline for admission was over. “He used to contact people saying that one person has left the college and there is a seat and the MCI and the ministry of health have given permission to SMIMS to admit a person against the vacant seat. ‘So, I am contacting you’. And they (the victims) used to believe because people used to be desperate for admission,” he said. The SMIMS dean said even though complaints had been registered against Gupta in 2015, not much headway was made until he lodged a separate complaint with the CID in February 2019 at the advice of a senior Sikkim police officer. “I am grateful to them (Sikkim police), especially the CID and the investigating officer, additional SP Mr Rinzing (Chopel Rai), who have taken clear pains and done very hard work to go into the depth of the case and finally, the result is there in front of us,’ said a relieved Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
14-10-2020||India||Cry for admissions to Sikkim colleges||Former chief minister and Sikkim Democratic Front president Pawan Chamling has demanded that all students who passed their Class XII examinations earlier this year be accommodated in different colleges of the state following reports that scores of them have failed to secure admissions despite securing good marks. The plight of the students was flagged by the Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) who alleged students were being left in the lurch by the state government. “Every student has the right to go for higher studies if they have passed Class 12 board examinations successfully. By denying them this fundamental right, the state is doing gross negligence to the lives and careers of the students,” the forum said. Taking up cudgels on behalf the students, Chamling said he was saddened to see so many students being deprived of their right to higher education. “It is the prime duty of the government to protect the rights of students to education. All students who passed out of Class 12 this year must get admission into colleges in Sikkim. There are numerous colleges and universities in Sikkim today,” he said. The forum and the SDF said they were informed that some students securing 70 and 80 per cents were also unable to find admission to any of the colleges in Sikkim. “There are 28 colleges, six private universities, one central university and one state university in Sikkim. All these institutions of higher education, barring two, were established during my government… Today, I am very disappointed to know that a number of students were unable to get admission into college. Let the future of our students not be jeopardised,” said Chamling. Some of the students The Telegraph spoke to said they were indeed frustrated at not being able to secure admission to any college in Sikkim. “I had first applied to study at the Sikkim Government Law College, Burtuk. After failing to get the admission there, I wanted to take up political science at Namchi Government College, but was not successful there either. I want to pursue higher education in any government college in our state,” said Melli-resident Dinesh Chhetri, who had secured close to 66 per cent in his Class XII exams. Prayash Rai, who passed Class XII from Tadong Senior Secondary School, Gangtok with 72 per cent in humanities, said he, too, had failed to secure admission to the undergraduate course. “I tried in both the government colleges based in Gangtok, but was unsuccessful. I am yet to apply to other colleges,” he said. The SPYF demanded immediate response from the state education department. “There are many options open for the department. We want quick decision in favour of the aggrieved students. We demand the education department to resolve this urgent issue of the students immediately,” it added. G.P. Upadhaya, additional chief secretary and secretary-in-charge of education department, said the Covid-19 pandemic was partly responsible for the upsurge in the number of applicants, but the government was in a position to accommodate all the students in colleges, both government and private, within Sikkim. ‘We have 12 colleges (government) and about 5,000 seats. The number of applicants is roughly about 6,000… I am very confident, more than 100 per cent, we will be able to adjust each and every student according to his or her choice of subject, but not according to the choice of college and we will support them through scholarships if they are not able to get admission to government colleges,” he told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
14-10-2020||India||Congress blocks Bihar list||The Congress high command has stopped the list of candidates for the second and third phases of the Bihar Assembly elections from being issued after gross irregularities came to light in the first list of the contestants. This has led to an inordinate delay and left the probable candidates on tenterhooks, as the last date for filing nominations for the second phase is on Friday. None of the party workers of the constituencies concerned know who is going to contest the polls. A fresh list is expected on Wednesday evening. The Congress is contesting 70 out of 243 seats in the state. It is in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties. The “grand old party” had released its first list last week towards the fag end of the nomination deadline. It contained 21 candidates for the first phase of the elections on October 28. The remaining two phases would be held on November 3 and 7, with counting of votes on November 10. The top leadership of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) came to learn about the problems after several veteran party leaders started protesting when the first list came out. “Social equations were completely ignored in the first list. Ours is a national party and truly cares about all sections of the society, but undue priority was given to a couple of castes. Not a single candidate hailed from the minority community. “The list reeked of the fiefdom of a few leaders who hold our party hostage in Bihar,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. Sources in the party pointed out how two tainted leaders were made candidates from Tekari and Jamalpur, but were withdrawn later after the AICC’s intervention following an outcry from the state Congress leaders. One of them is said to be an accused in crimes against women. “Senior and dedicated party leaders or workers were ignored in the list. Preference was given to those who had connections with the leaders screening the candidates. Some do not belong to the place from where they are contesting. “ At least three candidates are newcomers and had joined our party a couple of years ago with Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who came after a long stint with the RJD, and is considered close to Lalu Prasad,” a Congress source said. Congress leaders also said that an accused in a sex scandal that happened in a Patna hotel a few years ago has been made a candidate from one of the south Bihar seats. It was due to all these issues that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and others had to intervene. They would have changed the entire list but for the paucity of time as the last date for filing nominations was very close. Still, they recalled two of the candidates from the first list. The Congress’s central election committee would finalise the names of the remaining 49 candidates on Wednesday evening after consulting senior party leaders at the Centre and in the state. However, the Congress is facing problems in finalising candidates for several seats like Maharajganj where contestants from other areas want to fight after losing their constituencies to the Grand Alliance in the seat-sharing deal. Asked about the delay in the list of candidates for the second and third phases of polls, Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha denied that there were any problems within the party. “The delay has been caused because the names of a few constituencies on which our party is to contest are yet to be finalised in consultation with our alliance partner RJD. However, the needful would be done by tomorrow (Wednesday),” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-616
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta malls focus on safety to tackle rising footfall ahead of Durga Puja||With rising footfalls in the run-up to the Durga Puja festival, the authorities of shopping malls in the city are taking all health safety measures, including the use of ultraviolet rays to sanitise elevators and handrails, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Wednesday. They also felt that strict adherence to safety guidelines has helped them attract visitors. Leading shopping malls such as Acropolis, South City and Quest are currently experiencing a surge in footfalls ahead of Durga puja and expecting that number of visitors will further rise with multiplexes reopening from Thursday. "We are careful about safety protocols since the reopening of our mall and diligently following all the guidelines. We will allow people up to 50 per cent of our standard capacity of around 50,000," Acropolis head K Vijayan said. Around 25 washbasins have been installed outside the mall and no one is allowed to enter the premises without a mask, he said. "Strict vigil on enforcement of the guidelines helped us attract people. Around 3,500 permanent and outsourced employees also remain safe. No one among our staffers has been detected with the disease till now," Vijayan said. South City mall has witnessed a 20-30 per cent jump in footfall in recent weeks and is also concentrating on the frequent sanitisation of common touchpoints, an official said. The shopping destination in the southern part of the city recorded over 40,000 footfalls on Sunday. "We are also displaying boards and video messages about health safety guidelines and asking all store employees and security officials to maintain social distancing norms," South City head Manmohan Bagree said. Quest Mall VP Sanjiv Mehra said following the health safety protocols is their highest priority. "We are not much concerned about the crowd with around 30 per cent footfall. It may go up to 50 per cent as the festive days near," he said. With increasing retail sales, the mall authorities are witnessing higher conversion rate, the percentage of people that walk in and make a purchase, as compared to that of last year. Compared to the pre-puja period in 2019, sales at food courts were up by 25 per cent this year, Bagree said. According to them, festival advances to government employees and puja bonus to many private entities will further boost consumer spending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Private hospitals urge Bengal govt to lower GST on Covid test kits||Private hospitals in the city have welcomed the state government's decision to reduce the cost of COVID-19 test from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 as well as fixing rates for ambulance services. They have requested the state government to consider lowering the GST on COVID-19 test kits. "As the state government caps the cost of COVID test at Rs 1,500, we will be implementing it as per the directive, given that these are pandemic times. However, we would also like to present our case before the government to reconsider the rate as this is not financially viable for us, taking into account the cost of reagent, test kit and infrastructure. "Contrary to popular belief, private hospitals have been suffering losses for the last eight months, and this will further affect our condition," Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals Rupak Barua said. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital when contacted said, "Yes, we will definitely go by what the state government has decided. We will follow it on humanitarian grounds as we think it's our social responsibility. But we will also request the government to consider lowering the GST on the kits required to conduct the COVID-19 tests just like what has been done for the PPE kits." Senior physician Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay of the Apollo Hospital said that during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic people should consider this as their responsibility towards society. "There is no option of creating any controversy with this initiative of the state government. We welcome this move. But simultaneously people have to abide by the health protocol and follow precautionary measures to keep the disease at bay," Dr Bandyopadhyay said. The state Cabinet on Monday brought down the rate of COVID-19 tests in the private sector from Rs 2,250 to Rs 1,500 apprehending a surge in the contagion in the coming weeks when the state will witness Durga Puja festivals. The West Bengal Clinical Regulatory Commission, following a request from the state government fixed Rs 3,000 as ambulance charges for transportation of the COVID-19 patients considering the distance of transportation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health condition continues to be critical||The health condition of veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee continued to be "critical" on Wednesday, though his parameters are normal, doctors attending to the thespian said. The 85-year-old Dadasaheb Phalke awardee is in a "confusional state", they said. "Stable. Slept well. All parameters normal. Sodium high only. But critical," they said. The legendary Bengali actor has been suffering from fever since Sunday afternoon, following which doctors are now planning to conduct another test on Wednesday to check whether it is due to the COVID-19 infection. "Chatterjee is still in a confusional state which is progressive in nature with COVID-related encephalopathy and metabolic encephalopathy. He continues to be restless, arousable and has mild agitation and involuntary limb movements but no focal or generalised seizure event occurred," they said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee, a celebrated Bengali actor, is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Modi to inaugurate BJP’s first Durga puja at Salt Lake||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate BJP’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22 — the first puja to be hosted by any political party in Bengal. The venue of the puja will be the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre’s building in Salt Lake. The EZCC is under the Union ministry of culture. Modi will inaugurate the puja during his virtual address to the people of Bengal on October 22. “This will be the first of its kind experience and we are very excited about it,” BJP MP Locket Chatterjee, who is in-charge of the event, along with BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. According to multiple sources this correspondent spoke to, the BJP sees the Durga Puja as an opportunity to connect with the electorate in the poll-bound state and decided to organise the event. “We have been celebrating Ram Navami, which is essentially a north Indian festival, but Durga Puja gives us an opportunity to establish a Bengal connect right before the polls,” a leader said. Durga Puja, apparently an apolitical annual event that brings the people of Bengal together, has for long been controlled by political personalities. Since the Trinamul Congress came to power in 2011, most of the major pujas in Calcutta have been organised under the patronage of ruling party leaders with chief minister Mamata Banerjee hogging the limelight by inaugurating several pujas every year. However, this is the first time that a political party has taken upon itself to organise a puja. The BJP has been trying to make inroads into Durga Puja committees since it bagged 18 of the 42 parliamentary seats in 2019. However, apart from Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurating one puja at Salt Lake last year, the BJP couldn’t make its presence felt at pujas. “If you remember, the involvement of two of our leaders Sayantan Basu and Tushar Kanti Ghosh with a Durga Puja committee led to a major controversy last year. That is why we have decided to organise our own puja this time,” said Jayprakash Majumdar, a BJP state vice-president. The suddenness of the decision has taken several BJP workers by surprise. Several leaders at 6, Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta, the BJP’s state headquarters, are worried about maintaining social distance protocols at the puja. “Did we really need another reason for people to flout Covid protocol?” a senior leader asked. This person reminded that state president Dilip Ghosh had a few days back said festivities for this year should have been scaled down. “I wonder what Dilipda will say now,” the leader added. Majumdar, however, said social distance norms would be maintained at the EZCC. “The event will be our party’s private affair, but everyone is welcome to visit the puja,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja organisers to feel lotus pocket pinch||As Durga Puja nears, a drop in the production of lotus — a flower integral to the worship of the goddess — and resultant steep prices have left Bengal’s florists and puja organisers worried. The price of the flower will be more this year on two counts. One, supply has fallen. Two, the absence of trains has jacked up transport expenses, adding to the cost of the flower, which some farmers fear may be eight to 10 times higher this time. “Last year, I supplied 90 lakh lotuses to Calcutta traders but this year I can send only 30 lakh. A lotus sold for Rs 5 last year will cost Rs 40-50 apiece this year,” said Dhruba Malakar, a farmer from Labhpur, Birbhum, who also sells his produce in Calcutta. The fall in production this year has much to do with the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19, which kept farmers from cultivating the lotus in Birbhum and East Burdwan, districts that supply around five crore lotuses every year to Calcutta and its suburbs during Durga Puja. Lotus farming begins in early April when ponds are cleaned. Most lotus farmers in Birbhum and East Burdwan said they could not afford to clean ponds because of funds crunch amid the lockdown. Those with money did not get manpower in the wake of social distancing, said Pradip Sarkar, a lotus farmer from Birbhum’s Ahmedpur. Farmers start plucking lotuses from early September and transport them to cold storages in Birbhum’s Ahmedpur and East Burdwan’s Guskara. But now, transporting flowers is more expensive by vans or cars as trains aren’t running. “Till last year we sent lotuses by train. This time I have to hire a car. The cost is five times more,” said Birbhum trader Babu Birbangshi. Puja organisers said lotus was an integral part of Durga Puja rituals and at least 200 lotuses were needed over the four days of worship, 108 for Sandhi Puja alone. Sources in the horticulture department admitted that the prolonged lockdown affected most lotus farmers. In Birbhum, lotus is cultivated on 960 hectares of ponds. An official in Birbhum’s agriculture department said: “We are yet to get this year’s data for lotus production, but reports suggest that it has dropped significantly because of the lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul poll focus on north Bengal’s six||Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee and party poll strategist Prashant Kishor conducted a SWOT (strength, weakness, opportunities and threats) analysis of the party in six north Bengal districts over the last two days and asked TMC leaders to showcase the Mamata Banerjee government’s development work ahead of the Assembly polls. On Monday, Abhishek, who also heads the party’s youth front, checked into a hotel in the city with Prashant. There, they met party leaders of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Malda, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Cooch Behar. A Trinamul leader who attended the meeting said they were asked to focus on mass contact and highlight the development work done by the Mamata Banerjee government since 2011. A Trinamul leader of Darjeeling said Abhishek and Prashant asked them to strategically counter the BJP’s “false propaganda”, including that on social media. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief, added: “We have been asked to work with unity.” In recent months, this is the first time that Abhishek and Prashant have visited north Bengal together and given guidelines to party leaders of the region with 54 seats. The reason is not far to seek. In the 2016 state polls, Trinamul had won 25 seats and the BJP two. However, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had led in 38 Assembly segments of north Bengal and Trinamul in only 12. “Among the seats where BJP had a lead (in 2019) are seats of state ministers. That is why this visit (of Abhishek and Prashant) is significant. It will be interesting to see if their instructions to work for the party are adhered to or infighting continues to beleaguer the party,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Locket, Bista bare Bengal BJP’s Gorkhaland paradox||The state BJP leadership, which appears to be treading very cautiously on Gorkhaland before the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls, has exposed a contradiction within the party on this emotive issue. State BJP leaders such as MP Locket Chatterjee, who recently toured north Bengal, publicly negated the formation of a separate state of Gorkhaland. On the other hand, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista recently requested the Parliament to note that the demand for Gorkhaland state was a “long-pending” one of the people of the region. On Monday, Locket who was in Siliguri with Bengal state unit general secretary Sayantan Basu, said Bengal could not be divided and that a permanent political solution did not mean a separate state of Gorkhaland. “Darjeeling is the crown of Bengal and it will continue to be so. A permanent solution for the hills does not mean the separate Gorkhaland state. People of Bengal have lived together for years and will be together in the days to come,” said Locket in Siliguri on Monday, here with Sayantan to drum up support for the farm bills. A few days earlier Sayantan had commented on similar lines. “Gorkhaland is the issue. However, the BJP is never in favour of dividing the state. It will be seen if a permanent solution can be reached within the framework of the Constitution other than dividing Bengal. That process has been started. The state government has tortured the Gorkhas. It has to be rectified. Some state ministers should also be punished,” he had said. The comments of these two state BJP leaders assumed significance at a time the BJP-ruled Centre changed the agenda of the October 7 tripartite from “issues related to Gorkhaland” to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. But on September 19, Bista said he had requested the Centre to expedite the process of “ascertaining permanent political solution to fulfil the long pending demand” of the region. “I requested the Parliament to take cognisance of the fact that the demand for Gorkhaland state is a long-pending demand of the people from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars,” Bista had stated. A veteran in hill politics said these contradictions were confusing. “The Bengal BJP leaders are clearly ruling out division of the state, but the Darjeeling MP has a different narrative... This is really confusing,” the veteran said. Another observer in the hills said that divergent opinions among BJP leaders was not new. “Any party eying the Bengal election can’t speak in favour of Gorkhaland. The statement of the BJP state leadership is nothing new. While they are trying to address their constituency in the rest of Bengal, Bista has to take care of his constituency (here),” he said. The observer added that the run-up to the Assembly polls would see divergent assertions as all political parties would try to create the “right perception” for their target audience. Even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang), aligned with Trinamul, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of the Gorkhaland demand. However, Trinamul is against the division of Bengal. Against this backdrop, Union home minister Amit Shah, who is scheduled to visit Siliguri on October 17, will be closely watched. “It is likely that Amit Shah will remain silent on the issue of Gorkhaland... But he might just indulge in a jugglery of words. In this fight of creating a perception that a particular party is the real champion of our cause, regionalism is taking a beating,” said Amar Lama, speaking as an analyst and not as a leader of the Jana Andolan Party. Unlike in previous polls, Lama said, the Assembly election in the hills this time was being manoeuvred by the BJP and TMC though they were propping local parties. “Regionalism had been kept alive by Subash Ghisingh and even Bimal Gurung to an extent. The same can’t be said for this election. We are of the opinion that all regional parties should come together and contest at least in the three hill Assembly seats to safeguard our issues.” He added that during Assembly polls, hill parties should stay equidistant from both the BJP and TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata urges caution as new cases hit a high||Mamata Banerjee yet again urged people on Tuesday against letting the Covid-19 pandemic worsen during Durga Puja, hours before Bengal reported the highest 24-hour spike in new cases at 3,631. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the state has gone past 3 lakh. Prior to this, Bengal had logged the first 5,000 cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 25,000 on July 9, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 1.5 lakh on August 27, 2 lakh on September 13 and 2.5 lakh on September 28. “Enjoy Durga Puja, all of you. But I would again request each and every one of you, please keep a mask on, at all times. A lot of people will come from everywhere. Protect yourselves. Sanitise yourselves…. Maintain physical distancing, always,” said the chief minister at Nabanna, the state secretariat. The total of cases in Bengal now stand at over 3.02 lakh, including 2.65 lakh recoveries and 5,744 deaths. On Tuesday, the state logged 3,185 recoveries and 62 deaths. On 10 of the 13 days in October so far, the record for the 24-hour rise has been reset. The recovery rate, which had reached 87.98 a week ago, was 87.84 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate — once lagging behind the state by nearly 10 per cent — is only slightly behind now, at 86.81. “The protocols must be maintained, even when going to the pandals so that Covid-19 does not spread further. If we are care ourselves, if we are watchful, a lot of it will be taken care of,” said Mamata, who has been saying Covid-19 reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been in denial of. Also called Stage III, community transmission is a phase of person-to-person spread of the infection, where the source is difficult to trace. “The pandemic is getting us to worry…. The spread has increased again, everywhere, right now,” said the chief minister. Of the total 5,744 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,914, with 18 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,295 deaths, 14 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 4,860 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.9, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. With 42,237 tests, the total tests went past 37.75 lakh, at 41,954 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8 per cent now. The state reported 37.43 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals, besides 3.27 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Inttuc leads 8-hour pay hike demonstration ||A group of casual workers at the divisional office of Central Water Commission (CWC) here in demonstrated at the office and confined the executive engineer for over eight hours on Tuesday under the banner of Inttuc, the workers’ front of Trinamul, to press their demands of pay hike and confirmed jobs. Around 10am, the employees deputed through private agencies during monsoon to collect rainfall data, rising water levels of rivers, among others, walked up to the chamber of Sudipta Sarkar, the executive engineer. There, they sat in a demonstration and started shouting slogans on their demands. “In other parts of the country, casual employees like us get a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 but here we get Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 a month. This is gross discrimination. Also, many semi-skilled workers are forced to do technical works that is not desirable,” said Bhola Dey, president of CWC Jalpaiguri Division Casual Workers’ Union that is affiliated to Inttuc. During their eight-hour demonstration, workers demanded that like the state irrigation department, they should be inducted as contract employees by the CWC with the assurance that they would be engaged in jobs till age 60. In Jalpaiguri, the CWC runs an office that collects data on flood, water levels of rivers, rainfall in catchment areas, among others, from the districts of north Bengal except Malda, Sikkim and also from some areas of Assam. It sends the data to central and state agencies and to some offices of Bhutan and Bangladesh. This data is collected by casual workers deputed through agencies. Sarkar, the executive engineer, said they work under instructions of senior officials. “We have forwarded their (workers) demands. But it is a matter of policy and the decision has to be made at the higher level,” he said. Temporary workers of North Bengal Medical College & Hospital launched a three-day-long symbolic hunger strike demanding pay hike, permanent jobs, and recognition of skilled workers from Monday. Workers said they approached the NBMCH authorities and sent a memorandum to the chief minister. They threatened a longer agitation if their demands were not met. Additional reporting by Binita Paul in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda eyes random Covid tests in markets||A steady rise in number of Covid-19 cases in north Bengal district has made senior officials plan random tests at marketplaces. Susanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in north Bengal, who was here on Tuesday, said such tests would help identify those infected with the contagion and could be isolated ahead of the upcoming Durga Puja, when it is being feared that chances of contamination would be quite high. “Random tests (for Covid-19 infection) would be conducted in markets, particularly overcrowded places. Such tests have started in Jalpaiguri from Tuesday and similar tests would be held in Malda and in all other districts of north Bengal. I will hold a meeting with health officials and explain to them how to conduct such tests,” Roy said. During his visit, Roy held a meeting with the Durga Puja organisers of Malda. At the meeting, top officials of the civil administration and police were also present along with officials of the district health department and the Malda Medical College and Hospital. Roy conceded that the surging crowd at markets — with hordes of people coming out to shop ahead of Durga Puja — was one of the major causes for the rise in coronavirus cases in Malda and some other districts in recent times. It has been learnt from reliable sources that 608 Covid-19 positive cases have been found in last seven days in Malda district alone. In past 12 days, over 1,000 new patients have been found in the district. “This (the number of patients) clearly indicates a deterioration in the situation. While an average of 15 to 25 positive cases were being found in first three weeks of September, there was a jump in cases soon after the festive mood gripped the people of the area and the markets got flooded with shoppers,” said a health official expressing his concern. District health sources said that small teams of three to four persons would be formed to conduct random tests at marketplaces so as to increase the number of tests conducted per day. “Those who would test positive would be advised to go to safe houses or stay in home isolation during the festive days to curb the risk of contamination,” a health official added. OSD Roy, when told about some of the recent gatherings organised by various political parties, also agreed that parties should also act in a responsible manner. “They should remember that the situation is not right to hold large gatherings. In case such public programmes are indispensable, proper safety measures must be ensured,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-344
14-10-2020||North East||Assam issues Durga Puja guidelines||The Assam government has issued strict guidelines for Durga Puja festivities in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 amid indications that the disease is showing a declining trend in the state. State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Tuesday, “There is no bar on organising pujas but certain dos and don’ts have to be adhered to — the SOP (standard operating procedures).” Fearing a spike during and after the four-day festivities, the government has come up with strict dos and don’ts. The SOP for Covid-appropriate behaviour covers organisers, businesses and revellers. The guidelines include: ⚫ Organisers have to seek permission from the respective deputy commissioners ⚫ Mandatory testing for puja committee members, priests and staff on Panchami and a day after immersion ⚫ Pandals should open on all four sides with separate exit and entry points ⚫ Not more than 50 people can assemble inside a pandal at a time ⚫ Use of sanitisers and masks must before entering pandals ⚫ No mass immersion and gathering; immersion to be scattered over 2-3 days ⚫ Puja mandaps to shut at 10pm ⚫ Pillion riding for men will be restricted but not for women and kids ⚫ No cultural functions and competitions but aarti will be allowed ⚫ Restaurants and eateries can do business only till 9pm Sarma said during a media interaction that the dip in the positivity rate to 1.41 per cent on Monday and the 85 per cent recovery rate was “good news” in the fight against Covid-19. The fall in the positivity rate has been sharp for the past week from 5 per cent on October 6. The positivity rate was 8.33 per cent on September 13, a month back. On Monday, 1,521 positive cases were detected out of the 1 lakh-plus tests carried out during the day. Altogether 195,304 people have tested positive for Covid-19 since March 31 with 826 fatalities. Sarma said if appropriate behaviour is maintained for a few more days then he can “confirm that flattening of the curve has begun in Assam”. Assam has so far completed over 40 lakh tests, a rate of 1.14 lakh tests per million. Sarma said Assam has tested 10 per cent of its population of about 3.2 crore claiming it as “a big achievement for a state like ours”. In Guwahati, 6 lakh out of 10 lakh people have been tested, he said. The minister also said the Centre has asked the state government to be ready for a likely Covid-19 vaccination drive between January and July next year. “Frontline staff and those above 60 years will get priority during the vaccination drive as and when it happens,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
14-10-2020||Opinion||Stomach this: Conflict and food security||The Nobel Peace Prize being awarded to the United Nations’ World Food Programme underlines the urgency of the challenge posed by hunger in a planet ravaged by conflict, the vagaries of climate change and, now, a pandemic. The honour is also a recognition of the indisputable link between conflict and food security. Latest estimates show that nearly 690 million people worldwide are hungry; this number has risen by 10 million people in one year. India retains the dubious distinction of being the country with the largest population of food-insecure people — the pandemic has exacerbated unequal access to food. Although these numbers are staggering, hunger cannot be fought merely by increasing the quantity of food production. If anything, the mindless clearing of natural habitats to increase agricultural acreage will aggravate the climate crisis, which, in turn, could adversely affect food production, affiliated costs, consumption as well as wastage. What needs to change, then, is food distribution to enhance public access to food. This is where an international organization like the WFP can act as a collaborator, working with national governments to bridge the gaps among production, consumption and wastage. Governments need to recognize the value of partnership with non-governmental organizations that, at times, can reach the frontiers of the State. The pursuit of prohibitive legislation — the amendment to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act is an example — can stymie the work of organizations like the WFP. Food security must also be perceived as a public responsibility. It is shocking that households in the United Kingdom waste an estimated 4.5 million tonnes of food annually at a time when 8.9 per cent of the global population are starving. There is also a case for countries to recognize the challenges to their respective national food security programmes. India’s public distribution system, for instance, suffers not just from corruption-related leakages but has also been excluding hundreds of valid beneficiaries since the linkage with Aadhaar was made mandatory for food procurement. Is it not the State’s role to ensure that technology is harnessed for the welfare of the needy?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||Lead the way: Women win Nobel in Chemistry||Sir — The editorial, “Women, interrupted” (Oct 11), must be appreciated for pointing out how women face many obstacles in a patriarchal world. Society has always been dominated by men, but with time, women are increasingly getting acknowledged for their merit. As such, it is not surprising that two women scientists have received the Nobel Prize in chemistry this year. Nonetheless, it must be considered a victory for women across the world. The Nobel Prize for literature, too, has gone to a woman; a woman is set to be the new chief of the World Trade Organization for the first time. Such achievements would encourage other women to break the shackles of prejudice that often hold them back. There is no doubt that recognition and honour will come their way if they are willing to put up a fight to reach their goals. Sumit Kumar Das,Hooghly Sir — This year, the role of women in scientific research has been especially highlighted as the Nobel Prizes in chemistry as well as physics have gone to women. The Nobel committee has for long been criticized for not recognizing the contribution of women, particularly in the sciences. In the entire history of the Nobel Prize, the awards in science subjects have gone to only a little over 20 women. Considering this poor record, the fact that the chemistry award was given to two women and the physics award to one, as joint winner, is commendable. Scientific achievements cannot be judged on the basis of gender; yet gender bias seems to have influenced decision-making for years. It is because of this that the choice of awardees this year is particularly welcome. This trend should be sustained in the future. Another important aspect of the award for chemistry is that it has been given to a discovery which is only around eight years old. The Nobel Prize is often given for discoveries made decades ago. The timely recognition given to the gene-editing technology underlines its value and relevance. The committee should make this the norm. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Not many people understand the hurdles that most women have to overcome in order to pursue their own dreams instead of following conventional paths carved out for them in society. Many teachers would be able to vouch for the fact that, very often, promising girl students, who have a penchant for the sciences, are forced by their families to study the humanities just on account of the misinformed notion that science is not for women. This must have ruined a number of careers. People often appreciate the struggles of women to make a name for themselves. While the courage of these women is indeed laudable, what we often miss is the fact that they should not have had to go through this struggle at all. It is the collective failure of society that women have to put up such a fierce fight for a choice that should have been available to them in the first place. Pragya Palit,North 24 Parganas Sir — More number of women are being recognized for their talent and hard work — the recent spate of acknowledgements is an example of this. This will indeed go a long way in encouraging young girls to nurture an ambition and pursue it. One also hopes that parents across the world, especially in India, who discontinue the education of their girl children because they do not see their true potential will change their minds now. Anuradha Mitra,Howrah Sir — That the Nobel Prize in chemistry has been won by two women does not come as a surprise. Women have for long shown that they are worthy of achieving such honour. The efforts of women should always be recognized. They can serve as agents of change in this patriarchal society and, in turn, inspire many other women. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Spice it up Sir — Last year, an American academic had drawn flak for saying that ‘Indian food’ is terrible. Now, a British professor — who, ironically, seems to specialize in politics and history of India and Britain — has stirred up a raging debate on Twitter by calling idlis “boring”. Eminent food critics have joined the argument. Although Indian food is becoming increasingly popular in the West, many people still appear to be at a loss with regard to the Indian palate. The discussion that this tweet has begun might help enlighten more people about how to enjoy the variety of cuisines that India has to offer. Sangeeta Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||High hopes for spiraling economy||The new policymakers on Mint Street have finally bitten the bullet and come out with a forecast of a 9.5 per cent contraction in the Indian economy this year. The Reserve Bank of India has been warning about a contraction for sometime but refused to put out a numerical forecast until it had seen enough data points to be able to hazard an estimate. The monetary policy committee chose to hold interest rates but indicated that it was prepared to cut rates once again as it shifted its focus from taming inflation to a more immediate compulsion to jump start an economic revival. Inflation has leapt to 7.34 per cent in September but the policymakers are no longer inclined to view that number with alarm. The central bank believes that the Covid-induced supply disruptions will settle very quickly and inflation will abate in the months ahead, dipping to a level well within the 2 to 6 per cent tolerance range by the end of the fourth quarter. The committee has decided to stick with an accommodative policy which means that it will pump up liquidity within the financial system. It has already decided to come out with an on-tap targeted long-term repo operation for another Rs 1 trillion that will run till March next year. The hope is that the banks will borrow these funds and invest in marketable securities including corporate bonds, thereby greasing the wheels of the economy. The big belief is that GDP growth will break out of the contraction mode and turn positive in the fourth quarter, reflecting a sense of optimism about a scale of recovery that many pundits do not share. The RBI governor, Shaktikanta Das, contends that there is clear evidence of a three-speed recovery: labour-intensive sectors like agriculture and allied sectors and industrial segments like passenger vehicles, drugs and pharmaceuticals, and fast moving consumer goods are already over the Covid hump. The RBI is looking to improve the flow of credit to specific sectors within the rigid boundaries of credit discipline even though it admits that it will be a while before private investment starts to pick up. The decision to lower the loan-to-value ratio for all new housing loans sanctioned till March 31 next year will prompt banks to lend freely without shouldering a greater provisioning burden. This should provide some relief to the stressed real estate sector. Studies are already beginning to show a recovery in some of the housing markets and the hope is that home seekers will start sniffing at deals soon. The monetary policy has turned distinctly dovish and the markets are anticipating a rate cut of up to 50 basis points early next year. But in the absence of a credible stimulus package from the Narendra Modi government, which remains extremely averse to the idea of increasing its borrowings or monetizing its fiscal deficit, one can never be convinced that the rate cuts alone will be enough to engineer an economic revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||A vector called privilege||On January 15, 1897, The New York Times wrote of Bombay’s plague epidemic as an urban crisis: “More than half of its population has run away!” Let us break this ‘population’ into its components. A number of wealthy residents of Bombay moved to their country houses. In contrast, many workers escaped to the countryside that was already suffering from famine. Some others would stay back in plague camps or pay high rent to live in temporary huts and cowsheds. Choosing safety is a collective human trait. We seek to mitigate risks to defer death and debility. But our ability to avert risk is a sign of our social belonging pertaining to race, caste, class and gender. For the urban, privileged castes and classes, a successful aversion of risk is a marker of social coherence that has withstood the tide of time. The observation of the controversial German soldier-turned-writer, Ernst Junger, on the bourgeois echoes this social hierarchy: “the bourgeois person is perhaps best characterized as one who places security among the highest of values... His arrangements and systems are dedicated to securing his space against danger...”. Junger was glorifying war, but when taken out of context, his stinging observations reflect the reality of the world of privileged caste and class. We take health insurance, life insurance, seat belts and security alarms for granted. We have surnames that take care of everything else that money can’t buy — in India as well as in our influential cliques abroad. We try to do what the Canadian historian-philosopher, Ian Hacking, has famously called the “taming of chance”. But we are also born with much of chance tamed for us. To satiate our risk-appetite and flirt with danger, we have mastered the public display of risk-taking, such as sky-diving and bungee-jumping, but bat an eyelid when workers demand higher wages for the daily risks of building skyscrapers or when they point to the blatant caste-based atrocity that forces them to dive into our sewers. The pandemic forced us out of this secure world. But it will not herald empathy. It made us confront uncalculated risks, but our privileges — allowing us to safely stay at home or move to safer spaces — will probably save us from too much damage. History provides some evidence. The anti-colonial leader, M.R Jayakar, wrote that at the time of the plague, everyone was “thrown into panic and confusion”. Many in his family moved outside the city amidst “healthy and rustic surroundings” till it was safe to come back. A government report published in 1899 eventually noted that the large number of “Upper Caste Hindus” who had moved out of the city “remained content and healthy”. We erase the privileges we are born with, and then we claim that we are self-made. This false assurance makes us think that our private insurance is much better than spending precious taxes on a public health system. Public health is for the poor who cannot look after themselves. In times of crisis, this causes cognitive dissonance. We want the government to look after us too, but then does that mean we cannot take care of ourselves? We release our confusion by banging utensils on the balcony, miraculously seeking leadership that would tame reality back to our secure self-perception. The contrast with the migration of the working class is a good way of suggesting what the privileged urban upper classes and castes do not have to confront. It is the risk of precarious housing that enforces workers’ migration. This risk is built into the very structure of urbanization that the rest of us find haven in. Let us go back to history. It was, incidentally, an epidemic that made cities riskier for its workers. As the urban historian, Sheetal Chhabria, notes, plague measures in the early 1900s were used to justify a globally widespread “... displacement... of the urban poor in every major city of the world”. While workers make the cities from scratch, they know that they are not designed to provide them with secure residence. Colonial sources often assumed migration to be, in the words of the late historian, Raj Chandavarkar, the “defining characteristic of working-class life”. Caste prejudices marked criminality on them. This is perhaps particularly true of industrial cities and towns since the 19th century when a bulk of its workers came from adjacent regions; or land sharks and wealthier settlers displaced original inhabitants and brought back their children into urban demography through descriptions such as ‘squatters’. Contrastingly, workers’ politics has been around, asserting the right to stay and make home the cities that were designed to exclude them. Coming back to the present, when a few people decided to use #MeTooMigrant to note that their pain of shifting cities was as bad as the labour crisis that was exacerbating in India, they forgot that official statistics and urban structures do not force the risks of migration as the defining characteristic of our privileged working and caste lives. That many could not make this distinction tells us that much work needs to be done on writing the history of privilege. Maybe our closeness to risk during a global pandemic will be a revolutionary moment to examine our privilege even though if we are to look at history, there’s very little evidence of such revolutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Opinion||Dangerous hunger||The three agriculture bills rushed through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government seek to bring peasant producers into direct contact with corporate buyers without any intervention by the State. The government suggests that intervention in the form of the minimum support price-regime will continue. But this is disingenuous: if the MSP-regime was to continue, why was it not incorporated into the legislation? Besides, the MSP-regime requires supervision by government agents like those installed in mandis; if the mandis lose primacy, as the legislation visualizes, then the MSP-regime becomes infructuous. One consequence of this change has been much discussed, namely that it leaves the peasantry at the mercy of powerful private monopsonists, and that too in commodities subject to wild price fluctuations. In years of excess demand, the high prices will not be passed on to the producers; but in years of excess supply, the price falls will be passed on, driving peasants into debt and destitution. The protection against the latter provided by the MSP-regime is now being withdrawn. There is, however, a second consequence that is less discussed, namely the loss of food security by the country. Since land is scarce, and ‘land-augmenting’ measures such as irrigation (that makes multiple cropping possible) and improvement in agricultural practices (that raise the yield per acre) are subject to limits within our existing agrarian arrangements, opening up the use of this scarce land to the pull of the purchasing power of Northern consumers will necessarily mean a diversion of acreage from foodgrains to crops not producible in the Global North. To be sure, as long as the public distribution system continues, the government will have to procure an adequate amount of foodgrains; but unlike at present when it is obliged to procure whatever is offered, it will now be under no compulsion to procure anything in excess of what is needed for the PDS. This will only encourage the shift of acreage from foodgrains to other crops, especially with large firms catering to Northern markets encouraging such a shift. In fact under the Doha round of WTO negotiations, great pressure was put on India to scale down its foodgrain procurement operations; but successive Indian governments, mindful of the immense social implications of doing so, both for peasant producers and for urban consumers, have resisted this pressure until now, which is why the Doha round remains deadlocked. Advanced countries have for long been pressing India to import foodgrains, of which they have a surplus, and export other crops where they are deficient. India had been a foodgrain importer in the late 1950s and early 1960s, buying wheat from the United States of America under Public Law 480. In the mid-1960s, however, there were two successive harvest failures, which caused a famine in Bihar. The country’s import-dependence became so great that it was literally a case of ‘ships-to-mouth’; and arm-twisting by the US, a clear example of what some have come to call ‘food imperialism’, became so odious that Indira Gandhi asked Jagjivan Ram, the then food and agriculture minister, to expedite the ‘Green Revolution’. The entire arrangement of MSP, procurement operations, PDS, and food subsidies to cover the gap between procurement prices and issue prices came into being from that time. Although under the neo-liberal regime, this arrangement has been getting whittled down, it still remains intact to a large extent because no government till now has been mindless enough to jettison it. And whatever one may think of the Green Revolution, whose ecological effects have often been criticized, it has allowed India to shake off the shadow of ‘food imperialism’ to become ‘self-sufficient’, even though at abysmal levels of income and food intake for the majority. All that, some would say, belongs to the past; one should not keep harping on ‘food imperialism’. What is wrong with India importing food from the world market as it imports so many other commodities? There are several answers to this question. First, since the substitute crops, which would be grown in lieu of foodgrains and exported, have large price fluctuations, the foreign exchange earnings too would display similar fluctuations. It is perfectly possible, therefore, that in some years the country may not have enough foreign exchange to buy food in the world market. Second, exactly the same would happen if there is a sudden outflow of finance. It is true that at the moment we have enough foreign exchange reserves; but that cannot be guaranteed to last forever. Making the continued availability of adequate foodgrains dependent on the absence of an outflow of finance is tantamount to making the lives of millions of people dependent on the caprices of a bunch of financial speculators. Third, when a country of India’s size suddenly increases its purchase of foodgrains in the world market, the world foodgrain prices shoot up immediately. In years when the domestic foodgrain output drops, as would inevitably happen from time to time, India would have to pay an even higher price for importing what it requires. Fourth, even if the country has enough foreign exchange to buy foodgrains in the world market in a year of collapse of the price of its export crop, the people producing that export crop would experience a decline in income and hence would lack the purchasing power to buy the foodgrains that have been imported. People would still starve despite the country having enough imported foodgrain stocks. Fifth, leaving aside the question of foodgrain availability in contingencies, there is a further problem. Many of the export crops that would be grown in lieu of foodgrains involve lower employment per acre than foodgrains. Shifting acreage from food to non-food crops, therefore, would directly reduce employment. And the larger profits made from growing export crops with lower wage-bill per unit area would not create much employment elsewhere in the economy since these profits, which would be accruing to agri-business, would get spent abroad, creating employment elsewhere. The shift from growing food to growing export crops like fruits or flowers entails a net loss of employment, making people not only poorer but also — lacking purchasing power to buy food — hungrier. The moral of the story is that for a country like India food security necessarily means growing one’s own food to the maximum possible extent. The market in this case cannot be the determinant of land-use. Since land is scarce, and domestic food production essential, land-use must be socially controlled. Kerala is the only region in the entire third world that has a law, enacted in 2008, preventing diversion of paddy land to any other use. While Kerala is too land-scarce to become self-sufficient in foodgrains, this law has prevented paddy-land being diverted extensively for construction. Other regions in the country and other countries in the third world would do well to emulate Kerala’s example. The damage that diversion of acreage from foodgrains to export crops does is best illustrated by the case of sub-Saharan Africa, which has been ravaged by a string of famines after it became import-dependent for food. In India, while there is no control over land-use, the old arrangement of MSP, procurement, and PDS implicitly ensured adequate domestic foodgrain production. The Modi government, alas, is dismantling that arrangement; it must be stopped. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||90-year-old beats Covid in Ranchi||A 90-year-old Lalpur woman has become arguably the oldest person in Ranchi so far to have defeated Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand. On Wednesday, Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, a private hospital in the city, accorded nonagenarian Bela Rani Samanta a warm send-off. At a time when the state’s number of Covid-19 fatalities is looking to cross 900, and that in Ranchi having crossed 150, the successful recovery is also seen as a boost for the medical fraternity. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Vijay Kumar Mishra, head of Medica’s critical care unit and director of the hospital, said the elderly patient had come to them on October 6 after getting infected with the coronavirus. “She had come to us with moderate Covid-19 pneumonia. Her CT scan report had many pneumonia patches and required her to be put on complete oxygen in an intensive critical care unit for two days. Thereafter, her condition improved and we shifted her to a normal ward. Gradually, with intense care and routine medicines, she overcame the virus. As far as medicines are concerned, we gave her Remdesivir, dexamethasen, heparin, Vitamin C and zinc.” As per the state health department’s analysis, more than 50 per cent of fatalities in Jharkhand have been because of comorbidities and old age. Mishra agreed, adding that the timely administration of proper care at the hospital has led to the cure. “Treating a patient of this age is often a great challenge and lots of risks are involved because of age-related ailments. This patient had a history of high blood pressure and dementia. These apart, she has been in a constant state of confusion, which occurs mostly because of age,” he said, adding that one of the biggest challenges the medical staff faced was the patient’s problem of forgetting things. The elderly woman’s son, Surojit Samanta, 60, speaking from Delhi said that it was a Durga Puja gift for the family. “We were tense after she got Covid-19... But for the next 15 days, post-Covid-19 care will be crucial,” he said, second among four siblings. Surojit’s elder brother too lives in Delhi while their two sisters are in Calcutta. In Ranchi, the elderly woman lives at the family’s sprawling house at Burdwan compound. Surojit suspects that his mother may have contacted the virus from her caretakers. “Two of her caretakers had first got infected. It is from them that she may have got infected,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hapless Dalma workers forced to mortgage vehicles||The daily wage earners at the Dalma wildlife sanctuary continue to struggle. The 48 men and women are forced to fight for their survival and are anxiously waiting for pending dues. The wait is getting longer as the daily wage earners have not been paid for the past seven months. Some of the daily wage earners have even mortgaged their motorcycles to sustain their families. Most have even borrowed money on interest. Despite the odds, they continue to work. “Saat mahine se vetan nahin mila hain. Bahut bura haal hain. Kuch logo ne apna motorcycle girvi rakh diya hain. Lekin hamne apna kaam jaari rakha hain kyunki hamare paas koi chaara nahin hain (We’ve not been paid for the past seven months. We are having a bad time. Some of the daily wage earners have mortgaged their bikes. But we are continuing our work as we have no option),” said Shristidhar Mahato, a watchman who heads Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh. The hapless daily wage earners said money would have come in handy in this festive season. “We buy clothes for our families in the run-up to Durga Puja. Though the festival is being celebrated in a restricted manner owing to the pandemic, we had plans to buy clothes like every year. But it seems not possible this year,” Mahato added. Worries about the education of the children are on top of everyone’s minds. A majority of them have discontinued tuitions. Youths belonging to the families of daily wage earners are forced to sit idle as jobs have dried up. The daily wage earners, who are engaged in maintaining accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts) and cooking and tracking (some are tasked with keeping a tab on the movement of animals at the sprawling 192sq. km sanctuary, 30km from Jamshedpur), are paid Rs 249.83 per day for their labour. They had participated in an agitation near the main entrance and also gheraoed forest range officer (west) Dinesh Chandra in July. However, nothing moved forward. Had it not been for some foresters who are providing monetary support to the daily wage earners, they would have been forced to starve. The foresters have asked some grocers in the villages to provide food on credit. But this cannot continue for long. Foresters expressed helplessness and said dues can be cleared only if money is allocated by the state forest department. “We have been requesting the state forest department for clearance of pending dues to no avail. The wages will be paid once money is allocated,” a forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special children usher in the goddess through art||Creativity has no boundaries, and this has been proved by over forty-five special children of Jharia who took part in an online painting competition organized under the banner of Youth Concept, a social outfit and Jharia-based resource centre of the district education department, that provides training to the special children. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Akhlaque Ahmad, a speech therapist and special educator said, “We have organized the competition on the theme of Durga Puja. All 45 participants have made paintings at their home and submitted the same on via email or WhatsApp to 9709216786.” “Students from economically backward sections of the society, who do not have the smartphones at their homes have made their paintings at my home while observing social distancing protocols,” said Ahmad and added that some of the participants have also made sketches and drawings during the competition. Children in the 6-14 year age category, besides some older students of the 15-21 age group took part in the competition. Arpita Kumari (15) a mentally retarded participant of Mohan Bazar in Patherdih was declared winner, while cerebral palsy-affected Pammi Kumari (12) of Upper Rajbari road in Jharia secured the second prize.  Nasrin Parween (12), a hearing-impaired student of Chouthai Kulhi locality bagged the third prize. “We will be handing over the certificates besides prizes in the form of mementos to three winners by visiting their respective places,” said Ahmad. The online submission of painting, drawings, sketches began in the morning at around 9am and continued till 2pm. Judgement was carried out within two hours. “The basic objective of organizing the painting competition was to inculcate a sense of creativity among the children and provide them an opportunity to break the monotony of life,” said Ahmad. Ahmad added that though the resource centre is closed like other education centres, they are providing online exercise training to all the students, especially those suffering from cerebral palsy etc for whom exercises are crucial, via video calls. “The colour combination and accuracy of paintings made by the participants, prove their perfection and creativity,” said  Ahmad. Sangita Devi, mother of Arpita Kumari said, “My daughter was quite enthusiastic about the painting competition and made the painting of the goddess on her own this morning. She is very happy being declared winner”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Padyatra, protests over poor condition of NH-33||BJP party men took to the streets on Wednesday to protest against the sorry state of a 10km stretch of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma that passes through Jamshedpur. As per the pre-decided programme, a section of residents of Mango led by local BJP leader Vikas Singh took out a padyatra from Dimna Chowk in the morning.  They traversed a distance of about 7km to the district collectorate where they staged a protest demanding immediate repair of the damaged stretches of NH-33. A delegation of residents led by Singh later met East Singbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar and handed over a memorandum highlighting the plight of commuters due to the poor condition of NH-33, considered the lifeline of the state. "The condition of the highway in the 10km stretch between Pardih and Baliguma has deteriorated. The potholes lead to mishaps. We have requested the deputy commissioner to take up the issue with the NHAI and initiate repairs. Or else we will intensify our agitation," said Singh. Singh also threatened to undertake a march with Mango residents to the Raj Bhawan in Ranchi after Durga Puja. Concerned over the poor condition of NH-33 and rising mishaps, district Congress activists burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari at the Dimna Chowk on Wednesday. "The four-lane work of NH-33 began during BJP rule. But the work is yet to be completed. The highway has turned mishap prone in the absence of repairs," pointed out Rakesh Sahu, a local Congress leader who led the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid affects pre-Puja garment sale in Dhanbad||Garment sale has been badly affected with Durga Puja Covid guidelines forbidding fairs, restricting the size of pandals and idols and a putting stopper on bhog distribution. Rough estimates suggest that only around Rs 100 -200 crore sale is expected this year, against the previous year’s sale of around Rs 1000 crore. The dull situation of the 150 old wholesale garment shops at the Karkend market presents the pitiful condition of garment sale, as very few retail owners putting up shop to carry out sale. The condition of retail garment shopkeepers at various other markets are no better. At Park Market, Bank More, Purana Bazaar, Jharia Kaprapatti, Nirsa, Kumbardubi, Chirkunda Bazar, Digawadih Mohan Bazar, Saharpura market in Sindri, Katras Market, Govindpur Upper Bazar, there is only a 10 percent footfall  of customers being seen this year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Umesh Heliwal, a garment trader of Karkend Bazar the biggest wholesale garment market of the region where over 100 wholesale garment outlets are operating, said that the usual trade of the market till last year was around Rs 1 to Rs 5 per crore per shop, but the situation is grim this year. “Those who would earlier have a sale of Rs 1 crore are not expected to reach Rs 10 lakh this year,” he said. “The lack of savings, of liquidity in the market, the strict puja guidelines restricting fairs, forbidding theme-based pandals, lighting etc have all worked as the biggest puja sentiment dampener,” said Heliwal who is also the president of a garment traders association called Vastra Vyavsai Sangh. Echoing sentiments, Md Sohrab, president of the Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “Besides the lack of money, the fear of contracting Covid is also working as a deterrent for brisk garment sale as all of around 500 garment sellers of Purana Bazar, majority of which are ready-made garment sellers are witnessing around 20 per cent of sale this year”. “Our market, which used to have no space to breathe ahead of Durga Puja, is now wearing an almost deserted look,”  said Soharab. He added that people of all sections of society have been hit by the impact of the lockdown and only some garments for children are being purchased by families, instead of the usual practice of buying of new garments for the entire family. Amit Sahu, president of the Jharia Chamber of Commerce, said as sale is less and there is lesser capital with shopkeepers, lesser stock has been purchased due to the fear of loss that if the products go unsold. “The print and design will later turn obsolete,” said Sahu. “The wholesalers are not providing stock to retailers on credit as was the usual practice. They are demanding cash for providing stock which is desisting people from purchasing new stock in sufficient quantities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIT-Jamshedpur placements encouraging so far||In an otherwise gloomy job market, budding technocrats of Adityapur-based NIT-Jamshedpur aren’t not doing too badly as 250 of 500 eligible students have    landed jobs in placements that began in the last week of August. According to data available from the tech cradle, out of 500 eligible BTech students eligible for placements for the 2017-2021 batch, 250 of them had got jobs. About 40 companies had joined the process, held online, to recruit students from various streams of engineering. The online recruitment gained in momentum from the third week of September and as many as 170-odd students were selected by companies during the last three weeks. Data showed that till September 20, around 80 students were recruited through the virtual process happening for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Professor-in-charge of the training and placement cell, Prahlad Prasad said the placement scenario was encouraging. "We have completed placements for half of the batch (250 students) in a short span of time. Amazon offered the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum, while the average package so far has been Rs 12 lakh per annum. In the computer science engineering branch, the average package has been higher at Rs 18 lakh per annum, " he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad said 30 top-notch companies had confirmed participation in the online recruitment process scheduled for later this month. He said by the end of placements, expected to continue till July 2021, NIT-Jamshedpur was expecting participation of 150 companies in all. Apart from e-commerce major Amazon, some of the companies that have already participated in the online recruitment process are Goldman Sachs, Lowe's India, One Plus, Cargil, Tekion, Tata Steel, Paytm, Mentor Graphics, Publicis Sapient, Info Edge, Samsung (R&D), Bajaj, DMI Finance, Axeela, ZS Associates, Amdocs and Capgemini. The previous batch (2016-2020) secured 92.11 per cent placements with an average CTC of Rs 8.71 lakh per annum. Director of NIT-Jamshedpur Prof Karunesh Kumar Shukla thanked those manning the training and placement cell for such impressive placements. “We also thanked the recruiters. As per trends so far, we are hopeful of achieving cent per cent placements for the current batch," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Restrictions on bhog, height of idols impractical, says Puja body in Daltonganj||The government’s guidelines to have only four-feet high idols in Durga Puja pandals have evoked sharp criticism from the faithful said sources. Durga Johri, President of the Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti, the highest body for the Durga Puja here told The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, “This height rule is impractical. Idol makers here in Palamau begin to build their idols a month or so before the arrival of the goddess here.” “I have reports that over 100 idols made earlier are around 5 feet in height for the simple reason that its artisans made it a month or so before the arrival of the guidelines for the pujas,” said Johri, who is also a senior BJP leader. “These five-feet-high idols cannot be shortened. It is inauspicious to do so. The faithful will do the ‘pran partishta’ (sacred setting up) of these 5 feet high idols in the pandals.” “I wonder how the height of an idol poses danger to health?” said Johri, adding that devotees do not touch the idol with their hands, and usually pray from afar with folded hands. “After havan the germinated and grown up ‘jaiy’ is plucked and the priest offers each of its blades to the devotee who holds it between his ears on the day of Dussehra. This will be done this time too,” he said. On the restriction of bhog, Johri said, “This is another impractical decision. During the lockdown thousands of food packets were distributed among the poor and the migrant labourers when Covid-19 was at its peak. Today there is a restriction on bhog distribution which sounds quite contradictory.” “A devotee feels empty if he or she returns from puja pandal without the bhog or the prasadam and so for spiritual regeneration, distribution of bhog must be allowed as otherwise the 10 day long Durga Puja will look dry.” He urged the administration to take a liberal and practical stand with regard to these issues and let pujas be done in all sanctity and purity with stress on maintenance of health protocols and Covid cleanliness and social distancing guidelines. He said idol makers who are now readying idols after the guideline of four feet are strictly adhering to the protocol, stressing on the fact that the administration must allow five feet and four feet idols to be put up in the pandals for the pujas. Johri said more than 200 puja pandals will be set up in the district this time. A devout Hindu requesting anonymity said, “In the past, we used to build a huge Rakshas and install it in our pandal. This time it will be a small figure.” “Dussehra is the celebration of victory of good forces over evil forces and hence not much attention is being given to our pandal demon this time. The worst demon now is the microscopic Covid-19 virus,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Seven deaths in a day take Ranchi's Covid toll past the 150 mark||The Covid-19 toll in Ranchi crossed the 150 mark on Tuesday after as many as seven virus-infected patients in Jharkhand, including four from the state capital, died during treatment, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per government data, the virus has claimed 151 lives in Ranchi so far. The total number of Covid casualties in Jharkhand also jumped to 805 on Tuesday, and nearly 40 per cent of these fatalities occurred in East Singhbhum alone. However, East Singhbhum did not report any Covid casualties on Tuesday, and the toll in the district was 318, as per latest government data. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts account for nearly 60 per cent of Covid casualties in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of infection also increased in Ranchi after the district reported 364 cases of infection against 289 recoveries. As per government data, as many as 2,632 people were battling the virus in Ranchi by Tuesday night. Besides Ranchi, no other district reported a significant rise in the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in Jharkhand, saw 48 fresh cases of infection against 133 recoveries. The number of active cases in the district dropped at 1,468, highlighted figures with the NHM. As many as 853 Covid patients recovered across the state on Tuesday, bringing the number of active cases in Jharkhand down at 7617. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand shot up and reached 91.01 per cent after Tuesday’s findings. The national Covid recovery rate, as per government data, was 86.80 per cent on Tuesday. Health workers in Jharkhand tested swab samples of 32,186 people on Tuesday, and 31,485 of them came negative. The government has so far collected swab samples of 27.15 lakh people from across the state and 27.12 lakh of them have been tested. Despite casualties being reported every day, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate has remained below 1 per cent in the past one month. The state’s Covid mortality rate on Tuesday was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Of the 805 people who have died of Covid infection in Jharkhand, at least 603 were older than 50 years, government data reveals. As per an NHM bulletin released on Tuesday night, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 89.12 days against the national average of 65.89 days. The growth rate of Covid infection in the state was 0.77 per cent against the national average of 1.05 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Meeting over Dhanbad flyover||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Tuesday held a meeting with the officials of Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company and Ranchi-based consultant RDCS at the district collectorate over the proposed 3.5-km flyover from Matkuria to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk via Ara More of Wasseypur. The proposed flyover is expected to lower the traffic burden on the Bank More flyover. Indian Railways had given a no-objection certificate to the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation for the construction of the flyover in February last year. The proposal for the construction of the flyover had been approved by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at its board meeting held on November 20, 2018. The issue of the flyover was first discussed during the high-level meeting held in Dhanbad on October 23, 2017, under the chairmanship of the secretary of road construction department, Mast Ram Meena. Chandan Pathak, 18, and Roshan Pathak, 15, sons of BCCL employee Manoj Pathak, drowned in the Damodar river in Dhanbad’s Mahuda police station area on Tuesday morning. The incident took place when the brothers were bathing before offering prayers at a nearby Shiva temple. Their parents and other family members were also there. Roshan started drowning while bathing and Chandan, who tried to save his brother, was also caught in the strong current of the river. Though Chandan was rescued from the river by local villagers, he died on the way to the hospital. Roshan’s body, however, was fished out of the river an hour after the incident. Simran Priyadarshini, a third-year undergraduate student of electrical engineering at BIT Sindri, secured the second runner-up position in the finale of Tata Steel’s Women Of Mettle competition which was held online on Tuesday. “Simran again established the fact that our students are second to none,” said the official in charge of training and placement at the institute, Ghanshyam Rai. “She will be entitled to a scholarship of Rs 2 lakh over the duration of the course with the opportunity to join Tata Steel as a management intern,” said Rai. “The Women of Mettle scholarship programme is a one-of-its-kind diversity-and-inclusion initiative not just in India’s steel sector, but across the country’s wider manufacturing spectrum,” said Rai. “For various reasons, the participation of women in the manufacturing sector has been low in India. As a pioneer in bringing in the best HR and labour practices in the country, Tata Steel continues to work towards this cause and enhance diversity in the workplace and thus organises the Women of Mettle competition,” Rai added. Protesters demanding the arrest of a homeopath accused of molesting a girl at his clinic blocked NH23 which connects Bokaro and Ranchi on Tuesday. The family members of the girl and other residents of the area staged a demonstration before the Balidih police station. They were demanding the immediate arrest of Anan Jha, the homeopath. The traffic was disrupted for half an hour. “We assured the demonstrators that we would arrest the accused soon, following which they dispersed,” a police officer said. The 21-year-old tribal girl was allegedly molested by the homeopath at his clinic on Friday. The college student told her mother about the incident only on Sunday. The police raided the clinic but the accused was missing. A local ward member was killed with a sharp-edged weapon at Sirmadih village in the Birni police station area of Giridih. Police have sent the body for post-mortem. Investigations are on to ascertain the motive of the murder. Panchayat representatives have demanded the arrest of the murderers. A land dispute could be the reason for the killing, the police said. An event was organised at the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) training centre at Meru where jawans were asked to take a pledge to observe Covid-19 protocols. There are no active Covid-19 cases at Meru. Inspector-general Ravi Gandhi urged the jawans to maintain safe distance and always wear masks. The inspector-general asked the jawans to inform doctors immediately if they develop any symptoms. The centre has a 100-bed Covid-19 ward. It is located 11km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Garhwa police on Tuesday arrested four youths in connection with the murder of an elderly woman in Lakhana village. Sunderkali Kuar, 68, was trying to mediate in a dispute at the time of the incident, the police said. The accused have been identified as Golden Khan, 19, Mustafa Khan, 20, Gaffar Khan, 19, and Ashik Khan, 19, all residents of Lakhana village in the Garhwa police station area. The incident took place around 8pm on Friday. Niranjan Chandravanshi, the woman’s grandson, was roaming with three of his friends while playing songs on his mobile phone. A youth from a particular community took offence to the songs being played. A scuffle ensued. On hearing about the assault, the woman reached the spot and tried rescuing her grandson. However, she was also severely beaten up and injured. Her family members took her to the Sadar hospital where doctors declared her dead, subdivisional police officer Bahman Tuti said. Based on Chandravanshi’s complaint, the police lodged an FIR against four persons under Sections 147, 149, 323 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The placement season at BIT Sindri began on Tuesday with Hindustan Unilever selecting two BTech students, Anmol Agarwal of chemical engineering and Ashish Ranjan of mechanical engineering, at a salary of Rs 8 lakh per annum. The selection process began with the screening of 300 students; only 10 students were selected for the case study and interview processes. This year, the selection and interview was carried out online. A website to issue tokens online to devotees wishing to visit the Chinnamastika Siddhpeeth Rajrappa temple has been launched by authorities. Those wishing to visit the temple can go to jharkhanddarshan.nic.in and book their slots. Another website which was accepting bookings, rajrappa.in, has shut down the facilty. Bookings made prior to October 16 on the old site are valid. Bookings can be done for a maximum of four people at a time and Aadhar details are mandatory for those aged above 10 years. It is also mandatory to carry a copy of the token (enter printed or downloaded to the phone) and an identity card at the time of the visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||House of senior IPS officer robbed in Dhanbad||Armed criminals have robbed the Dhanbad house of senior IPS officer Atul Verma on Monday night. Verma is an officer of the Himachal Pradesh Cader and is presently on Central deputation serving as Director General of the Competition Commission of India The robbers took away a laptop, mobile phones, silver jewellery and CCTV cameras. The incident came to light when two staff members, deputed for the morning shift on Tuesday, reached the house to find both security guards tied down on the ground, with their faces covered. They informed the local police and later the house owners. Rajesh Kumar, one of the personal staff deputed at the house, told the media that around 10-12 armed criminals entered the house late on Monday night at around 12 am. They took the house guards at gunpoint, tied their hands and covered their faces. They broke open the almirah and locker, took away some silver jewellery, a laptop, and other articles from the house. “They also took away the CCTV cameras and DBR from the house and damaged the computer system attached to the CCTV system,” Rajesh said. “We are not aware of what valuables were taken from the lockers and almirah because we do not know what was in there,” Rajesh also informed. The criminals also broke the doors of several of the closed rooms, turning them upside down. A team of Dhanbad police led by DSP (law and order) Mukesh Kumar reached the house and collected evidence from the site. A dog squad was also deputed to pick up trails of the robbers  and Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz later also visited the site to note details. Talking to the media, DSP Kumar said, “We have launched an investigation into the case and an FIR will be lodged soon.” Dr PN Verma, Atul Verma’s father, was a renowned surgeon, and no family member was living in the house since his death last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police foil bid to lynch two gang-rape accused ||Police on Monday night prevented mob lynching of two gang-rape accused in a village of Gumla district, around 150 km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi. According to police sources, a Class V girl aged 14 was taken by five youths, all residents of the same village to a nearby village field in Haradipa village of Gumla district on Sunday night and gangraped her. She was left with a warning not to reveal anything to the family. The girl, however, informed her parents. The parents informed the village head who assured justice in the panchayat. The accused youths, including two minors, then reached the girl’s house and threatened the family of dire consequences on Monday evening. The family members called up their relatives and dragged two of the accused and started assaulting them. “The police were not informed about the gang-rape by the parents and as per tribal traditions they decided to settle the issue in village panchayat. It was only when we came to know about the beating of the youths and we rescued the youths did we know about the incident. We have nabbed all the five youths involved in the gang-rape and sent the girl for medical examination at Gumla sadar hospital. We will lodge cases under the Posco Act against all the accused,” said SP Gumla H.P. Janardhanan. The five accused in the gang-rape incident include, Amarjit Tirkey (17), Iliyas Minz (23), Subhash Baraik (24), Sumit Toppo (17) and Ritesh Baraik (14). The two who have deep wounds on their legs and hands because of the beating are Amarjit Tirkey and Iliyas Minz who have been admitted in the Gumla Sadar Hospital while the remaining three have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protests intensify against Swamy arrest||The show of solidarity with octogenarian Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy, who was arrested by the NIA near Ranchi on October 8 and jailed for alleged Maoist links, continued on Tuesday in Jharkhand. Nearly 60 representatives of people’s organisations and tribal activists resumed their hunger strike near tribal icon Birsa Munda’s memorial at Kokar in Ranchi from 11am on Tuesday, while around 50 youths under the banner of Jharkhand Christian Youth Association (JCYA) burnt the effigy of the central government at Albert Ekka Chowk as a mark of protest against the arrest. “Elderly (83-year-old) Fr Stan Swamy was being hounded by the NIA for the last two years in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case, though he has denied being present at the spot during the incident. The investigating agencies during these years have not been able to find anything concrete on his involvement in the incident but are now claiming that he is a Maoist sympathiser. The reality is that Fr Swamy, who has several health complications, had been fighting for rights of tribals, poor, Dalits and marginalised for decades. The NIA could have questioned Stan Swamy at Ranchi itself. But in line with a new trend set by the current BJP government in silencing voices of dissent raised by activists through police or central agencies, Fr Swamy was forcibly taken from his house at night to Mumbai amid the pandemic,” said JCYA president Kuldeep Tirkey. He demanded immediate release of Fr Swamy. He said that youths would be forming a human chain between Albert Ekka Chowk and Kantatoli (a distance of over 4km) on October 16 to demand immediate release of the Jesuit priest. “We would hold a meeting of representatives of various people’s organisations this evening at Ranchi and chalk out a strategy for holding a demonstration demanding the release of Fr Swamy. We have plans to meet different MLAs of the state and convince them of demanding the release of Fr Swamy,” said Aloka Kujur, a member of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and women’s rights advocate, who joined the hunger strike in Ranchi. Meanwhile, after Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren condemned the arrest, his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan also pointed fingers at the role of the investigating agency in arresting the rights activist. In a Facebook post on Monday night, Vijayan demanded justice for Fr Swamy. “He questioned the breach of democratic values of tribals. To view this as a crime doesn’t befit the constitution. Father Stan Swamy has been working among tribals for decades. It has already been alleged that the move against him is to suppress voices of dissent. His arrest and imprisonment is regretful. He should get justice,” the post said. “The allegation that investigation agencies are used for wrong intentions should be seriously examined,” it added. Vijayan also expressed concern over the health of the ailing Fr Swamy. There were protests across the country against the arrest of Fr Swamy who is currently in custody at Taloja Central Prison in Mumbai. There were protests on Monday near Jantar Mantar in Delhi with prominent human rights activists such as Shabanam Hashmi, Harsh Mander and Apoorvanand Jha addressing the gathering. Protests also took place on Monday in Guwahati (Assam), Bangalore (Karnataka), Kerala, Patna (Bihar) and in Trichy (Tamil Nadu), the birthplace of Fr Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into electric shock torture ||Public outrage over alleged electric shock given by police on private parts of a 35-year-old person, detained on suspicion of theft inside the police station, has forced police to conduct a probe under a medical panel in Jharkhand’s Palamau district, about 177km from the state’s capital Ranchi. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar confirmed that a probe team has been initiated under a DSP rank official (DSP Sadar Sandeep Kumar Gupta) to conduct an inquiry into the complaint with help of different medical experts. “The DSP Sadar had been asked to conduct a probe into the allegation of electric shock given to a person inside Chainpur police station. He has taken help from different doctors. I am yet to get the report but prima facie the doctors have said external injuries are indicating electric shocks. However, I will be able to comment only after getting the detailed report,” said Sanjeev Kumar. According to sources in the police, Rajnikanth Dubey, 35, a resident of Sonpurwa village in Chainpur block had lodged a complaint with the SP Palamau that he was picked up by the cops on October 8 evening on suspicion of theft at the house of his neighbour Gopal Dubey held on night of October 6. “However, between 12 am and 4 am I was given third degree torture by the thana OC (Sunit Kumar) and even electric shocks were given on my private parts along with thrashing to make me confess of the crime which I did not commit. I was released on PR bond on October 9 morning with the threat of dire consequence if I report it to anybody,” Dubey has alleged in the complaint lodged with the SP Palamau on October 10. On Sunday morning, members of Dubey family and other locals blocked the Daltonganj-Garhwa Main Road for over three hours demanding suspension of the thana OC, forcing DSP Sadar to reach the spot and assured about a probe to be conducted by the police on the allegation and promised that guilty would not be spared after the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-267
14-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi bucks hopeful state Covid trend ||The coronavirus disease is showing a declining trend in Jharkhand but the situation in state capital Ranchi remains a cause for concern. According to data released by the state government at 9pm on Monday, Ranchi had nearly a quarter of the total positive cases — 22,730 out of 93,035 cases. It also has 32.88 per cent of the total active cases recorded in the state so far. Asked about the possible reasons, principal secretary (health), Nitin Madan Kulkarni, said: “This is because Ranchi is more populous than other cities of the state, much more outsiders visit the city and more testing has been done here.” Of the total 93,035 cases recorded in the state, 84,461 have recovered and 798 patients have died. The number of active cases was 7,776, which is significantly lower compared to the 13,934 cases recorded on September 18. In Ranchi, 20,026 out of 22,730 patients found Covid-19 positive have recovered and 147 have died, leaving 2,557 active cases on Monday evening. The recovery rate in the state has also gone up to 90.78 per cent which is better than the national rate of 86.30 per cent. Similarly, mortality rate was 0.85 per cent compared to the national rate of 1.50 per cent. In Ranchi district, however, the recovery rate was 88.10 per cent while the mortality rate stood at 0.64 per cent as of Monday though it accounted for 18.42 per cent of the total number of deaths in the state. With 318 deaths, East Singhbhum district accounted for 39.85 per cent of the total Covid-19 deaths in the state. An analysis of the mortality figures showed that 76.11 per cent of those who died of Covid-19 in the state were male and 23.89 per cent were female patients. Only 4.32 per cent of those died were below 30 years of age and 20.07 per cent between 31 and 50 years, while 75.60 per cent were above 50 years. Further, 66.89 per cent patients above 50 years of age who died of Covid-19 were between 51 and 70 years, while those aged above 70 years accounted for the rest of the casualties. “Timely hospitalisation was the reason behind these figures,” Kulkarni said, adding that those above 70 years of age were promptly hospitalised whenever they faced breathing trouble and were saved while those between 51 and 70 years were not so much careful. “One should get hospitalised when the oxygen saturation level goes below 90 per cent but many neglected it and didn’t bother to go to a hospital until it was too late,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-268
