15-10-2020||Calcutta||Fake call centre nets 7 in Lake Town||Seven people were arrested on Tuesday night in connection with a fake call centre being run from a building in Dakshindari near Lake Town, police said. This is the third call centre to be shut down by cops. Callers cheat people by promising them high returns for giving their plots or rooftops on rent to install mobile phone towers on their plots or rooftops against payment. This call centre was known as “Advanced Solution” and it had been running for the past several months, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Their employees mostly men and women in their 20s used to call up people and promise them high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment and for giving their rooftops or plots on rent for mobile phone towers, the officer said. The cops raided the call centre after a Jagatpur resident who had been cheated lodged a complaint with Lake Town police station. The police raided the call centre when its employees were at work and seized 40 SIM cards, smartphones and wireless phones, and hard disks. Not only people in Bengal but also in Mizoram and Meghalaya had been targeted, the officer said. “Callers would persuade people to pay a ‘registration fee’ and a ‘no-objection fee’ in the name of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India,” he said. “People have become more aware about frauds involving insurance policies… so, now they are luring people by promising them high returns for installing mobile phone towers,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||CMDA lines up measures for Rabindra Sarobar||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, has decided on “a number of steps” for better maintenance of the lake environment. Antara Acharya, the chief executive officer of the CMDA, told this to Metro on Wednesday. She said she had toured the lake area at least thrice since the end of September. Her visits followed a Metro report on September 21 that spoke of the sorry state of affairs at Rabindra Sarobar, including the unchecked pollution in the lake waters. “We found a few irregularities and violations and decided to split the 192-acre lake area, starting from the Golpark-end till SP Mukherjee Road, into seven zones — five land zones and two water zones — for better monitoring,” Acharya said. The CMDA is contemplating the creation of a division, specifically for the supervision of lakes, she said. A nodal official has been entrusted with looking after each zone, a CMDA official said. The nodal official will have 10 workers with him/her. In case of any violation, morning workers and environmentalists can complain to such nodal officials. Details about the seven nodal officials and their contact numbers will be displayed at the site office, which has been recently set up at the Rabindra Sarobar stadium complex on the lake grounds. The clubs in the lake area, often held responsible by environmentalists and morning walkers for polluting the lake waters, have been sent various directives. These include: “We plan to rejuvenate the abandoned lily pool, a popular destination for children a few decades ago,” Acharya said. The Metro report on September 21 had highlighted how the lake area was scattered with tree trunks and branches, even four months after Cyclone Amphan had struck. Most of the dead trees have been removed and the lake waters cleaned in the past two weeks, a CMDA official said. “It’s a fact that almost four-fifth of the lake has been cleaned in the past few weeks,” environmentalist S.M. Ghosh, a lake regular and a campaigner for the lake, said. “Yes, the situation has improved considerably since September,” Santanu Chatterjee, a morning walker and activist, said. “Unless there is political willingness, the environment cannot be sustained properly,” environment activist Subhas Datta said, referring to the state government’s appeal before the National Green Tribunal to allow Chhath puja in the lake area. The tribunal has dismissed the plea. Dutta, however, alleged that the government was trying to encourage the puja in electoral interest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||City gets new 10 million gallon water reservoir||A 10 million gallon water reservoir was inaugurated adjacent to the Garden Reach waterworks on Wednesday. The reservoir will help increase the supply to areas south of Bhowanipore that receive potable water from the Garden Reach plant. The plant can produce 185 million gallons of water every day, but there is only one 29 million gallon capacity reservoir to stock water. The new reservoir will start functioning from Thursday; it will increase the storage capacity, a civic engineer said. Rashbehari Avenue, Gariahat, Golpark, Ballygunge, and parts of Kasba and Jadavpur receive potable water from the Garden Reach waterworks. All these places will benefit, the engineer said. “We can now supply water more efficiently. The demand changes with season... the demand is more in the mornings. The additional water in the reservoir can be diverted to areas where demand is more.” A reservoir is required to store the water that is produced during lean periods when the demand is less. “The demand is always less at night. But if we have more storage capacity, we can go on producing water at night that can then be thrust into the supply network in the morning. This will increase the pressure of the flow and take water to pockets that face water shortage now,” the engineer said. Mainak Mukherjee, the chief engineer of the CMC’s water supply department, said the operation of the new reservoir would be completely automated. “There will be minimal human interference. Chances of errors will reduce because of automation. The system will give alerts in case there is any abnormality in any component and this will help address the problem faster.” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, inaugurated the reservoir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta to Dhaka flights set to resume soon||Passenger flights between Calcutta and Dhaka will resume soon under the air bubble transport arrangement between India and Bangladesh, civil aviation ministry officials said on Wednesday. “It has been decided that passenger flights between India and Bangladesh will start under the air bubble transport arrangement. Flights will operate between Dhaka and Calcutta, Delhi and Mumbai. The modalities of how many Indian and Bangladeshi airlines will operate are being worked out,” said the official. Air bubble arrangements are temporary arrangements between two countries to resume commercial passenger flights because regular international flights have been suspended as a precaution against Covid-19. A few evacuation flights had operated between Calcutta and Dhaka after flights resumed in May but after that there were no flights between the two countries. The Telegraph has earlier reported how the cardiology unit of a hospital in Chittagong, Bangladesh, has remained shut for months because the doctors, nurses and support staff from a hospital in Calcutta who were running the unit returned home following the Covid outbreak and are unable to fly back to Bangladesh. The Indian government has started giving medical visas to Bangladeshis who want to come to Calcutta for treatment. On Wednesday, representatives of the Calcutta Hotels, Guest Houses & Restaurants Owners Association met state’s tourism minister Indranil Sen and sought the government’s help to ensure that Bangaldeshi tourists start visiting Calcutta again. “Budget hotels, guest houses and restaurants around the New Market area are suffering heavy losses because Bangladeshi nationals are not coming,” said Rajesh Sethi, the general secretary of the association. “We have requested the minister to help resume bus and train services. We will also write to the Centre to start issuing tourist visas to Bangladeshis.” Manotosh Saha, an executive committee member of the association, said the rooms were all vacant over the past six months. “I have two guest houses in the area. Both would be 90 per cent full around this time of the year. Now, all rooms are vacant,” he said. The Travel Agents Federation of India, too, wrote to the state government on Wednesday, urging resumption of flights and buses between Calcutta and Dhaka. “Hospitals, guest houses, restaurants, foreign exchange stores, everyone is hit because Bangladeshis are not coming to the city…. We hope flights to Bangladesh will resume soon,” said Anil Punjabi, the chairman of the association’s eastern region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||IIEST to open canteens next month||All shops, including four canteens, on the campus of IIEST Shibpur will be allowed to reopen in phases from November 1 as the institute is preparing to recall PhD and postgraduate students after October 15. An order signed by IIEST registrar Biman Banerjee says the owner of the canteens will be responsible for enforcement of the Covid-19 protocol on the premises once they reopen. The departments have been asked to sanitise their laboratories and equipment, including computers and printers repeatedly before the students arrive. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive has said higher education institutions can reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. “We have to ensure that the students get to eat something as they arrive on the campus. Therefore the shops and the canteens have been asked to reopen from November 1,” said an official of the institute. “The research scholars and postgraduate students will stay in the hostels meant for them and also in the hostels vacated by graduating students. We want to lodge them in a scattered manner to avoid gatherings”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Hospitals asked to pay compensation for misdiagnosis and wrong treatment||Healthworld Hospitals in Durgapur has to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a person who has said the hospital treated him for cardiac ailments though he had been admitted with abdominal pain, the state health regulatory commission said on Wednesday. At a hearing held on Wednesday, the commission asked AMRI Salt Lake to return Rs 91,000 to a patient’s family and CMRI to pay a patient Rs 25,000 as compensation. “Krishna Kumar Gupta, 60, was admitted to Healthworld Hospitals in December last year. He said he had abdominal pain but the hospital treated him for cardiac ailments,” Ashim Kumar Banerjee, retired judge and chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Wednesday. “He was asked to do an angiogram and an ECG. The hospital did an USG of the abdomen later.” The hospital told the commission that it had gone by the report of an USG Gupta had done at another place, Banerjee said. “But the hospital should have done an USG on its own.” Gupta got himself discharged from the hospital and was detected with a gallbladder ailment when he visited a hospital in Hyderabad. “He was treated for the ailment and is doing well now. We have asked the hospital to pay Rs 50,000 to the man as compensation,” said Banerjee. Probir Mukherjee, the hospital’s executive director, said: “I cannot comment as we are still to receive a copy of the order.” AMRI Salt Lake was asked to return Rs 91,000 to the family of a woman who had to undergo corrective surgery at the hospital following problems after a tumour surgery at the same hospital. The woman later died. “The first surgery cost Rs 2.5 lakh and the corrective surgery Rs 3.5 lakh. Though most of the cost was recovered from insurance, the patient’s family had to pay Rs 91,000 for both surgeries,” Banerjee said. “We felt the hospital had a moral responsibility in this case as the woman had to undergo corrective surgery and that cost more. So, we asked the hospital to return Rs 91,000.” The hospital refused to comment. CMRI was asked to compensate a 23-year-old woman who suffered leg burns while undergoing hip surgery. “She suffered an acetabular fracture. But the burns were detected on the side that did not need surgery. We have asked the hospital to give Rs 25,000 to the woman as compensation,” Banerjee said. A CMRI official said the hospital was still to receive a copy of the order. “We can comment on the next course of action after receiving a copy of the order.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Green tribunal slams Bengal government over CNG delay||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal has slammed the state government for its “extremely slow pace” in bringing CNG to Calcutta and directed it take expeditious action. The tribunal’s directive, passed on October 12, was available on its website on Wednesday. “The learned counsel appearing for the state expresses inability on part of the state to fix any timeline… we are quite surprised that such a submission should come from the state,” the bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda said while hearing a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta. “We further notice the extremely slow pace at which the state is proceeding in enabling GAIL (India) Ltd to complete its project. “We accordingly once again direct the state to ensure that action is taken forward expeditiously to deal with the matter relating to re-routing of the pipeline and place before us an action plan with specific timeline in consultation with GAIL.” GAIL, mandated to bring CNG to city via pipeline, has earlier complained to the tribunal that the state has been sitting on its request to make land available for laying the pipeline. “The matter of bringing CNG to Calcutta has been lying since 2007-08 despite repeated judicial orders and two state governments completing their terms… and one is on the verge of doing so… clearly no one is bothered about the lungs of the people,” Datta said. “Bringing CNG to the city is critical for reducing diesel vehicles… diesel emission is primarily responsible for pushing up the level of PM2.5, the most toxic pollutant, in the air,” Anumita Roy Choudhury, an air pollution expert associated with Delhi-based environment think-tank Centre for Science and Environment, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Belur Math shifts Kumari Puja venue||Kumari Puja at Belur Math this Durga Puja will be held on a western balcony of Sri Ramakrishna temple in the presence of only two family members and a handful of monks, a change in practice forced by the Covid-19 pandemic. Kumari Puja was last held on a balcony of the temple 20 years ago. Over the past many years, the ritual used to be performed in the pandal beside the temple where Durga Puja would be held. This year the Goddess, too, will be worshipped inside the Ramakrishna temple. Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission authorities have instructed the would-be Kumari and her parents and close family members to undergo a Covid-19 test. Usually, a number of family members are allowed to accompany the Kumari. This year, however, only two will be allowed. “The family has been instructed to undergo a Covid-19 test and send us copies of the reports,” said a monk of the Math and Mission. “Our President Maharaj, Swami Smaranananda, and several other senior monks will offer flowers at the feet of the Kumari. So utmost precautions are being taken to ensure the coronavirus does not spread during the ritual.” Kumari Puja will be held on October 24 (Ashtami) and streamed live for the benefit of lakhs of devotees who will not be allowed inside the Math because of the pandemic. “There will be no volunteers and the brahmacharis who will perform the rituals will be screened,” an official at Belur Math said. “Unlike other years, the Durga idol will be placed inside the main (Sri Ramakrishna) temple. Markings have been made to demarcate the spots where sannyasis and brahmacharis will sit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks  X and XII questions||The ICSE council has asked its affiliated schools to send question papers of their internal examinations for Classes X and XII. “We are keen to know the kind of tests conducted (half yearly or unit tests), the standards that have been maintained, the portion of the syllabus covered, the pattern of question papers and the rubrics the schools have followed,” Gerry Arathoon, the secretary and chief executive of the council, told Metro. This is the first time everything is being done online, from teaching to assessment of the children, and the council needs to know how the question papers have been set, said Arathoon. The chief of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations addressed more than 150 principals online at a regional meeting of the Bengal chapter of the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate on Wednesday. During the meeting, he asked the principals to send the question papers to the council. “Different schools may be doing it in different ways - some may be setting multiple-choice questions, some one-line answers or a paragraph and some may be giving subjective questions. We will get an idea when we see the question papers,” said Arathoon. “We will want to see only the question papers and that too for the board classes.” While holding the exams, some schools have asked students to write answers and upload them. In some schools, the question paper is a combination of multiple-choice questions and subjective questions for senior classes. Not all schools are setting 100-mark paper; some are opting for papers with less marks. Across the city, schools have been conducting the exams online and in some institutions teachers have devised ways to proctor the examination using technology. In several ICSE and ISC schools, exams were held in September and they were preceded by unit tests. Regarding next year’s board exams, the council could not say anything for certain because of the raging Covid pandemic. “We don’t know when it is going to happen and in what form (pen and paper or online). It will depend on how the situation unfolds,” Arathoon said. Usually, the board exams start in February and the practical tests precede the theory papers. “We have got some plans in mind. But we have to prepare for all eventualities and keep plans in place and fit those plans depending on the prevailing conditions,” Arathoon told this newspaper. He said the council would have to get the nod from the Centre regarding board exams and also find out whether it would be viable for the states to conduct them. “What we understood is that we will have to collate all the tests that we have conducted for Classes X and XII so far and send the question papers to the council. The council will study them,” the principal of an ICSE school said. “Some of our questions are application-based.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Visitor-free Santosh Mitra puja||Santosh Mitra Square in central Calcutta will not allow visitors on its Durga Puja premises except people living in the neighbourhood and carrying photo identity cards, the organisers announced on Wednesday. The move is aimed at avoiding a large gathering and reducing the chances of the spread of the coronavirus. “The people of the locality will need to carry their photo identity cards to enter the premises,”  Sajal Ghosh, the general secretary of the puja committee, said. The Santosh Mitra Square Sarbojanin Durgotsav in Lebutala Park is in its 85th year. Thousands of people queue up for hours every year to get a glimpse of the idol. The proximity to Sealdah station gives many an easy access to the puja. “It was a difficult and heart-breaking decision. But we were left with no other option. We do not want to become a possible reason for causing a spike in the infection,” Ghosh said. People of the area are welcome. “Durga Puja is a community festival. We cannot imagine the celebration without the involvement of the people of the area… they participate in all cultural and social activities of the club throughout the year,” another puja committee member said. The committee has arranged to live-stream the puja rituals and other cultural events on their YouTube channel and Facebook page. “This year, we are requesting people not to come this way… instead catch up with us on our Facebook page and Youtube channel. Ebar-er pujo hetey noy, Net-ey dekhun (don’t walk this Puja, catch us on the Net),” Ghosh said. Although the decision to keep away people may discourage corporate sponsors, Ghosh and fellow organisers have said none of the grandeur in lighting or pandal has been curtailed. The structure of the pandal has been altered according to government instructions but there has been no change to the height and design of the idol, according to organisers. “We had hoped for the Covid numbers to drop before Durga Puja. We never imagined so many people would step out to shop. Even if our decision costs us financially, it is any day better to save lives than money,” Ghosh said. Police said the decision would have an impact on the traffic plan, which would be altered accordingly. “We will have to hold a separate meeting with the organisers to fine-tune crowd management details,” an officer with the central division said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Appeal to doctors: Be in city during Puja||The state clinical establishment commission on Wednesday appealed to doctors at private hospitals not directly involved in Covid treatment to stay in the city during the festive period so they can help their colleagues if there is a spurt in Covid cases. At a news conference on Wednesday, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said the private hospitals would be asked to keep contact details of these doctors so they could be called if there was a surge in the number of Covid patients. Banerjee said it was usual for many doctors to leave the city during Durga Puja. “Our experience shows that doctors such as skin specialists, eye specialists and plastic surgeons are not that burdened with patients during the pandemic. We appeal to them to stay in the city on festival days,” he said. “It is mostly general medicine practitioners, pulmonologists and critical care specialists who are bearing the maximum workload of treating Covid-19 patients. We appeal to other doctors to help their colleagues who are primarily involved in treatment of Covid patients if any emergency arises,” Banerjee said. An official of a private hospital said cardiologists, nephrologists and neurologists, too, were directly involved in managing Covid patients. Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said the commission’s appeal would strengthen the hands of the administrations of private hospitals. “This is a very good appeal. The managing director of our hospital had issued an appeal to all doctors to not take leave in October this year. We have received a very good response,” said Mitra. “We are issuing this appeal to doctors through the press and media. We have asked the administrations of private hospitals to talk to their doctors. The private hospitals can keep contact details of all such doctors so their services can be used during an emergency,” said commission chairperson Banerjee. When asked if the commission was making the appeal for only the four days of Durga Puja or for a longer period, Banerjee said: “We are requesting them to stay in the city during the festival period. It is up to the doctors to decide.” An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said the city was reporting about 500 new Covid-19 cases about a month ago. The daily numbers have gone up to over 700. The count will go up further if people throng the streets and pandals during the Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Calcutta||Migrant Mother as the goddess at Barisha Club in Behala||The Union government might claim ignorance about the plight of migrant workers during the Covid pandemic but a neighbourhood in Calcutta will this year replace the traditional Durga with a migrant mother. An idol of a mother in a pale sari, walking with a shirtless toddler in her arms, will be worshipped as the goddess this year at Barisha Club in Behala. Behind the mother will be her two daughters — one with a baby owl in the crook of her arm and the other caressing a duck. A fourth sibling, pot-bellied and with the head of an elephant, give them company. Together, the mother and her four children are walking towards a small, more traditional image of the goddess with 10 hands inside a halo looking for relief. She is seeking relief for her children. She turns back when someone calls her. The caller realises the migrant woman is the goddess herself and hails her. The idol worshipped at Barisha will be the migrant mother with a child in her arms and three children trailing her. In its 32nd year, the theme at Barisha Club is Tran (Relief). “The goddess is the woman who braved the scorching sun and hunger and penury along with her children. She is looking for food, water and some relief for her children,” said Rintu Das, the artist. The subject narrates what millions of Indians had seen from the comforts of their drawing rooms — millions of migrant workers walking hundreds of miles to return home in the wake of the country-wide lockdown announced suddenly by the Narendra Modi government. Das, a graduate from the Government College of Art and Craft, has been working with big pujas of Calcutta for several years now. This is his third consecutive year with Barisha Club. “During the lockdown, all I remember seeing on TV and reading in newspapers was migrant workers returning home on foot, some of them dying on the road. Some of my friends who drove to Bengal from Delhi and other parts of northern India gave me vivid details of what they saw on the roads. Durga Puja was still months away. But the indomitable spirit of the women walking home with children overwhelmed me. In my mind, they embodied the goddess,” said Das. Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest carnival, is beyond a religious event. It marks the homecoming of the daughter and is a celebration of womanhood and motherhood. Das’s idol symbolises all these virtues. Barisha Club’s idol will not have weapons. The mother’s face is kind and her eyes are sad but protective. The demon, according to the organisers, is hunger. The goddess will not have weapons. In one arm, she has baby Kartick and an empty bag in the other. There is no weapon and no asura. The sudden announcement of the lockdown compelled millions of migrant workers to return to their home states from their workplaces. The unplanned lockdown, absence of an adequate financial cushion and denial of transport spawned a human tragedy not seen in India since the Partition. Many migrant workers died en route. A research group called the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) said in September that 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the lockdown. On September 14, asked in Parliament if any compensation was given to the families of migrant workers who had died, the Centre replied that the question did not arise because no data of people dying on the way were kept. For Das, the opportunity to give a medium to his thoughts came when puja organisers of the club approached him with a problem. The economic slump meant dearth of advertisers and corporate sponsors, leading to a severe budget constraint. The budget last year was over Rs 60,00,000 but this year, getting even a fifth of that amount looked very difficult, said organisers. Das is said to have told the organisers that he was ready to go ahead, whatever the budget was. Under Das’s directions, the goddess and her children are being given finishing touches at a studio in Krishnagar by an idol maker called Pallab Bhaumik. The idols are due to reach the Barisha Club pandal, less than five minutes’ walk from Diamond Harbour Road in Behala Sakherbazar, on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to inaugurate the puja on Friday. The two main components of the pandal are bamboo poles and jute sacks. The sacks were used during a series of donation drives that the club undertook during the lockdown to give rice, pulses and other dry rations to poor and destitute families, like countless other similar campaigns in and around the city. Once ready, the pandal will have elements of a relief distribution camp, said Das. There will be audio clips saying: “Please wear a mask…. Please maintain social distance… No mask, no relief.” Work on the puja started in the third week of September. Till the start of September, the organisers were mulling to organise a “ghot pujo” inside a small club room. “But the artist’s concept changed our minds. The subject is such that it calls for frugality, not splendour. No pandal can fully capture the plight of workers during the lockdown. But we can at least show some empathy,” said Debaprosad Bose, a founder-member of the club and one of organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-271
15-10-2020||Business||Sensex crashes 1,066 points amid global selloff||Snapping its 10-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex plunged 1,066.33 points on Thursday as investors pressed the exit button amid a massive selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index plummeted 1,066.33 points or 2.61 per cent to end at 39,728.41. The broader NSE Nifty crashed 290.70 points or 2.43 per cent to 11,680.35. Global equities cratered as hopes faded of a pre-election stimulus deal in the US, while multiple countries in Europe braced for a second round of lockdowns to curb rising COVID-19 cases, jeopardising the already shaky economic recovery. Back home, market participants were also eager to book profits after the recent rally amid already stretched valuations, traders said. Barring Asian Paints, which inched up 0.32 per cent, all Sensex constituents closed in the red. Bajaj Finance was the top loser, tumbling 4.68 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech. Investors lost Rs 3.25 lakh crore in Thursday's session as the total market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies fell to Rs 157.31 lakh crore. "The market had moved-up in expectation of a big stimulus, but the desired fiscal package was not announced in India and a delay of it in US and Euro has changed the trend. At the same time, the pace of economic recovery is under stress because of a resurgence of high rates of COVID infections... "The margin of safety is low given premium prices and slowdown in economic recovery. The trend going forward will depend on the supportive measures announced in context to stimulus and commentary of Q2 results," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. All sectoral indices closed lower, with BSE telecom, bankex, energy, finance, teck and IT indices plunging as much as 3.54 per cent. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices nosedived up to 1.75 per cent. In rest of Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended up to 2 per cent lower. Stock exchanges in the Europe slumped up to 3 per cent in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.17 per cent lower at USD 42.38 per barrel. In the forex market, the rupee pared its initial gains and settled 5 paise lower at 73.36 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Relief may vary across borrowers||The Centre and the Reserve Bank will be hard at work over the festival period to come up with the details of the interest waiver scheme. The speculation is the relief will not be uniform across all categories of loans, and different sub-limits across the categories are likely. The finance ministry and the RBI will also have to decide whether all borrowers in a category will be eligible for the waivers or if only the vulnerable among them will get the relief. They will also have to specify how the benefit will be passed on by banks to the customers — whether it would be adjusted against the outstanding in one go or in phases. A report by Edelweiss said the interest for banks under its coverage forms 1.5-2 per cent of the loan sum. Edelweiss said 25-40 percent of loan books for most  banks under its coverage will qualify for the Rs 2-crore compound interest waiver. The development comes at a time banks are staring at uncertainty with regard to their asset quality. Bankers for now are not expecting a spike in their bad loans. Recently, the new SBI chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara had said the number of accounts that were applying for the restructuring was “manageable”. “Collection efficiency has improved, and most banks expect the restructuring pool to be in the low single digits, with negligible deferments in the large corporate portfolio,” analysts at Motilal Oswal said in a research note. “Asset quality is likely to remain under watch as the moratorium ends; however, the bulk of stress is likely to manifest over the second half of 2020-21,” the Motilal Oswal report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court ultimatum on interest waiver ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed a reluctant Centre to issue by November 2 the circular on compound interest waivers relating to the moratorium on loans offered by banks till August 31. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah rejected solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s plea to give the government time till November 15 for the circular as the Centre wanted to work out certain modalities for the waiver on loans up to Rs 2 crore given for homes, consumer purchases and MSMEs. “Why one month time (till November 15) to implement such a small decision? Not fair on the part of the central government,” the bench observed while adjourning the matter to November 2. By that time, the court said the government must issue the circular to give effect to the waiver. “… See the plight of common people, when you’ve already decided to help…their Diwali is in your hands, Mr Mehta…” the bench told the solicitor-general while passing the direction. The solicitor-general pleaded the court not to make “any harsh observations.” “We don’t stand to gain by delaying things unnecessarily,” Mehta said. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions challenging the decision of banks to levy compound interest on all loans on which the moratorium was announced by the RBI to overcome the pandemic crisis. Senior advocate Rajiv Datta appearing for Gajendra Sharma, the main petitioner in the case, complained that several banks had already started levying compound interests on customers. However, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for the banks assured the court that any such interest levied by the banks would be reversed once the government and the RBI issue the necessary circulars as directed by the court. The Centre and the RBI had earlier argued any blanket waiver of interest on all sectors as sought by the petitioners was unviable and would lead to the collapse of the entire banking industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Wholesale price inflation at 7-month high||A spike in the prices of food items pushed wholesale price inflation to a seven-month high of 1.32 per cent in September, after turning positive in August for the first time since March. The WPI-based inflation appears to be moving in sync with CPI-based retail inflation which shot up to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, mainly on account of rising prices of food items. Although the RBI takes into account retail inflation while deciding the monetary policy stance, ICRA’s principal economist Aditi Nayar said, “Today’s data (on WPI inflation) further cements the likelihood of an extended pause from the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC).” Before recording an increase of 0.16 per cent in August, the WPI inflation was in the negative territory for four straight months —April (-) 1.57 per cent, May (-) 3.37 per cent, June (-) 1.81 per cent and July (-) 0.25 per cent. Inflation in food articles in September was at 8.17 per cent against 3.84 per cent in August. Vegetables as a category had inflation of 36.54 per cent in September, potato prices skyrocketed by 107.63 per cent from a year-ago period. However, onions had deflation at 31.64 per cent and in fruits, the inflation was at (-) 3.89 per cent. Prices of cereals came down with a deflation of 3.91 per cent during the month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||Hyundai Motor scion takes charge||Hyundai Motor Group appointed Euisun Chung as group chairman on Wednesday, cementing his succession from his octogenarian father in a move likely to give impetus to the world’s fifth-largest auto maker’s push into electric vehicles and flying cars. In the first generational handover at the South Korean automobile giant in 20 years, Chung, 49, said he hoped to lead change at South Korea’s second-biggest conglomerate as it battles to stay ahead of the pack in a time of rapid technological innovation in the global auto industry. “Carrying on their bold and innovative legacies, I feel privileged, yet also a sense of great responsibility for opening a new chapter of Hyundai Motor Group,” Chung said in a speech to employees. Chung identified autonomous driving, electrification, hydrogen fuel cell, robotics and Urban Air Mobility (UAM) — industry jargon for flying cars — as his initiatives for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
15-10-2020||Business||China curbs to hurt start-ups||There will be a temporary impact on investment flow to start-ups because of the curbs imposed by the government to stop opportunistic takeover by firms from countries with which India has border tensions, chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian said on Wednesday. According to a Press Note 3 issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) in April, a company or an individual from a country that shares land border with India can invest in any sector here only after getting government approval. The decision has bearing on foreign investments from countries such as China and Hong Kong. Speaking at a virtual event organised by Ficci, Subramanian said investment, both direct and indirect, coming from countries, especially with which India has border tensions, needs to be scrutinised. As a result, he said, “There will be some impact on start-up funding in the short run, but I do think that space will get filled by a large number of private equity (PE) companies from other countries.” He was replying to a question on whether Press Note 3 will have any impact on investment flow from Hong Kong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Isuzu Motor rolls out BS-VI trucks||Japanese utility vehicle (UV) maker Isuzu Motor India on Wednesday launched its BS-VI vehicles. The launch was deferred because of the global outbreak of the pandemic. The company rolled out the BS-VI compliant D-Max Regular Cab and D-Max S-Cab on Wednesday. Isuzu also launched a new variant the D-Max Super Strong with a 1,710 kg payload. Isuzu Motors’ India portfolio now comprises the D-Max Regular Cab High-Ride with flat deck, D-Max Regular Cab-Chassis, S-Cab Standard-Ride, S-Cab High-Ride and the new D-Max Regular Cab Super Strong. The D-Max range with 1,710 kg payload will be available for Rs 8.38 lakh (ex-Mumbai) and the S Cab range will be available for Rs 9.82 lakh. On the delay in the launch, a company spokesperson said: “The global outbreak of the pandemic affected all the plans, including the BS-VI engine development process. With the disruptions on the supplier ecosystem and stabilisation of the production process of the BS-VI D-Max range, we took time to ensure that everything was up to expectations.” Credit rating agency Icra continues to have a negative outlook on the industry. Unlike the Chinese automobile market that witnessed a V-shaped recovery, India is witnessing a slow paced recovery, said Ashish Modani, vice-president, Icra. “Car purchase is looked as a discretionary purchase in India. Income levels in India are far lower than China and in an atmosphere of uncertainty, purchases are going to be deferred,” said Modani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Tamil Nadu caves in on GST||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday said it will borrow Rs 9,627 crore through open market borrowings to meet its GST revenue shortfall, becoming the 21st state to go for option 1 of the borrowing plans suggested by the Centre. Tamil Nadu was one of the eight Opposition states who had earlier refused to take up the options suggested by the Centre to meet the shortfall in their GST revenues. However, the government is facing flak for dividing the states and economists feel the cost of borrowing would be higher. “The permission was issued after the state formally communicated its acceptance of Option-1 to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation. So far, 21 states and two Union Territories — Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir — have requested Option 1,” the finance ministry said in a release. “The additional borrowing permission has been granted at 0.50 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to those states who have opted for Option-1 out of the two options suggested by the ministry.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said: “Had repeatedly appealed in the (GST) Council to increase unconditional component of additional 2 per cent borrowing permitted to ensure fiscal space for the states, while negotiations could go on for a new compromise option. Now Centre uses it to divide states. Still, the Centre wants consensus.” So far in the current fiscal (April 7-October 13, 2020), the 20 states that have opted for option 1 have cumulatively raised Rs 2.24 lakh crore. According to the borrowing calendar for the first three quarters of 2020-21 (April-December), these 20 states are to borrow Rs 3.27 lakh crore and 69 per cent of this amount has already been borrowed by these states, Care Rating said in a research note. “The cost of borrowings has seen a progressive increase across states in recent months. The weighted average cost of borrowings of the 20 states has increased by 35 bps during August to October 2020. The additional borrowing of Rs 68,825 crore by the 20 states would entail an interest cost of Rs 4,632 crore per annum based on the weighted average cost of borrowing in October (6.73 per cent),” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Export from crude oil caverns||The Narendra- Modi government on Wednesday dropped its stand on an export ban from the country’s  giant crude storages in south India as the Union cabinet gave permission to Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) to export its crude stored inside the Mangalore strategic petroleum reserve facility. The move may enhance foreign participation as India seeks to expand its storage capacity. Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters after the cabinet meeting that the council of ministers have decided “to allow Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC) to trade the oil it has stocked at the strategic reserves”. The permission to ADNOC — the national oil company of Abu Dhabi — to export its oil mirrors a model adopted by countries such as Japan and South Korea which allow producers to re-export the crude in their storages. The Mangalore storage has a total capacity of 1.5 million tonnes. Of this, half had previously been hired by ADNOC. The arrangement with ADNOC allows India to have a first right over the crude oil stored in the reserves during any emergency, the minister said. Besides hiring half of the Mangalore capacity, ADNOC had in November 2018 signed up to hire half of the 2.5 million tonne (about 17 million barrels) capacity at Padur, the biggest of the three storages. However, Adnoc did not store any oil. Javadekar also said that the Cabinet has given a post-facto approval to spend Rs 3,874 crore on stocking low priced oil in the three underground crude oil storages. India had saved over Rs 5,000 crore by taking advantage of the low crude oil prices in the international market during April-May by filling up the crude caverns. The cabinet on Wednesday approved the demerger of the under-construction Nagarnar steel plant (NSP) from NMDC  and its disinvestment by selling the entire stake of the Centre to a strategic buyer. State-owned NMDC is building the steel plant at Nagarnar in Chhattisgarh. The process of demerger and disinvestment will be initiated in parallel and the divestment of the demerged company (NSP) is expected to be completed by September 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||Infosys profit jumps 20%||Infosys on Wednesday beat the Street with a 20.5 per cent jump in net profits for the September quarter and raised its revenue guidance for the year — demonstrating its optimism on the road ahead as Covid-19 has pushed clients to increase spending on technology solutions. The country’s second largest IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 4,845 crore against Rs 4,019 crore a year ago. Analysts had expected the company to report a profit of around Rs 4,500 crore. Like its peers, Infosys is also confident that its strong client connect and the digital transformation seen among enterprises will lead to even better days ahead. Therefore, it raised the revenue and margin guidance. The Bangalore-based company now expects revenue to grow 2-3 per cent this fiscal compared with its earlier estimate of 0-2 per cent growth. Similarly, operating margin is forecast to be 23-24 per cent against 21-23 per cent projected earlier. Infosys reported a quarterly operating margin of 25.4 per cent, up from 21.7 per cent last year, following rivals TCS, which posted a 2.2 per cent rise in operating margin to 26.2 per cent, while Wipro saw its margin rise to 19.2 per cent for the period. During the period, revenue in US dollar terms grew to $3.3 billion — a growth of 3.2 per cent over the same period last year and a sequential rise of 6.1 per cent. In rupee terms the revenues were at Rs 24,570 crore, a rise of 8.6 per cent over the year-ago period and nearly 4 per cent over the preceding three months. “Our digital and cloud capabilities combined with intense client relevance are helping us achieve differentiated results in the market,” said Salil Parekh, CEO and MD. Infosys, which provides services such as cloud, data and analytics to companies across the world, said it will roll out salary increases and promotions across all levels effective January 1. Infosys is also giving 100 per cent variable pay, along with a special incentive for the second quarter. The company had 2,40,208 employees at the end of September 2020 quarter. “We will pay a one-time special incentive in the third quarter to our junior employees,” Parekh said. Infosys COO Pravin Rao said the quantum of salary hikes will be identical to those seen in previous years. Last year, Infosys gave an average hike in India of around 6 per cent, while it was 1-1.5 per cent outside the country. Voluntary attrition for IT services on an annualised basis declined to 7.8 per cent compared with 18.3 per cent in the year-ago period. Rao said attrition has come down significantly than what is typically seen around this time of the year. “Infosys results today ... signifies how important it has become for enterprises to invest in IT to weather any disruptive situation — be it pandemic or an economic recession,” Forrester analyst Ashutosh Sharma said. Infosys also declared an interim dividend of Rs 12 per share. Rohan Murthy, who is part of the promoter group, will draw close to Rs 73 crore as payout. Similarly, Sudha Gopalakrishnan, wife of Infosys co-founder S. Gopalakrishnan, will get close to Rs 114 crore from the payout. While the results came after market hours, the Infosys share fell almost two per cent to settle at Rs 1136.10 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||Business||US apparel industry watchdog to probe Jockey India unit||A top US apparel industry watchdog has launched an investigation into underwear maker Jockey International’s Indian partner Page Industries Ltd following allegations of human rights abuses at one of its factories. The investigation by US-based Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) comes after Norway’s $1-trillion sovereign wealth fund dropped Page from its investment portfolio because of concerns of human rights violations at “Unit-III” — one of Page’s Jockey manufacturing sites in Bangalore. Page has denied wrongdoing and called allegations of verbal abuse and workplace intimidation against employees “outrageous”. It did not answer Reuters questions about the the WRAP probe, but said it has evidence which “flatly disproves” the allegations. Shares of Page Industries fell as much as 3.2 per cent on the National Stock Exchange on Wednesday after the news of the probe. In an email to Reuters, WRAP spokesperson Seth Lennon said such violations could normally result in a factory losing its certification. “Should the facility refuse to remediate such non-compliances or should the remediation efforts be insufficient, WRAP will revoke the facility’s certification. In case any non-compliances noted prove to be so egregious as to leave no room for remediation, WRAP reserves the right to immediately suspend the facility’s certificate,” Lennon said. WRAP said it makes certification decisions on a facility-by-facility basis and that it investigates whenever it receives credible concerns. The Page site under investigation is certified until November 15. WRAP did not say whether it would investigate any of Page’s other manufacturing sites. A WRAP certificate is much sought after by garment factories in countries, including India, Bangladesh, China and Vietnam, as it provides assurance to international clothing brands that a factory adheres to certain ethical and safety standards. US-based Jockey, a WRAP founding member, told Reuters it requires all of its partners to maintain the certification and that it would “closely monitor” the outcome of an internal evaluation of the allegations being carried out by Page. It did not comment on whether it would sever ties with Page if the Indian company was censured by WRAP. Bengaluru-headquartered Page is the exclusive licensee for Jockey wear in India and six other countries. Page also makes apparel for Britain-based swimwear maker Speedo, but in a smaller capacity. Speedo said last month it would investigate the Norwegian wealth fund's allegations and follow up with Page "as a matter of urgency". It did not respond to a Reuters email seeking comment on the WRAP probe. While WRAP did not specify when it began its investigation into the Page factory, a person with knowledge of the development said it started in late September. The Unit-III factory in Bengaluru employs about 1,000 workers. Page, which reported roughly $400 million in revenue in he fiscal year ended March 31, did not disclose what proportion of sales came from Unit-III. The outcome of the WRAP probe is due in the coming weeks, the person said, without specifying a date. The person was not authorised to speak publicly on the matter and so declined to be identified. WRAP said it would not comment on the details of an ongoing investigation. Page said it has engaged with the Norwegian wealth fund's Council on Ethics - the body which recommended the fund exclude Page from its portfolio after its investigation "assessed the risk that Page is contributing to or is itself responsible for systematic abuses of internationally recognised human and labour rights". The Council on Ethics told Reuters it had accepted Page's request for a meeting, and that it would likely need to conduct another investigation to assess whether its recommendation on Page should change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-263
15-10-2020||India||PM call to scale up Covid testing, sero-surveys||Calling for continued vigilance and a high state of preparedness against the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday directed health authorities to scale up Covid-19 testing and sero-surveys and said the facility to get tested regularly and speedily at a low cost must be available to all at the earliest. Chairing a review meeting of the research and vaccine deployment ecosystem against the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister also underscored the need for continuous and rigorous scientific testing and validation of traditional medicine treatments. He appreciated the efforts of Ministry of AYUSH for conducting evidence-based research and providing reliable solutions in this difficult time, an official statement said. "The prime minister reiterated the the country's resolve to provide cost-effective, easily available and scalable solutions for testing, vaccine and medication, not only for India but for the entire world," it said. At the meeting, also attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog Member (Health), Principal Scientific Advisor, senior scientists and other officials, Modi called for continued vigilance and a high state of preparedness against the pandemic. Modi also appreciated efforts made by Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers to rise to the COVID-19 challenge and committed to continue government facilitation and support for all such efforts. The prime minister said regulatory reform is a dynamic process and experts in every current and emerging domain should be used by the regulator proactively, as many new approaches have emerged. He also took stock of the Health Ministry's comprehensive distribution and delivery mechanism for vaccines, including mechanisms for adequate procurement, and technologies for bulk-stockpiling, filling vials for distribution and ensuring effective delivery. According to the statement, the prime minister directed that both sero-surveys and testing must be scaled up and he said that the facility to get tested regularly, speedily and inexpensively must be available to all at the earliest. India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 73.07 lakh on Thursday with 67,708 new cases in the last 24 hours, while 63,83,441 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 87.35 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has climbed to 1,11,266 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 680 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has, however, further declined to 1.52 per cent. There are 812390 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 11.11 per cent of the total caseload. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 9,12,26,305 samples have been tested up to October 14 with 11,36,183 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||News channel ratings suspended for now due to TRP scam ||Following the fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday announced a temporary suspension of weekly ratings of news channels across languages. The council intends to review and augment the current standards of measurement to improve on "statistical robustness", and the exercise will result in a "pause" in the weekly ratings for up to 12 weeks, an official statement said. At least five people have been arrested by the city police which busted the scam earlier this month. Those arrested include news channel employees, while the police is also questioning executives of Arnab Goswami-led Republic Media Group with regard to the case. Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. The audience estimates given by BARC influence ad spends, and the total size of the ad placements was pegged at Rs 32,000 crore annually by the police. The police allege the ratings were being rigged by inducing the homes where the monitors were placed. "In the light of the recent developments, BARC Board has proposed that it's technical committee review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres, to improve their statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes," an official statement said. The exercise would cover all Hindi, Regional, English News and Business News channels with immediate effect, it added. "BARC will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise which will last between 8 to 12 weeks and include validation and testing." "A pause was necessitated to enable the industry and BARC to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness," BARC India chairman Punit Goenka said. The industry body's chief executive Sumil Lulla said besides augmenting current protocols and benchmarking them with global standards, BARC is also exploring several options to discourage unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers and further strengthening its codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Relief operations underway in rain-hit Telangana||Relief operations were underway on Thursday in Hyderabad and other places in Telangana in the wake of heavy rains thatcaused inundation of low-lying areas, damage to property and also standing agriculture crops. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would hold a meeting with ministers and officials on Thursday afternoon on the rain relief measures. State Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar told P T I that the relief teams were working on Thursday to pump out water from localities where water stagnation was reported, to help citizens there and to restore normal traffic. He said 61 relief centres were operational and that more were being added wherever required. About 1.5 lakh food packets were being supplied and Annapurna subsidised food canteens in the city were utilised in the areas where water stagnated, he said. The relief camps would continue for a couple of days, he added. The rainfall was unprecedented in and around Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and that the government machinery was successful in containing human loss and loss of property, he said. An official release said the Chief Minister has instructed officials to come to the meeting convened by him with details regarding the losses suffered in their respective departments. The meeting would discuss the rehabilitation measures taken, additional measures to be taken and the issues to be mentioned in a report to be submitted to the Centre, the release said. State Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavati Rathod held a meeting with officials on the rain relief measures in Warangal, official sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Modi govt confronted by 18th century wisdom||Little else is requisite to carry a state to the highest degree of opulence from the lowest barbarism, but peace, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice; all the rest being brought about by the natural course of things — Adam Smith The words of the Father of Economics from the 18th century were confronting the 21st-century government in India on Wednesday after an IMF report began drawing attention across the country. Quoting an IMF projection, Rahul Gandhi tweeted that Bangladesh was set to overtake India in 2020 in terms of per capita GDP — a measure of a country’s economic output per person. “Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India,” the Congress leader tweeted. By evening, it had been re-tweeted 11,500 times and had drawn over 34,000 likes. Later in the day, Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee too posted a tweet on the same topic before questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “5 trillion (economy) dream”. Going by the IMF report, released on Tuesday, India’s GDP is projected to shrink 10.3 per cent ending March 31, 2021, while that of Bangladesh is expected to grow 3.8 per cent. In terms of absolute numbers, this means India’s per capita GDP is likely to be $1,877, the lowest in four years, while that of Bangladesh will be $1,888. Although the comparison is not based on purchasing power parity, an economic term for measuring and comparing prices in different countries, Rahul’s tweet — accompanied by a graph that showed India was far ahead of Bangladesh on the same parameter in 1981 — made headlines both in India and Bangladesh. (The IMF’s World Economic Outlook does give the GDP figures at current prices in PPP basis for both countries in its database. Bangladesh: $1.39 trillion in 2025 and India: $13.91 trillion.) “The IMF report doesn’t come as a surprise as Bangladesh has been growing steadily since 2009-10,” said Ashikur Rahman, senior economist, Policy Research Institute of Bangladesh. Rahman said the Sheikh Hasina government’s success in bringing peace and stability, creating infrastructure and ensuring macroeconomic stability had helped Bangladesh achieve a steady growth path. “Our PM created the right environment for the country and it made all the difference. Today, our economy is resilient enough to absorb shocks,” the Bangladeshi economist said. The changes brought about by Hasina spurred export growth and a steady increase in the rates of savings and investment in the past decade or so. Rahman said Dhaka’s foreign exchange reserve was more than $40 billion -- enough to pay for six months’ import bill. In India, exports have fallen in recent years. Savings and investments, too, have declined. Although India is not worse off than the eastern neighbour on these two counts now, Bangladesh is projected to fare better than India in 2022 and 2023. Instead of making news on its economic performance, India has made headlines for the rise in communal strife (which undermined peace), chaos over the system of taxation (which curbed business activities) and regular complaints about the absence of justice (which stymied individual enterprise). The factors Smith had cited in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations as catalysts for a country’s transition to a state of opulence are indeed missing in India. According to IMF projections, India will be the third-poorest country in South Asia, after Pakistan and Nepal. Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and the Maldives are expected to be ahead of India. Left economist Prasenjit Bose said the most important projection by the IMF World Economic Outlook is that India’s GDP will contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, the sharpest fall among all emerging markets and developing economies. “This is quite a fall from being the ‘fastest-growing major economy in the world’,” he said. Comparing India’s per capita GDP with that of Bangladesh alone is somewhat arbitrary as South Asia as a whole continues to be among the world’s poorest regions, and the entire region is going to suffer a shock on account of the global recession, Bose said. “Instead of looking at per capita GDP, we should also look at human development indicators like health outcomes and gender development index, on which Bangladesh has been doing better than India for quite a few years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
15-10-2020||India||Test for President on non-existent ‘Muslim Regiment’||As many as 120 military veterans have written to the President seeking “firm and immediate action” against those spreading false propaganda about a non-existent “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army that had refused to fight during the 1965 war with Pakistan. The letter, which cites several instances of valour and selfless sacrifice by Muslim soldiers, has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that the “secular and apolitical character” of the army is preserved.  The President is the  supreme commander of the armed forces. The veterans have said the genesis of the campaign of falsehood lies in a May 2013 tweet by the account holder @120croreHindus-World Hindus United that claimed that “in 1965 there was a regiment in Indian Army called Muslim Regiment which refused to fight against Pakistan after which it was dismantled”. The letter points out that the tweet had been shared by hundreds since then and the false claim had again reared its head amid the border standoff with China. “The tweet was meant to show that Muslim soldiers had their loyalties to Pakistan rather than India. The ‘Muslim Regiment’ post has been re-tweeted many times thereafter, and its insidious surfacing during the ongoing Chinese aggression is certainly suspect,” the veterans have said in the letter. According to them, the post “questions the loyalty of all serving and retired Muslim soldiers”. The veterans said in the letter: “Further, it helps the enemy by striking at the morale of India’s soldiers to degrade their operational capability.” “These ‘Muslim Regiment’ posts are blatantly false, because the Indian Army did not have a Muslim Regiment in 1965 or since. Some senior-ranking veterans have unequivocally pointed out the false nature of these posts,” the letter says. Written by former navy chief, Admiral L. Ramdas, and endorsed by 119 other veterans, the letter is addressed also to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. The veterans have said that “Muslims fighting as part of multi-class regiments proved their absolute commitment to the cause of our nation” and cited the example of Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, who had been posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, India’s highest military award, for his courage in the Battle of Asal Uttar during the 1965 India-Pakistan war. “Also in the 1965 war, Major (later Lt Gen) Mohammad Zaki and Major Abdul Rafey Khan were both awarded the Vir Chakra, the latter posthumously, when he fought against the Pakistani division commanded by his own uncle, Maj Gen Sahibzada Yaqub Khan. Such are the legends of Muslim warriors,” the letter points out. Citing the instance of Brigadier Mohammad Usman who chose to remain in the Indian Army in spite of being approached personally by Muhammed Ali Jinnah to move to Pakistan, the letter says: “He fought the Pakistani invasion in Kashmir, was the senior-most officer killed in action in July 1948, and was posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra for his gallantry. He lies buried in the Jamia Millia Islamia campus in Delhi.” The signatories have noted that such fake posts are an attack on India’s armed forces. “Remaining apolitical and secular has been an article of faith for every soldier, sailor and airman, both at the institutional and individual levels. Every soldier swears to protect the Constitution of India…,” the letter says. Appealing to the President to “ensure that the secular and apolitical character of our armed forces is preserved and to adhere unwaveringly to the vision and spirit of the Constitution of India, which spells out the framework for our nation and its people”, the signatories have sought the following actions: ⚫ Investigate the antecedents of the individuals who have made the social media posts on the “Muslim Regiment” ⚫  Identify and charge such individuals for anti-national activities ⚫ Issue warning to the social media platforms (Facebook and Twitter) that have not acted against the posts ⚫ Issue immediate instructions to all state governments to take immediate action against false and seditious messages on social media so that national security is not jeopardised. Last week the fact-checking portal Alt News had published a report on how social media was brimming with claims that a “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army had refused to fight in India’s 1965 war with Pakistan. Several users have referred to the posts to question the “loyalty” of Muslim candidates to be appointed as IAS and IPS officers. Recently, the Right-wing media outlet Sudarshan News had started a television series on a “conspiracy” by “Jihadi elements” to “infiltrate the government service”, before the Supreme Court halted the series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Scientists question agency’s ‘super dung’ claim||Sections of Indian scientists have questioned claims by a Union government agency tasked with the conservation and protection of cows that dung can shield people from radiation. The scientists have said if the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is unable to support its claims through scientific data, the assertion should be tantamount to propagating superstition and pseudoscience and against Article 51A(h) of the Constitution. The RKA, an agency established last year under the Union ministry for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy, had on Monday announced a nationwide campaign to promote candles, incense sticks, lamps and wallclocks, among other products made from cow dung. At a media conference, RKA chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria had also claimed cow dung could shield people from radiation. “Cow dung can protect everybody. It is anti-radiation. It prevents radiation. If it comes home, the entire home will be eco-friendly, free of radiation. This has been proven through science,” Kathiria said. He also held up a device that he claimed could be used to reduce radiation from mobile phones. More than 100 scientists from multiple academic institutions have signed on a public statement that calls on the RKA to share detailed information about the scientific experiments that Kathiria had claimed established the anti-radiation traits of cow dung. “Can the data and experimental details be provided? What experimental controls were used? Which instrument was used to measure radiation? Which type of radiation was measured? How many instruments of each type of phone and how many such phone types were used in the experiment?” they have asked. The scientists have requested Kathiria to make these details public. “If, in case you do not have valid data to support your claims, then your press conference is equivalent to propagating superstition and pseudoscience, which goes against Article 51A(h) of the Constitution,” they said. They have pointed out that Article 51A(h) says “it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to develop scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform”. The statement circulated in scientific circles on Wednesday evening drew more than 100 signatories within three hours of its release. The signatories include scientists and researchers at Delhi University; the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta; the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. Some signatories said they were not surprised by the claims and pointed to efforts by even the government’s science department to support research on cow-based science. Last year, scientists had questioned a plan by the Union science and technology ministry to fund research studies to identify ingredients in cow dung, urine and milk for use in medicines, toothpastes and shampoos. The ministry’s proposal had cited several ayurvedic texts and claimed that products from cows were prescribed for health disorders ranging from asthma and arthritis to cancer and high blood pressure. The scientists had described the proposal as “flawed” as it had presumed the efficacy of various cow products. Three years ago, the science and technology ministry had set up an expert panel to initiate an effort to validate research on panchgavya — a five-ingredient mixture of cow dung, urine, milk, ghee and curd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Tanishq predator followed by Modi||A Twitter user who flagged the Muslim identity of a manager with the jewellery brand Tanishq and linked him to the bigotry-derailed advertisement that promoted communal harmony is followed by both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Hardik Bhavsar’s post from the Twitter handle @bittu_tufani had triggered online threats against the Titan employee, and it’s this that prompted the company to pull the ad on Tuesday, industry news website Melt said citing unnamed sources. The ad promoting the Ekatvam line of Tanishq jewellery, owned by a joint venture between a Tamil Nadu PSU and the Tata group, showed a Muslim family organising Hindu baby shower rituals for its Hindu daughter-in-law. It triggered vicious trolling. On Tuesday, Tanishq pulled the ad, keeping in mind the hurt sentiments and well-being of employees, partners and store staff. The Advertising Standards Council of India, the industry’s self-regulatory panel, has said the ad contained nothing “indecent or vulgar or repulsive” enough to cause “grave and widespread offence”. The unanimous conclusion was reached after the council received a complaint against the ad. Melt said in a report on Tuesday: “An employee of Tanishq – and his family – was trolled mercilessly and threatened with his life. That one detail was provocation enough for the company to decide to pull the communication -– even if the company remained convinced that the ad was well-intentioned and not remotely disturbing. There was only one overriding reason for the decision: the safety of the employee in question.” Complaints about Twitter trolls being followed by the Prime Minister have arisen in the past too, only for the BJP to make light of it. In 2017, in response to outrage over people followed by the Prime Minister celebrating the assassination of Bangalore journalist Gauri Lankesh, the head of the BJP’s IT cell, Amit Malviya, had described Modi as “a rare leader who truly believes in free speech”. He had added: “(The) PM following someone is not a character certificate of a person and is not in any way a guarantee of how that person conducts himself.” On Monday, Bhavsar had shared a screenshot of the LinkedIn profile of a man with a Muslim-sounding name who described himself as a “Brand Manager - Tanishq (Media and Communications)” in Bangalore. Bhavsar, who boasts in his Twitter biography about being followed by the Prime Minister, tweeted about the manager: “He is the man behind this anti-Hindu ad and campaign. He is brand manager @TanishqJewelry now you all know what to do #BoycottTanishq.” After the manager appeared to have deleted his LinkedIn profile, Delhi-based Right-wing lawyer Prashant Patel Umrao tweeted the manager’s RocketReach profile where his mobile number and email address can be accessed. Several thousand people repeated the tweets by Bhavsar and Patel, and #BoycottTanishq was among the top trends in India for about two days. Queries from this newspaper to a spokesperson for the jewellery firm evoked no response. A source in Bangalore said the manager had changed his phone number after the controversy broke out. Both Patel and Bhavsar, who displays a purported image of himself with Modi and some others as his Twitter background, are followed by several BJP ministers and leaders. Bhavsar had targeted then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj in 2018 after she helped a Hindu woman who had complained of being denied a passport renewal as she had married a Muslim and still used her maiden name. Sushma’s intervention not only solved the woman’s problem but led to the transfer of an official who had allegedly taunted the woman with bigoted remarks, all of which left Bhavsar and his tribe fuming. On Tuesday night, the Advertising Standards Council of India said it had “received a complaint against the Tanishq advertisement, stating it to be objectionable since it promoted communal intermingling”. “The advertisement in question was viewed at ASCI by an independent multi-stakeholder panel -- the Consumer Complaints Council, which balances viewpoints from industry, civil society, lawyers, consumer activists as well as domain experts,” the statement said. “This panel was unanimous that nothing in the advertisement was indecent or vulgar or repulsive, which is likely in the light of generally prevailing standards of decency and propriety, to cause grave and widespread offence. “The complaint was not upheld, as the advertisement did not violate the ASCI codes of honesty, truthfulness and decency in advertising. Therefore ASCI has no objection to the airing of this advertisement, should the advertiser choose to do so.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Rap on Jagan for bid to ‘overawe judiciary’ ||The Bar associations of the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court have strongly condemned Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s allegation of judicial impropriety against Justice N.V. Ramana as an attempt to “scandalise” and “overawe the independence” of the judiciary. In addition, two advocates on Wednesday filed a joint petition in the Supreme Court seeking contempt proceedings against Jagan and his removal as chief minister for his “scandalous” remarks against Justice Ramana, the second senior-most judge of the apex court and the next in line to be the Chief Justice of India. In a letter to the CJI, Jagan has accused Justice Ramana of favouring the chief minister’s political rival and Telugu Desam Party leader N. Chandrababu Naidu. Jagan has also alleged that Justice Ramana’s daughters had purchased land under questionable circumstances in Amravati before the site was chosen for the new Andhra capital. “The SCAORA (Supreme Court Advocates on Records Association) notes with deep anguish the contents of the letter dated 06-10-2020 written by a Chief Minister to the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, concerning a sitting judge of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, next in line to become the Chief Justice of India,” the top court’s bar association secretary, S. Joseph Aristotle, said in a statement on Wednesday. “The SCAORA condemns the act of the unwanted release of the said letter on 10.10.2020 in a press conference… as it tends to scandalise and breach the independence of the judiciary,” the statement added. The Delhi High Court Bar Association said in a separate statement that the letter written by Jagan was highly contemptuous and an attempt to overawe the judiciary. “…The writing and circulation of the ill-founded letter dated 06.10.2020 written by Shri Jagan Mohan Reddy to Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, which unfairly and without reason casts serious aspersions on the alleged conduct of Hon’ble Mr Justice N.V. Ramana, judge Supreme Court, and Hon’ble judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh is an abject and uncalled for interference in the due administration of justice by the Honble High Court of Andhra Pradesh,” Abhijat, secretary of the association, said. The Bar association pointed out that Justice Ramana has been “one of the most virtuous judges with the highest level of integrity”.“The Delhi High Court Bar Association further unequivocally, categorically and in the strongest possible terms condemns the allegations cast upon Hon’ble Mr Justice N.V. Ramana,” the outfit added. Multiple judicial sources had told The Telegraph earlier this week that there was more to Jagan’s letter than meets the eye. Justice Ramana is scheduled to become the next CJI on April 24, 2021, and demit office on August 26, 2022. The judicial sources in New Delhi suspect that Justice Ramana is being targeted because he is heading a bench that has recently passed a series of orders to the Centre, states, Union Territories and all high courts to expedite the trial of criminal cases against all lawmakers across the country within a year. They suspect that attempts are underway to scuttle the initiative to expedite the cases. The issue had been pending with the apex court since 2017. Jagan himself is an accused in corruption cases and had served close to 16 months in jail as an Opposition leader in a disproportionate assets case. The trial against him is on the verge of completion. On October 6, the date mentioned on the letter, Jagan had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the stated purpose of discussing development projects. In the Supreme Court on Wednesday, advocates G.S. Mani and Pradeep Kumar Yadav drew attention to the cases against Jagan. According to the petition, which is yet to be formally listed, Jagan is “facing more than 30 criminal cases, including (those of) money laundering and corruption, in the court which are very serious in nature”. “In order to get personal gain or benefit from the court by abusing his power and post as the Chief Minister of AP State, (Jagan) is openly making false, vague, scandalised remarks and political allegations against a sitting judge of the Supreme Court only to tarnish the image of the judiciary in the public mind,” the petition said, seeking contempt of court proceedings against the YSR Congress politician. The advocates urged the apex court to take appropriate action against Jagan for his removal as chief minister and also order a CBI probe into the intention behind his allegations against Justice Ramana. A conviction and harsh sentencing in a corruption case can seal the fate of political careers for long. A convict can stand disqualified for six years from contesting elections from the date when the actual sentence ends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Cong seeks Yogi govt dismissal||The Congress on Wednesday asked the Centre to immediately dismiss the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh because of the alarming rise in crime in the state. “Criminals feel emboldened in Uttar Pradesh because of the government’s patronage. They know no harm can be done to them under the Yogi government. The intent of the government, more than its ability, is suspect. The Centre should send out a firm message by dismissing the government,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said. Pointing out that the 2019 National Crime Records Bureau data showed Uttar Pradesh leading in heinous crimes such as murder, rape and kidnapping, Khera said, “The confidence of criminals is very high. Where do they derive their strength from? It is from the government’s attitude. We saw in the cases of Kuldeep Sengar and Chinmayanand and now in Hathras that the administration was trying to save the criminals.” Khera said after the horrific crime in Hathras that triggered a national outcry, a five-year-old girl was raped on Wednesday again. “This shows the criminals do not fear rule of law. Yesterday, acid was thrown on three sisters sleeping in their home. Priests are being killed. The criminals draw their strength from the government’s attitude. They have seen the government resorts to victim-shaming and character assassination of girls who faced violence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||India silent on Pak talks claim||The external affairs ministry is maintaining a studied silence on the claim by an adviser to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan that India has expressed a desire for “conversation”. If the claim of Imran’s adviser for national security and strategic policy planning, Moeed Yusuf, is true, it will mark a major departure from New Delhi’s stated position that talks and terror cannot go hand-in-hand. It also comes at a time India and China are locked in a border standoff and there have been allegations of cooperation between Beijing and Islamabad. The two countries have not had a structured dialogue for four years now; and diplomatic relations also stand downgraded since August 5, 2019, when Pakistan decided not to send a high commissioner to India in protest against the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and asked India to withdraw its senior-most diplomat in Islamabad. Yusuf made the claim during an interview with Karan Thapar for The Wire news portal. The interview was aired on Tuesday evening, but the external affairs ministry has neither confirmed nor denied the claim officially. There was no reaction unofficially either. Repeated questions by journalists on a WhatsApp group of reporters covering the external affairs ministry and officials remained unanswered through the day. “We have got a message for a desire for conversation,” Yusuf said in the interview but did not provide any details on when New Delhi had reached out to Islamabad or at what level. Asked how the two countries could improve their relations and move forward, the academic, who returned from the US a year ago to become part of Pakistan’s strategic establishment, said: “In the past year, we have got messages about the desire for conversation.” Yusuf went on to add that his assessment was that the outreach was made only to show to the world that Pakistan and India had talked and resolved issues. “We want real dialogue,” Yusuf added, listing the Kashmir issue and ending “India-sponsored terrorism” in Pakistan as the two key matters that needed to be addressed. His comments appeared to be an effort to turn the tables on New Delhi, which had called off dialogue with Pakistan because of repeated terror attacks emanating from Pakistani soil. “There has to be an enabling environment to talk.… Create that and you will find us willing the next day,” Yusuf said. Asked who had sent the message for talks, he denied it was through any back channel and brushed off attempts to pin him down by saying: “There are multiple ways to get messages across. You will be embarrassed if I tell you.…” As for dialogue on Kashmir, Yusuf said it had to involve the Kashmiris as there were three parties to the conflict — India, Pakistan and Kashmiris. Through the 75-minute interview, Yusuf’s refrain was that India had lost the plot in Kashmir and New Delhi was sponsoring terrorism in Pakistan through its diplomatic missions in Afghanistan. The adviser went to the extent of alleging that the Indian consulate in Jalalabad had been used by the handlers of the terror attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar in 2014 in which over 100 children were killed. Prior to moving back to Pakistan in September 2019 to be the chairperson of the country’s Strategic Policy Planning Cell under the National Security Division, Yusuf was vice-president of the Asia Centre at the Washington-based United States Institute of Peace, a federal institution. In December 2019, he was made the Pakistan Prime Minister’s special adviser on national security and strategic planning. American academic and a scholar of South Asian political-military affairs, Christine Fair, had accused Yusuf of being an asset of the Pakistani deep state in US academia, complaining about him to the FBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Ex-UDF ally joins Left||Kerala Congress (Mani), an influential regional party, on Wednesday joined the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in a significant political realignment in the southern state. The decision came more than three months after the Congress-led United Democratic Front ousted its alliance partner over differences with a rival Kerala Congress faction led by P.J. Joseph. Jose K. Mani, son of K.M. Mani who helmed the party for decades, announced the decision in Kottayam and informed that he would resign from the Rajya Sabha on “moral grounds” as he was elected by the UDF. Reacting to Joseph’s demand that Jose should also vacate the two Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat, Jose said by that logic even the UDF should quit several seats won with his party’s support.“We don’t have any precondition for joining the LDF and did not discuss anything with them as yet,” Jose said, adding that the Congress and the UDF had humiliated him and the party. “We faced severe humiliations and character assassination at the hands of some leaders in the UDF,” Jose said, blaming a section in the Congress-led front of trying to destroy his party. “The UDF leaders were not ready to sort out the issues, but instead gave tacit support to him (Joseph) to hijack our party,” Jose added. The Jose faction, with a considerable base among Christians in central Kerala, was ousted from the UDF in June over a tussle with the Joseph faction on helming the Kottayam panchayat president’s post. The UDF and Joseph had then maintained that according to the agreement, the Jose faction would hold the president’s post for eight months and let a nominee of the Joseph faction take over for the remaining six months. However, Jose had refused to budge citing lack of a written agreement, which snowballed into a huge uproar within the UDF. “Have you ever heard of any party being expelled like this over a local body? We were with the UDF for 38 years and yet they sacked us for this,” said Jose, whose father has been a mainstay in the alliance, barring two years when he too had sided with the LDF. Mani had switched over to the LDF in 2016, but returned when Congress offered a Rajya Sabha seat ignoring strong opposition in its own fold. But unity within Kerala Congress (Mani) became a mirage after Mani’s death in April last year that led to a power struggle between Jose and Joseph. In the ensuing Assembly polls for Pala constituency, which Mani represented for 54 years, the LDF had scored a big win by fielding Nationalist Congress Party’s Mani C. Kappan. While there were rumours in political circles that LDF would have to yield Pala to Jose, who would most likely return to state politics, Kappan had told a news conference that no such discussion was held within the alliance. Of the five MLAs who won on Kerala Congress (Mani) tickets, two belong to the Jose camp. They also have a member in the Lok Sabha. While the ruling LDF has 91 seats in the Assembly, UDF has 42, Kerala Congress (Mani) two, one Independent, a lone BJP member, and three vacancies. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed the decision taken by Kerala Congress (Mani) and said the LDF would hold discussions to work out an arrangement. State Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran likened Jose’s decision to “boarding a sinking ship.” “Jose should remember how the Titanic sank,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Valley politics back on feet||The release of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti from year-long detention on Tuesday has given a fillip to political activities in Kashmir with foe-turned-friend National Conference calling for an all-party meeting to devise a strategy to fight the scrapping of Article 370. If allowed, Thursday’s planned session will be the first all-party meeting in the Valley in more than a year. No political activities were allowed in the Valley for months following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year as the government enforced an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade. Thousands, including top politicians — both separatists and pro-India leaders — were arrested. Most of them have since been released. People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba was the last of the three jailed former chief ministers to be released. NC president Farooq Abdullah and son Omar, the other two ex-chief ministers, were released in March. The father and son were among dozens of politicians who visited Mehbooba at her residence in Srinagar on Wednesday. Omar later told reporters that he had invited Mehbooba to a meeting of all major political parties of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. Sources said other parties, including the People’s Conference, have also been invited. Omar said all parties that were signatories to last year’s Gupkar Declaration had been invited. The declaration was a joint resolve of all major parties from the so-called pro-India camp to fight the proposed changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir. Despite opposition, the Centre went ahead with its decisions to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate the state into Union Territories. “My father and I called on Mehbooba Mufti Sahiba this afternoon to enquire about her well-being after her release from detention. She has kindly accepted Farooq Sb’s invitation to join a meeting of the Gupkar Declaration signatories tomorrow afternoon,” Omar tweeted after the meeting. Mehbooba thanked Farooq and Omar for the visit. “It was nice of you & Farooq sahab to come home. It gave me courage listening to him. I am sure together we all can change things for the better,” Mehbooba replied to Omar. The PDP president was dressed in her trademark green colour when she received the guests at her home. Omar said Wednesday’s meeting with Mehbooba was apolitical as the Abdullahs only wanted to know how she was doing. He said Thursday’s proposed meeting would review the political situation and discuss the future agenda. Sources, however, said the leaders spoke about the August 5 decisions and their consequences on Jammu and Kashmir’s polity. “There were no differences. There was only unanimity that parties should come together to fight the designs of the Hindutva forces that want to alter the demography of this place. There is a possibility of forging a formal alliance of major parties to fight their agenda,” a PDP source said. The NC and the PDP had been bitter rivals but the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status has brought them and many others together. Mehbooba on Tuesday made her intentions clear when she not only called for restoration of Article 370 but also pledged to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “I have been released after more than a year. All this time the black decision of the black day continued to haunt me. I believe it is how all Jammu and Kashmir residents felt. None of us can forget the daylight robbery of that day,” she said in an audio message. “We have to pledge to get back what was snatched through that illegal and unconstitutional decision. Also, we have to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue for which thousands sacrificed their lives. I know the road is not smooth but I hope our determination will show the way,” Mehbooba said in an audio message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Shamed by cops, easy meat for cyber bullies||What happens to some of those who become the butt of ridicule on social media because an unfortunate moment in their life gets recorded, criss-crosses the world in a matter of hours, entertains others and then refuses to go away? It has been close to seven months since a video clip of policemen in Kerala dragging 21-year-old S. Anandapadmanabhan out of his car for alleged violation of Covid-19 restrictions went viral and left him traumatised. An overzealous police inspector had literally pulled him out of his car on March 26 citing violation of the restrictions imposed as Kerala started its battle against Covid-19. In spite of the young man pleading that he was heading to buy some bananas and medicines, the officer had bundled him into a waiting police van and later booked him for the alleged offence. Around 7pm, less than nine hours after the incident, Anandapadmanabhan received a WhatsApp call from a friend abroad. “He got the video from his friend and was shocked to see me getting caught by the police,” Anandapadmanabhan told The Telegraph earlier this week, alluding to the speed with which the visual went viral. Seven months down the line, despite paying a penalty and closing the case, Anandapadmanabhan is a victim of aggressive cyber bullying and public scrutiny that forced him to quit his job and he even contemplated suicide. “I used to work as a customer relations executive with Airtel in Technopark (in Thiruvananthapuram). But I couldn’t take it anymore since everyone I meet identified me as that guy who violated Covid protocols from the video that is still doing rounds,” Anandapadmanabhan said. Within a month of the incident, the young man had thought of ending his life. “I was on the brink and thought of ending everything. So I called the police control room and told them I was going to hang myself. Calls from the police commissioner’s office and the control room stopped me from killing myself,” said the distraught man seeking justice. Soon after the harrowing incident of the police inspector yelling at him and dragging him out of his car and putting him into a waiting police van at Paripally in Kollam, Anandapadmanabhan had become popular for all the wrong reasons. The video filmed by a YouTube channel based in Kollam had instantly gone viral. Several YouTube channels featured the video clip glorifying the police action and castigating Anandapadmanabhan. Most of them basically made fun of the young man seen pleading with the police to let him go. While some channels appeared to have pulled them out, others are still available on YouTube. Soon after the incident, BJP Rajya Sabha member and popular actor Suresh Gopi had come out in support of the officer who faced criticism for trying to enact the title role in the 2005 action thriller Bharathchandran IPS, which was played by Gopi. “Those who criticise the police officer should be slapped,” Gopi had said. “People should realise that the army would be called if things go out of their (police’s) hands. The army does not distinguish between Malayalis and others,” Gopi had said in a terse warning to violators of Covid protocols. There were many who backed the police officer who offered to buy bananas and any essential commodities for Anandapadmanabhan. “I will give you my number. I am Paripally CI (circle inspector). Whenever you want to buy bananas and medicines you can call me. I will get them for you,” the officer later identified as circle inspector Rajesh Kumar could be heard saying in the video after stopping Anandapadmanabhan. Many lauded the inspector’s offer since Kerala policemen were already winning praise for running errands for households to make them stay at home. A day after the incident, the inspector visited Anandapadmanabhan at his home to sort out the issue. “He had promised me to get all the videos blocked. But my initial hopes were dashed as more people posted the video to make fun of me,” said the youngster who lives with his parents and younger brother. The inspector was later shifted to another district on a routine transfer. But nothing mattered to the young man more than dignity. “After that video went viral, even my neighbours see me as some criminal,” he said. “The other day I was in Thiruvananthapuram to repair my laptop. It was so painful when a guy in the shop was heard telling his colleague if he could identify me. Then the two of them had a good laugh saying that I was that guy caught for driving out to buy bananas,” he said. It was precisely this kind of public response that made him quit his job. “Client calls became very difficult since I was received with glares and jeers,” he claimed. All he wanted was justice so that he could lead a normal life. “I am ready to go to court to get justice. All I want is the removal of the offensive content that would otherwise haunt me for life,” he said. “I have sent several written complaints to the Kollam police commissioner, but there has been no action so far,” he claimed. But Kollam police commissioner T. Narayanan told this newspaper that his office had acted without delay on all the complaints filed by Anandapadmanabhan. “The first complaint was received within a week of the incident. So far we have received three or four complaints about the YouTube videos,” said the police chief. “Each of the complaints have been followed up with letters on our own letterpads to the authorities concerned to get the videos blocked. We had even sent reminders to each of the complaints,” he said. When told that some material had since then cropped up on Instagram, Narayanan said he was more than ready to help Anandapadmanabhan. K. Venkatesh Murthy, director of Data Security Council of India, an initiative of the IT sector trade body, Nasscom, told this newspaper that even the aggrieved party could approach the social media channels to block such content. “Under the law, as per Section 69A of Information Technology Act, 2000, a request can be submitted to the nodal officer designated by the state/central organisation for blocking of access to any content under question,” he said. The complaint is then intimated to the ministry of electronics and IT. “The designated officer will then try to identify the person concerned or intermediary that is hosting the problematic content to submit their reply and clarifications if any, before the committee set up for examination of offending information,” he said. He said court orders were sufficient to block offensive online content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Ministers absent, farmers walk out||Farmers’ organisations from Punjab, who had gone to Delhi on Wednesday after the Centre invited them for talks to address their concerns over the new farm laws, walked out of the meeting when they found that no minister was present. With neither agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar nor his junior present at the meeting convened by the ministry, the representatives of 29 farmers’ organisations left Krishi Bhavan and shouted slogans and tore copies of the bills on the lawns. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the bills that the Narendra Modi government steamrollered through Parliament. The protests have been the loudest in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana. Modi has insisted the bills favour farmers and his government invited them for talks. “No proper discussion took place. Neither Union agriculture minister nor junior ministers were present to hear our concerns. We asked why the minister is not meeting us…. There was no proper response,” Darshan Pal, member of the coordination committee of 29 farmers’ organisations, said later. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal was chairing the meeting, he said. Most of the participants were senior citizens who had arrived in Delhi by bus from Punjab amid the pandemic. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal termed the minister’s absence from the meeting an “insult” to “annadatas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-613
15-10-2020||India||Rap versus rap in Bihar poll battle||It is now rap versus rap in poll-bound Bihar. The BJP on Tuesday released a Bhojpuri song, Bihar main e ba (Bihar has got this), to counter Bambai main ka ba (What is there in Bombay) featuring actor Manoj Bajpayee and Bihar main ka ba (What is there in Bihar), which have emerged as the cult anthem among the Opposition and the people alike. The Bajpayee–starrer Bhojpuri rap video, made by director Anubhav Sinha, poignantly highlights the plight of migrant workers in the backdrop of the crisis that they faced amid the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. It also talks about unemployment, hunger, lawlessness, and lack of basic facilities in Bihar. The song was released around a month ago and quickly raked in around seven million views on YouTube; it was deemed as a sharp criticism of the Bihar government that has failed to safeguard the interest of the poor. Bihar main ka ba, a rap sung by Neha Singh Rathore is like a parody on Bambai main ka ba, but talks about the ills plaguing Bihar, which goes to polls in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The two songs have been sung, played and showcased across Bihar right from tea stalls to households and small functions organised under the Covid-19 regulations much to the chagrin of the ruling parties — chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the BJP. Both the parties kept downplaying the two songs while trying to showcase their achievements during their rule in the state. But the BJP thought it prudent to imitate the Bambai main ka ba to present the NDA’s works. The Bihar main e ba rap, released by the BJP, says it is “a reply to those who were asking what is there in Bihar. They are now seeing what is in Bihar”. The 2.35-minutes video song takes recourse to aerial shots of infrastructure in the state and talks about the presence of an IIT, IIM and AIIMS in Bihar, better healthcare facilities, education, easily available line of credit for entrepreneurs, rising opportunities, and welfare of women and workers during the NDA rule. Footages of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi are also present in the song, though Nitish is absent from it. It attempts to establish a changing and developing Bihar with a series of some beautifully chosen shots from different parts of the state and smiling faces, and pledges to make Delhi and Mumbai in the state itself. However, critics said it fails to show even a bit of the problems like massive unemployment, corruption, lack of basic amenities, and the suffering of the people just like those escapist, dazzling movies that show a different world altogether. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel told The Telegraph that the party’s election song has been “made to counter Bambai mein ka ba, which discredits Bihar as a doomed land with no opportunities for the people. We cannot allow the lie to be propagated. Its makers do not know what is in Bihar. They do not know about Lord Buddha, Mahavir, Guru Govind Singh, Nalanda University, Magadh and Mauryan Empire, and the culture that is praised across the world”. When pointed out that the BJP song does not show any poverty or unemployment in Bihar, Patel retorted: “Who has given them (poverty and unemployment) to the state? The same people who are now making songs to discredit the state have left these things for us. We are now working to remove them.” Patel did not know who composed and filmed the song. BJP’s art and culture cell president Varun Kumar Singh said that his team has not made it. “The song has been made by a team sent from Delhi. We have no hand in it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
15-10-2020||India||Plea to issue stamp to highlight rape||Odisha-based philatelist Anil Dhir has urged the Centre to issue a postal stamp highlighting the rising incidents of rape on National Philately Day, which was observed on Tuesday. In his letter to the minister for communications, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dhir has said that philately is a channel for the government to educate the populace and create social awareness. Postage stamps have always been used in educating citizens about social causes. The effectiveness of philatelic materials for educating the population and raising social awareness is established. India Post has issued stamps, special covers and slogan cancellations (a postal marking to prevent re-use of stamps) on Swachh Bharat, eye donation, environment, women’s emancipation, childcare and immunisation, among others. Dhir has requested the minister to include the topic of rape in the commemorative stamp issue programme this year. “Since Independence, India Post has represented women and children on many of its stamps. It is about time that this national shame too is represented on Indian stamps,” Dhir said. He said that India Post should also undertake writing slogans on prevention of rape on its pass books, stationery and postal items and introduce slogan cancellations too. The rising number of rapes in the nation has become a matter of grave concern. Repeated rape cases have angered many. New laws have been formulated with stringent punishments, including the death penalty. But rapes still happen and only two out of 10 such crimes are reported, he said. According to the latest data collated by the National Crime Records Bureau, rape is a more common than murder in India. The menace of rape is not just a legal issue; we cannot ignore its social aspect. Awareness and education are the most effective and meaningful ways to prevent rape. While Dhir agrees that this seems too extreme a subject to depict on a postage stamp, he has given examples of two earlier issues from Slovenia which depicted the subject of rape. The stamps were issued in the memory of the thousands of women who were allegedly raped in the Teharje concentration camp during the Nazi occupation of the region in 1943. Dhir says that he had sent this proposal earlier too, during the Nirbhaya case and this is the least the government can do to address the public anger and frustration. India Post will set an example if it issues a stamp on rape, he said. Kashinath Sahoo, another philatelist of Odisha, also supported the proposal. Gender rights activist Namrata Chadda said the Nirbhaya Fund, which is underutilised by many of the states, should be deployed for this campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
15-10-2020||India||UP hospital form: Been to Tablighi event?||A government hospital in Uttar Pradesh was till two days ago making patients fill up a Covid screening form that included the question whether they or their family members had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, seven months after the gathering was vilified as a virus “super-spreader” and used to tarnish the minority community. The questionnaire, which patients seeking out-patient treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, needed to fill up had the question: “Have you or any of your family members attended the Tablighi Jamaat event or come in contact with anyone who did?” A hospital spokesperson said the Hindi form had been issued by the government. A health department official said the form had been envisioned by the “political leadership” and that it was still being used in many government hospitals. The Tablighi Jamaat gathering had been organised at a mosque in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. The event had fallen prey to a vicious slander campaign in the initial days of the pandemic by sections of the government, BJP and the media. The event, and by association Muslims, had been accused of deliberately spreading the virus in the country, prompting Bombay High Court to observe that the government had found a “scapegoat”. That the forms that had been issued in March had continued to be in circulation came into focus when a patient seeking treatment for gallstones at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences was asked to fill up the questionnaire, which also had the usual questions such as declaration of symptoms such as fever and cough and also history of foreign travel and contact with Covid-19 patients. Shakir Ali, a state government employee who had taken his 70-year-old mother, Amana Begum, to the hospital on October 8, alleged religious profiling and decided not to go back to the facility. “Asking about our contact with the Tablighi Jamaat event is religious profiling. To me this query is insulting,” Shakir told The Telegraph over the phone on Wednesday, adding that he had never attended any Tablighi Jamaat event. “It made me come to the conclusion that they treat patients according to their faith. A kind of distrust has developed and I decided not to continue my mother’s treatment at RMLIMS. The next day I took her to a private practitioner, who referred her to another doctor. The doctors have decided to go for a surgery and we will get it done at a private hospital,” Shakir said. He said he would get his mother admitted later on Wednesday and the surgery would be done after two days of tests. Nuzhat Husain, the officiating director of RMLIMS, said in response to a text message from this newspaper that the hospital had begun using a “new form” from October 12. The new form, a copy of which she shared, excludes the question on the Tablighi Jamaat. Dr Srikesh Singh, RMLIMS spokesperson, told reporters on Wednesday that the earlier form had been provided by the government. “We are not authorised to design a Covid-19 screening form, it is decided by the government,” he said. A health department official told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity that there had been “specific instructions” when the pandemic began to spread in March that “we would have to trace those who were from the Tablighi Jamaat or had come in contact with its members”. “We had been instructed to report the number of Covid-19-infected people everyday and specifically mention how many were Tablighi members,” the official said. “We are not into politics but we are easy instruments for politicians in the government. The format of the form had been given to us by the political leadership and our job was limited to getting it printed. Many hospitals in the state are using their own forms for the screening of Covid-19 patients and they don’t have any questions related to the Tablighi Jamaat. But many still have the old forms,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
15-10-2020||India||Sharad daughter joins Congress||The daughter of veteran socialist Sharad Yadav, the booming anti-Congress voice since the 70’s who changed his opinion of the party in recent years, on Wednesday joined the Congress. Subhasini Yadav will contest the Bihar Assembly election from a seat in Madhepura, the parliamentary constituency represented by her father several times. The Congress had approached the ailing Sharad Yadav with the offer. He has radically changed his perspective over the past few years, arguing that anti-Congressism has lost its relevance under the present political circumstances. Although he was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, he now sees the RSS-BJP politics as a threat to India’s polity and believes that the Opposition parties should rally behind the Congress to protect India’s liberal and secular democracy. Yadav snapped ties with his party Janata Dal United when Nitish Kumar chose to betray the people’s mandate and dump Lalu Prasad’s RJD and Congress — parties in alliance with whom he had fought the election and become chief minister — to team up with the BJP. He lost his Rajya Sabha membership, but openly argued that no secular democrat should have any association with the Narendra Modi-led BJP. He developed a strong rapport with Rahul Gandhi. Subhasini is married into a business family of Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-614
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Veteran actor’s comorbidities matter of concern: Doctors||The condition of Soumitra Chatterjee who is being treated for coronavirus improved on Thursday. The actor was administered music therapy and physiotherapy, a senior physician at the health facility where he is being treated said. The doctors are monitoring him closely as the 85-year-old thespian’s comorbidities are a matter of concern, he said. Chatterjee had tested negative for the coronavirus on Wednesday and has been shifted to a non-Covid ITU. “Mr Chatterjee had no fever in the last 36 hours. He had sound sleep at night. He has been administered music therapy aimed at improving his condition. He is responding to verbal commands, which is a good sign,” a doctor treating him at the private hospital here said. “He is, however, still confused, mildly agitated, quite arousable with involuntary limb movements but no focal seizures,” he said. “We will continue his neuro assessment and rectification of encephalopathy. At the moment, invasive airway protection is not required because Mr Chatterjee’s neurological status is improving. Treatment for his secondary infection will continue,” he added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition improves||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition has improved though doctors decided to continue monitoring him closely as the octogenarian's comorbidities remained a matter of concern, a senior physician at the medical facility said on Thursday. The 85-year-old thespian, who tested negative for coronavirus on Wednesday, was administered "musical therapy" and physiotherapy on Thursday, a doctor said. Chatterjee has been shifted to a non Covid ward. "Mr Chatterjee had a sound sleep in the night. He has been administered music therapy aiming to improve his condition. He is responding to our verbal commands and that is a very good sign. The actor, however, is still in a confusion, restless state," a doctor, treating the veteran actor said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU as his condition turned critical. A team of 15 doctors is overseeing him at the hospital. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Death sentence for twin murders in hills||A court here on Wednesday handed death sentence to a 43-year-old man for murdering his relative and her minor daughter with the judge observing that the brutality of the crime “shook the judicial conscience”. Padam Subba had killed Maya Subba, 50, and her daughter Pragya Subba, 13, at Upper Gairgoan in the Bijanbari block in September 2017. While pronouncing the sentence, district and session judge Uttam Kumar Shaw said there could not be “a more heinous crime”. “I have no alternative but to hand a death sentence to you. This (order) is going for confirmation to the high court,” Shaw told Padam who nodded at the pronouncement and did not show any emotion. Neighbour Damber Subba heard a loud scream of a girl emanating from the house of Maya at Upper Gairgoan around 10.30pm on September 1, 2017. “When Damber and his wife were proceeding towards Maya’s house, he saw Padam in the area with a bamfok (a sharp weapon), which had blood stains, in one hand and torch light in the other hand,” public prosecutor Pranay Rai said. Damber’s house is situated about “three minutes’ walk away” from the victims’ home. Padam did not respond to the eyewitness’s enquiry but upon reaching the victims’ house, Damber found Maya lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen and the girl near the toilet. “Such was the brutality that Maya was hit six times with the bamfok on her head, face, arm, shoulder and other places. The daughter had suffered five injury marks across the body and her index finger was also severed from the hand,” said Rai. Padam was arrested on September 3 and the murder weapon was seized. “…….the subsequent brutal murder upon minor girl Pragya Subba shook the judicial conscience of this court and there should not have been any leniency in the matter of awarding punishment for these gruesome murders,” observed the judge. The convict would frequent Maya’s house and help in household chores. The charge-sheet was filed on November 12, 2017 and 18 eyewitnesses were examined during the trial. The court was also of the opinion that the crime had been pre-mediated and Padam had a propensity to commit murders and the killing “was especially heinous, atrocious and cruel”. Upper Gairgoan is around 30km from Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Online platform launched to sell local products||The Raghunathpur subdivisional administration has launched an online platform to sell the products made by local artisans and entrepreneurs under the Bengal government’s Karma Tirtha programme. The move comes in the wake of repeated efforts by officials to revive economic activities at 175 Karma Tirthas across Bengal in the lead-up to the Puja season. The businesses at such markets have suffered during the lockdown. “We have received explicit orders from state government officials to improve the sales at Karma Tirthas before the Puja,” said a Purulia district official. The Bengal government began setting up Karma Tirthas in 2014 for local entrepreneurs and artisans to advertise and sell their products in each block. Most of the Karma Tirthas are one or two-storey marketplaces accommodating 20-25 stalls. “We have started the online initiative with the Raghunathpur block and plan to connect with others in our subdivision. A mobile application — also named Karmatirtha — would help the people of Raghunathpur buy different products, including groceries and apparels,” Raghunathpur subdivisional officer Divya Murugesan said. Most of the Karma Tirthas, set up at a cost of around Rs 500 crore, were not functional till recently. “Many Karma Tirthas are situated at deserted places or away from residential localities. As a result, traders were not willing to hire the stalls even for free. However, the state government recently asked us to make all Karma Tirthas functional as soon as possible. It is a challenge for us as we need to ascertain good business for the traders,” said a district magistrate in south Bengal, adding that the administration had started hiring delivery boys for online purchases on a commission basis. “We are campaigning in localities and on social media about the online sale of products at the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur,” added SDO Murugesan. Raghunathpur has 26 stalls and the sales figures have not been great even if they were better compared to other Karma Tirthas in the district. “Raghunathpur is a subdivisional town and there are many people who are savvy with online marketing. We are hopeful that the online platform will be successful. If the response is good, we will tag 19 other Karma Tirtha in our districts with the online platform,” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumdar said. The traders who operate out of the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur said they were expecting better sales online in the run up to Durga Puja. “Our sales have come down as customers stopped visiting our stores because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It would be better if our products are sold online,” said Animesh Mishra, a cloth merchant having a stall at the Karma Tirtha in Raghunathpur. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the Opposition parties had recently targeted the ruling party for forfeiting a revenue source because those large trade buildings were lying unused. “It is important to make the Karma Tirthas functional as the Assembly elections are just a few months away. We need to show that the initiative of the government did not go in vain,” said a Trinamul leader. At a few Karma Tirthas in districts like East Burdwan and Birbhum, rooms have been distributed to small-scale entrepreneurs. “It is not that all Karma Tirthas are away from populated areas. In those cases, we are asking traders to use the stalls as their workshops for tailoring or making jam or jelly. It would be better if online trade is available there too,” said an official in East Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Tribal woman gang-raped, one held in East Burdwan||A 21-year-old tribal woman was allegedly gang-raped by two youths who had dragged her to a paddy field near her house in East Burdwan on Tuesday night. The woman said she had stepped out of her thatched home around 10.30pm to relieve herself when she saw three youths, armed with sickles and faces covered, standing behind their courtyard fence. A woman was also with the youths, she added in her complaint to police. When she went towards them to enquire who they were, she was allegedly dragged away. “I went towards them to enquire who they were and within moments, the three of them tied my face with a towel and dragged me to a nearby paddy field. I managed to escape from their clutches and hid in the paddy field but soon, they tracked me down. Two of the youths raped me,” the woman said. She was brought to a hospital in Kalna for a medical check-up on Wednesday. Her relatives narrated the incident to the doctors and hospital staff. “The hospital authorities informed us about the woman and we immediately sent a police team for investigation,” said a senior police officer. Based on the description provided by the woman, the police arrested one of the accused persons and detained a brother of the local BJP booth president. “We have arrested a person and detained another based on the complaint of the victim,” East Burdwan police chief Bhaskar Mukherjee said. “We are trying to find out about the woman who was allegedly present during the incident along with the youths. The arrested youth is an adivasi and we are trying to find out the motive behind the incident,” said a police officer in Kalna. The woman stays with her parents-in-law and her husband works as a construction labourer elsewhere in the district. “I could not shout as they had tied my face and mouth with the towel,” she said. Local BJP leaders have accused the police of trying to give the incident a political colour. “The brother of our booth president at the village has no connection with the incident. But police have detained him to drag the BJP into the case. We will launch a protest against the police,” said Sushanta Pandey, a BJP district vice-president in Kalna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee launches 69 Durga Pujas virtually||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday virtually inaugurated from Nabanna 69 Durga Pujas in all eight north Bengal districts and Murshidabad and Nadia districts and the chief minister is slated to open around 90 more Pujas in other parts of the state on Thursday. This is a marked departure from Mamata’s practice of launching only big-ticket Pujas in and immediately around Calcutta, which sources in the Trinamul Congress attributed to both the compulsions of enhancing mass connect and the opportunity presented by the virtual inaugurations. The sources said the e-inaugurations, necessitated by the new-normal of Covid-19, came as a blessing in disguise as remote districts found some recognition in the process. “Although there were thousands of requests from various districts, every year, the chief minister used to devote her time to the city for the festival. This time, however, since the inauguration process is largely virtual, the districts are getting to have some big-ticket Pujas inaugurated by her,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Puja activities have been part of Mamata’s autumnal routine in a big way since her stint as the railways minister in the UPA II regime, when her ascent to power in Bengal was deemed a foregone conclusion. Most big-ticket Pujas in the city and its surrounding areas are conducted by heavyweight leaders of the Trinamul Congress. Inaugurating some of the 69 pujas on Wednesday, Mamata said: “Your Pujas in rural Bengal attract us a great deal.” “I have always been meaning to witness those Pujas and hope to see many, virtually, this time. Although I am with you virtually, my heart has reached your pandals, the streets of your districts,” she added. Trinamul sources said the decision to include the Pujas from the districts was a “very smart move” and it would help the party connect better with the people outside Calcutta — also North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas — this year, as the Pujas for inauguration had been carefully chosen to represent various subdivisions and blocks. “It was a longstanding demand from the people of the districts — especially north Bengal — for inauguration of their Pujas by the chief minister. But she had such a packed schedule every autumn that she barely got time to inaugurate 70-odd Pujas in and around the city, which were picked from over 10,000 invites. This time, the virtual platform presented a new opportunity and she grabbed it with both hands,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Rhino carcass found on fringes of Gorumara||An adult male rhino was found dead on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday morning. Senior forest officers visited the spot along with vets to find out whether the animal had fallen prey to poachers or had died a natural death. In Bengal, Gorumara is the second largest habitat of one-horned rhinos after Jaldapara National Park that is in the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district. Around three years back, poachers had targeted rhinos of the two habitats. In Gorumara, poachers had killed two rhinos. They had severed the horns and had buried the carcasses. During the investigation, it was found that rackets based in Northeast were involved in the crime, along with some local people. On Wednesday, some residents of Bamandanga —Tondu tea estate — spotted the carcass. They immediately informed foresters and the policemen from Nagrakata reached the spot. “Our officers went to the spot and confirmed that it is one of the rhinos of the Gorumara. “Gorumara has around 55 rhinos. It is a common trend to name each rhino. This rhino was known as Don,” said a forest officer. Foresters examined the rhino’s body and also used a metal detector to find out whether it had been hit by a bullet. However, they didn’t  find presence of any metal in the animal’s body. “The horn was there but we can rule out the chances of poaching only after we come to know about the cause of the death from the vets. This is because the location from where the carcass has been seized is the same area which poachers had used as a passage three years ago,” the forester added. Nisha Goswami, the divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division, said preliminary investigations indicated that the animal died because of ailments. “The same rhino had fallen ill a few weeks back and we had treated it. We are waiting for the post-mortem report,” Goswami added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
15-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP plans no Durga Puja, says Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday that the party wouldn’t organise any Durga Puja and it was not the organisation’s job to conduct such celebrations. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee had said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the party’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22. “The BJP is not organising any Durga Puja. I have no such information. There will be a single day cultural programme for which a symbolic idol might be installed,” Ghosh told a news conference. He was responding to questions about the BJP’s Durga Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, which is under the Union ministry of culture, at Salt Lake. Although Ghosh ruled out the party holding a Durga Puja, he said: “A certain morcha or cell might hold the Puja. The party isn’t.” Ghosh made the statement on a day the EZCC authorities issued a letter to “certify that Bharatiya Janata Party, West Bengal booked our Bharatiyam Cultural Multiplex … from 1727 October 2020 to organise Durga Puja…” The state BJP chief said it wasn’t the party’s job to organise Durga Puja. “Our aim is to connect with the people during the Puja. We hope the Prime Minister will do that with his speech,” said the Midnapore MP. Locket declined comments on Ghosh’s statement. However, state BJP leaders, including national joint general secretary (organisation), Shivprakash, and state vicepresident Pratap Banerjee met on Wednesday to discuss the nittygritty of hosting the Puja. According to a source present at the meeting, none of the leaders said anything about a singleday celebration. “We were assigned various tasks for the Puja. It will be a proper fiveday affair, just like any other Durga Puja,” a leader said. A section of the party leaders, however, feels Ghosh is not aware of the development as he has been incommunicado for three days because of illness. “Dilipda had kept his phone switched off for three days since he was unwell. The Puja had been planned during his absence and hence, he is unaware of it. There is no confusion,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
15-10-2020||West Bengal||15 Bengal bridges on priority list||The Mamata Banerjee government has identified 15 bridges which need to be replaced urgently across Bengal after it shortlisted 400 bridges that are in distress following a statewide health audit of 1,800 such structures maintained by the public works department. While initial work started to replace some old bridges, the PWD has started taking measures to ensure that vulnerable bridges don’t collapse like the one at Majerhat in Calcutta. The Majerhat bridge had crashed in September, 2018. “We have found that 15 bridges across the state need to be replaced urgently as their load-bearing capacity has come down significantly. Thanks to the health audit of all the bridges, 15 most vulnerable bridges could be identified. Remaining 350-odd bridges that were identified as weak and could be used for few more years after some repairs,” said a senior government official. Of the 15 bridges, nine will be reconstructed under the guidance of Rites and the remaining six will be built by other agencies to be selected by the PWD through tenders. Majority of the 15 bridges are located in Murshidabad, Nadia, Howrah and South 24-Parganas districts. “Most of the 15 bridges are less than 100 meters in length. But some of them are located in areas where erecting new bridges would not be easy because of non-availability of land. The problem is that we cannot erect the new bridges by demolishing the old ones,” said an official. As the finance department has allowed procurement of land for critical projects even as there is a ban on unnecessary expenditure as a part of its austerity drive, senior officials said they could move forward to buy plots directly for the bridges. “The government wants to start at least some ground work before the Assembly polls. That is why the PWD is eager to start purchasing land for the projects by January next year,” said a source. A Trinamul Congress MLA said the ruling establishment wanted to send a message to the local people that it was eager to solve the problems at the earliest ahead of the polls. “These bridges are important for day-to-day lives of local people. We cannot restrict movement of vehicles for a longer period. At least we want to send a message ahead of the polls that process is on to erect new bridges to replace the old ones,” said the MLA. The PWD is now trying to undertake repairs on some bridges to allow more vehicles to pass on for at least few months, said sources. They added that such a measure was being taken considering that new bridges could not be erected within a short period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah cancels visit to north Bengal||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda and not Union home minister Amit Shah will visit north Bengal before Puja, state president Dilip Ghosh said in Calcutta on Wednesday. While Shah was slated to arrive on October 17, Nadda’s visit has been scheduled for October 19. “Naddaji will hold meetings with BJP members and workers. He will also meet people from various strata of the society,” Ghosh told journalists. According to multiple sources in the party, Shah’s visit was cancelled because of medical reasons. Shah, who recently recovered from Covid-19, would need more time to heal, the sources said. “It would’ve been too tiresome for Amitji to travel this far and hold meetings. That is why Naddaji is coming instead,” a BJP leader said. Ghosh, however, said Shah would visit Bengal after Puja. Dilip Ghosh said on Wednesday that the party wouldn’t organise any Durga Puja and it was not the organisation’s job to conduct such celebrations. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee had said on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the party’s Durga Puja at Salt Lake near here on October 22. “The BJP is not organising any Durga Puja. I have no such information. There will be a single day cultural programme for which a symbolic idol might be installed,” Ghosh. He was responding to questions about the BJP’s Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, which is under the Union ministry of culture, at Salt Lake. Ghosh made the statement on a day the EZCC authorities issued a letter to “certify that Bharatiya Janata Party, West Bengal booked our Bharatiyam Cultural Multiplex … from 17-27 October 2020 to organise Durga Puja…” Although Ghosh ruled out the party holding a Durga Puja, he said: “A certain morcha or cell might hold the Puja. The party isn’t.” The state BJP chief said it wasn’t the party’s job to organise Durga Puja. “Our aim is to connect with the people during the Puja. We hope the Prime Minister will do that with his speech,” said the Midnapore MP. Locket declined comments on Ghosh’s statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
15-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 3,677 cases & 64 deaths in Bengal||Bengal logged the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3,677 on Wednesday, resetting the maximum daily count for the 11th time in 14 days this month. The state on Wednesday also reported the highest number of Covid patients to die during a 24-hour period till 9am at 64. The total novel coronavirus cases stand at 3.05 lakh, of which over 2.68 lakh are recoveries and 5,808 deaths. The number of recoveries on Wednesday were 3,096. The recovery rate, which had reached 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.79 per cent on Wednesday. The national rate — once lagging behind the state by nearly 10 per cent — has almost caught up, at 87.1 now. “October has been the worst month for us so far in terms of the pandemic. We can only hope that it doesn’t get much worse by the end of the month, after Puja. We have been trying our best not to let this spiral out of control, into a full-fledged public health emergency for the state,” said a minister. In the 14 days of the month, the state reported nearly 49,000 new Covid-19 cases, considerably outweighing the 42,000-odd recoveries. There have also been 850 deaths during the period. “So much of the progress made, especially in August, was laid to waste over the past few weeks. We had climbed to the top five in the list of states with the highest recovery rate and stayed there for so long. Now, we have fallen to the 18th spot,” said the minister. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been repeatedly issuing warnings against letting the pandemic’s spread widen, asserting it had reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been in denial of. Also called Stage III, community transmission is a phase of person-to-person spread of the infection, where the source is difficult to trace. Of the total 5,808 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,926, with a dozen till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,309 deaths, 14 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 4,916 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.89, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. With 42,549 tests, the total tests went past 38 lakh, to 38.18 lakh, at 42,427 tests per million people. Having begun testing in early February, the state took over three-and-a-half months to cover one lakh tests. Over the next five months, it covered 37 lakh tests. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.01 per cent now. The state reported 36.52 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals, besides 3.31 lakh telemedicine consultations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-343
15-10-2020||North East||Father Stan Swamy’s arrest ripples in Northeast||Guwahati-based social scientist Father Walter Fernandes on Wednesday said the arrest of tribal rights advocate Father Stan Swamy from Ranchi had “implications” for the Northeast, which too had witnessed arrests of rights activists and the displacement of tribal communities in the name of development. “What has happened (displacement and impoverishment) to the tribes in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, on whose side Stan Swamy was struggling, can reach the Northeast too because of mining, oil exploration, roads, dams and defence projects, especially in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya,” Fr Fernandes, 81, a long-time associate of Fr Swamy, said. “Making matters much worse will be policies such as the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, a sure disaster for the Northeast.” Fr Fernandes is director of the North Eastern Social Research Centre (NESRC), Guwahati, which he founded in 2000, and former director of the Indian Social Institute, Delhi. The NESRC’s mandate is to be a centre “combining” serious intellectual pursuits with the involvement of persons and groups “active” in social change in the region. Father Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima Koregaon case, in which several rights activists, writers and lawyers have been linked to Maoists and put behind bars. Fr Fernandes told The Telegraph the NESRC’s studies had shown that tribal communities, who make up 12.9 per cent of Assam’s population, account for more than 40 per cent of the 19.2 lakh people deprived of sustenance in the state “in the name of development”. They make up 60 per cent of those displaced in Manipur while accounting for 40 per cent of the population, and constitute 100 per cent of those displaced in Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Fr Fernandes referred to the arrests of human rights activists such as Jiten Yumnam (Manipur), Lachit Bordoloi and Akhil Gogoi (both Assam), ostensibly for demanding protection for their people and the marginalised. He said the continued enforcement of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, issuance of the draft EIA Notification 2020 and the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) were “glaring” examples of human rights violations in the region. There have been protests in Assam against the EIA Notification 2020 and the CAA, whose easing of citizenship rules is seen as a threat to the identity and culture of the people of the Northeast. Gogoi has been in jail since December over his alleged role in the violence during the anti-CAA protests. Activists believe the draft EIA Notification 2020 will harm the Northeast’s interests, especially since it allows post-facto clearance of projects in eco-sensitive zones, among others. “It is important for human rights activists of the Northeast to demand that all those arrested in the region and elsewhere be released forthwith,” Fr Fernandes said.“The Constitution seems to be a threat to the ruling powers; so those who want its provisions to be implemented have to be punished. That has implications for the Northeast too.” Fr Fernandes said he had known Fr Swamy for four decades and had worked closely with him for more than 20 years. “I have seen his total commitment to the cause of the tribes, Dalits and other marginalised communities. He encouraged them (to agitate peacefully) but applied the brakes wherever he saw the possibility of violence,” Fr Fernandes said. On the Bhima Koregaon case, he said: “That most of the accused have never been to Bhima Koregaon or that they have not been in touch with each other is irrelevant to the government or its intelligence agencies. (What’s) of importance (to the government) is to punish people who question injustice or demand justice for the marginalised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
15-10-2020||Opinion||Momentous win: Rafael Nadal bags French Open title||Sir — In a year of grim tidings, Rafael Nadal has scripted a remarkable piece of tennis history by winning his 13th French Open title and 20th Grand Slam overall, equalling Roger Federer for the men’s all-time record (“Child’s play for King Rafa”, Oct 12). Nadal’s win against Novak Djokovic in straight sets at Roland Garros, yet again, underscored his dominance on the clay court. Although both Federer and Nadal hold an equal number of Grand Slam trophies, it must be admitted that the Swiss player has a varied selection of titles spread across the four tournaments in comparison to the Spaniard. Most of Nadal’s wins are on the clay court. Nevertheless, it is astonishing to watch all three tennis legends scale such dizzying heights and still exhibit the utmost respect for all players, showing the world how a model of sportsmanship among rival stars can work. There is no doubt that the triumvirate of Federer, Nadal and Djokovic will go down in the history of tennis as not only the best male players of their generation, but possibly of all time. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The French Open men’s singles final match last Sunday predictably resulted in the Spanish champion, Rafael Nadal, winning his 13th title at Roland Garros. It was however quite surprising that Novak Djokovic, the current top seeded male tennis player, would lose the match in straight sets. Nadal played remarkably well and did not drop a set, proving beyond a doubt why he is the undisputed ‘King of Clay’. With this win, Nadal matches Roger Federer’s record of 20 Grand Slam titles. Djokovic, with 17 trophies, is close on his heels. It would be interesting to see who ends up at the top of the heap by the end of their illustrious careers. The consistent presence of one of the three in almost all Grand Slam finals indicates that no other male player from the current generation would be able to match their challenge. While it is a delight to watch the three players enrich the sport with each thrilling match against each other, a range of players  vying for the title in the finals would have made the game even more exciting. Abhiroop Sarkar,Siuri, Birbhum Sir — Rafael Nadal is referred to as the ‘King of Clay’ with good reason. With 13 French Open titles and 100 match wins at the Roland Garros, Nadal has made a place for himself in history. Defeating Novak Djokovic, who is in supreme form, in straight sets speaks volumes about the extent of his talent. Furthermore, Roger Federer’s congratulatory message for Nadal after this 20th Grand Slam win is a testament to the spirit of sportsmanship the game is known for. This remarkable feat has, once again, brought up the discussion of who is the all-time-great in the history of tennis. However, dedicated fans will acknowledge that all three players have uniquely added to the game over the last decade and a half. With a few years still left before any of the three retires, tennis fans can look forward to more such historic feats. Bal Govind, Noida Welcome decision Sir — The decision of the Supreme Court to reject a plea by the organization, Akhand Bharat Morcha, seeking a ban on the halal method of animal slaughter comes as a relief. The apex court rightfully remarked that it cannot interfere in the food habits of people. The bench further pointed out that the petition challenging Section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act did not stand as the said section allows for the slaughter of animals in a manner required by the religion of any community, which is, thus, not an offence. The petition, as the bench observed, is indeed “mischievous” in nature. This outright rejection of the plea has assured the people of the country that as long as the independence of the judiciary exists, the constitutional rights of ordinary citizens will always be ensured. Noor Ahmad,Hyderabad Sir — With every bigoted petition being brought to the court against the Muslim community, the role of the Supreme Court is becoming increasing crucial in upholding the secular ideals of the nation. The rejection of pluralism by certain sections of the people of India can only be countered with the support of the judiciary. Raisa Saha,New Delhi Added trouble Sir — The Covid-19 pandemic is adding to our health woes in different ways. As people spend more time glued to screens, be it in the form of working from home, online classes or binge-watching shows, many are putting immense pressure on their eyes. Excessive screen time, especially prolonged exposure to blue light from gadgets, can ruin eyesight and cause other vision-related diseases. While it is not possible to cut down on work hours or opt out of attending classes, we can stop scrolling through the internet unnecessarily. If we are not mindful, we could end up with a number of other serious illnesses. Sounita Dey,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||One more: Father Stan Swamy's arrest||The statements condemning the arrest of the 83-year-old priest, Stan Swamy, from Ranchi by the All India Catholic Union and the North East Catholic Research Forum are being backed by people’s protests. The Catholic bodies demand that the already ailing priest be freed, and accuse the authorities of silencing dissent and protests against the alienation of the natural resources of tribal people. This last must be placed in the context of the continuing arrests for the caste-based violence at the Bhima Koregaon site on January 1, 2018, which was supposedly ‘aggravated’ by speeches in the Elgaar Parishad meet the previous evening. The activists, writers, academics and lawyers arrested so far for this — the elderly priest said he was not even at Bhima Koregaon — work with and for Dalits, poor and indigenous people. The Catholic priest is known for his ceaseless fight for the rights of and justice for tribal people. Is the logic of these arrests built on the fact that Bhima Koregaon is commemorated by Dalits? The Elgaar Parishad meeting was an Ambedkarite event, which the police later accused of having been funded by banned organizations, particularly the Communist Party of India (Maoist). One charge against Stan Swamy is that he received Rs 8 lakh to further the extremist outfit’s agenda. This is included in the 10,000-page supplementary charge-sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency against eight of the accused, following earlier charge-sheets by the Pune police. Reams, obviously. The common thread between them is the link the accused supposedly have with banned Naxalite outfits shown by communications apparently on their electronic devices and literature on extremist outfits they allegedly possess — is reading an offence? — and, presumably, a plan to overturn the lawful government. There is nothing boring about the charges. The rights activist vocal against injustices in Kashmir, Gautam Navlakha, for instance, is charged with being a bridge between the CPI (Maoist) and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. People who were not at the site of violence have been charged under laws against terrorism, incitement of caste hatred and plans to overthrow — presumably unlawfully — an elected government. Is it being suggested that the rights of the oppressed cannot be championed? Or is it just dissent that is unacceptable? Would the arrests being made in the name of the Delhi riots fit in too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||Mind the word: Maha Governor's missive||New India is topsy-turvy territory. That perhaps explains why holders of constitutional positions can profess views that go against the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. The missive sent by the governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, to Uddhav Thackeray, needling the chief minister for professing secularism, is a case in point. Mr Koshyari has taken umbrage at Mr Thackeray for his government’s refusal to throw open places of worship. Here too the governor seems to have endorsed the sentiments of the Bharatiya Janata Party that has been holding protests outside temples in Maharashtra demanding that they be reopened. The BJP’s delusions and double standards about the pandemic are well-documented. Maharashtra shoulders a significant share of India’s Covid-19 burden and the Centre, ruled by the same party, has repeatedly pointed to the need to discourage crowding and social gatherings. The state unit of the BJP and the governor seem to have other ideas. The transformation of the governor’s office into a mouthpiece of the dominant political regime — this is the point that Sharad Pawar has made in his letter to the prime minister — is, of course, not new. States ruled by Opposition parties, including Bengal, have been inconvenienced by these intrusions. Public health is unlikely to be served by the convergence of lines between holders of constitutional office and those in government. The nation’s health is suffering too on account of this conflation. Secularism, which forbids discrimination against any religion, is an integral part of the Preamble. The secular ethic also happens to be the proverbial red rag in front of a bullish, elected government. That is because the ideological tenets of the BJP, its critics allege, are not consistent with the constitutional vision that envisages peaceful, equitable coexistence among all faiths. In a nation with a pronounced history of communal conflagrations, secularism, the founders of the Constitution argued with reason, was the only glue that could keep the republic together. But reason is not known to be the BJP’s core strength. Its political ascendancy has tellingly coincided with strategic assaults on the culture of interfaith harmony. These transgressions — a governor mocking secularism is among them — take a myriad forms. Mr Thackeray, the recipient of the letter, responded with grace and dignity. Mr Koshyari, hopefully, would be mindful of honouring the dignity of his office as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
15-10-2020||Opinion||The music of the people: Protest songs||It’s rare for protests not to have an anthem. Anthems are an effective way of communicating the demands and the philosophy that drive protests. They create a leitmotif that can be recalled for a new generation of protesters in the future. The 19th-century folk protest song, “Bella Ciao”, sung by the Mondina women, became an anthem for the anti-fascist partisans during World War II. This song has not only traversed time, causes, and medium but has also transcended geographies and languages: there is even a Kannada version of “Bella Ciao”. “Un Violador en Tu Camino (A rapist on your way)”, a song-and-dance performance composed by Las Tesis, a Chilean feminist collective, is now an international anthem for feminist protests. Hong Kongers have used old and new songs as protest anthems against the Chinese. From “Sing Hallelujah to the Lord”, a Christian hymn composed in 1974 by Linda Stassen-Benjamin, to the recent “Glory to Hong Kong” exemplify the spirit of the protesters there. Anthems ring true because societies continue to experience repression, injustice and inequity. These shared experiences shrink time and space, enabling the lyrics to resonate with protesters the world over. Anthems strengthen the resolve of protesters because they provide them with a sense of belonging to something that is larger than them and their moment. Thus, songs like “Do You Hear the People Sing?”, from the screen and stage adaptation of Les Misérables and now sung by protesters in Hong Kong, evoke the sentiments of the French Revolution that was led by commoners against a powerful establishment. Conversely, China’s imposition of the draconian national anthem law on Hong Kongers shows that anthems can also be used to suppress dissent. Not all protests draw inspiration from internationalism. Protests also seek motivation from home. In the United States of America, protest songs have stuck to their American roots. The Occupy Wall Street Movement tapped into the protest songs of the 1960s — Bob Dylan’s “Blowin’ in the Wind” and Woody Guthrie’s “This Land is Your Land”. The Black Lives Matter movement may not have a protest anthem yet, but participants have sung Ben E. King’s “Stand By Me” along with songs by local Rap artists. One reason for this choice could be the insularity of Americans. The other is the US’s rich history of protest. In India, there are protest songs that reflect the anger and the hope of the youth standing up to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s imposition of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its plan to conduct the National Register of Citizens. “Hum Kagaz Nahi Dikhayenge (We Will Not Show Our Papers)” was a direct response to NRC. But there is one song that mobilizes every Indian: the national anthem. India’s national anthem evokes pride for many reasons. It creates the imagery of India’s military might and sacrifice, acknowledges the diversity of the nation, echoes the freedom movement, and is also a benediction by citizens for the well-being of the land and its residents. The prevailing majoritarian ethic ignores this element of diversity that the national anthem glorifies. Instead, it demands uncritical acceptance of a unilateral understanding of who is a citizen. Matters, unfortunately, were made worse by the honourable Supreme Court. To instil “committed patriotism and nationalism”, the court ordered movie theatres to play the national anthem before the screening of films. The order was reversed in 2018 by the court but the practice remains prevalent. The singing of the national anthem has also been used by the regime to identify ‘anti-nationals’. In the early days of the anti-CAA protests in Bangalore, a police officer asked a group of peaceful protesters to sing the anthem to weed out ‘anti-national’ elements who could instigate violence. Again, during the alleged targeted violence against Muslims in the Delhi riots, the police, after brutally assaulting some Muslim men, asked them to sing the national anthem. The anti-CAA protesters singing the national anthem may have also pre-empted the government and its supporters from portraying dissenters as being ‘anti-India’. Anthems are inspiring cultural commentaries and are, therefore, timeless. They embody the soul of a movement. In India, protesters singing the national anthem reaffirm their commitment to the secular ideals of the nation and remind those in office of their oath to protect the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
15-10-2020||Opinion||Testing times||Last Thursday, October 8, large parts of Calcutta were brought to a halt in the wake of a planned march on Nabanna, the headquarters of the West Bengal government, by the state Bharatiya Janata Party. Both the bridges across the river were closed to traffic and many of the arterial roads into the city were blocked by the police to prevent the protesters from reaching their meeting points. The police arrangements were stringent enough to prevent the protesters from reaching Nabanna, but there were lathi-charges and use of water cannons at different points. The politics behind the demonstration and the charges of disproportionate use of force, not to mention the insensitivity shown towards a Sikh security guard of a local leader, is not my principal concern. A larger issue that emerged from the protest marches and their aftermath centred on public and political behaviour during a pandemic. The issue is relevant because the state government fell back on the Central government’s directive stipulating a ceiling of 100 people for any gathering to refuse permission to the protests. The state administration claimed that some 25,000 people had gathered in various parts of Calcutta and Howrah, and that this was unacceptable at a time when the Covid-19 threat hasn’t receded. In its view, last Thursday’s gathering was a health hazard. Strictly speaking, the state administration is right. Although most of the people that participated in the rally wore masks, no social distancing was really possible in the melee. A rule, however, exists for all. The local BJP was right when it claimed that the state government is woefully selective in enforcing the rules governing public life during the pandemic. For example, the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, led a medium-sized march protesting against the horrible rape in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, through Chowringhee on October 3. Subsequently, she has been drawing crowds as she goes about inaugurating different Durga Pujas — all blessed with state government subsidies — in Calcutta and outside. At the same time, various local demonstrations by BJP workers on October 5 against the mismanagement and misuse of relief for the victims of the Amphan storm were forcibly broken up by the police with more force than was strictly necessary. Yet, the same police used discretion when dealing with angry BJP supporters accompanying the body of the murdered Manish Shukla through the streets of central Calcutta. The use of discretion and good sense are imperative in the application of extraordinary rules that in many ways curtail civil liberties. In the past fortnight, as the festive season gathers momentum, the markets of Calcutta are bustling with large numbers of people — many unconcerned with either masks or social distancing — who are completely unmindful of the rules governing gatherings. In theory, the police have a duty to intervene, if only to spread out people. However, any intervention by the authorities in such situations would be unacceptable to the general population and make the position of any elected government — regardless of political complexion — untenable. The authorities, for example, have found it impossible to enforce any limits on the number of passengers in local buses. The sheer scale of demand makes social distancing an impossible goal. On top of that, there is the penchant in Bengal of frequenting the bazaars in the mornings and evenings, if not for purchasing daily necessities then for social interactions. For many people, especially those living a cramped existence in urban areas, a daily trip to the bazaar offers a respite from the drudgery of existence. It is as much a part of social life as the adda. For any administration — and not least one that faces a difficult election about six months later — the task of managing a slow return to a semblance of normalcy amid a pandemic that refuses to abate is daunting. The 21-day national lockdown was envisaged as a sharp, short-term strategy of containment. Although this is still being tried out in different parts of Europe as a response to the ‘second wave’, there is a recognition that such extreme steps are economically damaging and even unsustainable. Increasingly, there is also evidence of public exasperation with lockdowns in general — as was witnessed during the random experiments of the Mamata Banerjee government. Moreover, there is a sharp contradiction between the ‘unlock’ approach of the Centre and the grim reality of the unrelenting spread of Covid-19 in many states. Either the country gets on with business as usual, albeit with the necessary precautions, or it retreats into a funk hole awaiting the miracle vaccine sometime in 2021 or later. Fortunately, after a short experiment with total national closure — triggered, it may be added, by insufficient knowledge of the virus threat — India has tried to balance sensible precautions with the more pressing job of getting on with life. A viable balance has also been possible thanks to the rising confidence in medical cures for most Covid-19 cases. A person infected with the virus today has a far greater chance of getting cured in a fortnight than was the case last March when the pandemic first struck India. Even as scientists and policymakers argue among themselves on the strategies of prevention, the widespread panic that was in evidence six months ago has receded considerably. Alas, with greater faith in medicine, there is also a rising impatience with restrictions. This may explain why the past fortnight has witnessed a clamour for the speedy resumption of local train services that were suspended in March. The turnout in the Bihar assembly election will be an indication of the extent to which people have overcome their anxieties about Covid-19. The mood of the nation is also certain to be tested during the festive season that culminates with Diwali. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, has appealed to people to be exceptionally restrained in the coming months and, preferably, desist from public festivities. His wariness stems from the post-Onam spike in Covid-19 infections in Kerala, a pattern that could be emulated in northern and eastern India during the festive season in October and November. At the same time, Mamata Banerjee has proclaimed that the virus will be put under lockdown for the Durga Puja and that administrative arrangements have been made to ensure that people can go pandal-hopping after dusk. In short, she has calculated that having a good time must take precedence over calls to stay at home. The chief minister’s political compulsions are understandable. Faced with imminent elections, political leaders are inclined to favour short-term solutions to complex problems. What has further complicated matters in West Bengal is Mamata Banerjee’s penchant for idiosyncratic measures that began with the needless suppression of Covid-19 deaths in March-April, was compounded by the bizarre pattern of lockdowns during the summer, and has culminated in her disavowal of restraint during Durga Puja. In the coming weeks, eastern India in particular is going to be severely tested. The carnival atmosphere during the five days of Durga Puja could well become an occasion for the mass spread of the virus, a problem that is certain to be aggravated by the imperfections in the public health infrastructure. If the worst fears turn out to be real, it will be a huge setback for national efforts to come to grips with the pandemic. The festive season is also an occasion for prayer and this year, more than ever before, the goddess needs to hear the concerns of the devotees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-133
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant to Centre: Stop trying to blatantly destabilise state's fiscal health||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday attacked the union government, accusing it of ‘continuously’ and ‘blatantly’ trying to destabilize the state’s fiscal health. The CM was reacting to the union power ministry’s decision to invoke TPA (tripartite agreement clause) against Jharkhand for auto debiting of funds from the latter’s consolidated account in Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to clear outstanding dues of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). On October 12, the power ministry sent a letter to RBI to auto-debit Rs 1417.50 crore to its own coffers from Jharkhand’s account as the first quarterly installment towards DVC’s dues. It has only now forwarded a note to the state government informing of the decision. The public sector undertaking (PSU) has claimed dues amounting to Rs 5,608.32 crore, for the period of March 31, 2015 to August 23, 2017 for supplying power to about seven districts under its command areas. Hemant, in a formal statement to the media, said, “It's a veiled conspiracy by the Union government to provoke and trap the state government to increase its borrowing from markets and other instruments in these times of economic instability and fiscal difficulties being faced by the state. The previous Raghubar Das-led BJP government in Jharkhand, through a tripartite agreement (TPA) signed in 2017, laid the foundation stone towards destroying the basic edifice of cooperative federalism.” Accusing the centre of double standards, he said, “While the Union government is reluctant to pay the long-standing GST compensation dues to the states citing covid-19 pandemic and its subsequent impact on revenues, it is hell-bent on auto deduction of money from state coffers. By doing so, it is proving that cooperative federalism seems to be yet another failed slogan of the central government.” After the centre’s notice to Jharkhand seeking dues last month, principal secretary of the state energy department Avinash Kumar on September 23 had written to the union power ministry contesting the total dues amount. He also pleaded that arbitrarily resorting to auto-deduction from their RBI account will further push the state into financial darkness. Kumar’s letter, a copy of which was released to the media tonight, stated that after a meeting held with DVC, and state owned JBVNL, it was agreed on re-calculating the pending dues on several realistic parameters for which a formal agreement was also signed. “After re-assessment, the pending dues were reworked to Rs 3,919.04 crores against Rs 5,608.32 crores earlier claimed by DVC. DVC, on the other hand, owes Rs 360.36 crores to Jharkhand in lieu of mining. It was decided to adjust this amount from the total dues for which a cabinet note was also prepared. The cabinet meeting, however, couldn’t happen due to the unprecedented Covid-19 lockdown. Moreover, after the Centre announced to provide Rs 90,000 crore liquidity to all discoms under its Atmanirbhar Bharat package, JBVNL decided to borrow Rs 1841 crores under this scheme to clear the dues. A cabinet note for this is readied and is under consideration,” Kumar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mechanized sweepers back on track from next week||Five mechanized dust sweeping machines purchased at a cost of Rs 2.5cr in 2019 and lying unused since the imposition of lockdown in March 2020 will now be used from next week to tidy up the streets ahead of Durga Puja. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has decided to issue a letter to Pay and Clean, the operating agency for mechanized sweepers, to run all five machines in a day or two and resume operations from next week. These include three truck-mounted large machines and two tipper-mounted small machines. Uday Kachhap, DMC assistant engineer, who is in charge of the transport department said the five dust sweeping machines were lying unused during the lockdown as since they were focussing on the sanitisation of containment and high-risk zones in view of the Covid pandemic. “Though it will incur extra costs for us, we will manage the same with a gradual increase in the revenue,” said Kachhap. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Huban Mallick, director Pay and Clean, said, they had a meeting with municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, who was quite positive about the relaunch. “A fund crunch is the major issue affecting the smooth of operation of the machines, as none are working in full capacity. If allowed to run in full capacity the town will have an altogether different look,” said Mallick. He said as per the agreement, each machine has to operate for 40km per day but none of the machines were operating for more than 20km during the operational phase also. “Ever since we began operation during December last year, we could not operate for more than four months with a restricted capacity of two or three vehicles, since all five machines were seldom operated simultaneously,” he said. High fuel and maintenance cost is major hurdle with regard to regular operation of the sweepers. Funding of around Rs 20-25 lakh per month is required for the unhindered operation of the machines. Due to non-allocation of separate funds for purpose, the vehicles are not operating regularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway announces Puja specials||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to run several special trains to tackle the rush of passengers during the festive season. Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway, on Thursday announced the 02829 Howrah-Tatanagar Special. The train will run between the two destinations daily between October 16 and November 30. The special will run as per the timings and stoppages of the 12813/12814 Howrah-Tatanagar Steel Superfast Express. Steel Superfast Express, the most popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, stopped operation ever since the Covid-19-induced lockdown was enforced in March. The chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway, Sanjay Ghosh, said: “The special between Howrah and Tatanagar will benefit passengers immensely during the festive season. We are expecting good occupancy.” There is also good news in store for those planning to travel to the south of the country. The railways announced a weekly special between Tatanagar and Yeshwantpur (Bangalore). The train (02889) from Tatanagar will run on Fridays between October 23 and November 27. In the other direction, the Yeshwantpur-Tatanagar Weekly Special (02890) will run every Monday from October 26 to November 30. The special will run as per the timings and stoppages of 12889/12890 Tatanagar-Yeshwantpur Express which too stopped operation in March due to the lockdown. SER also announced a special between Howrah and Ranchi. The 02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special will start from Howrah at 10.10pm everyday between October 18 and December 1 and will reach Ranchi at 5.50pm, the next day. In the other direction, the 02803 Ranchi-Howrah Special will leave Ranchi at 9.30pm everyday between October 17 and November 30 and will arrive at Howrah at 05.10pm the next day. The special will have one first AC, two AC two-tier, four AC three-tier and 11 sleeper class coaches and will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar and Muri. Ranchi will also get a weekly special to Mumbai. The 02812 Hatia-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) special will run between October 23 and November 27 every Friday. There will be six trips in all. As per a schedule released by SER, the train will leave Hatia railway station on Friday at 9.40am. It will reach LTT the next day at 1.35pm. The return train (02811) will leave LTT every Sunday from October 25 at 12.15am. The train will reach Hatia station the next day at 4am. The train will have two SLR coaches (luggage vans), 15 second-class sleeper coaches, four AC three-tier coaches and one AC two-tier coach. SER also announced a Puja special between Hatia and Yeshwantpur (Bangalore). The train -- Hatia-Yeshwantpur Special (02835) -- will run between October 20 and November 24, making six trips in all. The special with 22 coaches will leave Hatia railway station every Tuesday at 6.25pm. The train will reach its destination station -- Yeshwantpur -- the next day at 5pm. The return train (02836) will leave Yeshwantpur every Friday from October 23 at 8.30am. It will reach Hatia railway station the next day at 7.05pm. The Ranchi-Howrah Shatabdi special started running on Thursday. Except Sundays, the train will run on all the other days of the week between the two destinations -- Ranchi and Howrah. SER on Thursday also announced the Santragachi-Pune Special (02817) every Saturday from October 24 to November 28. The train will travel via Tatanagar railway station. In the return direction, the Pune-Santragachi special (02818) will leave every Monday between October 26 and November 30. The special train will run as per the timings and stoppages of Santragachi-Pune Express. SER had earlier announced Puja specials between Howrah and Pune via Tatanagar, as well as others between Howrah and Yeshwantpur, Shalimar and Secunderabad, Santragachi and Chennai, and Howrah and Digha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Church plans 5km-long human chain for Stan Swamy||The Catholic Church here organising a 5km-long human chain in Ranch on Friday to escalate the demand for the release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old Jesuit priest and rights activists who was arrested by National Investigating Agency (NIA) on October 8 for alleged links to the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune. Father Theodore Mascarenhas, the auxiliary bishop of Ranchi, told the media on Thursday that thousands of Christians and like-minded rights activists will descend on Albert Ekka Chowk to form the human chain. “Starting from Albert Ekka Chowk, the human chain will pass through Sarjana Chowk, Dangratoli,  and Kantatoli to express solidarity with Stan and demand his immediate release,” said Mascarenhas in the presence of priests and officials of Catholic churches of Ranchi at XISS auditorium. NIA picked Swamy from his residence in Bagaicha in Namkum at night on October 9. He was flown to Mumbai the next day. The central agency, in its chargesheet in court on the ongoing probe in the Bhima Koregaon case, has accused him of harbouring links with CPI (Maoist) groups. His arrest, however, triggered a nationwide uproar, with citizens, activists, and even some politicians accusing the Union government of attempting to silence dissent. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren also spoke out against Stan Swamy’s arrest. Mascarenhas said they had formally appealed to the Jharkhand government to intervene and seek the release of Swamy. About Friday’s programme, he said, “We believe he is innocent and his decades-old work for the rights of tribals and the marginalised stands unparalleled. The way such an elderly person is being harassed should evoke strong reactions from everywhere.” Mascarenhas revealed that they would also hold a silent prayer meeting for Swamy on Friday evening. “We have informed the district administration and will abide by all the safety norms in the wake of covid-19,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals step up Sarna code demand, hold protest march across capital||Tribal groups held protest marches across the state, including several parts of Ranchi, on Thursday in support of long-pending demands for a separate Sarna code ahead of the 2021 national census. The protest marches in Ranchi, held under the aegis of two organisations — Kendriya Sarna Samiti (KSS) and Adivasi Vikas Parishad (AVP) — led to traffic disruptions at various places through the day, at times leading to crowding. As per the last census, there are 32 tribal groups in the state. Of these, eight are particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG). A few converted to Christianity over the years while others practice Sarna religion which is the worship of nature. The demand of tribals for a separate Sarna code, also known as religion code, is centred around a separate identity. Currently, they are either included as Hindus, Christians or Muslim in the census, that does not have a separate column for their religion. Thursday’s protest march began at 8am with at least 10 groups of 30-40 tribals fanning out to various parts of the city, carrying banners and posters in support of their demand for a separate Sarna code. Many were shouting slogans against the state and Centre. Several protesters were without masks and social distancing norms were violated at a number of public places. Phulchand Tirkey, president of KSS, accused the Hemant Soren government of duping tribals by not passing a resolution in favour of their demands during the monsoon session of the Assembly. “Both the state and Centre have been duping tribals in the name of a Sarna code,” he said, adding that the marches were a prelude to more protests in the coming days. “The 2021 census is just months away and we won’t be quiet anymore,” he said. Secretary of AVP Satyanand Lakra said that on October 20, tribals would form human chains across the state to press for their demands. “In December, we will resort to a ‘rail-roko’ agitation,” he said. Officials of the district administration conceded the demonstrators did not have valid permission for the marches. But no one was arrested till the evening when this report was filed. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said: “A few groups had applied for permission for a protest march. But permission wasn’t granted. We will see what action can be taken after consultation with senior officials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two factions take root in steel city puja watchdog  ||A rift, brewing within the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendra Samity for a week, came out in the open on Wednesday, with the suspension of the general secretary and two factions claiming authority over the apex body that monitors and coordinates 320 pujas in the steel city. The decision to suspend general secretary Rambabu Singh, for six years no less because of alleged high-handedness, was taken by the outfit’s president, Chandra Nath Banerjee, after a nod from the executive committee late Wednesday evening. “The decision to suspend Singh was taken by the executive committee. Singh had made the outfit his pocket organisation. He was also functioning without taking me into confidence,” said Banerjee. Banerjee claimed Singh went ahead and issued Covid guidelines for pujas and filled vacant posts in the samity without consulting him. “I was nominated working president in 2018 president. I was kept in dark over decisions taken by the general secretary,” he said. Banerjee said a showcause notice was issued to Singh but he did not reply, after which there was no option but to suspend him. Singh could not be contacted despite several attempts. But the samity executive president Ashutosh Singh denied that that the executive committee had decided to suspend Rambabu Singh. “We don’t believe in issuing statements but the process to suspend the general secretary is against the by-laws of the samity. The executive committee has not adopted any resolution to suspend the general secretary,” he claimed. Senior functionaries of the outfit also said Rambu Singh’s suspension had to be ratified by the 11-member executive committee. They said they were with Rambabu Singh and would remain with him in future. The factionalism has left puja organisers in a quandary. They are confused about whose directives to follow. Banerjee said the onus was on the puja organisers. “The puja organisers have to decide. Sentiments are attached to pujas and we believe that the festival should be celebrated in a hassle-free manner by following the guidelines issued by the state government. The samity is functioning with this objective,” he added. A member of the Telco puja organising committee said Covid restrictions had already dampened the Puja spirit this year, and that the infighting could not have happened at a worse time. “There is already little joy left in the Pujas because of Covid. The infighting in the samity has left us confused. We are yet to decide whom to support,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||One-legged bird goes for her maiden flight after a week of surgery||A week after the amputation surgery of a cattle egret in Daltonganj, the bird went for a short maiden flight after it was released on the bed of the Koel river on Thursday by its rescuer Jyoti Kumari. The bird’s left leg was amputated by touring veterinarian Jeeani Abha Melgandi in Daltonganj last week, after it was brought to her by wildlife lover and rescuer Jyoti Kumari. Since then, the bird has been living in Kumari’s home. Kumari said the bird, who re-entered into the lap of nature for little over an hour, must have felt it had the guts within to change its life with just one leg. The rescuer and her bird were both happy. “The one-legged bird flew from one place to another. The span was small. It appeared she was testing her own energy & mettle for this,” she said. “The bird was not morose, but at the same time she was not all cheerful. She seemed to be pondering over the ways of the world. Walking down the wet river bed with just one leg having a bodyweight of 325g is no easy thing for a bird that underwent surgery for amputation just seven days ago,” said Jyoti Kumari. Kumari said she had tied a 100ft long rope to her leg. “This was with a purpose. It was to ensure the bird did not go very far or did not face any unforeseen situation,” said Kumari. She said the bird spent some time on the riverbed and made small catches like flies, insects. With the currents of the river water, standing on one leg standing is an arduous task. Jyoti Kumari said the bird will not be left to fend for herself. The egret will be taken out for such jaunts everyday till she makes a long enough flight. DS Srivastava, an environmentalist said that nature is itself is therapy for flora and fauna, and that such wounded birds learn to cope with their lives, even after losing a leg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Demonstation for Father Stan Swamy’s release||Several leading figures on Wednesday demanded that Father Stan Swamy, arrested in connection with the Elgar-Parishad case, be immediately released. The demonstrators, belonging to various Muslim and social organisations, held up placards to highlight their demands at Paramveer Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi and said they stood in solidarity with activists arrested across the country, including Jharkhand. The demonstrators also protested the continued persecution of rights activists, including Umar Khalid, by implicating them in false cases. The demonstrators maintained that they support the ongoing protests in Ranchi against the oppression. They also demanded that the attacks on people's democratic rights be stemmed and abuse of laws be stopped. The protesters said they support the government of chief minister Hemant Soren in its fight against the detention of Swamy. A joint team of district administration and police led by ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar on Wednesday conducted a raid at Tetlmari area and seized around 10 tonnes of smuggled coal. The team also seized a truck in which smuggled coal was loaded for transport. District Mining officer, Nishant Abhishek later lodged an FIR in Tetlmari police station against the truck owner and diver. A tree situated on GT road is creating havoc for commuters travelling during the night. The four lane road is being widened to six lanes. Congress vice president of Barhi, Yamuna Yadav Wednesday asked the construction company to remove the tree. He said if demand was not met soon, he will not hesitate to launch an agitation in this regard. A total of 30 patients were discharged from different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad on Wednesday. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner,  Uma Shankar Singh said, "All the discharged persons have been provided medical kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next for next 14 days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||UPA and NDA file candidature for Bermo bypolls, hold gatherings||The Bermo assembly constituency witnessed two political functions on Wednesday, organised by the NDA and UPA after their candidates filed nominations for the upcoming bypolls. Chief minister Hemant Soren attended the Jainamoad congregation in support of Congress candidate Kumar Jaimangal. Speaking at the event, he termed the former BJP government of Raghubar Das as “nalayak" (incompetent). He also said that “the BJP central government fosters a step-motherly attitude towards Jharkhand by not providing any help in the time of Covid-19 crisis”. Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said the BJP harbours "napak" (nefarious) intent for labourers and farmers. On the other hand, BJP state president Dipak Prakash branded the UPA alliance as “thugbandhan” (coalition of thugs). Prakash even went ahed to promise residents a change in the present state government, if the BJP won the two seats (Bermo and Dumka). AJSU-P MP from Giridih, Chandraprakash Chaudhary targeted Hemant Soren and JMM saying they are running a government which is full of “corruption”. The NDA-backed BJP candidate Batul and Jaimangal of the Congress (UPA) filed their nominations at the Bermo subdivision office in Tenughat. The two leaders submitted their candidature to electoral officer Anant Kumar at his office. After filing nomination, Jaimangal said he will carry forward the work done by his father. “My father has worked in this assembly for 50 years. I promise to carry forward his vision of development with everyone's support." Batul, who is former MLA from Bermo, said that people are feeling cheated in nine months of the JMM-Congress government. He said the party is confident that people will vote for BJP in this election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
15-10-2020||Jharkhand||Four workers die of septic tank suffocation||Four construction workers, including a father and a son, died allegedly because of suffocation while working inside a new septic tank in Garhwa district of Jharkhand on Wednesday morning. After getting the news of the death of four persons, residents blocked the Kandi-Garhwa Main Road demanding action against the absent doctor at the Kandi primary health centre and adequate compensation for the relatives of the deceased workers. The workers were initially rushed to the primary health centre but due to the absence of a doctor and an ambulance, they had to be taken to a referral hospital in Manjhiaon, around 20km from the spot, in a private van. According to the residents, the four workers — Mithilesh Kumar Mehta, 40, his son Nagendra Mehta (19), Anil Kumar Mehta, 25, and Satyendra Mehta, 20 — were working inside a septic tank in the newly built house of one Akhilesh Dubey in Dumersota village under Kandi police station. They were removing the shuttering over which the top cover of the tank is cast in cement. However, when they did not come out for a long time, other workers peeped inside the septic tank to find them unconscious and somehow managed to bring them out. The area is around 210km from state capital Ranchi. A police source said, “The four persons were rushed to the nearby Kandi primary health centre but the doctor-on-duty Govind Seth was not present at the time. They were asked to take them to the Referral Hospital at Manjhiaon. There was no ambulance and they had to arrange a private van to take them to the referral hospital. When they reached the referral hospital, the doctor (Dr Kamlesh Kumar) after examination declared them brought dead. This made the people angry and they started burning tyres near the hospital and blocked the Kandi–Garhwa Main Road around noon demanding action against the absent doctor and suitable compensation for the deceased workers’ families.” The road blockade was continuing at the time of filing of the report, while senior administrative officials were trying to persuade the residents. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kujmar Pathak assured action against the doctor at the Kandi primary health centre but doubted that the death was due to suffocation from poisonous gases. “It was a newly constructed unused septic tank and emanating of poisonous gases is not likely. However, the real reason of death could only be ascertained after the post-mortem report comes. We have come to know about a doctor not being present at Kandi primary hospital and action will be initiated against him. We will also give compensation as per social security norms of the government,” he said. In July this year a similar incident had occurred when three men, including a father and a son, died allegedly due to suffocation while working inside a newly constructed septic tank in Pipra Kala locality of Garhwa district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-266
