16-10-2020||Calcutta||Festive feast||X-Spicy, Indismart Hotel Where: Sector V Taste case: As part of the Bong Thai Fusion, try Padmar Ilish in Thai Green Curry and Gangar Chingri in Red Curry. Unusual ingredients like lotus stems have been used to make Crispy Fried Honey Chilli Komal Kakri and Thai mangoes lend themselves to make Thai Raw Papaya, Mango and Aamshotto rollups. Restospeak: “Since Bengalis’ favourite Puja getaway — Bangkok — is out of bounds, we have brought home its cuisine and that too with a local twist,” says Somek Choudhury, founder of the Kolkata Food Trotters Facebook group, that is presenting the festival in association with X-Spicy. Price pinch: Rs 899 for a pre-plated meal When: October 21 to 24, noon to 4pm, 7pm to 11pm. Orders must be placed 24 hours in advance. Antipasti, Golden Tulip hotel Where: DD Block Taste case: The festival offers buffet and a la carte with special emphasis on Bengali cuisine. Try Anarasi Pulao where mutton and pineapples are cooked in “dum” style to prepare pulao and served in two halves of a hallowed-out pineapple. They also offer a lesser-known variant of Sukto that makes use of radhuni, poppy and mustard paste and milk instead of water. You love paturi made out of banana leaves, now try bekti paturi wrapped in lotus leaves. Chingri-Mochar Paturi is another favourite of chef Ratan Jana where he sautes prawn and mocha together to create a taste richer than the sum of its parts. At the hotel’s rooftop lounge Noir, kebab platters and vodka-based “Bengali cocktails” using coconut water, lemon and mangoes will be served. Desserts include innovative dishes like Amshotto Sandesh. Restospeak: “Keeping the pandemic in mind we have reduced the price of the buffets and increased the festival duration as we want to welcome as many people as possible. We offer different menus on different days and while Bengali food is the mainstay we shall also offer Asian and Mughlai cuisine,” says general manager Sumanta Maity. Price pinch: Sashthi, Saptami, Dashami buffet at Rs 799; Ashtami, Navami buffet at Rs 899. Kids’ buffet for those up to 10 years of age at Rs 555 (with additional burgers, pasta, brownies etc) When: October 18 (a la carte) to 26 De Sovrani Where: DD Block Taste case: The hotel is laying out two separate buffet meals, one at the first floor restaurant Sand, and the other at Deciduous. The premiere buffet at Sand will have 51 items, including hilsa, mutton and an alcoholic beverage. The economy one will have 40 items. Sky View, the roof-top cafe, will have live music, cocktail pitchers and hookah. Teen Paan Rose and Strawberry Vanilla continue to be the most popular hookah flavours. There are drinks and light meal combinations on offer too. Screening of IPL matches is an added attraction. The ground floor bar will serve unlimited pourings of Indian-made foreign liquor for an hour and half at Rs 1,399. Restospeak: “We are doing our best to ensure a safe, good time for our guests. At the entry point, we are offering foot covers, head covers and gloves. Every table has a sanitiser bottle. Our staff quarters are nearby so they don’t have to commute by public transport. Our cooks have face shields on. We do regular UV treatment of our kitchen,” said Kamalini Paul, managing director. Price pinch: Rs 999 for the premiere buffet, Rs 555 for the economy buffet When: October 22 to 25, noon to 3pm, 7pm to 11pm, (at Library) 11am to 11pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Readers' speak: Doubt cast on road repair before Pujas||I was astonished to read the report titled “Hope of road repair as civic body starts survey,” published on September 18. Roads of Salt Lake are riddled with potholes and the corporation officials are hoping to complete repairs before the Pujas! How will this ever be possible? The festival is around the corner and I wonder if even the funds requested by the local MLA for repairs from the urban development and municipal affairs department have changed hands yet. Parthasarathi Roy,Cluster XI, Purbachal  Container cafe Apropos the article “New Town cafe sets sail in ship container” published on September 18, Cafe@Ecospace is an exemplary initiative courtesy the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). It takes New Town a step ahead in its ongoing effort to smarten up. Not only is the idea of converting a metal vessel into a roadside cuisine eco-friendly, but the lip-smacking menu is also pocket-friendly. The al fresco dining experience complies with social distancing norms too. Above all, in the era of pandemic-induced job losses, the endeavour serves as a model of employment and empowerment of women. Hope the cafe also brightens the famished faces of the passers-by. Sharmistha Dhar,  AC Block  Sweet return It was wonderful to learn that the sweets mall in New Town finally has opened its doors after six long months (“Misti Hub reopens after six months,” published on September 25). This is especially good news for me, as misti is an indispensable part of my life. I can’t imagine a day without eating sweets! Since Misti Hub was inaugurated 2018, I have gone there several times with my family and friends to buy and taste sweets. And now that I now got the good news of its reopening, I shall head to the confectionery mall as soon as possible. Sourish Misra,SA Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||App to control crowd in pandals||The Bidhannagar Commissionerate is encouraging the use of an app to reduce the crowd in pandals. The app, which went live on Google Playstore on Wednesday evening, is called QU. “This year, the Covid situation is such that we need to restrict the number of visitors inside the pandal to ensure social distancing. The app would allow controlled crowd management,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic. A puja committee needs to register after downloading the app and post a volunteer each at the entry and the exit of the pandal. They will update the app about the number of people going in and coming out. The app will keep track of the number of people inside. The figure can be tracked by the police to stall visitor entry for some time, if needed, Sarkar pointed out. It can also be used by pandal-hoppers to check if a chosen pandal is crowded — an arrow on a meter points to a green, orange or red band, depending on whether the pandal is empty, moderately crowded or full — and help decide on the time of visit. The app also offers bookings for slots during anjali and sindoor khela. “We added this after the chief minister suggested doing them in batches. The booking has to be made on the day,” said Lalima Chakrabarty of PhoneQ Tech, which has developed the app. She and Rachit Mehrotra thought of the idea in March when social distancing became necessary. A start was made with managing customer queues in medical stores and electronic goods stores. “Then we approached the Bidhannagar Police and it was suggested that we create provisions for puja pandal crowd management,” she added. The developers are talking to the big pujas to bring them on board. “Though our focus is the Bidhannagar area, we have also enlisted Chetla Agrani, Ahiritola, Chorbagan etc.” Several local pujas have agreed to use it. She mentioned AA, AB, AC, BA and CD blocks in Salt Lake and Tarun Sangha and Bharat Chakra in Dum Dum Park. “Our target is 200 pujas,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Online show to evoke pre-Puja feel||Gulabi Gang, a DB Block-based group, hosted an hour-long virtual show on agomoni, titled Bajlo pujor ghanta. The show brought together group members from different parts of the country. Child artiste Sharanya Mitra was up first, pointing to the cheer in the vernal air which indicates the advent of Puja. The most eye-catching segment of the show was Nabadurga, on the nine forms of the goddess worshiped during Navratri, who appeared to the chanting of stotras followed by a narration of the significance of each form. Trident and lotus in hand, Rama Mitra, was Shailaputri, the first incarnation of Durga, who is the daughter of King Himalaya. Indrani Basak logged in from Gurgaon as Brahmacharini, Durga’s meditative form. With a crescent moon on her forehead, Lakshmimoni Sen from Bangalore became Chandraghanta, signifying peace and prosperity. One by one, the others made an appearance — Rinku Banerjee as Kushmanda, the creator of the universe; Mou Dubey as Skandomata, with a lotus in her hand eradicating fear from our minds; a sword-wielding Mohua De Sarkar as Katyayani, the slayer of Mahishasura... The most striking appearance was that of Sonali Basak as Kalratri, the dark-complexioned destroyer of evil spirits who is said to contain the universe in her third eye. The two other forms — Mahagouri and Siddhidatri  — were portrayed by Chandrani Mukherjee and Anjana Banerjee respectively. Sharanya Mitra paid tribute to all nine forms of the goddess by dancing to the song Oi bajey monomajhe agomoni, followed by Sisire sisire sharad akashey. The second phase started with DB Block resident Dhrubojyoti Sarkar  chanting Durgastotra, followed by Priyanka Niyogi’s Bharatnatyam.   Teacher in a distance education institute, Kamalika Banerjee logged in from Delhi to sing and dance to a popular agomoni song Gouri elo dekhbe chalo. “It was really challenging for me to sing and dance together to such a fast song at my age, but I wanted to go back to my childhood days when artists like Jamuna Barua used to perform and sing together. It was exciting to perform all the way from Delhi with my DB Block friends,” the middle-aged lady told The Telegraph later. Somdatta Basak, an IT professional posted in Gurgaon, and homemaker Indrani Basak presented a musical piece titled Matri rupeno sangsthita, with the message of victory of good over evil. Septuagenerian Tarun Mukherjee impressed with his Chandi paath.   “I perform Chandi paath every year on Saptami, Ashtami and Navami since the inception of Durga puja in our block. This chanting comes from my heart. This year, everything is uncertain so I didn’t want to miss this opportunity of chanting the mantras online,” said Mukherjee, a veterinarian by profession. The concluding event was Mou Dubey’s recitation of the poem Abhijojon, written by Bidhiti Chakraborty and highlighting the present condition of women’s safety and urging women to protect themselves by learning self-defence. “People are used to listening to Mahisashurmardini on the radio seven days ahead of Durga puja. Because Mahalaya happened way in advance, this year is an exception. Our attempt was to rekindle the essence of Mahalaya in our mind with Puja finally knocking on our doors. So we organised this show just a week ahead of Puja. To trigger that nostalgic feeling, we even played the signature tune of Akashvani Calcutta that we used to hear since our childhood to begin our virtual show,” said Sonali Basak, the  organiser and director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja amid a pandemic||It may not feel like it, but Monday is Tritiya. The big ticket Pujas will be opening on the day and the rest of the week, well, you can hear the priest chanting mantras over the loudspeaker, see your block’s idol over Facebook and shower flowers on the computer screen in the name of pushpanjali. Durga Puja 2020 will be like no other. The festival will be one where despite making ample arrangements, organisers will pray that you stay safe by staying home. “For several years now our puja has been featuring on the list of top five crowd-pullers of The Telegraph Salt Lake and our attempt every year is to reach the number one spot. But this year we have taken a U-turn,” says Moinak Dutta, an organiser from AJ Block. “Never thought I would say this but this year, the less the crowd the better.” Themes come calling Like AJ, most blocks are performing no-frill pujas. But a few are keeping alive their tradition of presenting themes. The FD Block pandal will be decorated in a Jungle Book-like setting but they have reduced their budget by more than half, to Rs 40 lakh. Visitors will have to watch the idol from a distance of 30 feet. “At AE (Part 1) our theme is on how the lockdown has brought people together. “Our budget and pandal are a quarter of last year’s but it will still live up to our reputation,” says block secretary Supriyo Chakraborty. “If people decide to go pandal-hopping they will not miss our block.” For this, there will be fogging machines in the pandal, sanitisers at the gate and those in queue will be asked to stand far apart. New Town’s Balaka Abasan predicts high footfall too. “Most other big pujas have scaled down so people are sure to flock to us,” says secretary Prasanna Kumar Roy. “Even with a meagre budget we are building a spectacular Ram temple but we have ensured that visitors can see the idol without entering the pandal.” Venue change The pandemic has caused some pujas to change the venue, either to curb costs or to make the pandal roomy. Both AE (Part 2) and Purbachal 2R have shifted their pujas outside the community hall. “This year our idol will only be 5ft tall so we had thought of shifting it out of the park and into the community hall,” says Mouli Nath Maji, EC Block secretary. “But the government directive asked for the pandal to be open on three sides and so we let it remain in the park after all. Minus committee Since social distancing made it unsafe to hold meetings, some blocks did not even form puja committees. “Our block committee is organising the puja this year. It wasn’t possible to create a puja sub-committee,” says Parthasarathi Upadhaya of HB Block. At several blocks, the tenure of the block committees has expired but elections were out of the question this summer. “Being a lawyer, I realise the gravity of such a situation and so we could not take any major decisions. We members of the old committee are carrying on as there is no choice,” says Chandra Sekhar Bag of BK Block. Then again, the pandemic has given young blood a chance. “I am usually busy with theatre round the year but this time there are no shows and so I decided to help organise the puja,” says Snehashis Mukherjee of CA Block. The young entrepreneur is the “acting” secretary of the puja committee since elections for the post could not be held. “It is a blessing in disguise actually, since those who usually organise the pujas are senior citizens who cannot roam now.” Priests in quarantine Some blocks have priests coming in from different districts and so organisers, like Purbachal 2R, will have their priest, his helper and the cook check into their community hall a few days in advance and stay put in quarantine. “Our priest hails from Katwa, where Covid isn’t a major issue. So he was planning to saunter in on Panchami by bus and with a gamcha tossed over his nose,” says a shocked Arunabha Hazra of CD Block. “I’ve told him I shall be pick him and his assistant up tomorrow. They’ll live in quarantine on the first floor of our community hall till Lakshmi puja. Their transport, lodging and sanitising fees have driven up our budget but better safe than sorry.” Cultural programmes online “Of all the sacrifices this puja, the cancellation of cultural programmes hurts most,” sighs Upadhaya, better known “natok jethu” in HB Block. “For two months preceding the pujas I coach children and their parents for plays and audio dramas. This year I’m missing it all. We had thought of presenting the plays online but even for that the actors would have to mingle for practise.” At places like New Town’s Greenwood Park, residents will record performances at home and the compiled videos will be uploaded on Puja days on the complex’s Facebook page and the website DurgaFest.com. Major rituals like inauguration and anjali will be streamed live too. CA Block will WhatsApp a PDF document and video to residents with timings and special guideliness for this year.  Their puja will be inaugurated by garbage collectors and night guards — Covid warriors — and will be streamed online. Blocks that haven’t opted for online shows say residents — many of whom are elderly — would struggle with the technology. So they will be airing Chandipath and Mahalaya songs on the loudspeaker as a substitute for live shows.  Dhaak on DJ console The one department Purbachal 2R is not compromising on is dhaakis. “Nothing will feel like the pujas this year but at least residents can shut their eyes and relish the rhythm of the dhaak beating outside their homes,” says joint treasurer Kinshuk Das. Again, the dhakis from Murshidabad will be in quarantine at their hall from beforehand.   CD Block is not taking the chance. “We have cancelled the dhaakis but there will be a DJ console next to the idol belting out dhaaki beats,” promises Arunabha, an achor and DJ who will play the music himself. In the CA Block budget, the lion’s share has gone to the sound system so that every household can hear the goings-on at the pandal. “Also, some block youths will be playing RJ and holding chat shows, quizes and the like over the sound system. Residents will be able to call in with their answers and interact,” says Snehashis. Labony is reducing the number of dhaakis in its famous dhaker badyi show. “Six dhakis will come in place of 10 from Murshidabad,” says secretary Sumit Sarkar.  Festive meals missing Till last year, thousands would dine at puja community lunches and choosing the recipe for these meals would be a matter of great debate. This year most blocks have called off the service. New Town’s Balaka Abasan will be sending home parcels on two days, Salt Lake’s AJ Block has asked residents to come pick up their parcels and take home. “Some residents were requesting parcels but we have refused outright,” says Tapas Sengupta, AE (Part 2). “The purpose of community lunch is to eat together. No family in the block is starving and if the bonding doesn’t happen there is no point in sending packets home. Someone suggested we feed the needy instead but very few would donate money for that. And besides, we would have to hire a bus and bring the needy to the block in the first place. These are impractical suggestions.” At CK-CL Block secretary Shanti Ranjan Paul was getting inundated with requests for meals. “Residents want a break from cooking these four days so we are inviting a restaurant to set up a stall and provide home deliveries. They may earn profit seling snack items but meals they have to provide at subsided rates,” Pal says. Similar is the predicament at IA Block. “IA Block is known as khaiye block,” confesses secretary Sukdeb Saha, “and residents shall be missing the community lunch sorely. I have promised them a feast once the pandemic is over.”  One grand offering Most blocks have reduced the height of their idols but a few have gone for what should be spectacular-looking artwork. “There is hardly anything to look forward to this year so we thought of presenting residents the best possible idol. This is the only department we can indulge in safely so we are getting it sculpted by the renowned Sanatan Rudra Pal,” says Saha of IA Block. AB Block will have an idol by Sanatan Pal. “This year no one is in the mood for themes but we need an idol with expressive features as people are looking for solace from the pandemic. We want an idol that evoke devotion,” says secretary Gopal Dutta. AE (Part 2) decided to get the idol sculpted in the block this year. “Kumartuli is a crowded place this season and it would be risky going there to order, follow up and bring home the idol,” says Sengupta.  Puja without an idol New Town’s CD Block has done away with the idol and will be performing puja on a ghot. “Any idol, no matter how small, would attract devotees. Since many people still refuse to wear masks we thought it would get risky and have done away with the idol altogether,” says Sithi Kana Ghatak, an organiser. This will be the second edition of their puja. Another casualty this season is the puja souvenir. AE (Part 1) has only managed two or three ads and may publish a thin souvenir but IA Block has cancelled it. “The economy is so bad that we don’t have the face to approach any company for a Rs 10,000 cheque,” says Saha. Printing the souvenir costs them Rs 80-90,000.  Coronanjali Anjali arrangements are giving organisers sleepless nights. Residents of FD Block are being discouraged from coming to the pandal for it. “We will send them the link to our Facebook live session where the anjali will be streamed,” says secretary Saumitra Mukherjee. The organisers are sending a packet to every home with four masks, a pen cum sanitiser, a residents’ pass, car parking sticker and an empty packet. “This packet is where we are asking them to collect the flowers that they will offer virtually for anjali. After the Pujas, it will be handed to an NGO to make compost.” In case a resident insists on offering anjali in person, entry will be allowed with mask and sanitisation. “We are hoping not many would step out,” says Mukherjee. CK-CL Block has tied up with a TV channel to screen their anjali live and is hoping residents will follow it from home. HB Block has erected garden umbrellas with baskets for devotees to pray under and offer their flowers in. AJ Block is requesting residents to get their own flowers. Chakraborty of At AE (Part 1) says this is the year for —not pushpanjali but — coronanjali. “We will not allow flowers at all,” he says. “If you join your hands and pray sincerely, the goddess will still hear you out.” “We had screened our anjali on Facebook last year but it more NRIs than residents tuned in. This year we expect better response,” says Bidula Banerjee Ghatak, puja secretary of BL Block. “They will also have loudspeakers emitting chants and limited coupons for those who insist on coming to the venue.” CD Block will stop visitors at the entrance of the hall. “That’s a good 20 feet away from the idol and the idea is that they can get a closer view on Facebook, sitting home,” says Arunabha. The have issued limited coupons for anjali and sindur khela and also downloaded the QU App which will manage crowd and inform users when to come in. Greenwood Park shall go contactless with puja pronami. It has taken up NKDA’s offer of a QR code to enable cash to be digitally deposited. But Sengupta of AE (Part 2) calls organisers to be strict about the protocols. “People are tired of staying home and are sure to venture out, but we have to be strict, even if it means asking come to stand out during anjali. Otherwise, there’s no point sanitising the community hall repeatedly,” he says. At Vedic Village whole fruits will be offered instead of chopped ones, “and to apply tika we shall use tika sticks that I’ve made out of earbuds and cotton and decorated with peacock feather. I had used these last year too but back then it was to avoid sindur from entering nails and the mouth. This year it’s for hygeine purposes,” says Bhawna Shah, one of the organsiers. At FE Block, sweets will not be accepted as offering. “One can at best offer whole fruits and a drop box will be put up for saris,” says an organiser, Basab Basak.  Fund raising trouble Given the state of the economy, asking for “Pujor chanda” has become a touchy subject. “We have brought our budget down to Rs 2 lakh and have not quoted any figure for subsciptions. Residents are free to give whatever they can,” says Bag of BK Block. Last year DB Block had quoted Rs 2,000 as subscription but this year Rs 1,000, 500…anything is acceptable. “We are not forcing anyone. If we fall short we shall pull out of the the block’s savings we have collected by renting out the community hall,” says general secretary Loknath Sastri. “The Rs 50,000 aid from the chief minster will be a great help too. If we are left with any surplus we shall donate to the needy.” The idol at Greenwood Park is a good five feet shorter this year, but the tip for the Kumartuli porters who will deliver it will be no less than other years. “In place of five dhaakis, two will come this time but we will transfer the same amount that we paid last year in the accounts of the others. We believe that the state government’s grant of Rs 50,000 is best spent this way,” says secretary Sukanya Basu. While CD Block appreciates the Rs 50,000, they rue that their sanitisation budget alone will touch Rs 45,000. CA Block started off not seeking ads at all. “Had we got ads we would have to spend it on the puja and make it grand. Not this year,” says Snehashis, who was still approached by a hospital and a new restaurant in their block for sponsorship. AE (Part 1) secretary Chakraborty says many residents are taking advantage of the economy to skip paying. “These residents with rich NRI children claim they have no money for the puja but go all out to buy Rs 1,200 hilsas, which are always out of stock in our markets! This is chance pe dance.” Many residents are reluctant to pay the same sum as last year given that that community lunch has got knocked off. “This is why we are sending them a leaflet with teh budget break-up. They read it and understand that subscriptions only cover the cost of the idol and rituals. Food is paid for by sponsors, who have vanished this year,” says Sengupta of AE (Part 2). Blocks are also requesting online payment but are having to accept cash and cheque from senior citizens. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 infections rise further in Bidhannagar||Salt Lake and its adjoining areas have witnessed a spike in the number of coronavirus cases this month. There has been a rise of at least 1,000 fresh cases in all 41 wards of the Corporation in October. “This could be because people are visiting their workplaces, using public transport as well as visiting shopping hubs ahead of the Pujas,” said a civic official. The figure for active Covid patients at end of September was 7,036 but by October 14, the total number had touched 8,500. However, another civic official pointed out that the rate of recovery had also increased compared to the earlier months. More than 4,000 persons have been cured of Covid although it has claimed at least 52 lives in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area. The upward trend is in sync with the number of cases increasing in the North 24 Parganas. On Wednesday, the total tally in the district stood at 61,629. The number of fresh cases reported on Wednesday across the district stood at a staggering 752 cases while in areas falling under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation the figure was 106. The total number of deaths in the district so far is 1,309 with 14 patients succumbing on Wednesday alone. An official of the health department said they were following all protocols laid down by the government but that people too have to be careful. “Now-a-days we see people moving freely without masks or any care for social distancing,” he complained. “If this continues, no amount of sanitisation will help.” Although Duttabad is the only containment zone in Salt Lake, several blocks, like BE Block, are reeling under the onslaught of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Event to let kids shop for dress||This Sunday, stalls will come up in New Town fair ground solely to welcome young shoppers aged two to 15 years. They will pick a dress of their choice but their parents will not have to foot the bill. An initiative is being taken whereby people are being asked to gift a dress each to about 300 underprivileged children from New Town and its surroundings. “These children never experience the joy of choosing their own dress in a shop before the Pujas. Even when they are gifted a dress, it is either old or a random one chosen by someone else,” said Ankur Roychowdhury, vice-president of New Town Forum & News, a social welfare organisation comprising New Town residents. Arrangements have been made with three dress manufacturing units which will set up shop from 9.30am to 4.30pm on Sunday. “We have given them a price range of Rs 300 to 350 for each dress. Coupons are being given out to the identified children, mentioning the time slot when they should report. We do not want 300 children to turn up together,” he added. Half the kids have been chosen from the slums adjoining Bagjola Canal in Action Area 1 and from Sardarpara on the border of Action Area 3. The others are children of local domestic help and caretakers. While some donors have handed over the price of a dress or two to the organisers, some will visit the spot to witness the children pick up a dress for which they will pay the shop in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta’s first post-Covid camp in Duttabad ||The first post-Covid health camp of the city took place in Duttabad on Sunday. And given the range of complications that the recovered patients reported, it proved to be what one of the organisers described as “quite a lesson” for the doctors themselves. The camp was organised by Protect the Warriors, an organisation of doctors, in association with Sparsho, an initiative of minister and local MLA Sujit Bose. “The only post-Covid clinic running in the city is in Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. But because it treats Covid patients too, many who have recently recovered from Covid are scared to visit the place. So we thought of taking post-Covid care to such people in the form of local health camps,” said Abhik Ghosh, secretary of the organisation and an ENT specialist residing in CB Block. Since Duttabad has as many as 122 recovered patients and most of them are unlikely to get access to or be serious about proper follow-up treatment, it was decided to hold the first camp there. Response was enthusiastic, with 64 patients, including five children, turning up for the camp, to be checked by 16 doctors from various disciplines. “Covid-19 can lead to complications later, especially for those who took oxygen therapy for 15-20 days,” said infectious diseases specialist at ID hospital Yogiraj Roy. “Covid is a new disease about which we know little. We are finding patients reporting breathing trouble and weakness even a month after recovery. Some develop heart or lung problem. There are also complaints of burning sensation during urination, stomach trouble, fever in the evenings...” said Pritam Roy, state coordinator of World Health Organisation. At the camp, Ghosh came across patients whose sense of taste and smell had not returned even a month and half afterwards. Some had a distorted sense of smell. “They may smell incense sticks while eating mangsho bhaat. Many had such badly damaged lungs that they would have to continue doing breathing exercises and checking on their oxygen level. Also 10 per cent pregnant mothers deliver Covid-positive babies. They also need follow-up treatment.” PTW plans to send teams to puja pandals to educate organisers about Covid protocol on Tritiya and Chaturthi. “We are planning more camps after Puja,” said Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Idol immersion to be allowed in time slots||This year, you need to get your immersion time and day approved by the police if you plan to go to Upasana Ghat in New Town. The authorities have taken the decision to space out the immersion of idols by giving each puja committee a definite time slot in advance to reduce chances of a big gathering leading to risk of Covid-19 infection. “In the online application that you submit, you have to point out the date and time when you intend to immerse the idol. If a particular time of the day gets overcrowded, we might ask you to change the time or the day,” said deputy commissioner, New Town, Bishop Sarkar. Immersion is allowed from Dashami to Trayodashi (October 26 to 29). Sarkar was addressing an audience of puja organisers of New Town at a meeting called by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre last week. The police is also discouraging elaborate processions. “The number of participants in the immersion group must be kept to a minimum,” he said. The civic authorities will waive the immersion fee charged from pujas outside New Town this year. It was free for New Town pujas anyway, an official said. Two contests will be organised this time. Speaking at the event, Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen said the dhunuchi dance contest held every year at the immersion ghat will happen with a reduced number of participants. “We are used to groups of 10 or 20 people putting up beautifully choreographed dance sequences. This time the maximum number for participation in the contest will be four,” he said. The NKDA will have a dhaaki in attendance who will play with every group of participants. “You do not need to bring a dhaaki,” Sen said. Labourers will also be provided like every year to pick up the idols from the vehicles right down to immersion in the water, he added. “We will distribute prizes for the contests in December.” Instead of the contest on aesthetic excellence, the civic authorities will award pujas in New Town on the basis of their Covid-19 protection measures, it was announced. The top three Covid-safe pujas will be chosen from housing complexes and blocks. With infection through currency notes being a possibility, NKDA is giving puja organisers an option to avoid contact in collecting pronami. “You can pay the amount you usually do after offering anjali digitally this year. If you approach us with your puja committee’s bank account details, we can generate a QR code for you. A visitor on scanning your code can pay you digitally and the amount will get deposited in your bank account. We will provide the back-end technical help,” Sen said. He urged organisers to try out the option. “After all, we are a Smart City,” he said. Two housing complexes have since approached NKDA for the QR code — Greenwood Park and Animikha Abasan. He also urged puja inaugurations to be done virtually if any guest was to be invited to do the honours. A slide show was put up with the Puja guidelines that had earlier been announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on September 24. In response to the directive to keep three sides of the pandal open, some organisers asked whether they could continue to hold puja in their community hall.  “We are doing it inside the hall for 10 years now,” said a representatives of Jal Vayu Tower. Another puja committee member asked whether keeping three doors open would be safe enough to reduce chances of infection in a hall. “I am not aware of the answer,” Sen said, adding that his advice would be “indirect”. “At Swapna Bhor, we were supposed to hold the puja in the banquet hall. But after the state government’s directive was issued, the puja has been shifted to the verandah outside,” he informed, leaving organisers to make their own deduction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Doctor in ICU as car hits Metro pillar in Calcutta||A doctor driving a Hyundai Venue and another person in the car were critically injured when he apparently lost control and rammed into a Metro pillar near the Avishikta crossing early on Thursday, police said. The vehicle overturned on impact and landed on another four-wheeler moving in the same direction, the police said. Two other people in the Venue and the occupants of the other car escaped unhurt. The doctor, attached with a private medical college and hospital, has been admitted to the ICU of KPC Medical College and Hospital with head injuries. The other person, attached with a city veterinary college, too, is in the ICU with arm injuries, the police said. The doctor has been booked for rash and negligent driving, mischief and causing hurt by a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life. Occupants of the other vehicle have lodged a complaint against the doctor with Garfa police station. The vehicle was headed towards Garia from the Ruby crossing when the accident occurred around 1.05am. “It is apparent the vehicle was moving at high speed. It is sheer luck that all four occupants survived,” a traffic police officer said. “Also, it is a miracle that occupants of the other car escaped unhurt.” Several motorists who drive on the stretch said it was difficult to negotiate the Metro pillars. “There are stretches where one has to drive slowly to negotiate the pillars that have come up in the middle of the road. A slight lack of concentration or speeding can prove costly,” Debraj Chatterjee, who travels on the Bypass every day, said. Officers of Garfa police station said the Venue would undergo a mechanical examination to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. The doctor lives in Jadavpur while the other occupants are from Garia and Kamalgazi on the city’s southern outskirts and Nadia district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||New Town gets  e-waste museum||The New Town authorities will upcycle waste items collected from its three action areas and Sector V in Salt Lake to prevent waste and hazardous materials from stockpiling at dumping sites. From old smartphones to used drinking water jars, garments and electronic gadgets will be collected from residents and offices. For this, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority inaugurated a waste museum and a store for upcycled products near the New Town bus stop on Thursday. The NKDA has partnered with the Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage, an NGO that works with women self-help groups, to upcycle waste items collected. Women from more than 100 self-help groups will make bags, furniture, jewellery and home decoration items from waste items. The finished products will be put up for sale at a display counter. The Merlin Group has partnered with the NKDA and will display upscaled items at the Acropolis shopping mall in Kasba. The NKDA will train residents in segregating waste at source and in recycling techniques. Those who want to discard waste items, including e-waste such as used laptops, mobile phones and other gadgets, can do so at the waste museum, Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said. “We want to encourage residents to recycle and upcycle waste items.” E-waste has proved to be the most dangerous. “E-waste is often burnt or dismantled manually. The ash finds its way into canals or streams. The items that cannot be reused are left at dumping sites… they release corrosive chemicals into the ground,” Sen said. India is among the top five e-waste generating countries in the world, according to a report published last year by the trade body Assocham and NEC Technologies India Pvt Ltd. China, Japan, Germany, and the US are ahead of India. Maharashtra produces maximum e-waste in the country — 19.8 per cent of the country’s share. Bengal is at 9.8 per cent. The global volume of e-waste is expected to reach 52.2 million tonnes by 2021 from 44.7 million tonnes in 2016, according to the report. The volume of e-waste will keep rising exponentially because of the rise in the use of electrical and electronic equipment, a report by the World Health Organisation says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Book an e-pass for Covid protocol-compliant pandal visits ||Best pujas, check. No queues, check. Social distance, check. Calcutta’s top pujas have come together for a project that would allow visitors access to the pandals without waiting in queues and by maintaining social distance. The project is not some virtual tour and people will very much be able to visit the pandals in person. All one has to do is buy an e-pass that would pre-book slots at 41 big-ticket pujas in the city. The Forum for Durgotsab presents Puja ePass, partnered by The Telegraph, was formally launched on Wednesday. An e-pass for a single person costs Rs 236. The maximum number of persons for whom passes can be booked at one go is 20. On offer is a bouquet of 41 top pujas of the city, where visits can be planned in advance. The pujas can be visited on five days, from Panchami to Navami. Each day has been divided into four six-hour slots. The booking process is simple (see chart). After a person books the slots, the link of a QR code will be sent to his registered e-mail address. The code has to be displayed at the entry points of the pandals. “There will be an exclusive gate for e-pass holders. They will undergo a thermal scanning before entering the pandal. They do not have to wait in queues. The idea is to plan in advance and have a safe tour, by maintaining proper Covid-19 protocols,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the forum, an association of over 350 Durga Pujas in and around Calcutta. Basu is also the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee, one of the 41 pujas that have collabo-rated in the project. “There will be a cap on passes issued for each slot so that the number of visitors is manageable. Restricted entry, no queue and fixed timings make this a safe venture, in keeping with the guidelines of the state government,” said another organiser managing the back-end operations of the project. The system is also convenient for large groups and people who come from outside Calcutta, he said. The Covid-19 pandemic had cast a cloud on Bengal’s biggest carnival this year. The puja organisers were doubtful of being able to go ahead with the festivities. But on September 25, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion. The directives, issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind, include spacious pandals, low-key inaugurations, pandal-hopping between Tritiya and Ekadashi and staggered timings for anjali and sindoor khela. “The e-pass system is unique and useful. We are used to having around five lakh visitors each day during the Puja. Even if there are a few thousand e-pass holders in a fixed time slot, managing them with due social distancing protocols will not be tough for us,” said Partho Ghosh, general secretary of Shibmandir Sarbojonin Durgotsab, one of the popular pujas of south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Former journalist and broadcaster Kishore Bhimani passes away||Kishore Bhimani, former journalist and broadcaster whose voice brought the action on 22 yards alive on radio and television for generations of cricket lovers, passed away on Thursday. He was 81. He was admitted to Woodlands Multispeciality Hospital since September 14. He is survived by wife Rita Bhimani and son Gautam. Bishen Singh Bedi described Bhimani as “one of the good old-fashioned crkt writer(s)” in a tweet. Commentator Harsha Bhogle told Metro: “Kishore was part of a generation where people covered cricket with an understanding of life. He understood finance, business, horses, music…his connection with the rock music world was legendary. He brought that perspective to cricket. His heart bled for Calcutta. He knew everybody. His house was open. He enjoyed the good life. His joie de vivre is what I remember most about him.” Educated at the London School of Economics and St Xavier’s College, Bhimani covered 157 Test matches and 203 one-dayers. Among them were tours like the West Indies in 1976 and England in 1986, as also milestone moments like Sunil Gavaskar reaching 10,000 runs in 1987 and the final over of the India-Australia tied test in 1986. “‘It’s a tie, it’s tie,’ he repeated in his staccato voice on air as Maninder Singh was adjudged leg before wicket to Greg Matthews. Those words reflected the shock of all viewers,” recalled Malavika Banerjee, director of the Kolkata Literary Meet where Bhimani was in conversation with Sunil Gavaskar in 2017. “Gavaskar had asked for him,” she said. Bhimani was close to many overseas players too. The likes of Clive Lloyd, Viv Richards and Imran Khan would drop by at his house. “He was a great raconteur, an encyclopaedia of cricket anecdotes,” said former Bengal captain and national selector Sambaran Banerjee. He compiled and authored over a dozen books, including a novel called The Accidental Godman in 2012. A steward at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club for five years from 2006, he was fond of racing. “He (Bhimani) owned his first horse Time and Tide in the early 70s,” said Pritheesh Verma, a judge at RCTC. “He would jointly own a horse with Ravi Shastri in later years,” added Cyrus Madan, one of the stewards now. In the 70s, he was the official commentator at the races. “He was already commentating on cricket and football. In later years, he and I commentated on rugby too at CC&FC,” Madan said. Bhimani also had a tremendous passion for theatre. “He was a good poker player too,” added Varma. “He could converse with people both older and younger to him and make them feel at home. He had a tremendous sense of humour,” Madan said. His entry into cricket commentary was “accidental”. “He went to cover a domestic cricket match because the regular cricket correspondent was absent,” wrote friend and colleague Utpal Chatterjee, a former sheriff of Calcutta, in a social media post. Bhimani wrote in The Statesman on the historic victory in April 1976: “In the dusty twilight of a deserted stadium I gaze upon a wizened old groundsman sweeping away…. So much has happened here in the dressing room under the Geddes Grant Stand — Lloyd’s decision to declare; the promotion of ‘Jimmy’ Amarnath and Bishen’s persistence with his own bowling and the confident last-ditch stand of the never-say-die Patel and Madan Lal and the lone Indian cheering hoarse in the Errol dos Santos Stand…”. Readers would agree cricket reporting prospered for the “accident”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Why celebration? Calcutta High Court asks||The high court on Thursday asked the Bengal government what was the need to celebrate festivals at a time schools and colleges are closed for so long because of a pandemic. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the senior judge on a division bench that was hearing a public interest litigation, raised the question and several others. Some of them were: The division bench posed the questions to the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, after he submitted that 37,000 clubs had been given a dole of Rs 50,000 each so they could distribute masks and sanitisers among people. Each of the clubs has been organising Durga Puja for at least 10 years. The court also asked why the government could not distribute the masks and sanitisers through police? “What is the necessity to engage Puja committees in the distribution of masks and sanitisers?” Justice Banerjee asked. The bench was hearing a petition by a leader of the CPM’s labour arm, Saurav Das, who had challenged the government’s decision to give doles to Puja organisers. Counsel for the petitioner and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya submitted before the bench that the government was encouraging the organisers to hold Puja without taking precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “There is every possibility of a massive spread of the disease after the Puja,” Bhattacharyya said. At this, Justice Banerjee asked the advocate-general: "Where is the blueprint of your safeguard measures?” He asked the lawyers from both sides to sit together to chalk out a blueprint of possible protection measures. The bench scheduled the next hearing for Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Three colleges seek tips from RKM Vidyamandira||Representatives of three colleges have approached Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, for advice on how to improve their positions in national ranking exercises. The education ministry has recently asked Vidyamandira, an autonomous college, to mentor other colleges because of its consistent stellar performance in the ranking exercise, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The three colleges have sought to know how to prepare themselves better for the evaluations carried out by the NIRF authorities and NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council), said Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of the college. “The representatives of the colleges have approached us verbally seeking to know how we can mentor them in those areas. We will soon meet to decide on what the college can do,” the Swami told Metro. Of the three institutions that approached Vidyamandira, two are run by the government and one is a private engineering college. Vidyamandira had ranked ninth, 11th and seventh in NIRF in 2018, 2019 and 2020. In October 2013, the college had been re-accredited by NAAC with Grade A (highest grade). A teacher at Vidyamandira said it was important to keep track of the data of the crucial academic activities and other engagements and submit a comprehensive report for the assessments – an area where the colleges in Bengal are found wanting. “You need to have comprehensive data on total citation count over the previous three years, number of publications, patents published and granted. Many institutions do not maintain data and they need to be mentored in these areas,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-269
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Most cinemas shut on Day 1 of reopening in Calcutta||Most cinema halls in Calcutta remained shut on Thursday, the day the Union home ministry had said they could reopen from. Inox Swabhumi and Madhyamgram were among the multiplexes that opened on Thursday with 50 per cent seating capacity. On offer was a string of re-released Hindi films. A spokesperson declined comment on the footfall. The remaining cinema halls of the chain will open in the coming days according to operational readiness, the spokesperson said. Some popular halls in Calcutta, like Priya and Menoka, should open doors on Friday, said sources in the Eastern India Motion Pictures association. Last-minute preparations — to ensure Covid-19 protocols are in place before opening — were underway at both halls on Thursday. Friday is the usual date of film releases. Some more halls are likely to reopen by next weekend. A string of Bengali films — such as Koel Mallick-starrer Rawkto Rawhoshyo and Mimi Chakraborty-Anirban Bhattacharya-starrer Dracula Sir — is due for release on October 21 (Panchami). No big-budget Hindi film is going to be released any time soon and Sushant Singh Rajput’s old films are the best bet for some exhibitors once the halls re-open. When the halls resume operations, the number of daily shows will be curtailed at many. “Apart from banking on the traditional association between the Puja and Bengali films, there is not much we can do,” said an exhibitor who owns halls in Calcutta and outside. Hall owners are desperately waiting for the release of big-ticket Hindi films but that is not likely before Christmas. Some of the halls which are dependent on Hindi films only — like Paradise in Esplanade — have not yet decided on the date of re-opening. “There is no point in running old films,” said Debashish Dey, in charge of operations at Paradise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Bengal calls for regular London flight||The state government has requested the civil aviation ministry to introduce a regular passenger flight from Calcutta to London and to at least another destination in Europe. Air India officials said there were very low bookings on the London flight now but tour operators feel the demand would have been more had the airline increased the frequency. “Cities like London, Frankfurt and Amsterdam used to be having regular flights directly with us. The subsequent discontinuations have adversely affected Bengal and the entire eastern and northeastern part of our country,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopdhyay wrote to civil aviation secretary P.S. Kahrola. “We look forward to your introduction from Kolkata at least one direct daily flight to London and another one to any other important destination in Europe.” Air India had announced that it would run Calcutta-London flights till October 24 but later extended the date till March under an air bubble transport arrangement. Air India sources said the demand for seats on the London flight was low and that is why the frequency, now twice a week, would be reduced to once a week from November. But tour operators said the demand would have risen had the frequency of the flight been increased and tickets sold onwards from London. " “The demand needs to be created by selling tickets onwards from London to other European destinations and the US, where many students and businessmen want to travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Dubai flights Emirates, IndiGo and SpiceJet are operating flights between Calcutta and Dubai under the air bubble transport agreement. A  SpiceJet official said the demand for seats was “satisfactory” on the Dubai flights. It is now operating three flights in a week to the UAE destination. Fly Dubai, another Dubai-based airline has also opened bookings for flights to and from Calcutta on October 20, 21, 28 and 29, said sources. The airline has written to the tour operators for the bookings. Metro reported on Thursday that the civil aviation ministry had decided to allow flights between Calcutta and Dhaka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Clinic tie-up plan to fight Puja surge in Calcutta||The state government has asked private hospitals to tie up with nursing homes so that the bigger healthcare units can create more critical care beds for Covid-19 patients while patients with moderate symptoms can be treated at the smaller facilities. The government made the plea at a meeting on Wednesday, where private hospitals were also told that they would be given the licence to install equipment for treating Covid patients at the satellite units they have set up in hotels. The state government had earlier asked private hospitals to increase the number of beds ahead of the festival season, apprehending a sharp rise in the number of Covid cases during and after the Puja. “We have asked the hospitals to tie up with nursing homes so the Covid treatment infrastructure can be augmented. Patients with moderate symptoms can be treated at nursing homes under the supervision of doctors of the hospitals with which the tie-up has been done. If the patient’s condition becomes critical, the person can be shifted to hospital,” Bengal health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said on Thursday. Many private hospitals have said they will convert general beds dedicated for Covid treatment into critical care beds, in anticipation of a surge in the number of critical Covid patients. Many private hospitals have told the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission that they will together add about 500 Covid beds before the Puja. But government officials said that might not be enough. Hence, the request to tie up with nursing homes. “We have tied up with 20-odd nursing homes in and around Calcutta. Our doctors and nurses are going to these nursing homes to treat Covid patients when required,” said Rupak Barua, the Group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. “Many patients are reluctant to go to nursing homes because they are not sure about the facilities there. A tie-up between hospitals and nursing homes will boost their confidence,” Barua said. An official of a nursing home in Calcutta said nursing homes had difficulty accommodating Covid patients because of lack of infrastructure. The health department has also offered to provide a clinical establishment licence for the satellite facilities set up by hospitals in hotels. “If we get the licence, basic monitors can be installed and we can keep crash trolleys with equipment to treat a patient who collapses suddenly. Also, oxygen cylinders can be kept,” said R, Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which has two satellite units. “Now, we keep only patients with mild or no symptoms in satellite units. If these equipment are installed, patients with moderate symptoms can be kept there, too,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta walk for Stan Swamy||A march that will not differentiate between religions and political affiliations to show solidarity with Father Stan Swamy and demand his release from jail will be led by St Xavier’s University vice-chancellor Father J. Felix Raj in Calcutta on Saturday afternoon. The protest organised by the Mother Teresa International Award Committee will start from St Xavier’s College on Park Street and end in front of the statue of Mother Teresa at the Park Street-Camac Street crossing. “There are protests, rallies, solidarity marches all over the country and in international forums. So far there have been none in Calcutta. This is the first solidarity march here and this march is irrespective of religion, irrespective of political affiliation and to show solidarity to Father Stan Swamy, who is 83 years old,” Fr Felix Raj said. “India is a country where senior citizens are respected and there should be a compassionate, concerned approach for them. If the police think there is something they should investigate. But be more compassionate --- not only this Jesuit father but all senior citizens should be treated with compassion. I want the government to change the attitude of arresting and keeping in jail any senior citizen.” Fr Stan Swamy was arrested in Ranchi on October 8, taken to Mumbai the next morning and sent to judicial custody till October 23. Father Stan Swamy is a Jesuit from the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. Fr Felix Raj said: “Fr Stan speaks for the poor and their rights. He has a spirit like Mother Teresa. He is fearless and only fears God, for he knows he is serving him by serving the poor.” The Mother Teresa International Award Committee, which has called for the walk, is a secular body started in 2001. The committee has been handing out awards to distinguished people from across the world in fields like education, social work, sports and culture. “The arrest is politically motivated. As a true Jesuit who follows Christ, Fr Stan Swamy is sharing in the sufferings of Christ for the sake of justice and truth.… It is time for all academicians, thinkers, philosophers, theologians and the like to come out openly and speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice,” Fr Felix Raj had written in this newspaper. Fr Felix Raj said he had written to the Prime Minister asking for the release of Fr Stan Swamy. “I have written to the Prime Minister, asking for his intervention in this and considering the advanced age of this Jesuit father,” he said. Invitations to the walk have been sent to various churches. In line with the pandemic-induced restrictions, the organisers are keen to ensure that not more than 50 people assemble. “The idea is to express solidarity in spirit and not in numbers. Let it spread out to many more places and many more days -- that may be more powerful,” said Fr Felix Raj. After the first walk on Saturday, the churches will be asked to hold walks or protests independently. The chairman of the award committee, Anthony Arun Biswas, said it would be a peaceful procession against injustice. “Fr Stan Swamy is someone who has been serving the poorest of the poor and we protest against this injustice of keeping him in jail in an unjust way. We demand his immediate release,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-270
16-10-2020||Business||India must protect most vulnerable people: IMF Managing Director||India’s priorities should be to protect the most vulnerable people, well targeted support and protecting small and medium sized enterprises so that they do not collapse as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic, Kristalina Georgieva, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has said. Speaking at a news conference during the ongoing annual meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, Georgieva said on Wednesday: “Like everywhere else, until we have a durable exit from the health crisis, we will be faced with difficulties, uncertainty, and uneven recovery.” Describing Covid-19 as a human crisis everywhere, and especially in countries where the loss of life has climbed up so much, she said: “In India, 100,000 people had died. Therefore, focusing on protecting people and on the health of the population remains a priority.” “India has taken measures within the capacity of the country — 2 per cent fiscal measures plus 4 per cent in the form of guarantees, not direct fiscal measures,” Georgieva said. “This helps, but if you compare what advanced economies have been able to do, what some of the other emerging markets with very strong fundamentals could do, clearly is somewhat constrained.” “What we see in India is a very dramatic shrinkage of GDP this year by over 10 per cent, according to our just released forecast. “Let’s remember that it stepped into this crisis as one of the fastest growing economies in the world. For next year, our projections in baseline scenario is return to growth of 8.8 per cent,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Mindtree reports 87.9 per cent rise in consolidated net profit ||IT firm Mindtree on Thursday reported a 87.9 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 253.7 crore for the July-September 2020 quarter, and said it was confident of continuing its growth momentum. The company, which had registered a net profit of Rs 135 crore in the September 2019 quarter, will also roll out salary hikes with effect from January 1, 2021. The Bangalore-based company saw its revenue grow marginally to Rs 1,926 crore in the September 2020 quarter from Rs 1,914.3 crore in the year-ago period. The company attributed the strong growth in profits to operational efficiencies. “The world is slowly emerging from the challenges caused by the pandemic...we achieved our commitment of delivering profitable growth, quarter-over-quarter, and also successfully navigating through the challenging business environment,” Mindtree CEO and MD Debashis Chatterjee said. The board of directors has declared an interim dividend of Rs 7.5 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Infosys plan to reduce dependence on H-1B work permits||With as many as 37 per cent of its employees in the US holding the contentious H-1B visas, Infosys has drawn up a plan to reduce its dependence on these work permits that envisages expanding operations to Mexico and Canada to cater to US clients. Infosys also plans to step up hiring in the US amid challenges related to the H-1B visa regulations. These measures, according to the management, will help them to address the challenges in these geographies. The company said in its second-quarter earnings call that  North America contributes 60.7 per cent to its revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. Earlier this month, the Trump administration tightened the rules related to H-1B visa holders, resulting in a wage hike and more stringent inspection and monitoring of employers. The wage hike is expected to inflate the expenditure of the firms who rely on these visas. “The wage increase will impact only people going on new LCAs (labour conditions applications). It will not impact people who will go on older LCAs or existing LCAs,” Infosys COO Pravin Rao said. Salil Parekh, MD and CEO of Infosys, said at the earnings call that the company in the past three years has launched six digital centres in the US and hired over 13,000 US workers. It is looking to hire 12,000 more workers over the next two years to take the overall hiring commitment in the country to 25,000 over a five-year period ending 2022. “Since 2017, we have aggressively embarked on the localisation strategy. In the last three years, we have recruited more than 13,000 locals in the US. Today nearly 63 per cent of our workforce is local and visa independent…In addition we have also expanded our presence in Mexico and Canada where we can provide same time zone services to clients,” said Rao. Parekh said the company has launched Infosys Cobalt, bringing together all its cloud services, platforms and solutions. A big surprise in the second-quarter has been a 270-basis point sequential expansion in operating margins to 25.3 per cent.  CFO Nilanjan Roy said that the margins were not sustainable. The benefits of lower travel costs are expected to shrink in the coming quarters and the company plans to incentivise employees with the salary hike, affecting margins in the second half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||BMW India launches most affordable sedan||BMW India has launched its most affordable sedan in the country — the BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé. Locally produced at BMW’s Chennai plant, the car is available in a diesel variant at present. The petrol variant will be launched later. The 2 Series Gran Coupe will carry a price tag of Rs 39.30 lakh. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The BMW 2 Series Gran Coupé brings BMW’s four-door coupé concept into the segment for the first time.” The German car maker is offering low monthly payments starting Rs 39,300, assured buyback value of Rs 22.79 lakh and flexible end of term options to lure customers. Meanwhile, Jaguar Land Rover India brought the Defender brand to India with the launch of the Land Rover Defender on Thursday. Offered with a 2.0-litre four-cylinder petrol engine, the New Defender is available in two body styles — the 90 (3 door) and the 110 (5 door).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Sanjeev Krishan appointed as new PwC chairman||Sanjeev Krishan has been appointed as the new chairman of PwC in India for a four-year term commencing on January 1, 2021, the consultancy firm said on Thursday. Krishan will succeed Shyamal Mukherjee, the current chairman, who will step down on December 31, 2020 at the completion of his term. Prior to this, Krishan has been the “deals” leader and has over the years made significant commitment to help build a sustainable practice for the future, a statement said. He has been with the organisation for 29 years, having joined in 1991 as an article trainee. He became a partner in 2006 and has led the firm’s transactions and private equity business over the years, getting the firm to a pre-eminent position amongst private equity clients and their investee companies, it added. He is also part of Ficci’s national committee on stressed assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
16-10-2020||Business||Finance minister observes V-shaped recovery||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said the V-shaped pattern of recovery is being seen in several high-frequency indicators, driven by various measures taken by the government to revive economic growth, hit hard by the pandemic. In her address to the plenary meeting of the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC), the ministerial-level committee of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), through video conference, she said several low-income and developing countries are confronted with the challenge to protect and ensure livelihood for millions slipping below the poverty line. The finance ministry mentioned that recovery and rehabilitation efforts in these countries must not be allowed to be undermined in any manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||REL approaches BSE and NSE to remove Singh duo as promoters||Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL) has approached the BSE and NSE for the removal of Shivinder Mohan Singh and Malvinder Mohan Singh, who stepped down following allegations of siphoning off funds, as promoters and shift them to public shareholders category. Following the exit of the Singh brothers, the new management under executive chairperson Rashmi Saluja had moved market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to remove and declassify them as REL promoters in 2018. However, the decision got delayed after changes in norms by Sebi wherein stock exchanges were authorised to take a call on the declassification of promoters with shareholding up to 10 per cent. By March 2018, the stakes of the Singh brothers had come down to 3 per cent which further fell to 0.88 per cent in June 2020, according to data available with the exchanges. Even with 0.88 per cent, the exchanges are yet to declassify the Singh brothers and their associate companies as promoters. The remaining 99.12 stake is with the public and the highest 6.83 per cent holding is with Resilient India Growth Fund, followed by World Bank arm International Finance Corporation at 4.97 per cent. Having completed all the necessary work, including approval from the board and shareholders for the purpose, REL again approached the BSE and the NSE during the second half of the current financial year and a decision is pending with exchanges, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||Equitas Small Finance Bank to explore acquisition and block deals||Chennai-based Equitas Small Finance Bank will explore both acquisition and block deals on the bourses to comply with the Reserve Bank of India’s guidelines of lowering promoter holding to 40 per cent. After completing four years of operation, the bank has come out with a revised public offer of a little over Rs 500 crore, almost half of the previous offer of Rs 1,000 crore. The promoter holding would come down to around 82 per cent following the offer that runs from October 20-22. The holding company has a 95.49 per cent stake in the bank. The bank has to further lower its holding company’s stake and is exploring different ways of the same. “There are two routes we are looking at. A potential merger and acquisition which will dilute the holding company’s shares and the other route is a block sale by the holding company,” said P.N. Vasudevan, managing director, Equitas Small Finance Bank. Vasudevan said there were two reasons as to why the bank reworked and reduced the issue size. First, the bank is  comfortable with a capital adequacy of around 21 per cent.  The current economic and market condition is the other reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank board approves plans to raise up to Rs 500 crore||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Thursday said its board has approved plans to raise up to Rs 500 crore through a rights issue. The terms of the issue will be decided by the board or a duly constituted committee of the board at a later date in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and Sebi’s regulations, the lender said in a filing to the stock exchanges. The issue will be subject to necessary approvals. Shares of LVB ended nearly 3 per cent lower at Rs 17.80 on Thursday on the BSE. The old-generation private sector bank, which has been on the hunt for capital and an investor, was in the news late last month when its shareholders voted out seven directors, including CEO S. Sundar and promoters K.R. Pradeep and N. Saiprasad. Last week, LVB had announced that it had received a non-binding offer from Clix Group, an Aion-backed non-banking finance firm, for a merger. If the merger goes through, the net worth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from Rs 1,200 crore now. The promoters hold 6.80 per cent in the bank. Among other investors, Indiabulls Housing Finance holds 4.99 per cent equity,  JM Financial Services 3.88 per cent and Srei Infrastructure Finance, 3.34 per cent. The RBI had earlier shot down Indiabulls Housing’s merger with LVB. LVB’s tier-1 capital ratio turned negative at 0.88 per cent in March and worsened to 1.83 per cent in June  compared with the minimum requirement of 8.875 per cent. During the June quarter, the lender suffered a loss of Rs 112.28 crore against a net profit of Rs 93 crore in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||Business|| Sensex plunges 1066 points; investors book profits in an expensive market||The Sensex plunged 1066 points on Thursday as a 10-session rally got upended by negative global cues and profit booking with the selloff wiping out Rs 3.25 lakh crore of investor wealth in a single day. Equities worldwide are under pressure as the possibility of another round of US fiscal stimulus fades, while more European countries brace for a second round of lockdowns to curb the rising coronavirus cases, posing yet another challenge to the already shaky global economic recovery. Back home, there was nothing to cheer about as investors booked profits in an expensive market that has shown a disconnect with the economy. Retail inflation has been well above the RBI’s comfort zone, limiting any chances of a further interest rate cut, while the Centre’s recent fiscal stimulus is being seen as too little, too late. Moody’s Investors Service on Thursday said the Centre’s second round of stimulus will spur consumer spending in the near term but support to economic growth will be minimal. “Global cues were weak as fresh Covid concerns and fading hopes of more US fiscal stimulus before the presidential election weighed on market sentiments,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal  Financial Services. He said investors would keep a close watch on earnings announcements, rising Covid cases globally, developments around the vaccine and the US elections . Investors could use this opportunity to buy on dips in select defensive sectors such as IT, healthcare, FMCG and rural-focused stocks, he said. On the BSE, the 30-share Sensex opened in the green at 41048.05 and then remained under pressure. However, the slide accelerated in late noon trade and the index fell below the 40000 mark to hit an intra-day low of 39667.47. The BSE belwether later closed at 39728.41, showing a fall of 1066.33 points or 2.61 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty crashed 290.70 points or 2.43 per cent to 11680.35. Barring Asian Paints, which inched up 0.32 per cent, all Sensex constituents closed in the red. Bajaj Finance was the top loser, crashing 4.68 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and HCL Tech. “The market had moved up on expectation of a big stimulus, but the desired fiscal package was not announced in India... this has changed the trend,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Paribas. Nair said the future trend would be determined by any additional stimulus measures and commentary on second quarter results. Rupee falls The rupee on Thursday settled 5 paise lower at 73.36 to the dollar as weaker Asian peers and fund outflows from domestic markets weighed on investor sentiment. Additionally, importers’ mid-month dollar demand also put pressure on the local unit, analysts said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-262
16-10-2020||India||Shaurya Chakra awardee shot dead in Punjab||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu who fought terrorism in Punjab was shot dead by unknown assailants in Tarn Taran district on Friday, months after the government withdrew his security cover. The motorcycle-borne men pumped four bullets into 62-year-old Sandhu when he was at his office adjoining his home at Bhikhiwind in the district and escaped, police said. He was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead . Sandhu had fought against terrorism in the state for years, facing scores of terror attacks during the height of Khalistani militancy. Singh's security cover was withdrawn by the state government a year ago on the recommendation of Tarn Taran police, his brother Ranjit said, adding their entire family had remained on the hit list of terrorists. Balwinder's wife Jagdish Kaur said it was the handiwork of terrorists , maintaining that their family did not have any personal enmity with anyone. The family always fought against terrorists. As many as 62 attacks were made on my family by terrorists. We made numerous requests with DGP Dinkar Gupta for the security cover but all in vain, she said. Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale said the investigations were underway. He said those responsible for the murder would be nabbed soon. The entire incident was captured by the CCTV, he said adding the footage was being checked. The Tran Taran braveheart also featured in some documentaries. Inspired by Sandhu and his family, many people followed him and defended themselves from terror attacks. The Union government awarded him Shaurya Chakra in 1993. Balwinder Singh Sandhu and his brother Ranjit Singh Sandhu are opposed to the activities of terrorists. They were on the hit lists of terrorists. The terrorists so far have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu's family within in about 11 months, the citation for the gallantry award said. The terrorists attacked them in groups of 10 to 200, but every time Sandhu brothers with the help of their brave wives Jagdish Kaur Sandhu and Balraj Kaur Sandhu have successfully foiled the attempts of militants to kill them, it said. Militants had attacked the family on January 31, 1990 for the first time. The family had faced the deadliest attack on September 30, 1990 when around 200 terrorists surrounded their house from all sides and attacked them continuously for five hours with deadly weapons including rocket launchers. In this well-planned attack by terrorists, the approach road of the house was blocked by spreading underground mines so that no help from police could reach them, the citation said. Undaunted, Sandhu brothers and their wives fought terrorists with pistols and sten-guns provided by the government. The resistance shown by Sandhu brothers and their family members forced the terrorists to retreat, it said. All these persons have displayed courage and bravery of a high order in facing the attack of the terrorists and failing their repeated murderous attempts, it further says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||BJP distances itself from LJP in poll-bound Bihar||In its most direct attack on the Lok Janshakti Party, the BJP on Friday accused its president Chirag Paswan of trying to create a confusion by harping on his equations with senior leaders of the saffron party, and asserted that it had no relations with the LJP. Paswan has been lauding the BJP and its top leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, while attacking JD(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, giving rise to speculation that he has some tacit understanding with the saffron party. "We want to make it clear that we have no relations (with LJP), and we do not like this politics of spreading confusion," BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. Other senior BJP leaders, including party general secretary Bhupender Yadav, too hit out at Paswan, who walked out of the ruling National Democratic Alliance in Bihar and his party LJP is contesting the assembly polls on its own. Yadav accused Paswan of practising "politics of lies", saying he had been praising the Bihar government in February this year. "Chirag should not either live in illusion or nurse any illusion or spread illusion," Yadav tweeted. Javadekar said BJP's alliance in Bihar is with JD(U), Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party, asserting the NDA combine will win three-fourth majority in the state. The LJP is nothing more than "vote katua" (eating into votes of others) and it will not be able to make much impact, he said. The Bihar polls are scheduled in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The counting of votes will be done on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Another Dalit woman raped and strangled in UP's Barbanki||An 18-year-old Dalit woman, who was found dead in an agricultural field in Barabanki district in Uttar Pradesh, was raped before being strangled, police said on Friday citing post-mortem report. Additional Superintendent of Police R S Gautam said the post-mortem examination has confirmed that the woman was raped before she was strangled. Charges related to rape will be included in the FIR registered at Satrikh police station, he said, adding that some suspects have been taken into custody for questioning. The father of the woman had informed police on Wednesday evening that she had gone to the fields but did not return home. Later, family members found her dead. A police team visited the village and collected evidence before lodging an FIR, the police officer said. The rape and murder of the woman in Barabanki came days after a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after she was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped in Hathras district. The Hathras woman died at a hospital in Delhi on September 29, a fortnight after her assault allegedly by four upper caste men of her village. The assault and death of the Hathras woman, and her cremation by the authorities in the dead of the night, triggered an outrage and protests in parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Kumar Sanu tests positive for Covid-19||Popular Bollywood singer Kumar Sanu has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The news was shared by the playback singer's team on social media on Thursday evening. "Unfortunately Sanuda has tested Corona positive, please pray for his good health. Thank you," Sanu's team posted on his Facebook page. Sanu was reportedly planning to leave for the US on October 14 to celebrate his 63rd birthday on October 20 in Los Angeles. But after his diagnosis, the plans have been pushed. The singer, popularly known as King of Melody, has thousands of songs in different languages to his credits. Some of his hit tracks include "Chura Ke Dil Mera", "Ek Ladki Ko Dekha", "Dheere Dheere Se Meri Zindagi Mein Aana" and "Saajanji Ghar Aaye". Sanu's son Jaan is one of the contestants of the ongoing "Bigg Boss 14", hosted by Salman Khan. On Thursday, Mumbai city reported 2,119 new cases, which pushed its overall count to 2,36,721, while its death toll rose to 9,601.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Vivek Oberoi’s home raided in kin drug probe||Bangalore police on Thursday raided Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi’s residence at Mumbai in search of his brother-in-law Aditya Alva, who is wanted in a drug case, police sources here said. Aditya was absconding in a drug case registered at Cottonpet police station, Bangalore joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil said. “Vivek Oberoi is his relative and we got some information that Alva is there....So a court warrant was obtained and the Central Crime Branch team has gone to his house in Mumbai,” the officer told PTI. Police felt that the actor might be aware of his whereabouts and so the searches were carried out. However, they did not divulge the outcome of the raid. Aditya is the son of former minister late Jeevaraj Alva. According to sources, he has been absent for the past one month ever since the police launched a crackdown against drug peddlers, suppliers and rave party organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
16-10-2020||India||Malayalam poet Akkitham no more||Akkitham Achuthan Namboothiri, who heralded modernism in Malayalam poetry, died at a private hospital here on Thursday. He was 94. A widower, the Mahakavi (great poet) leaves behind two sons and four daughters. Hospital sources said he was admitted for age-related ailments a couple of days ago and the end came at 8.10am. Popularly known as Akkitham, his Irupatham Noottandinte Ithihasam (Epic of the 20th Century) is considered as one of the first modernist poems in Malayalam literature. A popular verse, “Velicham dukhamanunni, thamasallo sukhapradam”, which roughly translates to “light brings sorrow, my child, darkness is bliss”, has achieved the status of a proverb in Kerala. It is also interpreted as “worldly knowledge is pain, my child, ignorance is bliss”. He penned around 45 books, including poetry anthologies, plays and short stories, including Balidarsanam (The Vision of Bali), Arangettam, Nimisha Kshetram, Idinju Polinja Lokam, Amrita Ghatika, Kalikkottilil and many more. Among the numerous awards which came his way are Padma Shri, Ezhuthachan Award and the Jnanpith.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik to skip birthday celebrations||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has decided not to celebrate his birthday on Friday to express solidarity with the people hit by the Corona pandemic. He also appealed to people to be cautious during the ensuing Durga Puja festival and reminded them how Kerala, which was seen as a model state for Covid management, has witnessed a major surge in the Covid-19 cases following Onam celebration. He said Onam undid all the good work done by the Kerala government on Covid control front. Naveen, who turns 75 on Friday, has urged his followers not to visit Naveen Nivas to wish him on his birthday. “I am indebted to the people of Odisha. For the last eight months, people have been going through a hard time because of the Coronavirus,” he said. Last year, too, Naveen had skipped his birthday because of the cyclone Fani which had played havoc in the pilgrim city of Puri. During a meeting with officials, Naveen asked them not to show any laxity in Covid-19 management and to be extra careful during the Durga Puja festival. He also reminded them that there was need to be extra watchful as winter was approaching. “Kerala was performing well in the Covid management. But after the Onam festival, things have drastically changed. There has been a major spike in Covid-19 cases there,” he said. After the Onam festival that was observed on August 22 to September 2, the number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala have gone up by 200 per cent. Naveen also referred to the second wave of Covid-19 in European countries. “Even a little complacency will make the situation worse. It’s important for the administration to stay alert and create awareness among people during the ensuing Puja season,” Naveen said. The government also claimed that the recovery rate in the state has touched 91 per cent and Odisha is one among the top five states in terms of recovery. Similarly business has started picking up and 85 per cent MSME have started functioning. “We have given nod to investment proposals to the tune of more than 25 crore,” said officials. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in the state has reached 2,62,011 and the death toll stands at 1089 with 17 more casualties during the last 24 hours. As the number of death cases is constantly rising, the Odisha government has decided to set up another two more crematoriums in the state capital which has only one such facility so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Odisha teacher held over Rs 5cr properties||Vigilance officials on Thursday arrested a Hindi teacher of a high school in Odisha’s Ganjam district for allegedly amassing properties worth over Rs 5 crore. Bhubanananda Sahu, the Hindi teacher of Jashoda High School in Rangeiluda block of Ganjam district, has buildings in his native village, two flats in Bhubaneswar and a flat each in Puri and Berhampur, in southern Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray says attempts to malign Hindi film industry won't be tolerated||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said attempts to malign and “finish off” the Hindi film industry or “to shift it” would not be tolerated. Uddhav’s statement came against the backdrop of probes by multiple agencies into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and its media coverage that has been seen by many as a deliberate campaign to target Bollywood. The film industry was initially accused of forming powerful cliques to keep out real talent, indulging in “nepotism” and driving Sushant to his death, and then projected as a drug den. “Moves to finish off the film industry or shift it elsewhere will never be tolerated,” a statement from the chief minister’s office quoted Uddhav as saying at a meeting with multiplex and theatre owners. Mumbai is not only the country’s financial capital but also its entertainment capital, the chief minister said. “Bollywood enjoys a following across the globe. The film industry generates huge employment. In the last few days, attempts have been made to malign the image of the film industry by certain quarters which is painful,” Uddhav said. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh recently announced a plan to create a film city in that state. Uddhav told the cinema and multiplex owners at the meeting that the Maharashtra culture department had prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) regarding the reopening of cinema halls, which have been closed for over six months due to the coronavirus pandemic. A decision on reopening cinemas will be taken at the earliest after the SOP is finalised, he said. “The government is positive about it. The entertainment industry is a means to boost the state’s economy and the government is keen to restart it,” the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Weekly TRPs suspended for review||The Broadcast Audience Research Council (Barc) on Thursday announced a temporary suspension of weekly ratings of news channels across languages against the backdrop of allegations that some channels had manipulated television rating points (TRP). Barc intends to review and augment the standards of measurement to improve on “statistical robustness”, and the exercise will result in a “pause” in the weekly ratings for up to 12 weeks, an official statement said. At least five persons have been arrested by Mumbai police that have claimed to have busted a TRP scam earlier this month. Those arrested include news channel employees. The police are also questioning executives of Arnab Goswami’s Republic Media Group. The Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. The audience estimates given by Barc influence ad spends. The police have pegged the total size of annual ad placements at Rs 32,000 crore. The police allege that the ratings had been rigged by offering allurements to households where the monitors had been installed. “In the light of the recent developments, the Barc board has proposed that its technical committee review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres, to improve their statistical robustness and to significantly hamper the potential attempts of infiltrating the panel homes,” Barc said in the statement. The exercise will cover all Hindi, regional, English news and business news channels with immediate effect, it added. “Barc will cease publishing the weekly individual ratings for all news channels during the exercise,” the council said, adding that the process would continue for eight to 12 weeks and include validation and testing. “…A pause was necessitated to enable the industry and Barc to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness,” Barc India chairman Punit Goenka said. The industry body’s chief executive, Sunil Lulla, said that besides augmenting protocols and benchmarking them with global standards, Barc was also exploring several options to discourage unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers and further strengthening its codes. The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Republic Media Group to approach Bombay High Court in connection with the TRP manipulation case registered by Mumbai police. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee said the high court had been working amid the pandemic and the media group should approach it as Republic’s office was located at Worli in Mumbai. When senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the media house, expressed apprehension about the probe, the bench said: “Your client has an office at Worli? You may go to the Bombay HC.… Entertaining the petition like this without the HC hearing the matter sends a message also. The HC is working throughout the pandemic.” The apex court also expressed concern that of late there had been a tendency of police commissioners giving interviews. Salve withdrew the petition with liberty to approach the high court. Mumbai police have registered a case in the TRP case and summoned Republic TV’s chief financial officer, S. Sundaram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Kashmiri student allegedly assaulted, called ‘terrorist’||A Kashmiri student was allegedly assaulted and called a “terrorist” in the presence of a cop by her landlady and was later framed in a theft case in south Delhi’s posh Lajpat Nagar locality on Wednesday night. In her police complaint, Noor Bhat, who recently graduated from Amity University, alleged that the landlady had barged into her flat when she had gone to her cousin’s house and taken away her furniture, Rs 20,000 in cash and other belongings including her passport. Bhat, who hails from Srinagar, said she received a call from the landlady, Taruna Makhija, around 7.30pm asking her to return immediately When Bhat returned an hour later, she was shocked to find the door had been broken open and many of her belonging missing. She started video recording the scene when Makhija, accompanied by a man, came in and began verbally abusing her. Bhat alleged that a police constable, called by Makhija, was present when the landlady threatened to burn her face with a cigarette. “You are a terrorist, you spread terrorism. Your father is a terrorist,” Bhat quoted Makhija as telling her. The landlady also allegedly grabbed Bhat by her shoulder and scratched and pulled her by the hair. Bhat tweeted a photo of scratch marks below her neck. Late on Wednesday night, Bhat took to Twitter to narrate her predicament in a series of tweets. “So my landlady enters my house along with a man that I have never seen in my whole life and starts to call me and my friends ‘TERRORISTS’ just because we are from KASHMIR, that too, in front of a police official. They trespassed, broke in and (took away) our money, furniture,” she wrote. She said she was feeling scared and was staying with her cousin. Responding to Bhat’s tweets, Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal said: “This is shocking & shameful. DCW team is in touch. We’ll ensure action!” The DCW on Thursday issued a notice to the police and sought an action-taken report and a copy of the FIR and asked whether any arrests had been made. It also asked whether any police personnel were present during the assault and whether action had been taken against them. Personnel at the local Amar Colony police station initially downplayed the incident, saying the landlady and the tenant had been locked in a dispute over the past few days over non-payment of dues. Bhat, however, said she had cleared all dues. Later, an officer said: “Based on a written complaint given by the student, a case has been registered under IPC Section 448 (trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 457 (lurking house-trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) at Amar Colony police station and the matter is being investigated.” He said the landlady had also registered a complaint and it was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: dismay in Congress after candidate selection||The Congress appears to have once again pursued a self-defeatist attitude, this time while selecting candidates for the Bihar elections, triggering anger and dismay among party workers who lamented that a golden opportunity to send the BJP-JDU packing had been frittered away. Congress leaders said nepotism, networking, money and foolishness had dominated the process of ticket distribution, at time chief minister Nitish Kumar is said to be facing intense anti-incumbency and there seems to be tension in the ruling alliance. Although the Congress’s first list of 21 had caused much resentment and prompted the central leadership to try to take corrective steps, the final line-up of 70 candidates after the names of 59 were released on Thursday night only deepened the frustration. Many leaders concurred with the assessment that the party would be able to put up a fight in about 40 constituencies only as the remaining 30 candidates were so weak that their selection had amounted to giving a walkover to the opponents. Rahul Gandhi had publicly declared as Congress president that candidates would not be dropped from parachutes and that local party workers toiling at the grassroots would be given preference. The ticket distribution, however, indicates that there is an invisible lobby within the Congress that is hell bent on proving that Rahul’s lofty pronouncements mean little in realpolitik. One leader explained: “One Mithilesh Chaudhary has been given the ticket from Benipur. Nobody knew who he was, neither in the constituency, nor in the party. Frantic queries revealed that he is the brother-in-law of Kirti Azad, a former BJP leader who (unsuccessfully) contested the Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket from Dhanbad last year. Gunjan Patel, who had been working in Patna, has been fielded from Nalanda. Praveen Kushwaha, an accused in a kidnapping-and-murder case, wanted a ticket from Bhagalpur but was sent to Patna Sahib.” The leader added: “Dropping by parachute is the overriding principle, no matter what Rahul Gandhi says. At Chanpatia, Congress worker Sadhna Mishra worked hard for five years, but the candidate is Abhishek Ranjan. We don’t know who he is. There are many faces we had never seen in the party. We are sure they won’t be able to locate the party headquarters, Sadaqat Ashram in Patna. And if you work in area A, you are fielded from area X.” Another leader sarcastically said: “Sachin Tendulkar — chess; Vishwanathan Anand — football; P.T. Usha — cricket…. That’s how Congress managers will deploy their resources. And the parachute culture is so rampant that Luv Sinha, whose face won’t be recognised by even 1 per cent of the voters, has been fielded from Bankipur because he is Shatrughan Sinha’s son…. Sharad Yadav’s daughter has been fielded from Madhepura’s Bihariganj where she never lived or worked.” What is worse, the dominant feeling among the workers is that the criteria fixed by the central leadership for candidate selection was willfully violated and tickets were distributed considering extraneous factors. “One candidate’s selection happened only because he was collecting gifts and money for an AICC secretary. Another, a known criminal out on bail, bought a ticket. Some were preferred over strong local contenders because they were from important families. These tendencies have only intensified despite the shocking decline in the party’s fortunes,” the leader said. A leader of alliance partner RJD said they had asked the Congress to pick “winnable candidates” but the party kept insisting on numbers. “They took 70 seats although we knew they did not have good candidates. It is proven now,” the leader said. Congress workers are so angry that they want Rahul to drop the “moral posturing” of promoting hardworking party loyalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Jaishankar: China talks ‘confidential’||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Thursday said he was not in a position to speak in public about the ongoing discussions with China, for they were confidential and a “work in progress”. Asked repeatedly about the series of military and diplomatic-level talks since the border standoff began in May, the minister said: “What is going on obviously is something confidential between us and the Chinese.” He added: “We will wait to see how this plays out; where this will go. Hypothetical, speculative answer --- I wouldn’t give it. And whatever is my thinking, obviously, I will keep it to myself.” Jaishankar was responding to questions after addressing the Bloomberg India Economic Forum 2020. He refused to say anything more on the talks different from the opaque and often repetitive statements that are put out after every one of these meetings, as is the practice the world over during such negotiations. The minister, however, did provide his own assessment of the cause behind the tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “The issue is, really, can a rising China and a rising India find an equilibrium? What you are seeing on the border is an expression of that challenge and the inability to meet that challenge,” he said. Jaishankar said the Chinese actions along the LAC had disturbed the foundations of the bilateral relationship built over three decades. He refused to even indicate how the talks were progressing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Varavara Rao’s wife urges Supreme Court to grant him bail||Jailed poet P. Varavara Rao’s wife has urged the Supreme Court to grant him bail saying the 81-year-old is mentally unwell and has multiple ailments, including neurological disorders triggered presumably by Covid-19, and is being supported with diapers and urinary catheterisation. Pendyala Hemalatha’s petition, not yet listed for hearing, has underlined the “cruel, degrading and inhuman” treatment of her husband in a Maharashtra jail, alleging he is being denied medical tests and that his urine bag is not being changed, causing him infection. The Telugu revolutionary poet is in such a poor state of mind that in a recent letter to his wife he claimed that she (Hemalatha) was dead, the petition, filed on Thursday through advocate Sunil Fernandes, says. “The petitioner (Hemalatha) received a letter dated 31.08.2020 from her husband where he claims that the petitioner is dead and her body is at the morgue. Sadly, the letter is written to his wife, the petitioner,” the petition says. “This itself shows the mental status of the petitioner’s husband. None of these facts could be brought before the Hon’ble Bombay High Court as the matter was not being listed at all.” Varavara has been in jail for over two years in the Bhima Koregaon case, in which several rights activists, lawyers and writers have been arrested on the charge of Maoist links. Trial has not begun since the National Investigation Agency is yet to frame charges. According to Hemalatha, she received a letter on September 9 from Vernon Gonsalves, a co-accused and co-prisoner of her husband, that said Varavara was bedridden and lacked bowel or bladder control. So, he had been fitted out with a catheter and diapers while Gonsalves gave him swab baths. Varavara “has been suffering from urinary infection due to the urine bag which hasn’t been changed for the past 40 days”, the petition says, adding that he has been “forced to live in inhuman conditions”. “When the petitioner’s husband was arrested on August 28, 2018, he had no neurological problems. It is therefore highly likely that Covid-19 and the fall that he had in St George Hospital has led to neurological problems as reflected in the medical report filed by Nanavati Hospital dated 30.07.2020,” the petition says. It adds that Varavara was admitted to hospital on May 27 this year but was prematurely discharged on June 1 lest continued hospitalisation strengthen his case for bail, sought on the ground of illness and the Covid-19 threat. Although doctors had advised medical tests, the jail authorities failed to carry them out, the petition says, “as a result of which his condition continued to deteriorate and on 13.07.2020 he was again admitted to J.J. hospital”. “He tested positive for Covid-19 on 16.07.2020 and was shifted to St George Hospital, then to Nanavati Hospital. (He) sustained a head injury while he was in St George Hospital after a fall which required stitches,” the petition says. It accuses the authorities of violating Varavara’s right to dignity, enshrined under Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution, which “implies that no person can be treated in a cruel, degrading and inhuman manner”. “Article 7 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), which India has ratified and incorporated as a fundamental right, mandates that the State shall not treat anybody with cruel, degrading and inhuman treatment,” it says. “Article 10 of the ICCPR also mandates that the States treat all person with dignity and humanity.” Varavara is in no state to stand trial and needs critical medical care that the jail cannot provide, the petition argues. So, no useful purpose is being served by his continued imprisonment except to torture him beyond human endurance, the petition argues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Arrest shield for Kerala bureaucrat||Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Enforcement Directorate not to arrest former secretary in the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, till October 23 in the gold smuggling case. The suspended Sivasankar, questioned by multiple agencies over a money-laundering angle in the gold smuggling case and also for alleged connections with one of the prime accused, had sought anticipatory bail after receiving a non-cooperation notice and a fresh summons from the ED. Justice Ashok Menon issued the direction after Sivasankar’s counsel assured the court that his client would not flee. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for the bureaucrat, said Sivasankar would appear before the ED whenever summoned and also cooperate with the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-611
16-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi's Twitter question triggers speculation||Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter question about what is common between Pakistan, Iraq, Korea, Vietnam, Syria and Afghanistan on Thursday morning triggered wild speculation as thousands of people responded with varying interpretations according to their political persuasions. Rahul tweeted in the morning: “Can anyone guess what’s common between these countries: Pakistan Iraq Korea Vietnam Syria Afghanistan.” While some people tried to hunt for the hidden Narendra Modi link, others wondered if he was hinting at strained relations with the US with all these countries or the dictatorial regimes most of them suffered. Critics slammed him for vague quizzing and even flooded his timeline with Pappu jokes. Thousands of Congress supporters blindly chose to like and re-tweet instead of engaging in guesswork. In the evening, Rahul revealed what was in his mind, through another tweet: “Their leaders divided them internally and let their countries become battlegrounds between the dominant powers of their time. Their people paid for the leaders’ actions with blood and tears.” While he avoided directly dragging Modi in this discourse, his arguments about people suffering because of divisive politics subtly indicated his tweets were not completely delinked from domestic politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Asoka edicts re-imagined in musical form by T.M. Krishna ||Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna has breathed musical life into some of Asoka’s edicts urging sensitivity to human suffering and extolling the need for compassion and justice.  Part of the Edict Project in collaboration with Ashoka University, the first part that was released online on Wednesday has four edicts set to tune and sung by Krishna, also an author and Dalit rights activist. The edicts of Asoka (268-232BC), the Mauryan emperor who converted to Buddhism and spread the religion far and wide after being besieged by remorse on witnessing the death and destruction caused by the Kalinga War he had waged, are inscribed on rocks and pillars in several parts of India. Written in the Brahmi script, the inscriptions on natural rock faces and pillars disseminate Asoka’s ideas among his subjects. The significance of the release date of the Edict Project was not lost on many — it was on October 14, 1956, that Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar had converted along with tens of thousands of his Dalit followers to Buddhism at “Deekshabhoomi” in Nagpur, convinced that this was the only emancipation from the caste oppression of Hinduism. Krishna’s project may not be consciously political. But its political relevance is too profound to ignore against the backdrop of a spate of attacks on the dignity of Dalits in different parts of the country. Krishna brings a new aesthetic to ancient virtues like justice, peace and harmony by musically invoking the edicts. The English translation of one of the edicts says: “All my people are my children; I yearn for their welfare. Welfare how?… Good in this world.… There is no gift like the gift of justice (Dharma Daanam), like participation in justice.” Another one says: “Harmony is best. What is harmony? Listening to reflections on justice, each listening to that willingly.” Yet another goes: “After Kalinga was won, reflecting on justice, practising justice and enjoining justice.… Asoka is contrite and asks, did Asoka win Kalinga?” In an unusually creative team effort, Krishna, who has conceptualised, composed and sung the first set of four Asokan edicts and assimilated them from different places “in a garland of ragas drawn from the Carnatic tradition”, seeks to draw the people’s collective attention to the need for compassion and justice in a violent world. Krishna, in his deep sonorous voice accompanied by the tambura (tanpura), unravels the deeper significance of mankind’s quest for justice and harmony born during profound moments of self-reflection such as those of Asoka in the Kalinga battlefield. The English subtitles have helped bridge the gap between the ancient script and the wider modern audience. Its larger purpose also chimes with Krishna’s belief in the plurality of artistic traditions. Krishna said that through the Edit Project the participants hoped to re-imagine Asoka’s edicts in a musical form, to drive home the emperor’s profound transformation to a life of love and compassion towards all living beings. “The project aims at creating a vibrant, academic, socio-political and aesthetic conversation around the edicts,” Krishna said. “The songs were recorded during the Covid-19 lockdown. So, there were no instruments, just my tambura.… To my knowledge, this is the first time the emperor’s edicts are being sung,” he said. They have been rendered in a “raga-tala-malika” composition. Krishna said such creative re-interpretations of traditions were even more needed today as awakening healers. In his introductory text, former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has written: “Asoka, like his father Bimbisara and grandfather Chandragupta, believed in expanding, consolidating, ruling his empire centred around Pataliputra (modern-day Patna) through the traditional means of imperial kingships.… But the war he waged, successfully, to annex Kalinga caused him the very opposite of imperial satisfaction. It occasioned deep reflections and remorse… and induced him to study and propagate the teachings of Buddha.” Thus ‘Dharma’ or “Dhamma” became the pivot of Asoka’s royal policy, Gandhi writes. While the research and translation of the inscriptions for the Asoka Project have been done by Shravasti Dhammika and Dr Nareesh Keerthi, the sound and visuals are by Rithvik Raja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Pro-India political forces form 'People’s Alliance' in the Valley ||A “People’s Alliance” involving all major pro-India political forces took shape in the Valley on Thursday to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the resolution of the larger Kashmir issue. The formation of the political umbrella involving the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party, People’s Conference, the CPM and other outfits is expected to pose a new headache for the BJP-led Centre, which scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories on August 5 last year and went on to crush all dissent through an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade. With the new political axis also calling for a resolution of the Kashmir issue, so far the preserve of separatists, it also showed how last year’s decisions had turned champions of the pro-Indian cause into potential adversaries. The alliance is a worrying development for New Delhi also because it has emerged at a time the country is battling an aggressive Chinese army on the Ladakh frontier. China accuses India of “unilaterally” creating the Union Territory of Ladakh, and the August 5 moves are seen as the main reason behind the Chinese offensive. The parties have pledged to uphold the Gupkar Declaration, passed last year by them to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The government, however, went ahead with the cancellation of Article 370 and the bifurcation. The alliance was floated two days after former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was released after 14 months in captivity. The PDP president and former chief minister was the last of the Valley political heavyweights to be released. On Thursday, Kashmir witnessed its first large-scale political meeting since August 5, 2019. It was also the first time in decades that major political parties from the pro-India camp had closed ranks to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “We feel the political issue of the state has to be resolved as quickly as possible and that can only be done through dialogue by peaceful means with all the stakeholders who are involved in the problem of Jammu and Kashmir,” former chief minister Farooq Abdullah told reporters after the meeting. Farooq, who is the NC president and Srinagar MP, appeared to be referring to India, Pakistan and Kashmiris when he spoke of stakeholders. He was flanked by his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah, Mehbooba, Sajad Lone of the People’s Conference, the CPM’s Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and other leaders. The Congress, which was part of the Gupkar Declaration, did not turn up for the meeting. Farooq said theirs was a constitutional battle and they wanted the government of India to return to the people of Jammu and Kashmir the rights they enjoyed before August 5 last year. “All the rights snatched from us should be returned. (Also) Kashmir’s political issue is awaiting a solution for a long time. We want steps to be taken to ensure its immediate resolution,” he said. A leader privy to the conversations at the meeting said: “We want a structural response to last year’s assault on our identity. They (Centre) have humiliated the people of Jammu and Kashmir, particularly those who stood by the idea of India, by taking away our identity, dividing our state into two units and reducing them to Union Territories.” “Their next plan is to change the demography of our state but we will oppose the designs tooth and nail,” he added. With the separatist leadership in jail or under house arrest, the leaders of the pro-India camp are expected to take their battle to the streets, which might end up restoring their own credibility after appearing for months to have caved in under government pressure. As the leaders were busy with the meeting at Farooq’s residence, anger was writ large on faces of ordinary Kashmiris passing by. Many on motorcycles and cars swore under their breath at the leaders. Kashmiris in general have accused the leaders of strengthening India’s cause in Kashmir by betraying the dominant azadi struggle. The two-hour meeting at Farooq’s Gupkar residence also saw Mehbooba stepping out of her residence for the first time after her release. She first went to her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed’s grave at Anantnag’s Bijebehara. The PDP president had been scheduled to address on Friday her first media conference after her release but it was postponed in view of Thursday’s meeting.  Farooq said the leaders would meet again to chalk out the course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court: Estranged wife cannot be thrown out of home||An estranged daughter-in-law has the right to live in her in-laws’ home and can therefore not be thrown out by her husband or his family, the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday. The Domestic Violence Act, 2005, grants such a right to the woman whether or not she has legal rights over the property — which can even be rented premises — as long as the in-laws live there, a three-judge bench said. The judgment by the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah overrides a two-judge verdict in S.R. Batra vs Taruna Batra (2007) that denied such a right of residence to a woman in an estranged relationship. Petitioner Satish Chander Ahuja had challenged a Delhi High Court judgment of 2019 that had said his daughter-in-law Sneha had the right of residence despite a pending divorce dispute between her and husband Raveen. Ahuja’s contention was that even Raveen had no share in the house, which belonged to the petitioner. While passing Thursday’s judgment, based on interpretations of Sections 2 (shared household) and 17 (right of residence) of the Domestic Violence Act, the court dismissed Ahuja’s appeal. “The definition of shared household given in Section 2(s) cannot be read to mean that shared household can only be that household which is household of the joint family of which husband is a member or in which husband of the aggrieved person has a share,” the judgment, written by Justice Bhushan, said. “It is not requirement of law that aggrieved person (daughter-in-law) may either own the premises jointly or singly or by tenanting it jointly or singly.... The household may belong to a joint family of which the respondent (father-in-law in the present case) is a member irrespective of whether the respondent or the aggrieved person has any right, title or interest in the shared household; and the shared household may either be owned or tenanted by the respondent singly or jointly.” The bench said that under Section 17 of the Act, “every woman in a domestic relationship shall have the right to reside in the shared household, whether or not she has any right, title or beneficial interest in the same”. The judgment said that while the personal law (Hindu Marriage Act) gave the woman the right to maintenance, “the right of residence... recognised by sub-section (1) of Section 17 (of the Domestic Violence Act) is new and higher right conferred on every woman”. However, the court clarified that the woman’s “living” in a household had to have some permanency for the right of residence to apply. Fleeting or casual living at different places do not make for a shared household, it said. “The intention of the parties and the nature of living including the nature of household have to be looked into to find out whether the parties intended to treat the premises as shared household or not,” it said. On Ahuja’s claim that his son had no share in the property in Delhi’s upscale New Friends Colony, the court said: “Even if the house is in the name of the (father-in law) and even if we accept... (that) Raveen has no share in the house... whether the (daughter-in-law) is entitled to reside in the premises in question as shared household is the question to be answered.” The bench noted that despite domestic violence being rampant in the country, with many women facing violence in some shape almost every day, it was the least reported form of cruel behaviour. “A woman resigns her fate to the never-ending cycle of enduring violence and discrimination as a daughter, a sister, a wife, a mother, a partner or a single woman in her lifetime,” it said. “This non-retaliation by women coupled with the absence of laws addressing women’s issues, ignorance of the existing laws enacted for women and societal attitude makes the women vulnerable. The reason why most cases of domestic violence are never reported is the social stigma... and the attitude of the women themselves, where women are expected to be subservient, not just to their male counterparts but also to the male’s relatives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Alert over influenza and Covid in winter||Seasonal influenza viruses could aggravate simultaneous Covid-19 infections and cause severe illness, Chinese researchers said on Thursday after experiments on cells and mice that they say hold lessons for the coming winter months. Virologist Ke Xu and her colleagues at Wuhan University had found influenza A virus infections enhancing the infectivity of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, in laboratory cells and increasing viral loads and lung damage in mice. Health experts had been concerned about the possibility of simultaneous or “co-infections” with flu viruses and SARS-CoV-2, particularly because influenza was expected to rise during winter. But it had been unclear whether or how influenza infections might influence the course of Covid-19 superposed on the flu. The limited patient reports had been inconclusive. Doctors in Barcelona, Spain, had in May reported that the conditions of three of four patients co-infected with influenza and Covid-19 had deteriorated into severe respiratory illness. However, doctors in Wuhan had reported, also in May, that patients with Covid-19 and influenza had similar clinical disease as patients with only Covid-19. In the new experiments, the researchers at the State Key Laboratory of Virology, Wuhan University, co-infected cells and mice with the H1N1 influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2. The genetically engineered mice possessed the molecular gateways that the SARS-CoV-2 virus uses to enter human cells. They found that the influenza infection increased the SARS-CoV-2 infectivity in cells five-fold, and the viral load in mice six-fold to 12-fold. The co-infection also caused more severe pathological changes in the lungs than infection with only SARS-CoV-2. Their findings represent the first experimental evidence that pre-infection with an influenza virus such as H1N1 “strongly promotes” SARS-CoV-2 entry and infectivity in cells and animals, the researchers said in a paper not peer reviewed yet but posted on an online preprint archive. The scientists said their findings underscored the importance of mask use and physical distancing during the coming winter months when large proportions of people across the northern hemisphere are likely to be exposed to threats from both infections. A senior Indian medical virologist said the implications for co-infected patients were unclear. “A lot will hinge on the timing between the two exposures,” Shailendra Saxena, professor at the King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, told The Telegraph. A patient’s response, Saxena said, is likely to depend on how long after infection by the influenza virus they were exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. After infection, the immune system typically eliminates both viruses within a week to 10 days. “But the findings highlight the challenges ahead — the H1N1 season is starting now,” Saxena said. “If doctors encounter patients who are positive for both, they’ll face a dilemma of choosing the right treatment. For H1N1, oseltamivir is prescribed; for Covid-19 the line of treatment is different.” India on Thursday recorded 67,708 new Covid-19 infections, raising the total count to over 7.3 million patients, of whom 6.38 million have recovered, over 812,000 are under treatment while 111,266 have died. The country’s seven-day average of daily new cases has fallen over the past four weeks, from 97,894 on September 16 to 67,349 on October 14. But health officials and doctors are worried that the triad of the opening economy, festival weeks and winter months might trigger a fresh surge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||India||Centre does sharp U-turn on GST loans||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has had to eat crow after all. After adopting a tough, take-it-or-lump-it stand in the face of stiff opposition from at least 10 states to the borrowing options that were placed before them to recover their legitimate GST dues, the Narendra Modi government has backed down and decided to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore from a special window before passing it on to the states. The sharp U-turn after more than six weeks of drama over the contentious issue that had riven the GST Council came just a few hours after Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said the Opposition-ruled states were planning to move the Supreme Court against the Centre’s inflexible stand and its refusal to hammer out a consensus. The craven submission came in a late-evening announcement: “Under the special window, the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore (assuming all states join) will be borrowed by the Government of India in appropriate tranches…. The borrowed amount will be passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan in lieu of GST compensation cess releases.” Late at night, the Centre modified the loan issuance calendar from October 19 to March 31 next year to include the Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of the states. The Centre’s gross borrowings during this period will swell to Rs 4.88 lakh crore, which will include the loans to cover the shortfall in GST compensation. The government intends to raise three and five-year loans of Rs 55,000 crore to meet its obligation to the states. The Modi government tried to play down its acute embarrassment by trying to suggest that the move had been dictated by a desire to avoid a situation where the states might have to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India’s special loan window at differential rates of interest based on their creditworthiness — suddenly waking to a problem it had not apparently foreseen. “This will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India. The amounts will be reflected as the capital receipts of the state governments and as part of financing of its respective fiscal deficits. This will avoid differential rates of interest that individual states may be charged for their respective state development loans (SDLs) and will be an administratively easier arrangement,” the government added. The 10 Opposition -ruled states had all along insisted that the Centre should borrow the amount and pass it on to the states in line with a promise that the late Arun Jaitley -- Sitharaman's predecessor -- had unequivocally promised when persuading the states to implement the GST regime that aimed to transform India’s $2 trillion economy and 1.3 billion consumers into a unified common market from July 2017. At the end of a stormy five-and-a-half-hour meeting on August 27, the Centre had left the states with two disagreeable options: either borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from the RBI’s special window to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The borrowing Option 1 was raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore at a meeting earlier this month but the Centre steadfastly refused to borrow the sum and pass it on to the states. Besides Kerala, the states that had opposed both borrowing options included Bengal, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “If the Centre has decided to borrow the Rs 1.1 lakh crore and extend it to the states as back-to-back loans, I welcome the change in its position. I thank all the economists, academics and newspaper editors who had supported our position.” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra declined to comment on the development until he had seen the fine print. However, a state government official said: “They (the Centre) appear to have come halfway. The note indicates the loan will be serviced from the cess and the states will have to service neither the principal nor the interest. That is why it will sit as a capital receipt on the balance sheet of the states.” Earlier in the day, Isaac had tweeted: “Some of the States are likely to approach the SC against (the) discriminatory and illegal action of the Centre regarding GST Compensation. Kerala CM to chair a meeting of law, tax and finance departments and advocate-general to take final decision on Kerala’s stance tomorrow afternoon.” Finance ministry officials resorted to sophistry to suggest that the Centre had not buckled under pressure. “There is no change in stance.... The special window mentioned in the option is via the RBI and the loan is given to the Centre in the name of the state,” they said. Under the borrowing Option 1, the Centre “will endeavour to keep the cost at or close to the yield on the government securities”. If the cost is higher, the Centre will bear the margin between the G-Secs yield and the average of State Development Loan yields up to 0.5 per cent through a subsidy. “It may also be clarified that the general government (states + Centre) borrowings will not increase by this step. The states that get the benefit from the special window are likely to borrow a considerably lesser amount from the additional borrowing facility of 2 per cent of their gross state domestic product (from 3 to 5 per cent) under the Aatma Nirbhar Package,” the government said in its note. The Aatma Nirbhar package was unveiled in May as part of a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package that left many economists disappointed with the scale of the fiscal response to the Covid crisis. Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head, corporate sector ratings, ICRA, said: “This step will reduce the supply of state bonds in the second half of this fiscal from the level that was earlier being anticipated. Moreover, the cost of such borrowing would go down. In conjunction with the plan to conduct open market operations (OMOs) in SDLs that has been announced by the RBI, such measures should help ease SDL spreads.” Officials said: “The repayment mechanism will remain the same, as presented before the GST Council. The repayment will be done by the collections under the compensation kitty post-June 2022. The first charge will be used to pay interest; the second charge will be divided between paying the principal amount and the remaining compensation dues of the states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-612
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja grant must be used to buy Covid equipment, rules HC ||The Calcutta High Court directed the community Durga Puja organisers in the state on Friday to spend 75 per cent of the Rs 50,000 grant given by the Bengal government on the procurement of COVID protection equipment and the rest on strengthening public-police bonding. A division bench comprising justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee directed that the money given by the state to the Durga Puja committees cannot be used for any other purpose, and purchase bills have to be submitted to the authorities for audit. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had announced on September 24 the Rs 50,000 grant for each of the 36,946 Durga Puja committees in the state. "Due to the COVID pandemic, it has been a tough time for all of us. We have decided to provide Rs 50,000 grant to each of the Durga Puja committees," she had said addressing a Durga Puja Coordination meeting here. CITU leader Sourav Dutta moved the petition on October 9 before the division bench, challenging the grant and other doles such as discounts on application fees for permissions from fire brigade and power distribution companies. The petitioner claimed that such a grant is against the concept of secularism in India and that it hurts the fundamental rights provided in the Constitution. During arguments, the state government told the court that the grant is for "secular purposes" like buying Covid safety equipment and for public-police bonding. The court directed that 25 per cent of the Rs 50,000 grant to each of the committees will be used for strengthening public-police bonding and inclusion of more women in community policing. It also said that the rest 75 per cent of the funds have to be utilised for purchase sanitisers, masks and face shields. It directed that bills of such procurement should be submitted to the authorities in respective districts for auditing and a report will have to be submitted by the state government before the court after the Durga Puja vacation, when the matter would be taken up for hearing again. The court also said that the interim order should be distributed to all Durga Puja committees through leaflets and an affidavit would have to be submitted by the state authorities on compliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Significant improvement in Soumitra's health||The health condition of legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee improved a lot and he has also started speaking a little bit, doctors treating him at the city-based private hospital, said on Friday. The 85-year-old thespian's oxygen saturation has also improved while his Sodium and Potassium have been corrected, they said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing very well. He is recovering and his consciousness has gone better substantially. He is obeying commands and is responsive and certainly understanding a few words. The good part is he is speaking a little bit but not full fledged mode. We are giving all sorts of good therapy," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of 15 doctors, treating the actor, said. The veteran actor slept well last night and his restlessness has also improved, he added. Chatterjee, who was on BiPAP (a non-invasive ventilation used for breathing support administered via a face or nasal mask) in the night but in the morning was put on a nasal mask, the doctor said. "He has no fever for over 50 hours now. Kidneys, heart, liver all are within acceptable ranges. Mr Chatterjee's saturations are more than 96 per cent on a support of 40 per cent of oxygen only. Both of his Sodium and Potassium levels have been corrected. No new complications had happened. This is a very good sign," Dr Kar said. Talking about their planned treatment, he said that a few normal and regular tests will be conducted on Chatterjee on Friday. "Normal and regular tests will be repeated today. We have completed the course of Remdesivir, plasma and others. We are thinking to increase the dose of specific medicines to reduce the encephalopathy burden and dose of other medicines to enhance his immunity and counter the impact of encephalopathy," he said. Chatterjee was also responding well to the music therapy administered to improve his neurological issues. "We have been giving him the choices of music he likes, especially Rabindrasangeet, the music from the movies he has acted in. He has responded well to that also. Let's hope in coming two three days he improves substantially as he has been in the last 24 hours and he comes out of it in good shape," Dr Kar said. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to a private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday following which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU for treatment. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||1 lakh new cases in Bengal in a month||Bengal on Thursday reported yet another highest 24-hour spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,720 new infections, with the total number of cases crossing 3.09 lakh. This was the 12th time in 15 days this month with a highest 24-hour spike in Covid cases, as the recovery rate continued to dip. There have been 1 lakh new cases and 1,808 deaths in the past month alone. On Thursday, Bengal reported 62 deaths, with 17 from Calcutta and 14 from North 24-Parganas, and 3,179 cures. With this, 3.09 lakh cases include over 2.71 lakh recoveries and 5,870 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, which reached 87.98 per cent on October 6, dropped to 87.77 per cent on Thursday. The national rate — once lagging behind Bengal by 10 per cent or so — has almost caught up, at 87.43. “Since September 15, we have had over one lakh new cases, outweighing the 90,000-odd recoveries,” said a minister. The state, which climbed to the top five among states with the highest recovery rates and stayed there for long, has now fallen to the 20th place. Bengal, which dropped out of the top 10 states with the highest total of active cases, is now at seventh spot. Among states with the highest mortality rates, Bengal is fourth. “Total active cases a month ago were around 23,000. On Thursday, they are nearly 32,000,” said the minister. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.89, much behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. Of the 5,870 deaths, the state government termed 4,969 or 84.7 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. With 42,653 tests, the total tests went past 38.61 lakh, at 42,901 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.01 per cent now. Bengal reported 37.88 per cent occupancy in the 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.35 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Cash to aid 1 lakh hawkers||The Mamata Banerjee government will give Rs 2,000 each to about 1 lakh hawkers across the state — 68,000 in Calcutta and 32,000 in the districts — just ahead of Durga Puja. The move assumes significance as it is expected to create both economic and political spin-offs. On Thursday, the chief minister instructed officials — during a programme in which she inaugurated 110 pujas in 12 districts through videoconference from Nabanna — to transfer the one-time financial assistance to the bank accounts of the hawkers as early as possible. “Complete the process at the earliest and ensure that funds are transferred to the bank accounts of the hawkers as early as possible,” she said. It was clear from her sense of urgency that she wanted the money to reach hawkers, most of whom have suffered significant income loss because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, before the festive season so that they can do some festive shopping. While Rs 2,000 is a modest amount, it will  help people who have had very little earnings in the last few months. “This is a kind of direct benefit transfer.… This will also have a positive spin-off for the state economy as people will start buying things with the money,” said economist Abhiroop Sarkar. In the months of lockdown, several economists had suggested the Narendra Modi government to opt for the DBT (direct benefit transfer) route and transfer money to the accounts of migrant workers, who lost jobs during the pandemic. The fact that Mamata — despite the constraints facing the state coffers — has decided to help the hawkers with a one-time grant is a good example of welfare economics, said a city-based economist who did not wish to be named. “I know that it will become a political issue tomorrow as the Opposition parties will attack the CM... I don’t want to be a party in these political games,” the economist said while explaining the reason for requesting anonymity. Some officials close to the chief minister think that though the Opposition may question the DBT to hawkers or the grant of Rs 50,000 to clubs as dole, the measures will end up boosting the state’s economy during the festive season. “The state has already spent Rs 185 crore by giving Rs 50,000 each to 37,000 puja committees. Now, another Rs 20 crore would be sent to give one-time financial assistance to 1 lakh hawkers,” said a senior government official. “Spending a sum of Rs 205 crore ahead of the festive season would boost the state’s economy.” Some district magistrates this correspondent spoke to said that the decision to help the puja organisers has started yielding positive results for the local economy. “Usually, we receive 1,700 applications from organisers seeking permission for Durga Puja in our district every year. But this year, initially we had received about 800 applications before the scheme was announced by the chief minister. But now, we have granted permissions to more than 1,300 pujas this year,” said a district magistrate from a north Bengal district. Another DM from south Bengal said that almost all the pujas — 1,100-odd — would be held this year after the chief minister announced to help the organisers. The DMs said that each of the pujas trigger a series of economic activities in local areas. “The decorators get work, the electricians get work and several other activities happen around the pujas. All these benefit the unorganised sectors, which ultimately helps to boost the economy,” said a DM. According to the notification issued on Wednesday, the financial assistance is being offered to the hawkers as they could not earn their livelihood during the lockdown period. The hawkers would now submit applications seeking the assistance to the local police stations. The local civic body would receive the applications after police verify them. Once received by the local civic bodies, funds would be allotted by the urban development and municipal affairs department to the local bodies to disburse the financial assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda meet points to TMC feud||Trinamul’s infighting in Malda came to the surface again on Thursday as some leaders held an event to prove their opposition to leaders of another lobby. The presence of Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and state committee secretary of the party at the event encouraged the dissidents who had skipped the block-level meet convened by the party five days ago. Trouble in the party’s Kaliachak-II block started when  local MLA Sabina Yasmin, and her followers were prioritised by district leaders when they formed the party’s committee in the block. Elected as a Congress MLA, Yasmin joined Trinamul in 2017. Her joining irked some Trinamul leaders who had fought against her till she joined Trinamul. But after she joined Trinamul, Yasmin was made the party coordinator in the block. Trinamul leader Nazrul Islam, who had contested against Yasmin in 2016 when she was in the Congress, virtually revolted against her increasing importance. Recently, the block committee was announced and Sudhir Das, a Yasmin loyalist, was made its president. This angered Islam many other party leaders. On October 11, as the party organised the block-level meet, Islam and some others skipped it and claimed they were not invited. On Thursday, this group organised a meet in the block apparently to protest against the new farm bills and the Hathras atrocity. The meeting was convened under the banner of Trinamul’s minority cell of which Islam is the district chairman. Party insiders, however, pointed out that Thursday’s conference was convened as a message to Yasmin and district and state leaders not to dismiss Islam’s lobby. They invited Krishnendu Choudhury, who turned up and questioned some recent decisions of the party. “I attended the meeting as they invited me. I was not invited at the block conference. Those who are old leaders and workers of the party should be honoured,” said Chowdhury. Encouraged by his presence, the anti-Yasmin lobby made obliquely critical references against her. Yasmin, when contacted, said: “I was not invited to the event. The block committee was also kept in the dark (about the event). The party leadership should take suitable action against such activities by a section of people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga at doorstep in Covid year||The Covid-19 pandemic has put a spin to the age-old festive cry of “Maa aschhe (the Mother goddess is coming)” in Midnapore town. The Rabindranagar Durgotsav Committee, among the largest pandal organisers in the town with an average footfall of up to a lakh, responded to this year’s pandemic with their innovative “Thakbe tumi ghore, thakur jabe dwaare (You will stay home, the goddess will go to your doorstep)” campaign. The Durgotsav committee, working with a curtailed budget of Rs 6 lakh this year, a drop of Rs 14 lakh from normal years, will not only have their regular pandal in Rabindranagar locality, but also host a smaller idol atop a flat-bed truck for a mobile “darshan” across the town’s 25 wards. The mobile “darshan” will give residents the opportunity to see the goddess from their verandas and balconies, maintaining social distancing amid the pandemic. “We are deeply appreciative of this initiative. In addition to addressing pandemic protocol, this attempt will also satisfy so many senior citizens of the town who are otherwise unable to leave their homes,” said district magistrate Rashmi Kamal at the inauguration of the pandal on Thursday evening. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated this Durga Puja, along with many others in south Bengal districts, over videoconference. Kamal and the West Midnapore superintendent of police, Dinesh Kumar were physically present at the pandal. Sources said the Rabindranagar pandal was arguably the most popular Durga Puja in Midnapore town. Last year, in its 50th year, the club won the Biswa Bangla Shera Puja award among the 100 pujas held in Midnapore town. Club secretary Subhajit Mandal said the prime goal of this year was to maintain social distancing. “So we came up with a door-to-door darshan,” Mandal said, explaining that a tenth of their total budget would go towards fuel and vehicular expenditure. He added that because of the pandemic their budget had to be brought down from the usual Rs 20 lakh. “But we want to ensure safe and memorable celebrations,” added Mandal, a pathologist at Belda hospital who has been working on the frontlines of efforts against Covid-19 since March. Club members explained that along with a miniature idol, the truck bed would have room for a priest who would stop at a designated juncture of each locality and conduct a puja with residents’ floral offerings (pushpanjali). The truck is set to make rounds from Panchami up to the final day of Dashami from 10am to 5pm. Midnapore residents have welcomed the concept. “We have not been leaving home much since March, and our fears over Covid have increased anticipating possible Puja crowds. That’s why we are elated to hear about Rabindranagar club's noble initiative,” said Abani Dey, 68, a retired state electricity board employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Lab for cutting-edge roads||The Bengal government will soon begin research and development (R&D) on a new mechanism to build roads in rural areas of the state and ensure the construction of durable stretches meet international standards. The research wing of Rural Connectivity Training and Research Centre (RCTRC), set up under the panchayat and rural development department’s West Bengal State Rural Development Agency (WBSRDA), will soon become functional in Kalyani for R&D on new technologies to build roads in the state. Since the implementation of new road-laying mechanisms developed through R&D is mandatory in at least 15 per cent of roads built annually under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, known as the Bangla Gram Sadak Yojana in Bengal, state panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee on Thursday visited the laboratory of the institute in Kalyani on Thursday to check its level of preparedness. The training unit of the institute had started working earlier but the lab operations were delayed because of the Covid situation though infrastructure and machinery installation were ready. “A major change in use of technology has occurred in road construction. Our aim is to evolve the best possible mechanism using modern technology and continuous research. Our engineers will conduct the research in the laboratory here and develop the mechanism for successful implementation of their outputs in the road projects in rural areas,” an official of the WBSEDA said. “We have implemented new mechanism using polythene in bitumen for a waterproof effect on the road’s black top and launched cold mix bituminous plants. Through research we can innovate effective mechanisms to build roads that suit our needs and geographical conditions,” an engineer said. Built with financial support of the Asian Development Bank on an area spanning over 7.38sqkm in B Block of Kalyani town in Nadia, the RCTRC has compression testing machine, core cutting machine, water distillation unit, rebound hammer, saybolt viscometer apparatus, skid resistance machine, ductility test unit, soil testing unit, sieve analysis unit, among others. The training unit for the engineers include faculty rooms, conference room, classrooms, guest house, kitchen and gymnasium. Officials attached to RCTRC said the centre would tie up with other institutions in the field to optimise research and training output.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus ‘stimulus’ brews cheer in local economy||A Rs 400-crore stimulus package in the form of bonus to tea industry workers has suddenly brought cheer to north Bengal’s local economy with traders hoping the multiplier effect from festive spending sets cash tills ringing, and offset even partially the gloom and doom of a pandemic year. In north Bengal, around 3.5 lakh workers are associated with the tea sector. Another 10,000-odd people are staff and sub-staff, and 50,000 more work in small tea plantations and bought-leaf factories. “Altogether, the total sum of bonus would be around Rs 400 crores. Most gardens have already paid the bonus,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. Every year, the business fraternity in north Bengal eagerly awaits the tea bonus, but this year, retailers are seeing it as a “stimulus in crisis hour”. A garment shopowner in Bidhan Market, the main market in Siliguri, said signs of festive spending were visible. “We had been sitting idle and waiting for customers…but these past few days, we started getting customers and most of them are from tea gardens. They are shopping from their bonus payout,” said the middle-aged shop owner. Like everywhere else, north Bengal’s local economy had been limping because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The impact was felt more in this part of the country because the regional economy is largely dependent on tourism, a sector that has taken a beating since March and is showing only faint signs of revival, at least till now. Those associated with the sector pointed out that they have lost almost 70 per cent of business in the current year and have pegged their losses to over 3,000 crore. Against this backdrop, the tea industry bonus has injected liquidity in the market with shoppers coming back to shops and malls in Siliguri, the region’s biggest trade hub. Researchers and economists said that infusion of fresh funds in the market would be a boon for the local economy due to the multiplier effect, which means the final impact of capital injection will be more than Rs 400 crore. “The bonus distributed in the tea sector will largely help the economy because of the multiplier effect,” remarked Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. “If people start shopping with the money received as bonus, it will surely have a positive impact on the economy.” Explaining “multiplier effect”, a term used in economics, he said that if a tea worker spends a part of his bonus to buy garments, the cloth seller would spend this money on more stocks and on other expenses, while those who receive the money from him in turn will use it for other purposes. “At a time economic growth halts or starts declining, this is how the economy can be improved. Also, governments have an important role to play for the revival of the economy and one of the ways is to infuse funds into the market by way of helping residents,” Nag said. A faculty member in the economics department of North Bengal University said that after bonus, local markets that are also tea hubs — places like Malbazar, Birpara, Kalchini and Alipurduar in the Dooars and Darjeeling and Kurseong in the hills — show an improvement in the scale of business, and this eventually increases businesses in places such as Siliguri and Jalpaiguri that supply the goods. “Every day, around Rs 100 crore used to be the trade volume ahead of Durga Puja in Siliguri markets. This year, the situation was dismal because of the pandemic. In such a time, the tea bonus has given the necessary fillip,” he said. Surajit Paul, convener of the Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce & Industries, agreed. “For past few days, tourists have started arriving in the region but it would take several more months for the industry to get back on its feet. In such a situation, the tea bonus has come as a major boost for local markets. This is because almost the entire amount will be infused in the local market ahead of the festivities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Tea workers better off in state: Moloy||State labour minister Moloy Ghatak on Thursday drew parallels between the condition of tea plantation workers in Bengal and Assam in terms of wages and rations and said they would be better off  as long as Mamata Banerjee was in power. Ghatak made the comment while inaugurating the distribution of food grains by the state on Kalchini tea estate in Alipurduar district. “Tea garden workers are secure only if Mamata Banerjee is in the chief minister’s chair. Each worker gets 35kg of free food grains a month from the state government. The daily wage in Bengal is Rs 176.. Tea estate workers receive a daily wage of Rs 130 and monthly ration of only 20kg food grains in Assam where the BJP is in power. Our government has decided to build pucca houses for each tea worker,” the minister said. Ghatak said the condition of tea garden workers in Bengal would worsen if the BJP came to power in the state. “For the improvement of tea industry and workers, it is imperative that Mamata Banerjee continues to be the chief minister,” he added. The minister announced that workers of two tea estates — Torsha that is shut and Raimatang which reopened recently — would receive Rs 1,500 each a month under the state government’s FAWLOI (Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries) scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Mission cancels Kumari Puja this year||The Kumari Puja held during Durga Puja at the Ramakrishna Mission here has been called off after the seven-year-old girl  chosen to be worshipped as the symbol of the deity tested Covid positive along with some of her relatives. Swami Tyagarupananda, secretary of the Malda branch of the Ramakrishna Mission, and two other civil workers of the centre also tested positive. Nearly 10,000 people rush to the Malda Ramakrishna Mission to see Kumari Puja every year. A monk of the Ramakrishna Mission said that earlier they had decided to hold a low-key Kumari Puja ceremony. But recently, when the girl finalised to be worshipped as the symbol of Durga tested positive, the Kumari Puja was called off. Swami Tyagarupananda added: “I am in quarantine and under treatment. Two other employees of the branch (Ramakrishna Mission, Malda) have also been tested positive. All others who stay at the branch have been asked to undergo tests in a day or two.” The decision by the Ramakrishna Mission authorities to cancel Kumari Puja left many Malda residents disappointed. Biswanath Sanyal, a teacher in a college, said on Ashtami, all roads in Malda lead to Ramakrishna Mission to witness Kumari Puja. “The pandemic has stopped it too. The charm of Durga Puja at the Ramakrishna Mission has been largely diminished by Covid-19,” he lamented. At Ramakrishna Mission, sources said entry of people on ashram premises would be restricted. “The office and quarters of the secretary were sanitised on Thursday. We will ensure there is no overcrowding on our premises,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Canteen, waiting hall opened at Siliguri park||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday opened a waiting hall and a canteen constructed at a cost of Rs 35 lakh at the Bengal Safari Park near here. Inaugurating the new facilities, Deb said a centre for exhibition-cum-sale of local handicraft products and souvenirs would soon come up in front of the park. “The waiting hall and canteen can help visitors during their short stay inside the park. Senior citizens and children visiting the park could not find a place to take a brief halt as the entire park is in an open area. The waiting hall will help them during the monsoon and on scorching sunny days,” the minister said. The canteen, sources said, will be run by members of the forest protection committee. The state forest department spent Rs 34 lakh on the new facilities. The minister said a two-storied Karma Tirtha would be built on a five-cottah plot near the park where local people could set up stalls to exhibit and sell handicraft and different other products. “The building will have 14 stalls in total. The project cost is Rs 86 lakh. Local self-help groups will run the Karma Tirtha. Our idea is to provide an avenue of revenue to local artisans and residents. They are expected to draw buyers as hundreds visit the park every day,” said Deb. Located around 6km from Siliguri, the park is spread over an area of 297 hectares. After the lockdown, it was reopened for visitors on October 2, along with all other zoological parks in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
16-10-2020||West Bengal||Cop hit on eye in BJP-TMC clash||An assistant sub-inspector of police suffered serious injuries to the left eye when he was hit with a brick during a clash between BJP and Trinamul Congress supporters near the Jharalta 2 panchayat office in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday. Saran Pradhan, the ASI at the Dhupguri police station, was admitted to a private nursing home in Siliguri with blood oozing out of the eye. The clash broke out when BJP supporters took out a march to the panchayat office to protest against alleged anomalies in the selection of beneficiaries of a central housing scheme. As they reached in front of the office, an altercation took place between them and Trinamul activists present at the spot. “Soon, the members of the two parties attacked each other with bricks, sticks and stones,” said a source. Dhupguri police reached the spot to bring the situation under control. One of the flying bricks hit the chin and the left eye of ASI Pradhan. Seeing him bleeding, both the groups fled. Biren Roy, a local Trinamul leader, said the BJP supporters had started the violence. “They attacked Trinamul activists and six of them were injured. The BJP workers also attacked the police,” said Roy. The BJP has denied the charges. “We were marching to the panchayat office to submit a memorandum. But some Trinamul supporters attacked us without any provocation,” BJP leader Agun Roy said. The police said they were trying to trace those who had attacked the ASI. The CPM lodged a police complaint on Thursday after a handwritten poster was found on the wall of its office in ward 4 of Santipur municipality in Nadia district with a threat to kill two leaders unless they stopped visiting the office. The leaders are Bidyut Dutta and Amal Nandy. The CPM alleged that the poster had been pasted by members of unauthorised Happy Club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-342
16-10-2020||North East||Assam coordinator writes to officials on NRC ‘ineligible persons’ list||The NRC authority in Assam has set the ball rolling for deleting the names of “ineligible persons” who have made it to the updated but yet to be notified National Register of Citizens, a move which has evoked mixed response. In a missive to the 33 deputy commissioners and District Registrar of Citizen Registration (DRCR) on October 13, NRC state coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has urged them to submit the list of “ineligible persons” with reasons for deleting their names from the updated NRC which is yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India. These “ineligible” persons include the declared foreigners (DF), the doubtful voters (DV) and the persons whose cases are pending before foreigners tribunals (PFT) and their descendants. NRC is a register of Indian citizens, which is being updated in Assam on the basis of the 1951 NRC with the cut-off date of March 24, 1971, to weed out foreigners illegally staying in the state. The development assumes significance because there was hardly any movement since the final NRC was declared on August 31 last year, which had excluded over 19 lakh applicants. The BJP-led state government and leading organisations had expressed reservations about the list as it “included” illegal migrants and “excluded” genuine Indians and also the number of excluded was less than the figures quoted by the government in the past. The draft NRC had excluded over 40 lakh applicants. “A software application for submission of the reviewed results of such persons along with mechanism for uploading of the scanned speaking order (freshly written) will be rolled out shortly,” the order said. NRC sources said no deadline has been set but they expect the process to be completed within a month. The move has been necessitated because ineligible persons are a “threat” to national security. The sources also did not reveal the estimated numbers on whom the axe will fall but NGO Assam Public Works, the original petitioner in the case which led to the NRC update being monitored by the Supreme Court, said the “number would be around 80 lakh”, a figure they have quoted in an affidavit filed last year for 100 per cent re-verification of the updated NRC. The state NRC office has written to the deputy commissioners and the DRCR “regarding reports received for change in result of persons of final NRC” thrice this year — in January, February and March, when the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus was imposed. The NRC communiqué said the Local Registrar of Citizen Registration (LRCR) “may at any time before the final publication of the NRC in the State of Assam may cause or direct to cause verification of names of such persons considered necessary” of the Schedule of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens & Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The verification would mandatorily require the correct identity of the person so that no ambiguity arises in future in identification of the person concerned, according to the order of the NRC coordinator. It has been marked to the chief secretary and the RGI. However, the order has evoked mixed reactions. Senior Supreme Court advocate and anti-influx activist Upamanyu Hazarika told The Telegraph that the timing of this order was surprising. “It’s been over two years since the publication of the draft NRC but it took them so long to discover these cases. Discrepancies and inclusion of a large number of foreigners in the NRC has been a primary public concern in Assam and is viewed as a failure of the present government as their leadership has been more concerned with exclusion of Hindu Bangladeshis rather than inclusion of Muslim infiltrators,” he said. With the Assembly elections coming up, they want to assuage indigenous sentiments as it’s this vote which put them in power, Hazarika said. Assam goes to polls in April-May next year. APW’s Aabhijeet Sharma, however, welcomed the order. “The final NRC needs to be free of illegal foreigners. We have urged the Supreme Court for 100 per cent re-verification,” he said. The population of Assam is around 3.2 crore. The state government had told the Assembly in August this year that it remained “strongly in favour” of re-verification of 20 per cent names included in the updated NRC from districts bordering Bangladesh and 10 per cent in the remaining districts. Those applicants excluded from the updated NRC are yet to be assigned the reasons for their exclusion so that they can challenge their cases in the foreigners tribunals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
16-10-2020||Opinion||Uneven keel: India's healthcare spending||Being unprepared to tackle a health crisis could be akin to losing half the battle. This certainly seems to be true in the case of India. An Oxfam report has found that India spent just 4 per cent of its budget on health going into the pandemic, with its expenditure being the fourth lowest in the world. Making matters worse are findings that even with caps imposed by states on hospital expenditures on Covid-19 treatment, around 80 per cent of Indian families would face financial ruin if just one person had to get treated. It becomes clear that there are serious design flaws in policies related to health expenditure in the populous country. The consequences are alarming. Only half of India’s population can avail of even the most rudimentary health services, and over 70 per cent of health expenses are borne by citizens themselves. Welfare schemes of successive governments have fallen short. The Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, for instance, claims to provide free health coverage to 40 per cent of the Indian population. Yet, even before the pandemic, reports indicated that it had failed to reach the poor, with many states, including those that had the Bharatiya Janata Party in power, showing poor figures for the programme. Insurance companies and hospitals have also cut a sorry figure. Allegations of insurers refusing to bear the full cost of treatment for health conditions, including Covid-19, are not uncommon. At the other end of the spectrum is the patients’ inability — also refusal — to pay, forcing hospitals to adopt radical measures to recover costs. These realities dent the claims of healthcare being a universal right. Given that Covid-19 is unlikely to be the last of the pandemics, India must set right its health-GDP ratio. The Danish healthcare system, which is independent of health insurance, has reaped the benefits of substantial investments in public sector hospitals and clinics. Is there a case for India to reassess the policy enthusiasm for the unregulated privatization of healthcare and, in effect, use the reach of the public sector to revolutionize its healthcare infrastructure? The pandemic, after all, demands paradigmatic shifts in policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Bold step: Bollywood sues TV channels||Sir — The headline, “Bollywood, you’re Jolly Good now” (Oct 13), appears light-hearted, but the report highlights an important issue. Members of the Hindi film industry — as many as four film organizations and 34 producers — have taken up the task of teaching a lesson to some errant television channels that have violated all norms of healthy reporting. Eminent personalities of the industry — Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar, Aamir Khan, among others — have taken an unparalleled initiative by filing a petition in Delhi High Court, seeking a restraining order on two channels and their spearheads who have been leading a vicious smear campaign against the Hindi film industry. News channels that engage in such activities should be reined in, especially when the anchors seem to be acting in order to mollify the ruling party at the Centre. After the demise of the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput, some channels began to televise opinions about the unfortunate incident even before the probe was complete. This is unacceptable since it gave out a wrong message to the viewers. These channels should refrain from making irresponsible, derogatory remarks about people. Perhaps sub judice cases should be left alone by the media. The petition marks a milestone moment in show business that usually fights shy of stepping up and initiating a collective stand on such raging issues. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Sir — The lawsuit filed by four Bollywood associations and 34 producers in Delhi High Court, seeking a restraining order against Republic TV and Times Now, was a corollary of months of a relentless smear campaign run by them against the Hindi film industry. The list of plaintiffs reads like a ‘who’s who’ of India’s show business. Film-makers and actors seem hurt by terms such as “dirt”, “filth”, “scum” and “druggies” hurled at their fraternity indiscriminately in the guise of seeking justice for the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. Television anchors named in the petition have been wont to make derogatory and defamatory remarks in their systematic attempt to slander and sully the Hindi film industry in spite of the fact that some of the maladies that they accused the celebrities of are not unique to the film industry. In fact, this industry merely represents the microcosm of the things happening across the country. The question that inevitably arises is whether these TV anchors would be so conspicuously hostile to the film industry without the tacit support of the powers that be. After all, most of these anchors share a common narrative in support of the ruling dispensation and elites. Bollywood celebrities — with a few honourable exceptions like Anurag Kashyap, Deepika Padukone and Swara Bhasker — have mostly played ball and kept a studied silence over the attacks on citizens, the passage of discriminatory laws and other such events. They have not raised their voices against injustices out of selfishness and cowardice. It took them to be at the receiving end of an onslaught by a few news channels to take a stand and defend the industry. However, for what it is worth, their decision to not take the tirades of abuse against them lying down must be welcomed. Bollywood is right in saying that the vilification drive by TV channels has direct consequences for the livelihood of the thousands of people employed in the film industry. It certainly has a strong case in appealing to the high court to direct the TV channels in question to abide by the provisions of the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Troubled waters Sir — Heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have thrown normal life out of gear, leading to water-logging in several parts in both states. A number of people have already lost their lives to rain-related incidents. The India Meteorological Department had also warned of thunderstorms along coastal regions in Andhra Pradesh. People should be careful and act responsibly so that loss can be minimized. Najib Ahmed,Hyderabad Sir — It is disturbing that heavy rains have disrupted regular life in many of the southern states of India, such as Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. The people of Bengal, who had to experience the Amphan cyclone earlier this year, understand full well how difficult it must be for ordinary citizens as well as rescue forces to operate during the ongoing pandemic. The Centre should keep a close eye on the situation on the ground and extend generous help. Chandana Sen,Calcutta Joy for all Sir — The report, “Puja organisers to feel lotus pocket pinch” (Oct 14), was interesting. It shed light on how the drop in lotus production and supply could affect people at various levels of society. The privileged would only be upset about the dearth of these flowers that are integral to the puja, but for the farmers and traders, this is a heavy blow to their livelihoods. Durga Puja is usually an occasion that brings joy to everyone. Puja organizers should ensure that these farmers and traders are not left out; they should be paid their due. Surely there are enough generous people who would not mind contributing a little extra to this end? Shahana Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Just so: Crimes against dalits||Institutional complicity in efforts to protect upper-caste criminals when the crimes are against Dalits was laid bare in the Hathras case in Uttar Pradesh. But that is just a blatant example among numberless incidents which validate the findings of a study showing that cases of atrocities against Dalits are sought to be diluted throughout — from registration of the complaint through charge-sheet filing to the trial. This allows 75 per cent of cases to end in acquittal while suggesting that upper-caste perpetrators can get away with anti-Dalit crimes. National Crime Records Bureau data show a 7 per cent increase in these crimes from 2018 to 2019, part of an upward curve from 2014. Yet the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act demands immediate arrest of the accused, charge-sheets within 60 days, trials within another 60, in special courts. These rules are intended to prevent the kind of threats and violence that resulted in the murder of the alleged gang rape survivor in UP’s Unnao district, made possible by delayed arrest, consequent bail and late hearing dates. In the Hathras case, the police kept quiet about the gang rape for eight days, cremated the victim without her family’s consent, and claimed there was no rape. The girl’s deathbed statement about gang rape was ignored, while the ministry of home affairs, with notable ineffectuality, reminded states of the relevance of the deathbed declaration in the justice process. Sexual violence constitutes one section of crimes against Dalits. The study reveals an unwritten system of interlinked steps that aim to diminish or even erase the cruelty and targeted injustice of all caste-based atrocities. Besides taking their time to record the complaint, arrest the accused and file the charge-sheet, the police may register an incident fit for the Atrocities Act under some other law to blur its profile and evade specific requirements. The inadequacy of special courts for caste-related cases further exposes the authorities’ reluctance to deliver justice to those without caste privilege. Matching this is the biased conduct of designated public prosecutors, who may not let their Dalit clients enter their rooms, let alone brief them properly. It is not merely that many Indians do not consider Dalits to be human, as Rahul Gandhi said: they do not want to. Genuine social justice would threaten the traditional interweaving of social, political and economic power. Reservations can be turned into a tool for vote collection, but justice is different. It must be resisted at all costs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Magical sense: How memories smell||Last week for a few days I lost my sense of smell. It happened after a fever, so at first I panicked. Then I realized that the reason behind my loss was not the coronavirus, but severely blocked nasal passages. It felt my nose had run away. After going through five days of not having smelt anything, I began to get used to my state. (One can get used to anything. I am a proud Indian. And I am not even talking about the pandemic.) I felt that being without a sense of smell is somewhat like watching a video on mute; only, instead of sound what you lack is flavours. Your hilsa feels like your basa. Life does start looking like a flat screen. You can see it but cannot feel it. Then one morning I could smell the methi frying. That afternoon, I could actually tell that the solid mass floating on gravy was a piece of chicken. I felt like Columbus spotting what he thought was the Orient, only I was more correct. My nose was coming back to me. In the next day or two, my olfactory system was completely rehabilitated and I was beginning to feel whole again. Then a thought struck me. What if this had happened to me, at this time of the year, four decades ago, when I was a child, and Puja season was the only real time when children got new things, clothes, shoes and yes, books, the Puja issues? From the time the Puja goodies began to trickle in — make no mistake, they would be very limited in number; four cotton dresses at the most, which would have to last the entire year, and a pair of Bata shoes — I would be plunged into a paradise of the senses, especially the sense of smell. The printed Rajasthani wraparound skirt would smell strongly of dye. I would show it again and again to visiting aunts and cousins, if only for the smell. Then the shoes, and the new shoe polish. And not to forget, a new pencil set, one fancy sharpener with a plastic giraffe head and a set of perfumed erasers, white rectangles with tiny designs, topped with a layer of green. My garden of earthly delights! But these were all accessories. The centrepiece would arrive a few weeks before the Puja. And it was for this I would wait the whole year with bated breath. Yes, so that when I finally breathed in in its presence, I would be operating at my fullest capacity. It was the annual Puja number of Anandamela, the Bengali magazine for children that my generation grew up with. I cannot now describe how I would feel every evening waiting for my father to return home from work. The torture. Will he get it today? Will he remember? Will he forget again? And I would list all that I would do when I would lay my hands on the thick paperback volume, with its cover illustrated by Bimal Das. It was all planned out. First Tintin and all the comics. Then the puzzles. Then the short stories, only one a day. Because I would have to make the stories last. Then the longer stories or novellas. Last of all the latest on the brilliant and mad scientist, Professor Shonku, by Satyajit Ray. And then one day the book would actually materialize from my father’s briefcase, and I would hold it in my hands, and I would plunge my face deep inside it and take in the smell of the fresh new pages and my head would explode with joy. No perfume can match that smell. I do not suffer too much from nostalgia or mourn the death of the sensorium that was my childhood. Not all of it was gold. But I do not think things smell new any more, literally. I buy too much anyway and all year round. And from a flat screen. So does my daughter, because of me. I have never seen my daughter sniffing a new dress or book. And she reads English. Bengali, for her, is a forgotten language. I have lost my sense of smell. It has been replaced by too much. And too little.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Opinion||Old anxieties||The division of the British Indian province of Bengal was formally promulgated on October 16, 1905 despite the political opposition to it in the country. However, the division was short-lived and the partition was reversed in 1911. Nevertheless the forces unleashed by the division lived on and culminated in another — more permanent — Partition in 1947. Although the continuities between this first and second partitions are obvious and strong, the differences also stand out. The first partition spurred the growth of a nationalist consciousness and in its wake Muslim separatism. The second partition was the consequence of a larger division of India and, to a great extent, showcased the weaknesses of the spirit of nationalism that emerged post 1905. The man who did the most to push through the first partition — the viceroy, George Curzon — had already left India by the time the Bengal division was promulgated. He had resigned some weeks earlier when his views on the position and role of the commander-in-chief of the Indian army were overruled in London. The dispute was a relatively obscure issue, driven in large part by the egos and massive conceits of both Curzon and the commander in chief. Yet the controversy also reveals just how securitized a mindset the British Empire in India was based on. In India, inevitably, perceptions of Curzon’s viceroyalty were deeply influenced by the 1905 division of Bengal. This overshadowed his numerous other attributes — apart from vanity — his energy, wide knowledge of the region and his drive to reform the Indian administration. For most Indians, his greatest achievement was thus a negative one and, moreover, in the words of the historian, S. Gopal, entirely unintended — “[T]he transformation of a mild, nationalist sentiment into a resentful, revolutionary movement”. In brief, the desire to weaken a fledgling, largely intellectual, critique of the Empire in Bengal by dividing the province ended up having the opposite result. Phobias sometimes work to the dictum of the self-fulfilling prophecy. Curzon’s British biographers have sometimes tended to disagree and pointed to a major but unrelated geopolitical event of the time as constituting the real spur to Indian nationalism. This was the defeat of Russia by Japan in late 1905. Japan’s victory was the humbling of a European power by an Asian power. Moreover, Russia was a rival and contending imperial power to that of the British. Indian nationalism apart, the Russian defeat had major significance for imperial strategists in Calcutta, Simla or London, Curzon included, about the Russian threat to India, or at least it reaching the Persian Gulf and eroding British supremacy over its waters and littorals. These imperial rivalries were obviously real but the debates of the time are also revealing about how geopolitical phobias are constructed and then perpetuate themselves. The Russian defeat in 1905 reduced the perceived intensity of the threat but in subsequent generations the red fear, the Cold War missile gap, the domino theory in Southeast Asia — all derived from the same genre of thinking. The US intervention in Vietnam or the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan thus had longer continuities with older mindsets than their respective protagonists generally admitted. In the second half of the 19th century, Russian moves were seen by the colonial State in India as the advance of a glacier — slow but inexorable. Evidence used to buttress this analysis in Persia — Russian bank loans and railways — still resonate today as we encounter similar Chinese tactics in the region. Between the 1880s and the early 1900s, military expenditure as a percentage of India’s budget went up from about 40 to over 50 per cent. The securitization narrative of the Empire was always much stronger than its ‘modernizing’ narrative, although the latter was sold more successfully. For the security of British India, keeping Afghanistan and Persia free of Russian influence was both a strategy and an objective. Some of the places on which geopolitical interest focused a great deal were the Makran coast, Baluchistan and Sistan; these are of equal interest today. How to strengthen Persia and Afghanistan as buffers against Russian encroachment was thus key to British preoccupations both in India and in London. Strengthening them meant also demarcating their boundaries so that stability was assured all round. Two agreements reached at the time are illustrative. The first of these was the Goldsmid Line (1871), demarcating the boundary between Persia and the princely state of Kalat in what is now Baluchistan in Pakistan. This divided the Makran coast in two, in effect confirming the port of Chabahar as a Persian possession and the port of Gwadar as Omani in that part of the Makran which went to Kalat. The famous Durand Line agreement (1893) thereafter demarcated Afghanistan and British India but in doing so effectively split Pashtun tribes into two separate domains. These were attempts to stabilize Persia’s and Afghanistan’s external boundaries but were crafted with both eyes very much on the perceived Russian threat. Curzon was also responsible for an earlier division and creation of a new province — the carving out of the North West Frontier Province from Punjab in 1901. Administrative efficiency, as in the case of Bengal Partition, was only one part of the explanation. The political, or in this case the geopolitical, was equally important since the frontier was the region where a great deal of the foreign policy of India confronted and interfaced with real and imagined threats. This creation has endured much longer although the NWFP was renamed as Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in 2010. The province also included the tribal tracts that lay between its fully administered districts and the Durand Line, and these were divided into a number of agencies and administered as a kind of no man’s land. This loose administrative control was continued by Pakistan post 1947, and it is only now, in the past two to three years, that a serious attempt at the ‘mainstreaming’ of the tribal areas has begun, although the outcome remains uncertain. What explains the long persistence of this tribal zone in Pakistan? In India, decolonization did mean a certain desecuritization in terms of popular and political thinking and, in fact, a legitimate criticism of the early two decades post 1947 is that the desecuritization perhaps went too far. In Pakistan, on the other hand, and especially in hindsight, it is striking to see how much of the raj’s 19th-century geopolitical phobias along with its heavily-securitized narratives were inherited and continued almost in totality. Post 1979, with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the revolution in Iran, a new kind of geopolitical phobia or myopia seized Pakistan and, in turn, amplified further insecurities with regard to India. This mindset consolidated itself from 1989 with the withdrawal of the USSR from Afghanistan and its subsequent disintegration. In this mindscape, the tribal agencies became a kind of marches area for Pakistan to acquire strategic importance and depth. The impending US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the possible return of the Taliban have reinvigorated that old mindset, but it remains to be seen whether resistance to it in Pakistan is going to be stronger than in the past. The author is a former high commissioner to Pakistan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Warning to Bokaro private schools over fees||After complaints of private schools arbitrarily charging school fees during the pandemic, Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh issued a directive to the institutions. He held a meeting on Friday with the principals of more than a dozen reputed schools during which he clearly stated that non-compliance with the directives issued by the Jharkhand government regarding fees collection will not be tolerated. He warned the schools that the administration will freeze the bank accounts and cancel the no-objection certificates issued to schools found violating the government directives regarding fees collection. He constituted a panel of senior officials led by Chas subdivisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh to submit a report on the fee structure of each school. Residents and parent associations have been raising their voices to demand fee waivers and change of the payment mode to instalments. They want the unnecessary pressure created by schools over fees during the pandemic to be addressed. The principals of the schools spoke about their difficulties to the deputy commissioner, including how even affluent parents were demanding fee waivers and their difficulty in paying teachers their salaries as many guardians were yet to deposit tuition fees. Chas subdivisional officer Singh said that “all the schools have been asked to submit their fee structures of last year’s session and the present session in a transparent manner as the committee will examine it”. The deputy commissioner added: “The administration will recommend the cancellation of the NOC issued by the state government and freeze bank accounts of those schools which will be found arbitrarily charging fees against the government directives. We will also take legal action against them.” The parents now can submit their complaints or plea letters to the panel. The committee also comprises district education officer Neelam Eleen Toppo and the deputy development officer. The administration has given a written order to all the schools asking them to follow the guidelines strictly. The schools were told by the administration that there will be no increase in school fees for the 2020-21 academic session. The tuition fees will be charged equally as it was taken before the start of this year's session. Under no circumstances will the enrolment of any student be cancelled due to the non-payment of tuition fees. The facility of an online educational system will not be denied. It will be the responsibility of the school head to provide IDs and passwords and online learning materials to all the students enrolled in the school without any discrimination for online education. Any type of annual fees, bus fees, etc. for the duration of school closure should not be charged from parents. It can be taken from the parents on a proportional basis after the commencement of classes. Under no circumstances will parents be charged late fees. There will be no deduction/withholding of salary of teachers and non-teaching staff working in the schools. At the same time, additional financial pressure should not be created on parents by creating new charges by the school management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||High court questions govt on gutka ban||Taking a dig against the state government’s claim of a total ban on gutka, Jharkhand High Court on Friday held a mirror to law enforcement after Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan’s subordinates produced several pouches of gutka bought from nearby shops in the city during the course of hearing a public interest litigation (PIL). A two-judge bench, comprising Chief Justice Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan, was on Friday hearing a PIL through videoconferencing on the ban on gutka. A social outfit — Fariad Foundation — had filed a PIL before the court seeking a complete ban in the state and accused government officials of poor enforcement. The petitioner in its PIL had informed the court that while the state government imposes a ban from time to time, it lacks teeth because of a lack of enforcement on the ground. During the course of the hearing, special secretary of the state food and civil supplies department, Chandra Kishore Oraon, informed the court that the state government had already put curbs on the sale of gutka, which will remain in force till next year. Upon hearing this, the Chief Justice asked a staffer posted at his official residence to go out and procure gutka packets. Within no time, he returned with pouches of the prohibited products. Producing them in the court during the hearing, the bench mock-questioned the official: “What kind of a ban is it where gutka is available easily everywhere in the city?” The court added: “A mere ban without enforcement will do no good.” Oraon promised a probe and immediate action to prevent sale of gutka in the city and elsewhere in the state. Upon hearing it, the court asked him to furnish a detailed action-taken report and posted the matter for hearing in November. This was the second instance in a week when the court came down heavily on the state. Last week on Thursday, irked over police’s inaction in investigating the death of a minor girl in Giridih, the high court drew a parallel with the Hathras atrocity. Shocked at the death of a 15-year-old girl in Giridih over an alleged rape attempt, Justice Ananda Sen, while hearing a writ petition filed by the victim’s father, had commented: “Hathras is not only in the Uttar Pradesh, but also is in the state of Jharkhand.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three inspiring women share their life journeys at Kaleidoscope ||The second session of Kaleidoscope organised online on Friday evening focussed on the latent courage within women and celebrated the inspiring stories of some who broke barriers within and without to create a better, more beautiful 'new normal'. Kaleidoscope is a series of five webinars, co-hosted by Tata Steel Foundation and CII-Indian Women Network, Jharkhand chapter, which looks to bridge the disconnect of women from deep rural hinterlands of India and women professionals and entrepreneurs who are setting benchmarks in urban and peri-urban areas. The first session of the webinar series was organised last month. Friday’s session was in conversation with Maharashtra-based Varsha Rahase, who ended her abusive marriage despite social stigma and went on to become a self-defence trainer and an inspiration for young girls. Varsha is also an alumni member of the Tribal Leadership Programme of the Tata Steel Foundation. Malti Singh  hailing from Jharkhand, who had experienced the ill-effects of alcoholism, found collective strength in the women around her and campaigned to make her village free of illegal liquor shops. Swarnlata Dalai from the neighbouring state of Odisha, has scaled Mount Everest under the mentorship of Ms Bachendri Pal defying all odds. These inspiring stories were beautifully woven together by Pragya Singh, the founder and secretary of ‘Atijeevan Foundation’, one of India’s foremost not-for-profit organizations engaged in creating dignified, equitable opportunities for acid attack survivors to earn their living with their own skills and talent, and also help them to become economically independent in their lives. Pragya, an acid attack survivor herself, has now dedicated herself to the cause, providing relief and rehabilitation to acid attack and burn survivors for the past six years. Swastika Basu, chairwoman, CII-IWN Jharkhand chapter and chief-enterprise risk management Tata Steel, welcomed the panellists and participants. “These women of substance have forged paths not only for themselves but also portrayed success stories for their peers. Theirs were stories of grit, determination and positivity, and the courage that is inherent in every woman to face the challenges of life. The courage to break stereotypes and the courage to not limit their ambitions,” she said.. Sourav Roy, convenor, CII Jharkhand CSR and the skill development panel, who is also chief-corporate social responsibility, Tata Steel was also present. “We are extremely fortunate to have met these extraordinary women in the course of our work and continue to be inspired each time we hear them recount how they turned their lives around. In the last seven months, we have heard more such stories of vigour and Pragya is a living example. The ‘new normal’ in their lives is akin to the entire world finding its ground again as we step into a post-Covid era, and there is much to learn. With three more conversations ahead of us as part of this series, we hope that Kaleidoscope is able to meet its purpose,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad DTO resumes driving tests after six months||The process of issuing driving licences began on Friday, more than six months after it had been suspended because of a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. District transport officer of Dhanbad Om Prakash Yadav said only a limited number of applicants were being called for driving tests at Golf Ground and for paperwork and photography to maintain Covid protocols of social distancing. More than 9,000 applications for licences are pending with the Dhanbad district transport office of which 6,258 applications are for renewals. Md Faizan (20), a BTech (electrical engineering) student of K.K. College of Engineering who arrived at Golf Ground Dhanbad for a driving test, said, “I had applied for a licence last year. I have been facing a lot of difficulty without one.” Md Eltas (24), another applicant for a learner’s license, who came for a driving test from Govindpur said, “I had applied for a learner’s licence on January 11 and was allotted a date for a driving test on April 11. But the closure of the office during lockdown delayed the entire process.” Those who came to the DTO counter to submit documents had a similar experience to narrate. Sanjay Kumar Mandal (21), a Life Insurance Corporation of India agent, said, “We had applied for a learner’s license before the beginning of the lockdown. We could never imagine that it would get delayed for such a long period.” Deepak Kumar Verma (25), a driver who uses his own car as a private taxi, said, “I wanted a licence for driving heavy vehicles in order to get a job as a truck driver in a transport company operating for BCCL. But I could not get the licence because of the lockdown. Thank God the process has finally begun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Archbishop of Ranchi leads human chain to demand Stan Swamy’s release||Members of the Catholic Church, including priests, nuns and citizens, formed a 5km-long human chain in Ranchi on Friday, holding posters denouncing the arrest of Stan Swamy, a 83-year-old Jesuit priest, for alleged links with those involved with the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Many of the over 1,000 protestors, who had lined up along Albert Ekka Chowk, Kantatoli Chowk, Sarjana Chowk and Dangratoli from 4.30pm, also lit candles, terming it a symbol of hope against the attempts to silence intellectuals and rights activists. Friday’s congregation, part of ongoing protests by various groups, was led by Archbishop of Ranchi Felix Toppo and auxiliary bishop Theodore Mascarenhas, who stood outside the church at Purulia Road, holding banners and wearing masks in accordance with Covid-19 protocol. Toppo’s banner read: “We demand justice”. Among the other slogans printed on posters were “Stop terrorizing activists”, “Stan is a worker for Dalit and Adivasi rights and not a terrorist”, “Everyone has human rights, stop branding them as terrorists” and “Release Stan Swamy—the voice of the oppressed”. “The way such an elderly person was arrested by NIA at night last week on false charges is beyond condemnation,” said Mascarenhas. “We demand his release,” he said. Tribal rights activist Dayamani Barla said, “Stan’s body of work for the cause of tribals is well documented. The recent action against him is a strategic attempt to silence all such voices who stand for the cause of the marginalised.” Nadeem Akthar of Lalu Bolega, another social outfit, added, “There is a need for another uprising against the Union government for using central agencies for its anti-people and anti-poor agenda.” Later, special prayers were also held for Swamy at St Mary's Cathedral from 5.40pm onwards. But the Opposition BJP accused the Church and its affiliates of questioning the Constitution and the judicial process. "The way missionaries and the Church are criticising a democratically elected government testifies that they don't have faith in the judicial process. They are trying to interfere in an independent probe conducted by NIA,” said party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo in a statement. Swamy was picked up from his residence in Bagaicha in Namkum last Friday and was flown to Mumbai the next day. The central agency in its chargesheet in connection to the ongoing probe in the Bhima Koregaon case has charged him with harbouring links with CPI (Maoist) groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Teenager stabbed to death by cousins over property dispute in Mango||A teenager was stabbed to death by one of his male cousins over a prolonged property dispute at Daiguttu in Mango on Friday morning. One of his family members made the fatal attack on the victim, identified as Uttam Kumar Sahu, after a minor altercation over dumping household garbage on disputed land in the morning. The incident took place in front of the victim's house at Teli Line at the densely-populated Daiguttu at about 8am. According to bereaved family members, Uttam, who was the only son of Madan Sahu, had indulged in the altercation with his cousins Sujeet, Sumeet, Monu and Sonu. In a spur of the moment, one of the cousins, Sumeet, took out a dagger and started attacking the victim. When Madan Sahu tried to save his son from the clutches of the attackers, three others attacked him and inflicted injuries. Having injured Madan, the accused, Sumeet thrusted the dagger in Uttam's chest, causing him to fall down. The family members said after Uttam fell down, Madan Sahu rushed him to MGM Medical College Hospital where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. Soon afterwards, a police party led by Mango OC Mithilesh Kumar reached the medical college hospital for investigation. "The murder took place in sequel to a dispute over landed property of the Sahu family.  We have taken Anirudh Prasad Sahu, who is the elder brother of Madan Sahu and one of his sons in custody.  There were three more attackers who have absconded soon after the murder took place.  We are trying to trace them," said Mithilesh Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said Madan Sahu's brothers Anirudh and Nandlal were not giving the property's share to Madan, and that a case had been filed by the victim's family. "Some members of Madan's family dumped domestic garbage in a plot of disputed land, triggering reaction from the families of Anirudh and Nandlal. After the situation became aggravated, the former’s sons attacked Madan and his son with a dagger,  In the attack, Madan's son was killed and Madan himself sustained grievous head injury," said the police officer. The search for the absconders has been intensified. The murder victim's younger sister, Sujita Kumari said that her cousins and their wives would always quarrel with them over trifle matters as they wanted to oust them from their share of landed property. "But it seemed they were awaiting for an opportunity and were prepared to kill my brother. This is why they started to attack my brother with a dagger in front of my eyes.  As I tried to save him, the attackers pushed me away.  They also hit my father with a stick and subsequently stabbed my brother," said Sujita while talking to this website. In this connection, the police have registered a case of murder against Sujeet, Sumeet, Monu and Sonu besides others, based on a statement made by Madan Sahu, with the Mango police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man opens fire at relatives after quarrel, four injured  ||A finance company employee fired at his relatives after a clash, injuring four persons early on Friday in what was a fallout of a longstanding dispute triggered by a quarrel with his aunt. Upendra Singh (32) was got into an altercation with his aunt Meera Devi (58) which soon led to the involvement of others at Martkuria Railway Colony at bank More. The verbal duel escalated into a physical fight in which fisticuffs were exchanged and sticks used. Upendra then took out his pistol and fired indiscriminately. Meera and her sons Pintu Singh (30) and Sintu Singh (22) received gunshot injuries. Upendra's father, Markandey Singh (65), was also injured in the attack. Upendra fled the spot soon after the incident. Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said the incident was a result of animosity among relatives. “Three persons received gunshot injuries. We are conducting raids to arrest the main accused, Upendra Singh," he said. Meera and her son Pintu are said to be critical. They are undergoing treatment at Mission Hospital, Durgapur. Sintu, who sustained bullet injuries in the abdomen, is being treated at the ICU of PMCH, Dhanbad. He is said to be out of danger. Updendra’s father, Markandey, a retired banker, received head injuries after being beaten with sticks. He is undergoing treatment at a private clinic, Patliputra Nursing Home, in Dhanbad. He is out of danger. Both Upendra and his cousin Pintu are recovery agents. They have a history of disputes. Upendra's wife Uma had in March 2018 lodged an FIR against Pintu and others in connection with an attack on him. Upendra was seriously injured after he was fired upon on March 22, 2018 near Skylark in the Bank More area. Police sources said Upendra faces several cases pertaining to threats and extortion. Last week, on October 9, Giridih resident Prakash Kumar, who was driving down to Ranchi, went missing for four hours. Later, he accused Upendra of abducting him since he had pending EMIs of a loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Owen was instrumental in getting me on board, says JFC's goal machine ||Nerijus Valskis is spending his time eating, sleeping and watching movies in isolation at his hotel room in Goa but the lethal striker is aware that he carries a huge expectation on his shoulders when it comes to turning the tide in favour of Jamshedpur FC in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) next month. Like others, the 33-year-old Lithuanian is in secure bio-bubble and will hit the turf for outdoor training session later this month. Vakskis is raring to exhibit his prowess in the cash-rich tournament to be played sans spectators. Valskis does not seem to believe that living in the bio-bubble can affect him mentally. “I hope no. But it will be very hard on the psychological front to stay five-six months alone without family. But I sleep, eat, watch movies and read some magazines. That’s how I am spending time in isolation,” he said from Goa. On his thoughts on playing behind closed doors, Valskis, the ISL Golden Boot winner last season, said it is sad to play without spectators. “We are playing for the fans and want them to be happy. They support us and push us to play better and better. But we need to understand about the present situation in the world,” the JFC goal machine said. On why he decided to join JFC, the ex-Marina Machan forward said the management showed great interest in him and he had a word with head coach Owen Coyle about it. “Owen was the most significant influence for me. It’s a new challenge, because they (JFC) have never been in the top four. And playing again under Owen Coyle made sense to me as I share a great camaraderie with him,” Valskis added. Valskis said his target is to help JFC win games and he's not looking at individual prowess at the moment.  "Even if I’m scoring eight goals but manage to win maximum games, that’s perfect. That’s my sole target,” he pointed out. The forward is very impressed about JFC having its own facilities. "They have everything that one needs as a professional football player – the training ground, gym swimming pool, a stadium with amazing support always coming in full. The grass quality is number one in India.  Jamshedpur, as a city, is breathtaking as well. It’s clean and small with amazing people,” Valskis remarked." On his thoughts about Jharkhand being a football-loving state, Valskis said: “Jharkhand is very passionate about football. Over 3,000 kids across the state enrolled in the grassroots programme, I read it somewhere and also saw some posts about it on social media. The fans are so passionate as well. I remember seeing so many people who came to watch the matches, over 20,000 people every game. It’s simply spectacular. This is passion,” Valskis, who played for Chennaiyin FC under Owen Coyle last season, said. He called upon the Jamshedpur faithfuls to be patient and believe in them. “We are here to make some good memories with you. And I hope to be successful along with you all,” Valskis said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases drop below 7000, more than 500 infected in a day ||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 7,000 in Jharkhand on Thursday after as many as 873 Covid patients recovered from the infection against 583 fresh cases surfacing in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6,892 people were battling Covid-19 infection across the state on Thursday night. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 91.87 per cent on Thursday, as 87,240 of 94,952 people infected by the mysterious virus have recovered in the state, government data highlights. Despite the improvement in recovery rate, Jharkhand continues to witness Covid-19 casualties every day. At least eight more Covid patients died during treatment on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 820. Four of the eight Covid victims, who died on Thursday, were from Ranchi. The remaining four were from Bokaro district. The Covid-19 toll in Ranchi alone reached 157 on Thursday, while in Bokaro, the toll reached 39. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent on Thursday. Even though the number of active cases reduced in Ranchi on Thursday, it continues to be the only district in Jharkhand with over 2000 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As many as 219 cases of infection surfaced in the district on Thursday against 353 recoveries. However, there were 2,461 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi by Thursday evening, highlights government data. All the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand reported less than 100 cases of infection on Thursday, with Bokaro reporting 74 cases, the second highest among all the districts. There were around 1300 active cases in East Singhbhum after the district reported 135 recoveries against 56 cases on Thursday, stated government data. Health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 27.73 lakh people for Covid-19 test so far, and tested around 27.67 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,399 people and 22,816 of them came negative. As per figures with the NHM, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 92.02 days against the national doubling rate of 69.39 days. In the past one week, the viral infection grew at a rate of 0.69 per cent in Jharkhand, while the national Covid-19 growth rate was 0.99 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
16-10-2020||Jharkhand||Truck overturns on GT Road, goods looted by villagers||A truck carrying mustard oil packets overturned on GT road in Siyarkoni Ghati spilling the goods on the road. Local villagers gathered at the accident spot and started picking up the packets strewn on the ground. Labourers were sent to the spot who loaded the remaining packets on another vehicle. The driver and helper of the truck sustained minor injuries but were out of danger. Police officials said villagers residing near GT road keep looting trucks carrying goods. Garhwa police arrested BJP leader Santosh Keshari on Thursday following a non-bailable warrant that had been issued against him. Keshari was sent to judicial custody. According to police, the warrant was issued in a case wherein a cheque from 2018 issued by him was dishonoured by a bank. Police said the warrant had been issued against him  in a court case filed under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 of the IPC which pertains to dishonor of cheque for insufficiency of funds in account. “Accused Keshari took Rs. 5.90 lakh as a loan to a trader Nandu Soni on the promise he will pay soon. But the money was not returned by him for a long time. On September 30,2018 accused handed over a cheque to Nandu's son Pancham Soni, with an amount of Rs 5.90 lakhs. Pancham filed  an FIR  against the accused when the cheques bounced,” said Garhwa thana in-charge Rajiv Kumar Singh. The warrant was issued after Keshari failed to turn up in court despite several summons. Two masked men stole goods worth Rs 40,000 from Sonu Monu readymade garments shop in Itkhori of Chatra on Wednesday night. The owner of the shop said the criminals broke in through the main entrance. Itkhori police station officer-in-charge Sachin Kumar Das said investigation started on the basis of available clues from CCTV footage and the thieves will be arrested soon. He said efforts are on to identify the two thieves. Around 59 cadets of Sainik School Telaiya have cleared UPSC(NDA) written examination-2020. Group captain Rahul Saklani, principal of this school said these successful cadets have written new history in the illustrious saga of Sainik School, the premier institution. He said this school is a stepping stone to the National Defence Academy. He praised teachers for their able guidance which made cadets crack this examination. Saklani expressed confidence that this result will motivate the upcoming batches to perform better. He informed that all India Sainik schools entrance examination will take place on January 10, 2021.He said application will be available from October 20 on website aissee.nta.ac.in. The newly renovated dedicated Covid hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar was inaugurated on Thursday by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and BCCL CMD, Gopal Singh. The hospital has a 30 bed ICU facility and 40 bed non ICU facility. The facilities were developed within a record 15 days. The oxygen pipeline, installed for uninterrupted supply, was inaugurated by general manager of Sindri unit of  Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, Himmat Singh Chauhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-265
