17-10-2020||Calcutta||Should I go pandal-hopping?||⚫Daktarbabu, when will Covid go away? ⚫Can I go for Puja shopping? ⚫I am planning my daughter’s wedding in January, will it be possible? The Covid-19 pandemic has changed a lot of things in our lives, including the questions we ask doctors. Queries once reserved for astrologers are now being directed at doctors. One doctor recently received a handwritten letter from a patient which contained questions like whether he could go out to buy milk or drink warm water mixed with fresh lime juice. “Most of these questions are not related to treatment. But we understand that people are now under a lot of stress and are often unsure about taking any decision,” said a public health expert. From travel plans to children’s marriage, many are turning to doctors for advice. The Telegraph spoke to some leading doctors in the city — surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, pulmonologist Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, nephrologist Arup Ratan Dutta, psychiatrist Ranadip Ghosh Ray and liver diseases specialist and public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury — to know some of the questions people are asking and the answers. When will Covid go away? None of the doctors, public health experts or scientists dealing with viruses knows the answer. In all likelihood, Covid will stay like most other viruses and can mutate. We have to wait for some time to know the answer. When the vaccine arrives, can I return to normal life after getting a shot? There are several unanswered questions like when a Covid vaccine will arrive, when it will be available for mass distribution and how effective it will be. “The influenza vaccine provides only 60 per cent protection, so we are not sure about the effectiveness of the Covid vaccine,” said one of the doctors. Air pollution is again rising after the lockdown norms were eased. Does increased air pollution make me more vulnerable to Covid? Air pollution has no direct link with someone getting infected by the coronavirus. But there is definitely an indirect link, said doctors. “Dust particles enter our lower respira-tory system and prolonged exposure to air pollution compromises the condition of the lungs. Since Covid-19 essentially attacks the respiratory system, someone with compromised lungs is more likely to become critical,” said a doctor. Can I go for Puja shopping? This is a public health issue. Public health experts and the state government are apprehending a spike in the number of Covid cases during and after the festival season. Shopping in a crowded place is one of the worries. One should take adequate precautions like wearing masks, sanitising hands and avoiding touch as much as possible. These measures will definitely bring down the risks. Is it safe to go pandal-hopping? Like shopping, one should take necessary precautions. It’s better to avoid crowded pandals. The best option is to stay home. If I meet friends and relatives and go pandal-hopping on all Puja days like before, will anything happen to me? No one has an answer to this question. The higher the exposure, the more the risk of getting infected by the coronavirus. The problem is many infected people are asymp-tomatic and temperature checks at pandals, shopping malls and restaurants will not be able to detect infected persons. So doctors are advising people to celebrate in a restricted manner and take as many protections as possible. Again, the best option is to stay home. If I have Covid, will it stay in our genes and affect the next generation? Covid is extremely contagious. So, a Covid patient is kept in isolation. But there is no scientific data suggesting that the virus stays in genes. Will I be able to fight Covid better if I drink warm water mixed with fresh lime juice on an empty stomach? Will multi-vitamin pills protect me from Covid? Micronutrients such as Vitamin C and zinc are important to develop the immune system and play a vital role in promoting health and nutritional well-being.  However, there is no scientific evidence that micronutrient supplements can play a role in Covid treatment. Is it safe for me to travel to Mumbai to meet a relative or for the relative to visit me in Calcutta? Mumbai has a high number of Covid cases and in Calcutta, too, cases are rising every day. People are now flying between Mumbai and Calcutta. If one takes proper precautions all through, it does not matter who goes where. Can I go on a holiday? Travelling is not advised by public health experts at the moment unless it is absolutely necessary. Also, regular international flights and long distance trains have not yet resumed. But, people are planning holidays. Taking precautions is important. One should go through government advisories carefully. My daughter’s wedding has long been scheduled for January. Can I go ahead with the plans? The state government is allo-wing wedding ceremonies. But social distancing should be maintained and the number of guests needs to be restricted. Can I visit the market to buy vegetables and fish? Can I go out to buy milk? People are going out to buy stuff, so there is no reason why one should not. But those with co-morbidities and el-derly people should avoid going to markets and other congested places. Anyone visiting shops must wear masks and sanitise hands frequently. Can I colour my hair? The state government has allowed parlours to reopen. So one can visit a parlour provided the staff are maintaining all hygiene norms prescribed by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||BP Poddar Hospital asked to return Rs 1.7 lakh||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday asked BP Poddar Hospital to return Rs 1.7 lakh to a Covid patient’s family after they complained that they had not been given any bill and the hospital failed to furnish any record. The private hospital in Alipore was also asked to return Rs 14,000 to a Covid patient who was admitted there from June 13 to 16. The hospital had charged Rs 28,901 as non-medical expense and a good part of it comprised PPE charges that exceeded the ceiling imposed by the state government, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said. The government had on June 26 announced that private hospitals could not charge a patient more than Rs 1,000 for PPE per day. The hospital had billed a woman Rs 3.5 lakh for undergoing treatment for Covid from July 11 to 19. “The woman’s family had complained that they were not given a bill. We asked the hospital to give us a copy of the bill but they could not,” Banerjee said. “We asked the hospital to keep Rs 1.8 lakh — Rs 20,000 for each day of the patient’s nine-day stay there — and refund the rest,” Banerjee said. Mohit D. Bhagat, the assistant general manager of the hospital, said he had to go through a copy of the order before commenting. “But how is it possible for someone to pay Rs 3.5 lakh without any bill? The amount is important enough for the person to approach the commission,” Bhagat said. As for the commission’s order in response to the other complaint against the hospital, Bhagat said: “We will do the needful as per law”. The commission asked the RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences to return to a patient the Rs 1,700 it had charged for a prostate-specific antigen test. The patient said he underwent the test at the hospital but the report was from Dr Lal PathLabs. “The charge of the test was way above that of the laboratory (Dr Lal PathLabs) or most other reputable laboratories,” said Banerjee. “The hospital said during the hearing that their equipment to do the PSA test was not working. But they could not give any justification for charging the patient Rs 1,700 for the test. The laboratory (Dr Lal PathLabs) charges only Rs 760. Another very reputable laboratory charges Rs 700,” he said. An official of the hospital said: “We will comply by the order”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Hope in Puja rain forecast||The Met office has predicted a rain-soaked Durga Puja, which public health experts consider good news in the season of pandemic as showers could prevent crowding at pandals and a consequent surge in Covid cases. Satellite images studied by the Met office predicted a rainy spell in Calcutta and the rest of south Bengal between October 21 and 26 (Panchami and Dashami). The intensity of the rain is likely to peak on October 22, 23 and 24 (Sashthi, Saptami and Ashtami), according to the forecast. The southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from the city from the middle of October. But not this year, said a Met official. “The usual date of its withdrawal is October 12. But monsoon is witnessing a delayed withdrawal this year. A low-pressure area is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal on October 19 and become more marked over the next 24 hours,” said a statement from the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The system is likely to move towards the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast. But a trough of low pressure is likely to form, extending from the system to Bangladesh. Under the combined influence of the two systems, south Bengal will see significant incursion of moisture-laden south-westerly winds,” said G.K. Das, the director of the IMD, Calcutta. “Calcutta is tipped to get multiple spells of rain from October 21. The showers will last for the next five days. The intensity is likely to peak on October 22 to 24,” said Das. Because of high moisture incursion, the days are likely to be sweaty and uncomfortable, he said. Doctors and public health experts are fearing a surge in the Covid-19 numbers after the Puja. The state government has asked the private health-care sector for more beds on standby. “The rains might just help in arresting the surge if people chose to stay indoors,” said a public health expert. Last year and the year before had seen rain-free Durga Puja. But for Calcuttans, rain often emerges as the real Mahishasura during the Puja. Last year, the Met office had issued a similar forecast — rainy but not a washout — for the Puja. Saptami to Dashami were humid but there was very little rain. It poured on Ekadashi. The days leading to the Puja are likely to be sunny and hot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Kumartuli Sarbojonin  takes puja to Amphan-scarred Kultali||When Devipaksha starts on Saturday members of a Kumartuli puja committee will be busy with the idol in their neighbourhood. A few others will be in Kultali, about 100km from the city, overseeing puja preparations there. This year, Kumartuli Sarbojonin Durgotsav Committee has decided to organise Durga Puja for some 800-odd residents of Shyamnagar, a village in Kultali, still struggling to recover in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. This will be the first time a Durga Puja will be held at Shyamnagar and members of the Kumartuli puja committee have decided to adorn the interiors of their pandal at Kumartuli with pictures of gleaming faces from this village. “The cyclone had left behind a trail of devastation; we were looking to visit a village with relief materials. We contacted some of our men in Kultali who visit us every year to help us lift the Durga idol. They recommended Shyamnagar,” Debasish Bhattacharya of Kumartuli sarbojonin said. “We have decided to hold a small puja at this village, utilising a portion of our funds. The smiling faces of these villagers during Durga Puja will be our biggest reward.” After the initial rounds of visits to Shyamnagar, the committee members sat down with some of the villagers in September and finalised the plan to organise Durga Puja there. A small ground at the end of the village was identified for the villagers to set up a small pandal. The Kumar-tuli sarbojonin members will take the idol from Calcutta, along with various items needed for Durga Puja. The puja will be organised at an estimated cost of Rs 3 lakh. In Calcutta, the committee members decided to trim down their puja expenses to meet the expenses of the puja in Kultali and accordingly two idols were ordered, the one for Shyamnagar smaller. “While going through some of photographs of our visit to Shyamnagar, we decided to decorate our pandal with the faces of villagers. We will have them framed and they will be all over the interiors of the pandal,” a committee member said. The decision to organise the Durga Puja brought smiles on the faces of Shyamnagar villagers, many of who usually walk down a kilometre to be part of the festival in an adjoining village every year. “Amader pujo chhilo na. Ei bar hobey (We did not have a puja of ours; this time we will have one),” Alok Das, a villager, said. Some villagers were sceptical about outsiders organising Durga Puja. A few had asked if this would be the first and last time. “We assured the villagers we would with them till they were ready to organise a puja on their own,” Bhattacharya said. “The idea is to ensure when we see the lights in Calcutta, our brothers and sisters in Shyamnagar, too, will enjoy theirs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Winter steps listed for healthy lungs||Prevent burning of waste, compel all builders to ensure construction materials are covered, stop running commercial vehicles aged 15 years or older, and encourage work from home at least till the end of winter. These are some of the steps that can save Calcuttans from inhaling poor air during winter as it can leave their lungs compromised during the pandemic, doctors and air quality management specialists have said. The authorities are aware of this but how well these steps are implemented will determine whether Calcuttans breathe clean air this winter, Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of the Centre for Science and Environment, said. The research and advocacy organisation based in Delhi works on environment issues. The ultra-fine pollutant in air, PM2.5, can enter the lungs and trigger symptoms like asthma, pulmonologist Ajoy Sarkar said. Covid-19 has been affecting lungs among other organs, he said. “The smaller particles can go inside the alveoli and respiratory bronchioles and cause bronchospasm, which is narrowing of the bronchi. The function of the lungs will get affected.” If someone whose lungs are already compromised gets infected with the coronavirus, that person can develop serious complications, Sarkar said. “The absence of enough wind during winter traps pollutants closer to the ground. The authorities in Calcutta have to ensure that local generators of pollutants are reined in so that they do not add to the existing pollutants in the air,” Roy Chowdhury said. Kalyan Rudra, the chairperson of the state pollution control board, said the state government had “used water sprinklers very effectively last year to prevent dust from rising”. “District magistrates are alerted the moment burning of crop residue is noticed so that it is stopped.” Rudra said a panel headed by a chief secretary was working on replacing old commercial vehicles. Air quality experts said the government should prevent the entry of such vehicles to Calcutta, at least till the end of winter keeping in mind the pandemic. Roy Chowdhury stressed the need to continue “working from home”. Before the pandemic, people were urged to use public buses to reduce the number of private cars on roads. “But crowded public buses are not viable now… which means the number of private cars can go up and increase the pollution levels.” “The government must ask private companies and even its employees to work from home for a longer period. This will reduce the number of vehicles on roads, which in turn will reduce the emission of particulate matters,” she said. Burning waste material is common in the city. Road cleaners of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation can often be seen burning dry leaves. This releases an infinite number of particles, which rise in the air or settle in the ground and get further broken down when vehicles run over them, resuspend in the air and enter the lungs when people breathe, according to air experts. Similar particles are emitted by old commercial vehicles and coal ovens. “There are other factors that contribute to air pollution in Calcutta such as trans-boundary pollution. Pollutants from Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh flow into the state with wind,” an air quality expert said. “Pollutants generated from burning crop residue in various districts add to the pollution in Calcutta.” Controlling pollution from other states will take time and the involvement of other states but controlling local sources of pollution is up to the state government and it can be achieved faster, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Driver run over in road rage||A government bus driver who got off the bus to confront a private bus driver on BT Road on Friday was run over and killed when the other driver tried to flee, police said. The accident occurred near Chiria More in north Calcutta on the Dunlop-bound flank of BT Road in the afternoon. Both buses on route 78 (Barrackpore-Aurobindo Sarani- Barrackpore) were moving in the same direction when the private bus apparently grazed and broke the government bus’s  right rear-view mirror while overtaking it. “The government bus then overtook the private bus from the right and blocked its way before the driver got off to confront the other driver. He demanded an explanation why the private bus driver had broken his rear-view mirror,” a traffic police officer of the fatal squad said. “They had a heated argument... the private bus driver tried to flee and pressed on the accelerator.” The bus tried to negotiate past the state bus when the state bus driver came under its wheels, the police said. He was declared dead at RG Kar hospital. The private bus driver was arrested on the spot. He has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. He knew the consequences of his rash driving, an officer of Cossipore police station said. Both buses have been seized. A fire broke out in a multi-storey building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue on Friday night, leaving several residents injured while they tried to scamper out. Eyewitnesses said a child was severely injured when he jumped out of a first-floor balcony of the building — 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue — and had to be rushed to hospital. Police said the fire was detected around 10.15pm. Fire officials said the blaze possibly started from the meter room. Till midnight, at least 10 fire tenders were fighting to control the blaze.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Eco Park to reopen today||Eco Park in New Town will reopen on Saturday but will allow only up to 50 people at a time on its 480-acre campus. The park’s ticketing system will shut down once 50 tickets have been printed, said an official of Hidco, which runs the park. Eco Park has a digital ticketing system that records the time of entry as well as exit and reflects it on the ticketing database in real time. Once the number of visitors inside the park comes down from 50, fresh tickets will be issued. To ensure that visitors to the park don't crowd around or stand too close to each other, the park employees and guards have been asked to be extra vigilant and ensure that proper distance is maintained between individuals as well as those in groups. The park authorities have drawn large circles on the lawns and grounds to enforce the social distancing protocol. "We have placed signage to indicate where people can sit and where they cannot. Masks are mandatory and we will not allow people to sit or stand in clusters. We will also monitor crowds through the network of CCTV cameras installed throughout the park," said Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of Hidco. Even though the restaurants and the resort on the premises had opened earlier, the park had remained shut. All adventure activities such as kayaking, water zorbing and speed boat rides will remain suspended. Only tandem cycles and single seat bicycles will be offered for ride, a Hidco official said. According to him, every park employee will wear personal protection gear including masks, face shields and gloves. The guards and the employees have been trained to act as "queue monitors" as and when required. The neighbouring Eco Urban Village and Nazrul Tirtha, which houses a multiplex, will also reopen for visitors. Hand sanitising stations have been set up at Eco Park, Eco Urban Village and Nazrul Tirtha. In Salt Lake, Nicco Park has resumed operations and is running all "dry" rides at 50 per cent capacity. People above 65 and children below 10 years are not allowed in the park. The Wet-o-Wild section is shut. "Our men in front of the rides will carry sanitisers. All rides will be cleaned and sanitised at least twice a day," said Rajive Kaul, the promoter of Nicco Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Crippled mother, son found dead at home||An overpowering stench from a two-storey building in Patuli prompted neighbours to alert police who broke into the house on Thursday evening and found an 88-year-old woman lying dead on the floor, maggots crawling on her. The decomposed body of the woman’s 50-year-old son was hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms on the first floor. No suicide note was found. Police have learnt during a preliminary investigation that the son, Subhomay Mitra, had recently lost possession of a bookstore at Lake Market that his late father had taken on rent. He was working as a contractual employee of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Apart from him there was no one to look after his crippled mother, Manjusree Mitra, the police said. The police received an alert around 7.15pm on Thursday that a foul smell had been emanating from a building in Garia’s Kanungo Park. On reaching the spot, they found the main door locked from inside. “We broke open the door and entered the house only to find the decomposed body of an aged woman lying on the floor. There were worms on her body. It was clear that the body was a few days’ old. Her son was found hanging from the ceiling fan in one of the rooms on the first floor of the house,” a police officer said. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. An officer familiar with the probe said that going by the condition of the bodies, it appeared the woman had died before the man. “There were no injury marks on the woman. It seems to be a natural death. The post-mortem will reveal the cause of death. The mother and the son were lying dead inside the house for at least three to four days,” the officer said. Some neighbours told the cops that they had last seen the two a week ago. Shankarananda Guha, an elderly neighbour, said the son had been depressed ever since he lost the bookstore his father had taken on rent. Mitra, the neighbour said, had been out of work for a few months. There have been many incidents in the city of the aged and the uncared dying without anyone to keep tabs on them. Calcutta police encourage elderly residents to enrol with Pronam — a project that involves cops from local police stations keeping in touch with the aged. Elocutionist Pradip Ghosh passed away at his Jodhpur Park home on Friday. He was 78. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee described him as a “bright star in the world of  elocution” in her condolence message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||Open-air gym for New Town ||An open-air gymnasium and a workout zone were inaugurated in the Eco Urban Village complex in New Town’s Action Area II on Friday. The gymnasium has been set up after a survey on residents revealed they wanted to work out in an open space because of the pandemic, an official of Hidco, which has installed the machines, said. The gym is built along the lines of callisthenics parks and outdoor fitness stations, popular in South Korea, Europe and Australia, the Hidco official said. The park has a bunch of fitness equipment — including an aerial stroller, sit-up station, standing waist twister, double big shoulder wheel, chest and shoulder press exercise set-ups, and a ski walker. Every machine has a label explaining which body part/s would benefit from it. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said Hidco made it a point to have equipment that don’t require a trainer. “All the equipment are placed in such a way that distancing rules are maintained. Visitors will be asked to clean and wipe every equipment after use,” he said. People will have to pay Rs 10 a day to access the open-air gym. They can work out for as long as they like, the official said. Smriti Agarwal who lives in a nearby complex said she was a regular at the Eco Urban Village where she would jog or go for morning walks. “I jog and do freehand exercises in the park. I can’t wait to try these machines tomorrow morning. This is a great addition to the park.” A couple of years ago, Hidco had installed gym equipment at bus stops across all three action areas. But they hadn’t proved too popular. People mostly used them as seats while waiting for buses, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to call some researchers and employees back to campus||IIT Kharagpur will call some researchers and employees associated with projects back to the campus. These researchers who are called project staff will be in batches of a few — at the most 10, an institute official said. The institute doesn’t want these staff in large numbers on the campus as it could trigger a health risk, the official said. A similar situation had led to the closure of the campus early in September. The supervisor of each project has been asked to email the dean of sponsored research and industrial faculty the name of a specific member of staff from the project. “Specific information such as project code, date of completion, and specific urgency on meeting the deliverable has to be mentioned in the mail to help the institute prepare a priority-based list on those who would be recalled. The plan is to bring back the first batch of 10 by the third week of October,” the official said. It has been specified that those researchers and employees must secure accommodation at the Vikram Sarabhai Residential Complex (VSRC). Project scientists live in the complex. They have to quarantine themselves for 14 days on reaching the campus, following which they will be allowed entry to the academic area. “We are allowing entry of project staff in a phased manner. We will then think of allowing other PhD and postgraduate students,” Somesh Kumar, the dean of students’ affairs, told The Telegraph. The Centre has said higher education institutions can be reopened from October 15 only for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental works. Each department has been asked to take appropriate action for sanitisation of their laboratories and equipment ahead of the arrival of members of the project staff. Considering the insufficient medical facilities in Kharagpur town, the institute has been cautious while recalling researchers, an official said. Although the number of people infected with the coronavirus has come down on the campus, it is still on the rise in the immediate surroundings. “As beds are not available in adequate numbers, we are concerned if any assembly could lead to another outbreak. Most of those infected had to be referred to private hospitals in Calcutta last month,” the official said. The BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus is not equipped to handle Covid patients. At IIM Calcutta a student of the executive MBA course who was among those allowed on the campus last month to use the institute’s facilities to attend online classes tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The entire batch has been quarantined again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Calcutta||New clothes to win trust in conflict zones||Over 2,500 children and women living in areas prone to human-animal conflict will get a new set of clothes in the run-up to the festive season. The areas are Dakshin Shole in West Midnapore, human settlements around the Narayanpur forest in Hooghly and Kumirmari village in the Sunderbans. Dakshin Shole village in Salboni, around 21km from Midnapore town, is a hotbed of human-elephant conflict. Herds of marauding Dalma elephants raid the village frequently, destroying crops. People living in tribal hamlets around the Narayanpur forest, 25km from Singur, have been accused of hunting monitor lizards, fishing and civet cats, birds and other animals that are found in the forest. Kumirmari village, in the Basirhat range of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, derives its name from crocodile. Man-wild conflict in the mangroves needs no introduction. The loss of livelihood because of the pandemic has forced many people living on the fringes to enter the forests for fishing and collecting firewood. More than 15 people have been killed in tiger attacks in the Sunderbans this year, according to official estimates. Thousands of workers returned to the Sunderbans from various cities in the wake of the lockdown. Many of them depended on farming and fishing for survival but Cyclone Amphan inundated vast swathes of farmlands and waterbodies with salt water. The distribution of new clothes is an attempt at inclusive conservation management, said Joydip Kundu of the Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict and is behind the project. “The aim is to win the trust of the local population. We are trying to make them part of the festivities. In return, we expect them to be part of our conservation efforts,” said Kundu. The project is in its fifth year, he said. The drive is being conducted in collaboration with the forest department in phases. Around 2,400 people, including children, have got new clothes till Friday. The list of recipients was prepared with the help of the joint forest management committees. “The people of the Sunderbans have suffered a lot because of the Covid-19 pandemic and Amphan. They are yet to recover from the twin blows. We want to make these marginalised people a part of the festive celebrations,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, who was part of the distribution campaigns. “We want to engage with children in one way or another. If we can catch them young, they can be the agents of the change we seek.” In the past, people living on forest fringes were brought to the city and taken to pandals by SHER. This year it won’t be possible because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-268
17-10-2020||Business||SBI issues notice to McNally Bharat Engineering invoking SARFAESI Act||The clock has started ticking for the troubled EPC contractor McNally Bharat Engineering Company Ltd. The State Bank of India has issued a notice to the company invoking the SARFAESI Act, which is used by bankers to recover dues by selling assets. The bank, which is the second largest lender to McNally after the Bank of India, made the move against the working capital loans availed by the company. The Khaitan family-owned McNally owes around Rs 600 crore cumulatively to SBI. McNally owes Rs 1,963.49 crore to banks and other financial institutions. The company is in default on the entire loan amount as on September 30, 2020. The notice was issued under Section 13 (2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act (SARFAESI), 2002, which stipulates that the borrower must discharge the full liability within 60 days of receiving the notice. If a company fails to make the payment, the lender may take action under Section 13(4) of the Act, which includes taking possession of the secured assets of the borrower and realising the money by selling the same. McNally said the company is in dialogue with all lenders for a comprehensive debt restructuring exercise. The interest outstanding on the various loans availed by McNally is over Rs 550 crore as of the last quarter. It also owes Rs 1,000 crore to promoter group companies. However, while publishing the results for the first quarter, the company had disclosed it had submitted a restructuring proposal before the lenders but bankers had asked for certain changes. The auditor to McNally had again extended an adverse opinion on the results, noting that the company’s ability to continue as a going concern will depend on the successful execution of the debt restructuring proposal. Earlier in the year, the company had said it had received a binding term sheet from an overseas investor. It now appears that the investor developed cold feet as the pandemic has roiled the world economy, raising significant doubt about the pace of recovery. An official of McNally said he was hopeful of concluding negotiations with the lenders within 60 days as envisaged under Section 13(2) of the notice. “We have time till December 6. It is possible to have an outcome by that time. Negotiations are going on,” the official said. Outsized, continued losses at McNally have put the entire Williamson Magor Group under financial stress. The two other operating companies, Eveready and McLeod Russel, lent heavily to salvage McNally but without any success. The Khaitans borrowed heavily, pledging their stakes with the financiers. As they defaulted on payments,  financiers invoked the shares and sold them in the market, bringing down promoter holding in the two firms. The SBI move also brings to the fore how lenders are approaching a stressed asset during the Covid period. Lawyers  say SARFAESI is gaining currency in dealing with defaulters as Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 remains suspended. SARFAESI over IBC The Centre has suspended initiation of Insolvency and Bankruptcy code, 2016 for any default that took place after March 25 for six months. The suspension has been extended for another 3 months. For defaults prior to March 25, IBC is not being much of help as National Company Law Tribunals are not functioning to their full strength, choosing to take up only urgent matters. “In a way, SARFAESI is an out of court process. A secured creditor can give notice and after 60 days, it can go ahead to take possession of the assets and sell them for recovery of dues. In a situation like it is today, SARFAESI becomes more useful because IBC is suspended and for pre-March 25 defaults, new admissions are difficult. So we are seeing many lenders are assessing this route,” a senior lawyer who specialises on stressed assets, said. However, invocation of 13(2) does not always automatically go to Section 13(4). The lender can give leeway to a borrower beyond 60 days. But, Section13(2) being a statutory notice, a lender is free to take action after the time period. It is usually upon the discretion of the lender to go ahead with Section 13(4) or give more time to the borrower to pay up. The borrower, also, has the option to litigate if he is not happy with the banker's decision. “It puts pressure on the borrower to comply with their obligation. In that sense banks have these tools to keep borrowers in check wherever they are facing delinquencies,” the lawyer explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
17-10-2020||Business||China, Thailand to be hit as India bans import of ACs with refrigerants||Shipments from China and Thailand are set to take a hit as India bans the import of air-conditioners with refrigerants to promote domestic manufacturing. Data showed that India imported split air-conditioners worth $469 million in 2019-20 with $241 million from China and $189 million from Thailand. It imported window air-conditioners worth $35 million with $18 million from Thailand and $14 million from China during the same period. Most of the air-conditioners imported to India come with refrigerants. The domestic market of air conditioners is believed to be around $5-6 billion. The government aims to shift the focus from importing ACs to manufacturing them domestically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
17-10-2020||Business||Passenger vehicles witness 26.45 per cent increase in wholesale sales||Auto firms are looking forward to a festival season boom, buoyed by the 26.45 per cent increase in wholesale sales of passenger vehicles in September. According to latest data by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), sales of passenger vehicles rose to 2,72,027 units in September this year against 2,15,124 units in the same month last year. “We are expecting good demand in the festive season starting tomorrow. In the second quarter, some segments have shown signs of recovery. Passenger vehicles and two-wheelers are positive, although on a very low base of the previous year,” Siam president Kenichi Ayukawa said. Two-wheeler sales also rose 11.64 per cent to 18,49,546 units in September compared with 16,56,658 units in the same month last year. Motorcycle sales stood at 12,24,117 units against 10,43,621 units in September 2019, up 17.3 per cent. Scooter sales were also up marginally at 5,56,205 units from 5,55,754 units in the same month last year. The industry, reeling under a slowdown for almost two years, is finally seeing some recovery. Auto makers believe the Covid-19-induced lockdown, unexpectedly, proved to be a major contributing factor in building demand for passenger vehicles. Ever since the pandemic struck and social distancing measures became a part of daily life, there has been a renewed interest in buying a personal mobility vehicle as people increasingly looked to move away from public transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Coal India approves performance-linked reward of Rs 68,500 per employee||Coal India has approved a performance-linked reward of Rs 68,500 per employee for all its non-executive cadre workforce for 2019-20. Around 2.62 lakh employees of Coal India across its eight subsidiaries who were on the payroll during 2019-20 will benefit. The total outgo for the public sector miner is a little over Rs 1,700 crore. Non-executive employees, who have completed at least 30 working days during 2019-20, will be eligible for the payment on a pro-rata basis. Despite the pandemic affecting coal sales in the first half of the year, Coal India has offered a 5.87 per cent rise over previous year’s performance-linked reward of Rs 64,700 per employee. The agreement was arrived at the 10th meeting of the Standardisation Committee of the Joint Bipartite Committee of Coal Industry held in Ranchi on Thursday. The Coal India management and trade union representatives were present. Coal India has seen an improvement in demand in September in both production and offtake. “We are happy that we could conclude the performance related reward on time to the satisfaction of both sides. The payment ahead of the festive season should enthuse our employees to put in a greater effort to raise our performance levels significantly,” said a senior executive of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||RBI to purchase state government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday said it will purchase state government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore in the first such auction to be conducted on October 23. On October 9, the central bank had announced that it will conduct open market operations (OMOs) in state development loans (SDL). The step is expected to improve the liquidity in these bonds and reduce the spread over government securities, thereby helping states in their borrowing plans. The RBI will conduct OMOs for bonds issued by 15 states. However, it did not disclose the amount that will be purchased from each of them. The 15 states are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The RBI will purchase debts that are maturing between March 2029 and March 2031. The SDLs of other states are likely to be announced in the next batch. The RBI’s announcement comes after the Centre said it will borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which will be passed on to the states. According to Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head (corporate sector ratings) of Icra, the central government’s decision will reduce the supply of state bonds in the second half of this fiscal and the cost of such borrowings would go down. Roy added that SDL spreads should further ease because of the plan to conduct OMOs. At present, SDLs are eligible collateral for the Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) along with T-bills, dated government securities and oil bonds. Realty push In a bid to increase the flow of credit to the real estate sector, the RBI in a notification on Friday rationalised the risk weightage to LTV (loan to value) ratio for all new housing loans sanctioned up to March 31, 2022. New home loans will attract a risk weight of 35 per cent where LTV is less than 80 per cent and a risk weight of 50 per cent where LTV is more than 80 per cent but less than 90 per cent. This measure, according to the RBI, is expected to give a fillip to bank lending to the real estate sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Indiabulls Housing Finance sells additional stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd||Indiabulls Housing Finance on Friday said it has sold an additional stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd for Rs 220 crore. The sale proceeds will be accretive to the regulatory net worth and the CRAR (capital to risk weighted assets ratio) of the company, the company added. “Indiabulls Housing Finance has further sold a portion of its stake in OakNorth Holdings Ltd (the wholly owned parent company of OakNorth Bank Plc) for around Rs 220 crore,” it said in a communication to the stock exchanges. With the latest stake sale, the company has raised a total of Rs 2,493 crore as fresh equity in the months of September and October. This includes Rs 683 crore through qualified institutional placement (QIP) and Rs 1,810 crore through a stake sale in OakNorth which will add to the regulatory equity capital of the company. Earlier this month, the housing finance company had said that it had sold a part of its stake in OakNorth Holdings to HighSage Ventures LLC for Rs 440 crore. HighSage Ventures LLC is a Boston-based investment firm with an investor network spanning the venture capital, private equity and public equity segments. OakNorth Bank was launched in September 2015 and Indiabulls Housing had invested Rs 663 crore in November 2015 for a 40 per cent stake in the bank.  Shares of Indiabulls Housing closed at Rs 151 on the BSE on Friday, a loss of 0.33 per cent over its last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||Business||Finance minister writes to states on terms of GST offer||After making a U-turn on borrowing to compensate the states for GST revenue loss, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has written to them on the terms under which the Centre will borrow a sum of Rs 1,10,208 crore from a special window and pass it on to the states as loan. However, the letter lacked clarity on several counts including the interest rate and whether the states or the Centre will pay the administrative and the service costs of borrowing the sum. The letter of the finance minister says “the interest rate will be very reasonable” but does not confirm the earlier promise “to bear the margin between G-Secs and the average of State Development Loan yields up to 50 basis points) through a subsidy”. The margin relates to the borrowing the states themselves will do to the tune of Rs 1.06 lakh crore over and above the Rs 1.10 lakh crore borrowing. “Under this scheme, state governments get funds from two sources. First, they will get loans through a special window arranged by the Government of India. The special window covers the shortfall arising from the implementation of the GST (calculated at Rs 1,10,208 lakh crore),” the letter by Sitharaman said. “The second source is through additional unconditional market borrowing. The condition attached to the final portion of the borrowing package issued on May 17, 2020 will be relaxed. Thus, states will be able to borrow an amount equivalent to 0.5 per cent of GSDP without meeting any reform conditions,” the letter said. The letter said the states will get access to resources of over Rs 2,16,000 lakh crore  this year comprising Rs 1,10,208  crore (from the special window) plus Rs 1,06,830 crore (because of the relaxation of the borrowing headroom under the package in May to the extent of 0.5 per cent of GSDP without condition. The Centre said the Rs 2.16 lakh crore will more than cover what the states were supposed to get this year. Out of the estimated GST shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore this year, only Rs 1.83 lakh crore would have been payable this year as the dues for February and March 2021 would be rolled over to the next year. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram in a tweet said Sitharaman has written to the states that the central government will borrow Rs 1,10,208 crore and give them “back-to-back loans”. “There is no clarity on the balance of the gap in the GST compensation. FM’s letter puts the number at Rs 1,06,830 crore for this financial year. There is no clarity on who will borrow the money and no clarity on how the debt will be serviced and repaid,” Chidambaram’s tweet said. “States are opposed to borrowing on their own account. States are right. There is no difference between the first amount and the second amount,” Chidambaram said. He also asked the Centre to resolve the impasse immediately by offering the same terms for Rs 1,06,830 crore as it has now offered for Rs 1,10,208 crore. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said:  “But there is one issue yet to be resolved — how much of compensation is to be  deferred to 2023? Negotiate this point and reach a consensus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-261
17-10-2020||India||Peace along LAC deeply disturbed: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar on Saturday said peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is “deeply disturbed” and this is obviously impacting the overall relationship between India and China. Jaishankar made the comment against the backdrop of the over five-month-long border standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh where each side has deployed over 50,000 troops. The Sino-Indian boundary question is a very “complicated” and difficult issue, he said at a webinar on his book The India Way, giving a historical perspective to development of the relationship between the two neighbours in the last three decades. The external affairs minister said the relationship between India and China, which was “very difficult”, was normalised since late 1980s through a plethora of initiatives like trade, travel, tourism and societal activities on the premise of peace and tranquillity along the border. “It is not our position that we should solve the boundary question. We understand that it is a very complicated and difficult issue. There have been many negotiations at different levels… That is a very high bar for a relationship,” Jaishankar said. “I am talking about a much more basic bar which is that there must be peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas and that has been the case since the late 1980s,” he added. “Now, if peace and tranquillity is deeply disturbed, then obviously there will be an impact on the relationship and that is what we are seeing,” he said, referring to the border situation in eastern Ladakh. Jaishankar said both China and India are rising and assuming “bigger” roles in the world, but the “big question” is how the two countries find an “equilibrium”. “That is the basic case I addressed in my book,” the minister said, adding he completed the manuscript of the book in April, before the border row erupted in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
17-10-2020||India||Residential hockey academy set to come up in Chhattisgarh||The time is ripe for sportspersons of Chhattisgarh to turn dreams into reality. For the very first time after the formation of an independent state, a residential hockey academy is being set up in Raipur. Additionally, an 'Excellence Center' for Athletic, Wrestling and Swimming is also being launched in Bahtarai, Bilaspur. Credit for these two ventures goes to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who has added a new chapter in the development of sports in the state by taking the concept of "Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh" to playgrounds. He has enlivened the concept of holistic development, with the all-round development of children, especially the ones who share a special bond with sports. Under the Khelo India Scheme, a proposal for setting up these facilities were sent to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) by the Department of Sports and Youth Welfare, for which the approval has been received. Efforts are now being made to embark on the realization of 'Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh' in the field of sports to enhance the sporting talents across the state and provide them with appropriate training. Earlier, a proposal was sent to the SAI for archery by the Department of Sports and Youth Welfare, for which the approval has been received. At present, the archery training is being provided to the players in Raipur. Under the 'One State One Game', the development of archery in Raipur is also under process. Chief Minister Mr Bhupesh Baghel and Sports Minister Mr. Umesh Patel sent their best wishes to players, sports coaches, officials and employees of the State Sports and Youth Welfare Department after receiving the recognition from SAI. The Chhattisgarh Sports Development Authority has been constituted by the Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel for the maintenance of available sports infrastructure and operation of residential sports academies in the state. Games are being developed across the state through the authority. The selection program for the Residential Hockey Academy will start soon. All the facilities like hostel, school, kit and food will be made available to the trainee players selected for residential academy. Athletic, swimming and wrestling are the three major sports that have been selected for the Excellence Center to be started in Bahtarai, Bilaspur. Sports and Youth Welfare Department is on course to create new posts of trainers across the state. The Excellence Center will aid in further polishing the sporting talent of the state. Necessary resources will also be made available by the Central Government for these two major centres. The MoU for the hockey academy will soon be signed between the Sports Authority of India and the Sports and Youth Welfare Department. Mr. Bhupesh Baghel, while inaugurating the AstroTurf Hockey Stadium at Bahtarai in Bilaspur on June 17, 2019, named it after former Minister Late B.R. Yadav. The 9th Hockey India National Sub Junior Hockey Competition was launched by the Chief Minister in this stadium, with teams from 22 states participating. A well-equipped sports complex is ready in Bilaspur. Chhattisgarh Hockey Academy in Raipur and State Sports Training Center in Bilaspur will provide a good opportunity for sportspersons of the state to develop their sporting skills. Players will get better sports infrastructure with better facilities and training from good coaches. On the occasion of the launch of Yuva Mahotsav this year, the Chief Minister had encouraged the youth to move forward in the field of sports by giving a new slogan of 'Khelbo-Jeetbo-Gadbo Nava Chhattisgarh'. It is noteworthy that after the formation of the state, no Sports Academy was established in Chhattisgarh. Two well-equipped hockey stadiums of international level have already been established in Raipur. The Sports Authority of India and the team of sports experts of Khelo India visited the Raipur Hockey Academy and availed information regarding the sports infrastructure and facilities available there||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Rape case on Mithun Chakraborty's son Mahaakshay||Mumbai Police have registered a case against veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty's son Mahaakshay and the former's wife Yogita Bali on a complaint of rape and cheating filed by a woman, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered at Oshiwara police station on Thursday night based on the complaint lodged by the 38-year- old woman, he said. "The complainant said she was in a relationship with Mahaakshay Chakraborty from 2015 to 2018 and during that period he had promised to marry her," the official said. "The woman said that during their relationship, she had gone to see Mahaakshay'sflat at Adarsh Nagar in Andheri West, which he had purchased in 2015. She said when she went there, the accused offered her a spiked soft drink and forced her to have physical relations with him," he added. "The woman alleged that when she became pregnant, Mahaakshay asked her to abort the baby and gave her pills," he said. "The woman said she used to ask Mahaakshay about their marriage. But in January 2018, he told her that he cannot marry her, which led to an altercation between them. She said when she called him, his mother Yogita Bali threatened her," the official said. The complainant later went to Delhi with her brother to stay with their family friend. There, she lodged a complaint against Mahaakshay and his mother Yogita Bali at Begumpur police station in June 2018, he added. The police had registered an offence under section 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman's consent) and others, and the probe was transferred to the crime branch there. A Delhi court later granted anticipatory bail to Mahaakshay and his mother in the case. In March 2020, the Delhi High Court had asked the woman to file her complaint in the court, where the offence had taken place. Following that, she filed a complaint at Oshiwara police station in July this year, the official said. "Accordingly, an offence under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 417 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) has been registered against the accused," he said, adding that a probe is on. Mahaakshay has featured in a few films like "Haunted 3D" and "Loot".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Covid caseload below eight lakh after almost two months||India's active COVID-19 caseload fell below eight lakh for the first time in one-and-a-half months and account for merely 10.70 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. There are 7,95,087 active cases of coronavirus infection as on date. The active caseload was below the 8 lakh mark (7,85,996) last on September 1, the ministry said. "With a high number of COVID-19 patients recovering every day, India's steady trend of registering dipping active cases continues," it underlined. The total recoveries have surged to 65,24,595 and exceed active infections by 57,29,508. A total of 70,816 patients have recovered and discharged in a span of 24 hours whereas 62,212 new COVID-19 cases were reported during the same period, according to data updated by the ministry at 8 am. The national recovery rate has further risen to 87.78 per cent. Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre's standard treatment protocol by states and union territories, and total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with commensurate dip in the fatality rate, the ministry underscored. "India is the only country with the highest recoveries and continues to have one of the lowest fatality rates globally. The case fatality rate as on date stands at 1.52 per cent. These have in tandem resulted in consistent slide in the active cases," the ministry highlighted. It said that 78 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Seventy-nine per cent of the 62,212 new cases of COVID-19 recorded in a span of 24 hours are from 10 States and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, the ministry said. Maharashtra is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 11,000 infections, followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 7,000 cases each, it stated. A total of 837 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Maharashtra has reported the maximum single day deaths (306 deaths). Maharashtra contributes more than 13,000 to the single day recoveries, followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries. The Centre continues to support the state and UT governments in the collective fight against the global pandemic. The Ministry of Health has deputed high-level central teams to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal as these states have been reporting a surge in the number of new COVID-19 cases in the recent days. The teams will support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The central teams shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Delhi's air quality poor, say govt agencies||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the 'poor' category on Saturday morning but is likely to improve slightly due to favourable wind speed, according to government agencies. The air pollution level in Delhi had hit an eight-month high on Thursday but reduced slightly on Friday with favourable wind speed helping in dispersion of pollutants, even as the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose to 18 per cent. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 263 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 239 on Friday and 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 (AQI 320). An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. A senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the maximum wind speed was 10 kilometers per hour on Friday. It is likely to be 12 kmph on Saturday. Calm winds and cold temperatures are unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. The wind direction is expected to be north-north westerly on Saturday, which is likely to increase the impact of stubble burning on Delhi's air quality. However, the Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be 9,500 metre square per second on Saturday favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of farm fires to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose from around 6 per cent on Thursday to 18 percent on Friday. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday. Air quality is expected to improve further to the lower end of the poor category by Sunday, SAFAR said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had on Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since September as compared to last year. PM10 concentration between September 1 and October 14 this year has been more as compared to the corresponding period last year, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava. The average ventilation index has been 1,334 metre square per second in September and October this year as compared to 1,850 metre square per second during the corresponding period last year, the official said. With lesser area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, the CPCB member secretary hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year as compared to 2019. Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content so farmers burn it. Gargava also said that stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy. With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the COVID-19 situation. Severe air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Women media professionals express concern at rape-case gag fallout ||An association of women media professionals has expressed grave concern at the manner in which rape accused were being allowed the benefit of gag orders on the reporting of sexual assault and harassment cases, a precaution originally meant to protect the survivors. The Network of Women in Media, India, has said in a detailed note that in several instances the accused in rape cases were being allowed the privilege of gag orders. It made a special mention of the 2017 abduction and assault of a Kerala actress in which a leading actor named in the case had taken advantage of the provisions meant for the survivor. In February 2017, the popular actress had been waylaid by criminals who sexually assaulted her in a moving car and filmed the act, allegedly at the behest of a Malayalam superstar. “The trial commenced in-camera in January 2020. In March, the accused obtained a gag order from the court against the media’s coverage of the case. In September, he filed a petition in the same court against 10 media houses for allegedly violating the gag order — the hearings in this matter, too, are currently ongoing,” the statement, signed by 26 eminent personalities, said. The statement cited the petition filed by the accused that said that the “illegal act” of publishing proceedings from the in-camera trial was calculated to hurt his reputation and violate his fundamental rights. “The choice of words in the petition underlines the irony of the situation: Section 327(2) of the CrPC mandates that rape inquiries and trials should be conducted in-camera; and Section 327(3) mandates that it is unlawful to print or publish any matter related to in-camera proceedings without the court’s previous permission,” the NWMI said. The statement highlighted how these legal provisions had been introduced to protect the identity and privacy of the survivors, and not to accord the same privilege to the accused. It said: “…Time and again, it is the weight of public opinion and the role played by responsible media coverage that has helped sensitise and exert pressure on governments and the police to act against perpetrators of sexual assault and harassment. Clearly, there can be no public opinion if there is no information in the public realm. We believe this is why powerful accused are increasingly trying to suppress the social media and news media.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Hathras whiff in UP murder||A Dalit teen has been gang-raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki with her family accusing police of forcing them to cremate the body and delaying the registration of a case under the relevant sections, in what appeared to be a rerun of the Hathras incident. The father of the 18-year-old Barabanki girl said her body, with no clothes on, was found with multiple injury marks in an agricultural field on Wednesday, her hands and feet tied. He alleged the police forced him to cremate the body and threatened to book him for murder if he insisted on adding the gang-rape charge. R.S. Gautam, the police chief, said: “We had registered a murder case against two suspects and arrested them. The gang-rape case was added after we got the autopsy report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Lawyer arrested for Sushant ‘fake news’||The cyber cell of Mumbai police on Friday arrested a lawyer from Delhi for allegedly spreading fake news and conspiracy theories on social media over the deaths of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and his former manager Disha Salian. The accused, identified as Vibhor Anand, was taken to Mumbai where he was produced before a court and remanded in police custody till October 19. Sources in Mumbai police said Anand had been booked for defamation and other charges under the Information Technology Act. “Anand concocted several fake conspiracy theories and made false claims related to the circumstances surrounding the deaths of Sushant and Salian. He is accused of cooking up conspiracy theories that defamed some celebrities and the Maharashtra government,” a police officer said. Last month, actor-producer Arbaaz Khan, the brother of superstar Salman Khan, had lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of Mumbai police and also filed a case in a civil court against Anand. The court had directed Anand and some other unknown accused persons to take down the defamatory content published directly or indirectly by them. Anand is also accused of posting videos in which he had made defamatory statements and allegations against the Maharashtra government. Mumbai police have claimed to have identified 80,000 such fake social media accounts created on various platforms after Sushant’s death to discredit Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government. The police’s cyber cell has compiled a report in which it has said social media posts with hashtags such as “justiceforsushant” were uploaded to peddle conspiracy theories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||BJP leader shoots in UP, 1 dead||One person was killed and another injured when a BJP leader allegedly opened fire during a meeting to settle a dispute over the allotment of a ration shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district, with the deceased’s kin alleging that the politician was allowed to escape despite the presence of over 20 policemen and senior administrative officials. The police administration, which is yet to arrest Dhirendra Pratap Singh despite over 24 hours having passed since the crime, has admitted “laxity” and suspended nine cops and two administrative officials. Local BJP MLA Surendra Singh, to whom Dhirendra is said to be close, claimed that the accused had opened fire in self-defence. Video footage showed people running helter-skelter after the firing and a group of policemen surrounding a man resembling Dhirendra, a former soldier with a paramilitary force who is now the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell chief of the BJP. Tej Pratap Pal, the brother of Jai Prakash, 46, who died in the firing, alleged that the police had caught Dhirendra after the firing, but “took him to a nearby embankment and let him go”. Surendra, the MLA, said: “We need to know that Dhirendra and many more people would have died had he not fired in self-defence. Dhirendra is the president of the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell of our party. The kind of incident that took place in Durjanpur village can happen anywhere. Both sides had attacked each other.” On Friday morning, policemen were deployed in front of the palatial house of Dhirendra after some villagers allegedly damaged a car and some chairs in front of the building. The villagers also organised a dharna and chanted slogans against the Yogi Adityanath government for “protecting a killer”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Saibaba fast threat for books||G.N. Saibaba, the partially paralysed professor who is serving a life sentence in Nagpur prison for links with Maoists, has threatened to go on a hunger strike from October 21 if he is not allowed to receive letters, books and medicines. In a letter to the head of Maharashtra’s prisons, additional DGP Sunil Ramanand, Saibaba’s wife A.S. Vasantha Kumari has written that the jailed professor had decided to go on a hunger strike to protest “the inhuman behaviour and unfair restrictions laid down by authorities”. Saibaba has demanded that he be allowed to receive medicines, letters, books and newspaper clippings from his family, and also permission to make phone calls to them once a week. The 53-year-old professor, who taught English at Delhi University’s Ram Lal Anand College until his arrest in 2014, is paralysed below his waist due to polio and his family says his arms are getting paralysed because of irregular medical treatment by jail authorities. Vasantha Kumari has written in the letter to the additional DGP: “I have been informed that he is facing hardships and harassment in Nagpur Central Jail due to the inhuman behaviour and unfair restrictions laid down by authorities. He has taken a decision to go on hunger strike from 21st October 2020….” Referring to the restrictions, she said: “All these books supplied to him are in English, some of them are poetry books and some of them are either novels or literature-based books that are not banned under the law of the land…. “As a policy the jail authorities stopped the purchase of newspapers by him in the jail due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, some newspaper clippings and printouts sent by post are not given to him and are being held by the authorities along with the handwritten or typed personal letters addressed to him.” Calls have been restricted to one or two a month, she said. Vasantha Kumari has added: “Sometimes all the medicines given by his advocates are not being given to him. He has multiple health problems and needs to take prescribed medicines every day to save his life.” Asked about the letter, Ramanand told The Telegraph: “I am not well and am bed-ridden. Will speak later.” The Committee for the Defence and Release of Dr G.N. Saibaba has said: “He has spent the last several years suffering grave physical ailments including the gradual paralysis of his functional limbs due to neglect and continuous denial of adequate treatment by the jail authorities…. Previously, even parole to attend his mother’s funeral and last rites was denied (in August). “He has spent the last several years in an anda cell (a secluded egg-shaped high-security room) reading and translating texts and writing poetry. Books and letters are crucial for the well-being of every prisoner and the denial of access to them is a violation of their rights. Despite the family and advocates sending books to Dr G.N. Saibaba over the last several months, books that are in English and freely available in the markets, they are being unduly confiscated and retained by the jail authorities without reason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Supreme Court appoints one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday appointed Justice Madan B. Lokur, a retired judge and a trenchant critic of the State’s misuse of the sedition law, as a one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi. The court overruled objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the governments of two states where the BJP is in power. Mehta said his clients had not been heard before the panel was recommended. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has tasked Justice Lokur with ensuring the prevention of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, an age-old practice that aggravates air pollution in the National Capital Region in October-November every year. As a sitting judge, Justice Lokur had headed a bench that delivered an unpalatable verdict for the Narendra Modi government on extra-judicial killings and had condemned, after retirement, the use of the sedition law against “youngsters, students talking about doing something good for the country”. “(The charge of) sedition is being used with an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views,” he had said at a webinar last month, without mentioning names. Alluding to Dr Kafeel Khan, he had said that recently in Uttar Pradesh, a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. In 2018, dealing with a public interest plea on alleged extrajudicial killings of over 1,528 people in Manipur between 1985 and 2001, the bench headed by Justice Lokur had ordered a CBI inquiry despite the Modi government arguing this would demoralise the armed forces. Justice Lokur’s willingness to express dissent also showed in the way he had combined with three other apex court judges in January 2018 to hold a news conference and accuse then Chief Justice Dipak Misra of allocating key cases to certain favoured junior judges. Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments, had opposed Justice Lokur’s appointment to the committee on the ground that the states had not been heard on the matter. But the three-judge bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, held firm. “We heard the matter at length for more than half an hour. We heard everyone. The consent of the judge was taken. We passed the order in the open court. You can tell us what your reservation is,” Justice Bobde had asked. Mehta said: “The recommendations for the committee were made by the petitioner and the consent (of Justice Lokur) was obtained by them. We were not even put on notice. Hence we should be heard.” But Justice Bobde said: “We are only concerned that citizens of Delhi NCR are able to breathe fresh, clean air; and while the court is shut, we don’t want anything to happen during these nine days.” The apex court will be closed till October 25 on account of Dussehra. Post-harvest stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbourhood, mostly between mid-October and mid-November, induces a spike in air pollution during the festive season. A minor, Aditya Dubey, and his friends had moved a public interest petition seeking steps to prevent the practice, a project in which the state governments have only had partial success. Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, too requested the court not to pass any order as another bench was scheduled to hear a petition on environmental pollution on November 23. She added that the Environment Pollution Prevention Control Authority (EPCA) of the Union environment ministry was already monitoring the situation. But Justice Bobde clarified that the order was “not an indictment of any authority”. “It is necessary that there be some monitoring of stubble burning with a view to its prevention before it assumes abnormal proportions,” the court said. “We, accordingly, accept the suggestion (of the petitioners’ counsel, Vikas Singh) and appoint Hon’ble Mr Justice Madan Lokur, a former judge of this court, to act as the one-man monitoring committee to monitor the measures taken by the states to prevent stubble burning." Highlights of the order: *The chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi must assist Justice Lokur “and enable physical surveillance of fields where stubble is likely to be burnt”. *The National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme and the Bharat Scouts and Guides should assist the Lokur committee wherever possible. *The teams formed in the states to prevent stubble burning “shall report to and take instructions from” the Lokur committee. *The Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments must provide the committee with secretarial help, transport and security, if necessary. *The EPCA and other relevant authorities must provide any assistance and information the committee seeks. *The committee is to hand in fortnightly reports to the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-609
17-10-2020||India||Blow to two drugs used in India to fight Covid||The antiviral drug remdesivir widely prescribed for coronavirus disease neither prevents deaths nor reduces duration of hospital stay in patients, a clinical trial monitored by the World Health Organisation in 30 countries, including India, has found. Drug regimens containing remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir, and interferon have “little or no effect” on the 28-day mortality or the course of illness in hospitalised Covid-19 patients, the WHO said on Friday, announcing the interim results of the global trial. Health experts said the findings could come as a jolt to doctors across India who have been prescribing both remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine to Covid-19 patients under guidelines approved by the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, who was not associated with the WHO trial, said: “The new results put a big question mark on what our policy makers have recommended.” Indian health authorities like their counterparts in other countries had approved remdesivir for emergency use on Covid-19 patients as an investigational therapy. Remdesivir is among medications that US President Donald Trump had received. The US-based Gilead Sciences had in May this year announced licencing pacts with four Indian drug-makers for local production and distribution of the drug that has been used across India. The trial recorded 301 deaths among 2,743 patients who received remdesivir and 303 deaths among 2,708 control patients who had received best standard care. The trial researchers have posted their findings, which are yet to be peer-reviewed, on an online preprint archive. “The results are unambiguous — there is no impact on mortality,” K. Srinath Reddy, president of the New Delhi-based Public Health Foundation of India and member of an international group of researchers who monitored the trial, told The Telegraph. Gilead appeared to challenge the findings. “The emerging data appear inconsistent with more robust evidence from multiple randomised controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals validating the drug’s benefit,” Gilead said in a statement. “We are concerned the data from this global trial have not undergone the rigorous review to allow for constructive scientific discussion.” But health experts say the strength of the WHO trial lies in its size — 11,000 patients across 405 hospitals in 30 countries, with over 5,000 patients in the remdesivir arm — and its worldwide applicability. In comparison, the experts said, a key US study that had influenced the regulatory decision to approve emergency authorisation use had involved 1,062 patients. Kalantri said it was time policy makers in India “learn from research and apply it at the point of care”. “Remdesivir is an expensive medicine — it costs nearly Rs 30,000 for a five-day course. Should our governments and the public squander their limited financial resources on a drug that has been shown not to work by this trial?” He said the trial should also hammer the last nail on hydroxychloroquine’s use for Covid-19. “Simple. Hydroxychloroquine did not work. It is time our policymakers and doctors and the national task force take off hydroxychloroquine for treating hospitalised Covid patients,” Kalantri told this newspaper. The findings, one senior critical care medicine specialist said, imply that inexpensive steroids such as dexamethasone and methylprednisolone, also approved for Covid-19 are the “only things proven to reduce mortality”. Reddy said the large and diverse nature of the participants in the trial help mimic real world conditions. “The results increase our confidence that they are valid across large populations,” he said. “Our results show no impact on mortality — if people believe remdesivir shortens stay in hospital, it is possible it will continue to be used.” A senior ICMR official declined to say what implications the findings would have on India’s current treatment policy that prescribes both remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine. Health authorities in many countries have withdrawn approvals for the use of hydroxychloroquine. The WHO had announced the inefficacy of hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir against Covid-19 earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
17-10-2020||India||Prasar Bharati to end PTI deal||The Prasar Bharati board on Thursday decided to end its subscription to the country’s largest news agency, Press Trust of India, a move that it said was a commercial decision but is widely believed to have been hastened by differences over the wire service’s handling of news. The United News of India too got the axe as part of the review of the public broadcaster’s relationship with the country’s oldest news agencies after differences arose over the annual subscriptions. According to Prasar Bharati officials, the board at its meeting on Thursday decided to call for fresh proposals for a digital subscription and related multimedia services from all domestic news agencies. Both PTI and UNI are “free to make fresh proposals to Prasar Bharati”, the public broadcaster’s CEO, Shashi S. Vempati, tweeted in response to the charge that ending PTI’s subscription was another attack on press freedom. This is the first time that the CEO has responded to such criticism, kicked off by Prasar Bharati’s June letter to PTI warning the agency with ending the subscription to its news feed for coverage that was “detrimental to national interest”. The June letter had been sent after PTI interviewed the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, and his Indian counterpart in Beijing, Vikram Misri. The interview with Sun apparently angered the government because it offered space to China in the media. As for the Misri interview, the agency’s initial tweets on it attributed a comment to the ambassador that contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that no one had intruded into Indian territory. While this purported comment by Misri was not included in the copy that was released for use, PTI did not withdraw the initial tweets. Nor did Misri or the external affairs ministry deny that he had said so. The warning letter to PTI was sent by the Prasar Bharati News Service — a recently formed unit of the public broadcaster — although the biggest consumers of the feed within the organisation are All India Radio and Doordarshan. The subscription fees were an issue with UNI too. After the expiry of the last three-year contract with the two agencies in 2015-16, Prasar Bharati had insisted on a service-based rationalisation of the subscription formula but both PTI and UNI wanted to continue with the years-old mechanism of a consolidated payment. Since then, Prasar Bharati has been holding back about 25 per cent of the subscription fees to either agency pending a resolution of the issue. There is no clarity now about how the subject of dues will be addressed or whether the two agencies will challenge the decision. Neither agency had commented on the developments till late Friday evening. Speculation has been rife that the government is targeting PTI in particular to make space for its preferred agency — Asia News International — and Hindustan Samachar, which has been revived since the Modi government came to power in 2014. That ANI, which specialises in audio-visual content, is the government’s favourite is evident from the way it gets to air the Prime Minister’s speeches in preference to Doordarshan. Ever since the lockdown began and news conferences went online, this feed has been available live on YouTube and ANI but not on Doordarshan, which used to have almost exclusive rights to such broadcasts from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
17-10-2020||India||NEET absentees double in Covid year||Absenteeism in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test in Covid-hit 2020 is double last year’s despite the exam being held a second time this year for the benefit of those who had skipped the first edition. Of the 15.97 lakh registered candidates, 2.3 lakh or 14.4 per cent failed to appear in the test, held on September 13 and October 14. Last year, about 1.08 lakh among the 15.19 lakh registered candidates had stayed away, clocking an absenteeism figure of 7.1 per cent. Last year, the test was held just once. The Supreme Court had on Monday allowed the exam to be conducted a second time on Wednesday to help the students who could not take the test on September 13. Nearly 7.71 lakh candidates including a transgender student have cleared this year’s exam, scripting a success rate of 56.44 per cent among those who appeared in it. Last year’s success rate was 56.5 per cent. The NEET is the national entrance exam for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses, of which there are nearly 80,000 and 27,000 seats, respectively. Soyeb Aftab from Odisha scored 720 out of 720 to top the merit list. Akanksha Singh from Delhi too scored 720 but was placed second because she was older. A tie in aggregate score, individual subject scores and percentile score can be broken by considering the age of the candidates, the rules say. At 66.95 per cent, the success rate is highest among the Economically Weaker Sections candidates. The success rate among general-category students is 55.09 per cent and that among the OBCs, 59.19 per cent. The qualification cut-off for the general merit list was a percentile score of 50, compared with 45 for economically weaker candidates and 40 for the OBC, Dalit and tribal candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
17-10-2020||India||BJP clarifies: No secret deal with Chirag Paswan||The BJP on Friday called the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party a “vote katua (vote-cutter)”and said it had no relations with it, seeking to dispel the growing perception that the BJP was making a covert bid to subjugate ally Nitish Kumar. Two central leaders of the BJP — Union minister Prakash Javadekar and general secretary Bhupendra Yadav — rushed to clarify that there was no secret deal with the LJP. “Chirag Paswan has gone his own way in the Bihar elections. The NDA has nothing to do with him. The BJP doesn’t have any B-team,” information and broadcasting minister Javadekar tweeted. Javadekar put out a video in which he called Chirag’s party nothing but a “vote katua” and said the LJP leader was trying to spread confusion by claiming closeness with senior BJP leaders. But both Javadekar and Yadav were silent on the fact that the LJP continues to be a part of the NDA at the Centre. Chirag has been going all out to hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah while slamming the NDA’s poll face, Nitish Kumar. The LJP has been fielding candidates only against the JDU and claiming that a BJP-LJP government would be formed in the state. “By using the Prime Minister’s name, Chirag Paswan wants to create confusion.… Neither do we have any alliance with the LJP nor is it part of the NDA,” BJP general secretary and the party’s Bihar minder, Yadav, tweeted. Yadav termed Chirag’s attack on Nitish “unfortunate”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
17-10-2020||India||Congress targets Nitish more than Modi in poll campaign||The Congress electoral campaign in Bihar targets Nitish Kumar more than Narendra Modi in an unmistakable shift in strategy, probably realising that the chief minister has become the face of anti-incumbency. With a catchphrase “ka kiye ho (what have you done?)”, the Congress theme song and jingles question Nitish on every aspect of governance — alarming unemployment to rising crime and mismanagement of the pandemic. Although there are references to the BJP-JDU alliance, as the double-engine government is branded as “Loot Express”, the BJP scarcely figures. The campaign taunts Nitish for political gymnastics, a vague reference to his betrayal of the 2015 mandate, 55 scams in 15 years, failure to speak up on crimes against women, corruption in welfare schemes and the pitiable state of health care and education. Nitish is accused of hollow rhetoric and fake claims of developing Bihar. The Congress underlines that Bihar had recorded the highest unemployment rate of 46 per cent in the country, with every second youth denied a gainful job. Nitish is also accused of favouring people from his home district of Nalanda in constable recruitments, with 4,500 out of the total 9,900 recruits coming from the district. Ordinary citizens have been filmed for the social media campaign that asks them what Nitish has done for the people in his 15 years as chief minister. Asked if Prime Minister Modi was deliberately not made the primary target, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “It is not that the Congress is wary of attacking the Prime Minister. Rahul Gandhi incessantly targets him, exposing his failures and misdeeds on a daily basis, more than any other Opposition leader. Rahulji will definitely talk about Modi’s politics in his speeches. But there was a realisation that Nitish is the weakest link. Surveys indicated he was the target of the disgruntled people.” The leader added: “Modi, too, has lost a lot of goodwill, but he is still popular among a large number of people and is not as discredited as the chief minister. Also, Nitish is the face of the ruling alliance in Bihar and it is his leadership that is being compared with that of the inexperienced Tejashwi Yadav. So we thought blaming Nitish for the failures and misdeeds will have far greater resonance among the people who have first-hand experience of his performance. Modi is still a distant figure whose image has been assiduously protected by the media despite such grievous failures on the economy and other fronts.” Referring to the absence of any mention of divisive politics, another leader said: “We consciously decided not to harp on communalism because people now know what Modi stands for. Communal polarisation unnecessarily creates opportunities for the BJP’s propaganda. We want to focus on issues such as unemployment, sufferings of the poor during the lockdown and agriculture. So we decided to keep the focus on the chief minister. Nitish anyway has lost his charisma; while his trustworthiness is finished because he embraced the BJP after publicly taking a vow to prefer death to rejoining them. His pointed critique of the RSS-BJP during the last election hasn’t been forgotten by the people.” While the forceful pitch by AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi has already given the BJP an opening to deploy communal rhetoric, it also pounced on the Congress on Friday for fielding Mashkoor Ahmed Usmani, a student leader from Aligarh Muslim University, who had been linked to the controversy over Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s portrait. In 2018, a BJP MP had objected to a Jinnah portrait at AMU and Usmani, as the student union leader, had pointed out that the portrait had been on the campus for many decades. Some television channels ran a campaign on Friday, saying the Congress had fielded a “Jinnah-lover” and portrayed it as a big election issue. This controversy has pushed the Congress into a corner as the local leaders are not willing to defend his candidature. The entire state leadership was opposed to his nomination as he was not a local of Jale, the constituency he has been fielded from.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-610
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health condition improves further||The health condition of legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee improved a lot on Saturday and he is speaking a bit as well as recognising people and identifying their voices, a doctor treating him at a private hospital here, said. The thespian slept well in the night (Friday) though a little bit of restlessness persisting, he said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing fine, better than yesterday. And every day he is improving consistently. However, there are issues of a little bit of restlessness, hesitation, non- complete recovery of the brain functions. But he is opening eyes, able to speak little words and is able to recognise people as well as their voices," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of 15 doctors, treating the veteran actor, said. The 85-year-old Chatterjee has no fever for over 70 hours now, he said. "He is still very weak, frail and complete recovery of neurological function is yet to be achieved. But it seems that he is going in the right direction. As of now, there is no new infection or any episode of fever," Dr Kar added. The veteran actor's oxygen saturation was 100 per cent, and did not require any BiPAP (a non-invasive ventilation used for breathing support administered via a face or nasal mask), he said. "Saturation is 100 per cent and we have reduced the oxygen support on the nasal cannula (tube). He did not require any BiPAP support. All the major organs are functioning fine. He is putting up a strong fight," Dr Kar added. The veteran actor was administered "higher doses" of steroids to enhance the recovery from COVID-19 encephalopathy. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the private hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for COVID-19 on Wednesday following which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU for treatment. Chatterjee had resumed shooting a few days ago. Parambrata, another noted Bengali actor, completed the shooting of Abhiyan under his direction. Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing the role of young Soumitra in the film. Soumitra himself plays his older self in the film. Chatterjee is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series. Soumitra immortalised the titular role of Feluda in Ray's films. He was a part of several other works of Ray, including Apu'r Sangshar or The World Of Apu. Some of Chatterjee's best works include Ashani Sanket, Ghare Baire, Aranyer Din Ratri, Charulata, Shakha Proshakha, Jhinder Bandi, Saat Pake Bandha, and more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja government grant mainly for Covid protection: Calcutta High Court||The Rs 50,000 granted by the Bengal government to each puja cannot be used for any purpose other than buying sanitisers, masks, face shields and other articles of Covid protection and strengthening the “bonding” between police and people, Calcutta High Court said in an interim order on Friday. A division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee said that 75 per cent of the money should be spent on sanitisers, masks and the like. The rest should be spent on police-people bonding, which should include facilitation of the involvement of women in community policing. The state government had earlier said the money was being granted for sanitisation purposes. On Friday, the court made the puja committee office-bearers “personally responsible” for ensuring that the grant is spent only on these counts. The court “prima facie accepted that since Durga Puja may be the biggest festival in the state, irrespective of such festival being connected with a religious occasion, the festivities can be the springboard for promoting socially relevant programmes and there may not be any religious flavour to such secular programmers being pursued. The primary purpose in this case is... to strengthen the bond between the police authorities and the citizens and facilitating the involvement of women in assisting community policing activities.” It asked the puja organisers to furnish by November 10 their bills of expenditure and utilisation certificates before sub-divisional officers (SDOs) in the districts and before the police in Calcutta. A declaration of compliance too must be produced in the form of a court affidavit, vetted by the director-general of police, by November 17. The interim order came on a petition challenging the state government’s decision to hand out the Rs 50,000 grant to puja organisers. Some government lawyers said the court order was an embarrassment for the state authorities, who are yet to decide whether to appeal before the Supreme Court. The bench, which included Justice Arijit Banerjee, asked the police to print handbills and leaflets with details of the court order on the utilisation norms and distribute them among the puja organisers by October 22. It said the final verdict would ensure the subject of the grant did not come up before the court year after year. “The larger questions, including the very propriety of making such a grant, will be considered once and for all immediately after the Puja vacation (which ends of November 17) so that the repetitive exercise is not undertaken every September or October,” the court said. A law department source said: “Last year, too, our government’s decision to give a grant to Puja committees was challenged before the high court. After the high court refused a stay, the petitioner had approached the Supreme Court. That appeal is still pending.” Friday’s order said: “The state’s affidavit in opposition to the petition be filed within a week after the Puja vacation; reply thereto, if any, may be filed within a week thereafter.” The court will next hear the case two weeks after the Puja vacation. Senior lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya, who had appeared for the petitioner, said: “It’s impossible for a puja committee to spend money to strengthen the bonding between the public and the police. It’s also impossible now for the committees to spend a farthing from the dole for Puja purposes. So, a purpose of the petition has been served. We welcome the order.” Another high court lawyer said: “Since an appeal is pending before the Supreme Court on a similar issue, a high court division bench cannot strike down the grant and ask the clubs to refund the money to the state government. So it has framed guidelines for the clubs to restrain them from spending the money on Puja-related activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,771 Covid cases and 61 deaths||Bengal on Friday logged the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3,771, resetting the maximum daily count of patients for the 13th time in October. Bengal’s total cases went past 3.13 lakh, which include nearly 2.75 lakh recoveries and 5,931 deaths. The state logged 3,194 recoveries and 61 deaths on Friday. The state again reported a dip in the recovery rate on a day Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said another “high level” central team would be despatched to Bengal, apparently in the wake of a surge in the cases. The recovery rate, which had reached a high of 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.73 per cent on Friday. The national recovery rate, which was far behind that of the state, is 87.63 now. “This is not good. After months of not being able to point a finger at us, the BJP-led Centre is once again trying to discredit our war effort in the pandemic using the excuse of the current spell of rise,” said a Bengal minister. “They are sending teams to Bengal, Kerala, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. Only the last one is BJP-ruled.” There had been public spats between such central teams sent earlier and the state government over alleged non-cooperation from Nabanna and suggestions of mismanagement in Bengal’s handling of Covid-19. The team this time, according to the Centre, will support the state’s efforts towards testing, infection prevention, control measures and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. “Why are central teams not sent to states such as NDA-ruled Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, which are doing far worse than Bengal?” asked the minister. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been repeatedly issuing warnings for the past few days against letting the pandemic’s spread widen. She said the disease had reached the dreaded community transmission stage in India, which the Centre has been in denial of. With 43,227 tests recorded on Friday, 39.04 lakh swab samples have been examined so far for the novel coronavirus. The tests per million people stand at 43,381 now. The renewed surge in the cases caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again in the past week or so to 8.02 per cent now. Of the total 5,931 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,956, with 13 being recorded during a 24-hour window till 9am on Friday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,342 deaths, 19 of them on Friday. The state government reported 5,019 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.89, substantially behind the national rate of 1.52 per cent. The state reported 37.66 per cent occupancy on 12,715 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Till now, 3.39 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Fully’ electrified Darjeeling||Come Saturday, Darjeeling will be “100 per cent electrified”, 123 years after India’s first hydel project was commissioned in Sidrapong here in 1897 by then Bengal acting lieutenant-governor Charles Cecil Stevens. The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) will inaugurate a power project for Gorkhay and Samanden, two villages on the fringes of Singalila National Park, which still lack roads and can be reached only via a two-hour trek from Ramman after a three-hour drive from Darjeeling town. Surendra Gupta, GTA principal secretary, will visit Gorkhay to inaugurate the project. Arijit Mitra, executive director, GTA (power) said: “With this, entire rural electrification will be done (in the GTA area).” In 2013, the Centre sanctioned Rs 198.98 crore to the GTA for rural electrification under Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana, later renamed Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana. The GTA chipped in funds for villages that could not be brought under the ambit of the central scheme. “The funds for the project being inaugurated tomorrow (Saturday) were provided by the GTA. The project cost for these two villages was Rs 1.1 crore,” said Bimal Pradhan, GTA (power) superintending engineer. “Rural electrification in all 188 mouzas (under GTA) is now complete. Darjeeling will be 100 per cent electrified.” Sixty-six households in these two villages — with a population of a little over 200 — fall on the Phalut-Rimbick trek route. Most villagers are farmers or trekking guides. Horses and ponies are a popular mode of transport to these villages. Darjeeling’s tryst with electricity started with the Sidrapong hydel project, commissioned on November 10, 1897, by then Bengal acting lieutenant-governor Charles Cecil Stevens. It is the country’s oldest hydel power plant. Located 12km from Darjeeling at an altitude of 3,600 feet, it still generates 0.6MW electricity a day, fed by three streams, Barbata, Hospital and Kotwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP woo tea belt with schemes||With an eye on Bengal elections next year, Trinamul Congress and BJP are keen on wooing the brew belt. This was evident on Friday when state ministers and BJP MPs separately met tea stakeholders to elaborate on initiatives by state and central governments, respectively, to try and prove that these would eventually benefit tea workers. Raju Bista and John Barla, the BJP MPs of Darjeeling and Alipurduar respectively, visited some tea gardens in the Terai to tell workers about the new labour law recently passed by the Centre. Trinamul leaders such as state labour minister Moloy Ghatak and state tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting at the tea directorate office here to discuss implementation of “Cha Sundari,” the housing scheme by the Mamata Banerjee government for tea workers, and also draw up plans for a campaign on social welfare schemes of the state. In north Bengal, there are 270 tea estates which engage around 3.5 lakh people. Added to them is the small tea sector that engages 50,000-odd more workers. This region has at least 15 Assembly seats, the results of which are decided by the tea population. On his visit, Bista said: “We discussed the labour reforms bill and how it will transform the lives of our tea and cinchona workers on all fronts, from wages to health facilities to social security.” State tourism minister Deb, on his part, said after the meeting at the tea directorate: “We will gold camps with representatives of state departments at all tea gardens of north Bengal, including closed tea gardens and forest villages. The objective is to reach out to workers and ensure that everybody get benefits of welfare schemes run by the state. Last month, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that in the first phase, 3,694 tea garden workers would get homes, 2,641 of them in Alipurduar and 1,053 in Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Ganga’s rage can’t erode faith in Durga||The organisers of the Manikchak Diara Sarbojonin Durgotsav at Domhaat in Malda district have had to shift the goddess’s mandap or pavilion at least five times in the past 25 years. The frequent change in the autumn address of the goddess is another indication of how an aggressive Ganga is devouring its banks and changing the land map of this north Bengal district. One of the oldest community pujas in the district, the Domhaat puja, the organisers said, had started at Gangapara in 1905. Domhaat is in the Manikchak block and around 38km from the district headquarters. “There used to be no fear of erosion those days, but things have changed drastically in the past 25 years or so, forcing us to change the address of the devi mandap five times,” said Bholanath Mandal, a septuagenarian and a farmer by occupation. It was in 1995 that the erosion left its spell and the mandap was swallowed by the Ganga and the 90-year-old address had to be changed. “The puja did not stop even then. The goddess was shifted to an alternative mandap at Bechutola village and the puja continued there till 2006,” Mandal said. But then again, the erosion caused havoc and the second mandap was swallowed by the river. In 2007, the puja had to shift to the Palpara area but the mandap lasted only for four years. Then (in 2011), a local resident offered his mango orchard at Haddatola village, where the goddess was worshipped for six years. “The owner of the orchard sold his property and eventually, a portion of that land was also eroded away by the river. Thus, the goddess had to move to her present abode at Jotepatta in 2016,” said an organiser. A new mandap was constructed to venerate the goddess and her family. Since then, the puja has been organised at Jotepatta. Pradip Mondal, a school teacher, vividly narrated how the curse of erosion had forced hundreds of families to shift their houses. The address of the goddess also kept changing along with. “The goddess had moved with us and that’s why Durga is the symbol of our determination,” Pradip said. The organisers said the challenge of erosion had been replaced by the Covid-19 pandemic this autumn. “The Covid-19 pandemic has left us scared. But we are still organising the puja and if required, we will shift the venue again in the coming years and will build a new mandap. The puja has to go on,” said Ujjwal Karmakar, a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||IT staff now under govt contract||Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday that about 100 contractual employees in the information and technology wing of the public works department would be brought under the direct contract of the state government apparently to recognise their efforts in keeping the communication channel between districts and the state secretariat functional during the Covid-19 pandemic. The 100 IT professionals working with the IT wing of the PWD were engaged by either the WEBEL or the WTL, two state government firms. The decision would help the professionals as they would now get 30 days of annual leave, in addition to 10 days of medical leave, which they were not entitled till now. They can work till the age of 60 years uninterruptedly and would get a sum of Rs 3 lakh upon retirement. The professionals would also be brought under the Swasthya Sathi, a health scheme of the state government. The chief minister made the announcement in a tweet. “Bengal is known for its e-governance & today I’m pleased to announce my Pujo gift for young IT personnel working to improve our e-services for the people of Bengal. The IT staff engaged by Webel and WTL shall now be directly engaged as contractual staff of GoWB,” Mamata tweeted. Although the chief minister did not say whether their salary structure would be revised, sources at Nabanna said once the professionals were engaged directly by the government, their pay would be increased to some extent. “The agencies charge a service charge, up to 5 per cent of the salary of an employee, from the government for supplying the manpower. Now, the government can pay the IT employees directly,” said a senior government official. Sources said Mamata was very happy with the performance of the IT wing of the PWD after it worked hard to keep the communication channel open between districts and Nabanna during the pandemic. “The chief minister and the top government officials held a series of meetings over video conferencing with the districts as well as Delhi during the pandemic. The IT wing of the PWD developed and maintained the entire system during the crisis. The professionals worked very hard and the chief minister rewarded them,” said an official. A bureaucrat said the IT wing actually saved a sum of nearly Rs 5 crore of the government by developing and maintaining the entire system. “If a private agency had to be engaged for this, it would have charged at least Rs 5 crore to develop and maintain the system since March-end,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||MLA Islam joins Trinamul to ‘strengthen Didi’s hand’||The CPM’s Basirhat North MLA Rafikul Islam on Friday defected to Trinamul, four years after he left Trinamul on being denied the ticket to contest the Assembly polls. Islam, 60, rejoined the ruling party in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders Aroop Biswas, Sadhan Pandey, Jyotipriya Mullick and Nirmal Ghosh, at party headquarters in Calcutta in the afternoon. “I was in this party. In 2016, I joined the Left Front over some differences, but I have come to realise that in the fight against the BJP, Didi (Mamata Banerjee) is the only hope. So, to strengthen her hand, I am joining Trinamul,” said Islam. This was the first defection by a sitting MLA to Trinamul in recent times. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul has been working hard to regain ground lost in the crucial district of North 24-Parganas. The district has the most Assembly seats — 33 — in the state. In the 2016 Assembly polls, Trinamul won 27 of the 33, and the BJP drew a blank. But last year, the BJP secured leads in 21 of those Assembly segments in the Lok Sabha polls. A senior minister from the district said the defection would help Trinamul. “Steadily are getting back much of what we lost in North 24-Parganas,” the minister added. In the 290-seat Assembly (excluding four vacancies caused by deaths of sitting members), Trinamul now has 204 MLAs, and the support of 19 defectors, including Islam, from the Left and the Congress. The Left, with 33 MLAs in 2016, now has 25 left, and the Congress, with 44 in 2016, now has 25 left. The BJP has an official strength of six and the support of nine defectors from various parties. There are two Gorkha Janmukti Morcha MLAs. Reacting to Islam’s defection, CPM state-secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra said the MLA was not formally a member of the party and hence there was no necessity of an expulsion. Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty condemned the “culture” of inorganic growth through horse-trading and defections in both Trinamul and BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Crash kills 3 of family, biker||Four persons, including two women and a child, died in a road accident in Milanpally area on NH81 in Malda district on Thursday night. Sources said an autorickshaw and a two-wheeler collided head-on on the highway under Ratua police station limits, which raised questions on whether the highway was adequately policed at night to prevent rash driving. The deceased, police sources said, were identified as two-wheeler rider Mozammel Hoque, 22, and autorickshaw passengers Aslam Sheikh, 12, Taslima Bibi, 35, and Sukri Bibi, 40. Policemen helped reach five persons — including autorickshaw driver — to a local hospital where doctors pronounced four of them dead. Autorickshaw driver Islam Sheikh is admitted to Malda Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. Aslam was his son and the women his sisters-in-law. “The two-wheeler at breakneck speed rammed the autorickshaw head on. The rider fell with the vehicle, the autorickshaw also overturned on impact and all passengers got stuck under it. We rushed for help and found that four had died on the spot,” said a resident. Both the vehicles were badly mangled, he added. Eyewitnesses told police that auto driver Sheikh was returning from a fair at Pandua area in Gazole with son and sisters-in-law. The road was dark when the biker lost control and hit the autorickshaw. Residents of Milanpally claimed that most of the streetlights are out of order. “The accident might have been averted had this stretch of the highway been well lit,” a villager said. “We are probing if the biker was drunk,” a police officer said. Islam’s wife, who has come to know about the deaths of her son and two sisters, is frequently fainting in shock, said a neighbour. “She is lamenting that her son didn’t want to go to the fair but agreed only as his father kept on insisting on it,” the neighbour said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
17-10-2020||West Bengal||Finger at coal mafia for cracks on homes||Around 2,500 residents of Bansra and Sishubagan, on the outskirts of Raniganj town in West Burdwan, have accused coal smugglers of carrying out blasts that have led to cracks in their homes and on their farms. The residents, who include lawyers, schoolteachers, traders and farm hands, also said the sudden spurt in blasts to mine coal illegally barely 200 metres from their homes had endangered their lives. “Frequent explosions trigger subsidence. Minus police action, smugglers are so desperate that they carry out blasts even during the day,” said Sumanta Chatterjee, a trader who lives in Sishubagan. Cracks have developed on the floors at Chatterjee’s home and he fears bigger damage. Chatterjee said they had lodged many complaints with Raniganj police, the BDO and the management of Eastern Coalfields Limited over the last year but in vain. Residents on Thursday demonstrated at the site of an illegal coal pit and dismantled the makeshift structures allegedly set up by coal smugglers. A lawyer from Sishubagan ward 36 of Asansol Municipal Corporation, Subhadip Banerjee, alleged: “No policeman arrived during our agitation but goons threatened us.” On Friday, residents decided to submit another deputation to the local police station. “If they do not act, we will move court demanding our safety,” said Banerjee, whose home has also developed cracks. A police officer said that on learning about the illegal mining, cops visited the site on Thursday night. “We will fill up (illegal) pits soon,” he said, but denied charges of police inaction against the coal mafia. An ECL official in Raniganj said the area where  illegal mines came up in Bansra and Sishubagan fell under their leasehold area. “We got complaints from people earlier and urged the police to stop the menace. We will give technical aid to fill up the pits,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-341
17-10-2020||Opinion||Truly inspiring: The life and times of Bhanu Athaiya||Sir — With the demise of Bhanu Athaiya, the nation and the world of cinema have lost one of the most prolific, talented and versatile costume designers of all time (“Bhanu Athaiya, first Oscar winner, dies”, Oct 16). Athaiya had a Midas touch that could be seen in a vast number of Hindi movies right from the 1950s to the first years of the 21st century. She showcased rich, colourful and splendid Indian costumes on the global stage. The designer, who won the Academy Award for India through her work for the movie, Gandhi, was truly an example from whom the present generation of costume designers can learn everything. No other costume designer would have had such a long list of film-makers eager to make her a part of their movies. The list of film-makers she worked with included the legendary Guru Dutt, Raj Kapoor, Yash Chopra, B.R. Chopra, Subhash Ghai, Vidhu Vinod Chopra and also the newer directors such as Ashutosh Gowariker and Raj Khosla. Athaiya also worked with international names such as Richard Attenborough and Conrad Rooks. Be it the rustic charm seen in the costumes in Satyam Shivam Sundaram, Ram Teri Ganga Maili and Lagaan or the romantic aura presented in Chandni, Athaiya’s designs spoke volumes about her calibre. The styles in which she dressed actors and actresses varied vastly. If Bollywood stars were able to shine in their roles on screen and mesmerize viewers, a large part of that credit went to Athaiya. Movies such as C.I.D., Brahmachari, Mera Naam Joker, Ek Duje Ke Liye and 1942: A Love Story bore testimony to her excellent work. Athaiya was a master craftswoman whose memory will live on for years through the splendid work that she did. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — It was saddening to read that the costume designer, Bhanu Athaiya, India’s first Oscar winner, passed away after a prolonged illness. She was 91 years old. The pioneering Athaiya won the Oscar, along with John Mollo, for her work in Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi. Born in Kolhapur, she began her career as a costume designer in Hindi cinema with Guru Dutt’s 1956 superhit, C.I.D. In 2012, Athaiya returned her Oscar to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for safe-keeping. In a career spanning five decades and over 100 films, she won two National Awards, for Gulzar’s mystery-drama, Lekin, and the period film, Lagaan, directed by Ashutosh Gowariker. With her death, the country has lost one of its best creators across all artistic fields. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The news of the death of India’s first Oscar winner, Bhanu Athaiya, a colossus of costume design, was upsetting. She was a nonagenarian. Her work for Gandhi was outstanding; no wonder it won her an Oscar. The Kolhapur-born costume-designer worked for more than a hundred Bollywood blockbusters like Shri 420, Sahib Biwi aur Ghulam and Guide. Her career spanned 56 long years, during which she created many new fashion trends, all of which were greatly appreciated. Surprisingly, however, Athaiya did not even receive the Padma Shri. This is very unfortunate. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Bhanu Athaiya was an inspiration for women, who are often told they can never be pioneers in any male-dominated field. One hopes her legacy continues to inspire girls and women. Nina Roy,Calcutta Right step Sir — It was both surprising and heartening to read that Dinesh Karthik, who was the skipper of the Indian Premier League team, the Kolkata Knight Riders, has decided to hand over the captaincy to his teammate, Eoin Morgan. The Irish-born Morgan has done a great job captaining the English men’s cricket team, and KKR could benefit from his leadership skills along with his batting. Moreover, Karthik really needs to put more focus on his own game; he has scored only 108 runs from seven matches with just one half-century. The additional burden of captaincy was getting to be too much for him; it was best that he handed over the responsibility to someone better equipped. Nayana Mookerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
17-10-2020||Opinion||Dodgy tactics: New 'stimulus' package||Indians have re-discovered the virtues of thrift in a Covid-battered economy. Household savings have started to rise as consumers have cut back on discretionary spending over the past six months. The Narendra Modi government, however, does not like this tendency among Indians to squirrel away savings. The latest ‘stimulus’ package, which prods federal government employees to spend their leave travel entitlements on a range of consumer goods that attract a goods and services tax rate of 12 per cent and more, signals a desperate attempt to ignite demand at a time when consumers are showing a marked preference to conserve cash. Government employees are being urged to spend three times their travel entitlements during the period till March 31 next year in order to claim the underlying tax break. The move is ostensibly designed to create new demand for goods and services worth Rs 360 billion. Consumers are unlikely to fall for this bait. A State Bank of India research report reckons that less than 10 to 15 per cent of government employees will opt for the voucher scheme to unlock lapsable travel entitlements because of the onerous spending commitments. This suggests that the latest efforts of the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to crank up demand will fail badly. The offer to give these employees a Rs 10,000 pre-loaded RuPay card — resurrecting the idea of a special festival season advance that formed part of the Sixth Pay Commission report — which can only be used at point of sale machines looks equally dodgy. The Centre also believes that it can stoke additional demand by goading states to increase their capital spending on roads and urban infrastructure by offering them special, interest-free, 50-year loans worth Rs 120 billion. The cash-strapped Centre is extremely reluctant to increase spending on its books. Instead, it wants the states and government employees to shoulder the burden. This is a perverse strategy, especially when it argues that capital expenditure has a high multiplier effect on the economy. The Centre’s fiscal deficit has already gone through the roof. Its accounts for the month of August pegs the fiscal deficit at Rs 8.7 trillion — 9.3 per cent in excess of the budgeted fiscal deficit of Rs 7.96 trillion for the full year. The Centre needs to borrow more but it will not. India’s debt-to-GDP ratio, which includes the debt of the Centre and states, is a modest 70 per cent, but is projected to jump to 90 per cent this year. The stimulus measures announced since the outbreak of Covid-19 have been modest: a sum of Rs 1.7 trillion under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana announced in March and another Rs 20.97 lakh crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package unveiled in May that focused on supply-side measures and some long-term reforms. Ms Sitharaman needs to come up with a big-bang stimulus package; the Centre's parsimony will not revive the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
17-10-2020||Opinion||Vivid picture: Declan Walsh's book on Pakistan||On the line to Cairo, I talk to Declan Walsh about his very engaging new book, The Nine Lives of Pakistan: Dispatches from a Divided Nation, which gives readers “a sense of being there”. He was based in Islamabad for nine years for The Guardian and The New York Times but was expelled in 2013 for “undesirable activities” — a reference to his reports on insurgency movements in Balochistan. He has told the story of Pakistan through the lives of nine people, among them Asma Jahangir, “doyenne of Pakistan’s human rights movement”; Salmaan Taseer, the Punjab governor who was shot by his own bodyguard; Chaudhry Aslam Khan, “Karachi’s most famous cop”; and Abdul Rashid Ghazi, who died in the siege of the Red Mosque in Islamabad. The picture he paints is of a violent and lawless land. “But I had grown to love Pakistan, too — a country of hidden delights, endearing absurdities and some of the closest friendships I had ever experienced,” writes Declan, who was described in The New Yorker as a “tall, rakish, handsome Irishman”. Declan, who is moving from Cairo to Nairobi as chief Africa correspondent of the NYT, tackles two of my questions: why on earth did Pakistan send 10 young men to Mumbai in November 2008 to carry out such senseless slaughter? And surely someone in Pakistan knew Osama bin Laden was hiding in Abbottabad? He says Pakistani intelligence, including the Inter-Services Intelligence, is not always very intelligent: “Are the puppet masters in full control of the puppets? Do they know everything that’s going on? Are they turning a blind eye to certain things? Or do they subcontract policy to a group or an officer and let them use their own initiative; whether these tools that they have created are entirely in their control? Internally, the intelligence services are probably not as coherent as you might think.” Show the way This year’s Nobel Prize for Physics was shared by three people, including Roger Penrose of Oxford University, “for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity”. But the first to come up with the idea of black holes was Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar in 1930 while making the sea voyage from Bombay to England as a 19-year-old to take up a place as a postgraduate at Trinity College, Cambridge. This I was told in 2005 by Arthur I Miller, Professor of the History and Philosophy of Science at University College London, when I interviewed him about his book, Empire of the Stars: Friendship, Obsession and Betrayal in the Quest for Black Holes. The brilliant Cambridge astrophysicist, Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington, and others were convinced that all stars either blew themselves into smithereens or shrank until they became dense, “white dwarfs”, small but solid. Chandrasekhar’s radical notion was that a massive dying star “kept on collapsing and collapsing and collapsing” into a black hole which sucked in light and time and everything around it so that nothing could escape. It was rather like bath water disappearing down a plug hole. Miller told me that Chandrasekhar, who won the Physics Nobel Prize in 1983, was eventually proved right. Funny story Another charming and eloquent editor of my acquaintance, Sir Peregrine Worsthorne, who was briefly editor of The Sunday Telegraph, has been in the news. “Perry”, whose column was once essential reading for Conservative Party members, passed away last week, aged 96. Perry considered himself a maverick intellectual, and arrived in Argentina after the Falklands War but was denied the interview he sought with the country’s new democratic president, Raul Alfonsin. The Sheraton in Buenos Aires was then brimming with 500 foreign journalists. I was then on the Daily Mail, whose editor, David English, sent me back to Argentina with instructions — as always — to get the first exclusive interview with Alfonsin. Thanks solely to the magic wrought by the Indian ambassador, Lakhan Lal Mehrotra, Alfonsin was warm and open when we talked for 90 minutes at the Casa Rosada. Perry wrote a long article explaining that the reason Alfonsin had granted an interview to an Indian reporter of no great consequence (very true) was because the president had wanted to be kind to a third world country. I passed on Alfonsin’s pro-Indian sentiments to Mehrotra, who said quietly, “Let me see what I can do”. Shortly afterwards, Alfonsin was invited to be chief guest at the Republic Day Parade in Delhi. Stunning work Marc Wadsworth’s biography of Shapurji Saklatvala, the Communist who held Battersea North in London as a Labour parliamentarian from 1922-1923 and from 1924-1929, is a stunning work of scholarship. It took Marc 10 years to bring out the first edition of Comrade Sak in 1998. The revised second edition, just out, has new material on how MI5 spied on Saklatvala and his correspondence with Gandhi. Marc, born in Birmingham of a Jamaican father and a Finnish mother with Indian ancestors from Bihar, he believes, has been a radical member of the Labour Party. He calls the book “a labour of love” but assures me it is not a hagiography. “He was wrong in his dispute with Gandhi” over how to achieve Indian independence. That said, Saklatvala, a member of the Tata family, was, in Marc’s opinion, “the most important Indian fighter for independence outside of India in the 20th century, with Dadabhai Naoroji coming at the end of the 19th century”.Footnote The Khushwant Literary Festival, which has been coming to London since 2018, was held digitally last week, opening with Sudha Murty telling Chetan Bhagat about her son-in-law. When Rishi Sunak — he is married to Murty’s daughter Akshata — was made Chancellor of the Exchequer, he rang to give her the big news. “Explain that to me in Indian English,” she responded, and appreciated the significance when Rishi said he was now “finance minister”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
17-10-2020||Opinion||Shared trajectory||The popularity of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, continues to baffle his critics. They ask — ‘what did Modi create in these six years?’ But that is the wrong question to ask. His appeal stems from not what he has created but what he has destroyed, and continues to destroy — a discredited status quo. In this respect, his enduring mass appeal, in the absence of tangible achievements, is similar to that of Lalu Prasad in his heyday. Lalu’s mass appeal, which made him Bihar’s undisputed leader for over 15 years, had similarly confounded analysts. A study of the parallels between the two leaders might illuminate what it would take to successfully challenge Modi. If you look at the biggest political moves of Modi over the last six years — demonetization, Article 370, the goods and services tax, farm and labour bills — they follow a simple political logic. Modi rose to power in a society teeming with aspirations. These aspirations, embodied particularly by a neo-middle class, were released by liberalization but not quite fulfilled. The ingeniousness of Modi was to conflate these thwarted aspirations with a system of power, which was deeply corrupt and captured by vested interests. This was the old status quo, which was thoroughly discredited in 2014. But Modi keeps reminding voters that the old systems of power are still alive, having entrenched themselves over ‘70 years of misrule’, and that dismantling them would be a long process. He thus demands, and largely receives, the patience of the electorate. Only after ‘Old India’ has been destroyed will ‘New India’ be built. All his marquee political moves are centred on this narrative of the destruction of the old status quo. Demonetization was supposed to destroy the black economy. GST was needed to clean the corrupt informal economy. Article 370 was revoked to dismantle the corrupt hold of the Abdullahs and the Muftis (as well as the vested interests of the separatists) on the state, which had kept Kashmir backward and prevented its integration. The recently passed farm bills would uproot the entrenched middlemen that had frustrated the modernization of agriculture, much like the labour bills that would destroy an ensconced labour aristocracy that has hampered rapid industrialization. In contrast, Modi has been poor at building new systems to replace the old ones. India’s Kashmir policy is in tatters, GST implementation was a mess, demonetization was an unmitigated disaster, and there is no clarity on the new farm and labour regime. Unlike Jawaharlal Nehru, Modi lacks both the will and the capacity to be an institution-builder. And yet, the dramatically simple and reductive logic undergirding these narratives, far from being a weakness, is actually their main strength. A good political narrative is essentially a simple one, as the example of Lalu shows. Much like Modi, Lalu’s rise to power represented the casting away of the old order. From the late 1960s, there was an emerging political consciousness among the backward castes in Bihar — moulded by leaders such as Ram Manohar Lohia, Jayaprakash Narayan and Karpoori Thakur. The political aspirations of these peasant castes had been whetted by the gains of the Green Revolution. The old upper-caste dominated order, embodied by the upper-caste dominated Congress, had become discredited by the time Lalu became chief minister in 1990. Again, like Modi, Lalu’s subsequent politics centred less on building a reformed Bihar, which would materially benefit his political base, and more on symbolic fights against the old upper caste order. The political slogan of his then Janata Party was ‘Vikas Nahin, Samman Chahiye (We need dignity, not development)’. As the political scientist, Jeffrey Witsoe, wrote, Lalu mobilized the backward castes not through policy initiatives but by appealing symbolically to themes of dignity. The main focus of his rule was to undo the upper caste control of the State, which involved regular confrontations with the upper-caste controlled police, bureaucracy and the judiciary. Unsurprisingly, this political style of conflict deepened, what the political scientist, Atul Kohli, had termed the “crisis of governability” in Bihar. The state continued to lag in education, health and jobs. The problems of law and order and corruption, which were already severe in previous Congress regimes, continued to fester, if not worsen. Yet, Lalu remained the tallest leader of Bihar and returned with an even bigger victory in 1995. Populist showmen, like Lalu and Modi, are, for a period, immune to attacks on governance because they can easily turn criticism into validation. The critics are framed as the vestiges of the old order, perennially whining at their loss of power and status. Lalu termed all his corruption scandals as the conspiracy of upper-caste investigative agencies and the judiciary. And the marginalized identified with Lalu as one of their own, like many poor and neo-middle class Indians identify with Modi (‘son of a tea seller’) and gave him a long rope. Lalu’s rule had socially and politically empowered the backward castes and they didn’t want a return to the old upper-caste dominated political order. In his symbolic fights, they saw one of their own challenging the despised system that had kept them down. Yet, as Lalu discovered, in 2000, when he lost his majority, and in 2005, when he was shunted from power, popularity can’t last forever if you don’t ultimately fulfil material aspirations. Modi might be coasting now through a prolonged economic downturn and a slump in job creation, but the situation can drastically change by 2024. A long rope, too, has its limits. But the lesson from Bihar is it can’t happen without an alternative political vision. Simply attacking the government doesn’t work. Nitish Kumar promised a “Nutan Bihar” (New Bihar), not a return to the old order. Jeffrey Witsoe and Francine Frankel noted that Nitish Kumar displaced Lalu because he “was the ideal political figure to combine the themes of development and social justice, something Lalu had never managed to deliver in combination.” But he didn’t stop at rhetoric; he skilfully politicized and cultivated a coalition of extremely backward castes, which felt themselves marginalized under the increasingly ‘Muslim-Yadav’ rule of Lalu. Along with his ‘natural’ base of Kurmis and Koeris, with a smattering of Pasmanda Muslims, this was a winning coalition when allied with the upper caste base of the Bharatiya Janata Party. But, unlike Lalu, he didn’t simply project himself to be a backward-caste leader. He also appealed to an aspirational voting bloc that wanted clean politics and material benefits. If we are baffled with the popularity of Modi, we must also ask what is the alternative vision the Opposition is offering. The Congress still suffers from the taint of corruption and encrusted privilege. Most of its prominent young leaders come from political dynasties and it is de-facto led by fourth-generation dynasts of the Nehru-Gandhi family. Of late, it has been trying to emerge as the party of the backward castes, Dalits and Muslims, but its attempts at mobilization on the ground have been feeble and episodic. Its leadership crisis has meant that there is a lack of clarity on what the party stands for. Similarly, many regional parties passively hope that the Congress’s depleting social base will return to them on their own without attempting to reconfigure their politics from the 1980s to meet the realities of 2020. Yes, Modi comfortably survived the migrant crisis but the question is which party seriously attempted to use this crisis to politicize the urban working classes and make them part of their political coalition. The old political system lies discredited, and Modi’s eclipse, when it happens, will likely be to a new form of politics. The trouble is that it is hard to see this new politics anywhere on the horizon. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-132
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally draws close to 96,000||The Covid-19 tally drew close to 96,000 in Jharkhand after as many as 542 people, including 242 in Ranchi alone, were found infected on Saturday, figures released by the health department stated. The tally in Ranchi, which accounted for nearly half of the cases on Saturday, shot up to 23,948. Despite achieving a recovery rate close to 90 per cent, Ranchi had around 2,300 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Saturday evening. Eight more people died of the viral infection on Saturday, taking the toll in the state up to 832, government data said. At least four of the eight Covid victims were from East Singhbhum, the district which has seen 323 casualties so far, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum, however, reported only 66 fresh cases of infection and 55 recoveries, taking the number of active cases in the district to 1,360. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday met doctors who are treating Jagarnath Mahto at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi, and sought updates from them on the medical condition of the education minister. Hemant also sought suggestions from doctors regarding alternative treatments that could help Mahto recover faster. At least five ministers in Jharkhand have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far. Health minister Banna Gupta, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur have overcome Covid-19 infection. Minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died a day after testing negative for Covid-19, while Mahto is said to be critical and admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Medica hospital. The Jharkhand government has so far collected swab samples of 28.42 lakh people and tested 28.27 lakh of them for Covid-19. On Saturday, health workers collected swab samples of 22,569 people and tested 20,952 of them. While 95,967 people have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in Jharkhand, 88,559 of them have recovered. As many as 6,576 people were battling the infection across Jharkhand on Saturday, as per latest figures with the state health department. As per government data, Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The recovery rate in the state was 92.28 per cent against the national recovery rate of 87.80 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 113.5 days against the national average of 80.78 days. The growth rate of the infection in Jharkhand during the past one week was 0.61 per cent against the national average of 0.86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Sahara City rape case: CID seeks narco tests||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has sought a narco analysis test of the alleged victim’s employer Nanak Chand Seth and his wife Mamta in the Sahara City rape case. The CID on Friday prayed in the court of additional district judge V. Subhas for permission to subject the Seths to the test to help reach a conclusion on whether the minor girl who used to work as a maid had been raped by, among others, two officers at the MGM police station as had been claimed by the victim. CID inspector Jyotshna Kumari, who is the investigating officer in the case, confirmed that the agency had approached the court with the request. “We approached the court for permission to subject Nanak Chand Seth, the employer of the alleged rape victim, and his wife Mamta to the test. The court has asked us to take consent of the Seths,” said the CID inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Jyotshna, when queried whether they would also go for the narco analysis test of the alleged rape victim, said there’s no need for it. Nanak Chand Seth confirmed that he had received a notice from the CID on the narco analysis test, but pointed out that their consent will be conditional. “We will be ready for the narco analysis test only when the court allows our family doctor and a media person to be part of the process,” he said. The rape case was registered with the Mango police station on January 19, 2018, after the mother of the 17-year-old maid alleged that three men, Indrapal Singh Sainy, Shiv Kumar Mahto and Srikanth Mahto, sexually exploited her over a span of a year. After the case was registered, the police arrested all the three accused within a week and sent them to jail. The case became sensational after the victim revealed to a section of the media that apart from Indrapal, Shiv Kumar and Srikanth, two police officers had also sexually abused her and that too in a police station. After the names of police officers Imdad Ansari and Ajay Karketta came to the fore, the police authority concerned suspended the duo and started investigations into the case afresh. During the investigations, the police had sought permission from the court for subjecting Indrapal, Shiv Kumar and Srikanth to narco analysis tests. The three were even taken to a forensic lab at Gandhinagar in Gujarat from the Ghaghidih central jail where they were lodged.  But the narco analysis test was done only on one accused, Shiv Kumar, whereas two others skipped the test on the grounds of medical and language issues. Currently, Indrapal and Shiv Kumar are still in jail, whereas Srikanth was granted bail last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 100 in seven districts||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least seven of the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while two of these seven districts have less than 50 active cases of infection, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Backward districts, which are home to mostly poverty-stricken tribal families, have reported fewer active cases of Covid-19 infection than the districts that have a strong urban population, health officials said. As per the latest data with the NHM, Lohardaga, a largely rural district about 80km northwest of Ranchi, had only 20 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Saturday, the lowest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Sahibganj in Santhal Pargana had only 49 active Covid-19 cases. Pakur had 60 active cases, while Palamau had 62 active cases of infection and Garhwa had 90 active cases, the NHM figures further highlighted. Doctors attributed the rapid fall in the number of active cases in backward districts to a lack of pollution and healthy lifestyle among residents. “Villagers do not socialize as much as urban residents. Their immune systems are also stronger than those living in concrete jungles, so it is not surprising that the number of active cases has dropped below 100 in the rural districts,” said Dr Ajay Singh, state coordinator of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Most of the districts in the Santhal Pargana division had fewer active cases of Covid-19 infection than the districts in other divisions of Jharkhand. Government figures highlighted that at least four of the six districts in the Santhal Pargana division had less than 100 active cases of infection. The remaining two districts in the division, Dumka and Jamtara, had 131 and 106 active cases of Covid-19 infection, respectively. There were 65 patients of Covid-19 in Deoghar, a district in Santhal Pargana, on Saturday. Pakur and Sahibganj also fall in the Santhal region of Jharkhand. Godda, another district in the division, had 90 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per government records, all these districts have reported more than 1,000 cases of Covid-19 infection, and registered a recovery rate of more than 90 per cent. However, urban districts like Ranchi and East Singhbhum still had more than 1,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per the latest figures with the government, as many as 2,457 people were battling the virus in Ranchi and 1,374 were battling it in East Singhbhum. There were 6,543 active cases across Jharkhand, as per NHM figures updated on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM threatens economic blockade against Centre||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead alliance partner in the ruling dispensation in the state, threatened the Union government with an economic blockade in the coming months for trying to “destabilise the state through non-cooperation and fiscal penalties”. Addressing the media at the JMM party office, party general secretary Vinod Pandey said, “Right from Day One, since the JMM-Congress-RJD government assumed charge, the BJP-led Union government has started non-cooperation. We inherited almost an empty treasury from the previous BJP government because of its faulty policies and extravagant spending. Despite the challenges, the Centre has begun imposing fiscal penalties arbitrarily only to hurt the state.” He said Jharkhand would not be a mute spectator. “We will block everything to make entities owned, run or supported by the Union government, bleed. JMM will not shy from resorting to a full economic blockade in the coming months once Covid-19 stabilises,” he said, adding that the party had asked chief minister Hemant Soren to speak with Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his immediate intervention. The JMM attack comes two days after Hemant accused the Centre of similar charges when the latter invoked TPA (tripartite agreement) against Jharkhand for auto-debit funds from its account in RBI to clear outstanding dues of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Union ministry of power has apprised the state government of having directed RBI to debit Rs 1417.50 crore out of Rs 5,608.32 crore that is due to DVC, a public sector undertaking. The state government, however, had contested the total dues, which according to it, stood at Rs 3,919.04 crore and requested the Centre for time to clear it in part, citing the ongoing pandemic. It has also asked the Centre to clear crores of funds that it owes to Jharkhand. Upping the ante on Saturday, JMM said that the Centre’s approach towards non-BJP ruled states was condemnable and that Jharkhand would not sit idle to injustices anymore. The state government has been crying hoarse about pending GST dues to the tune of around Rs 2,000 crore. This apart, the chief minister had said in the past that the Centre owed around Rs 5,000 crore in royalties from mining, besides other dues pending with PSUs operating from Jharkhand. Pandey questioned the Centre’s reluctance to clear dues. “Give us our rights and dues or else this state, which is born out of long struggle, knows how to take it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Left parties, tribal activists join ‘Nyay March for Swamy’s release||Representatives of rights groups, Left parties and parties belonging to the ruling alliance took out a 2km-long long “Nyay March (march for justice)” on Friday to demand the immediate release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old priest and social worker of Ranchi, and other political activists. The march that saw the participation of over 1,000 people began around 11.30am with protestors walking with banners and posters against the Union government and culminated into a dharna at Raj Bhavan around two hours later. A delegation of protestors also sent a memorandum addressed to the governor during the dharna. The memorandum demanded the immediate release of Stan Swamy and all political prisoners. It also called for the “closure of the  Bhima-Koregaon case and revocation of false cases related to Delhi riots filed against CAA-NRC activists, and repealing of sections 124A (sedition) & 499 (criminal defamation) of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Preventions) Act (UAPA) and National Security Act (NSA) against all of them.” On Friday, several members of the Catholic Church formed a 5km-long human chain seeking the release of Swamy, who was arrested by National Investigation Agency (NIA) on October 8 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune in 2017. The NIA has accused Swamy of having links with CPI (Maoists). Praful Linda of Adivasi Adhikar Manch said, “Swamy is in prison amid inhuman conditions without having access to basic rights.” Sanjay Pandey, the district Congress secretary, added, “Swamy’s arrest is part of the Union government’s strategy to increase its loot of Jharkhand’s natural resources. He has been a leading voice for the oppressed which earned him the Centre’s ire.” Former chairperson of the state women’s commission and JMM member Mahua Manjhi condemned Swamy’s arrest. “NIA could have interrogated him at his residence in Bagaicha. What was the need to keep him behind bars?” she said. CPI(ML) MLA from Bagodar Vinod Singh spoke of “growing attacks” against human rights activists, intellectuals and others who speak up for people’s rights. “On the lines of Bhima Koregaon, the government is now accusing political and student leaders opposing CAA-NRC of inciting the riots in Delhi,” he said, appealing to all Opposition parties to join hands to demand the release of Swamy and others in the Bhima Koregaon case. Ratan Tirkey, a former member of the state’s Tribal Advisory Council, said that until the Modi government came to power, no political leader stooped so low as to accuse Swamy with fake charges. “The BJP government has created an atmosphere of fear, but there is an uprising happening against it everywhere now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city Puja watchdog splits amid charges, counter-charges||The battle of oneupmanship continued in the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) on Saturday with the two warring factions not willing to concede with barely a week left for the annual festivities to begin. Both factions – one led by the outfit’s president Chandra Nath Banerjee and the other by Rambabu Singh – are at daggers drawn. On Friday night, three days after the Banerjee faction suspended Singh for six years, the rival group hit back by removed Banerjee from his post alleging anti-samity activities. “The executive committee of the samity was unanimous in its decision to remove Banerjee from the post of president. He (Banerjee) has been tarnishing the image of the outfit. The decision to remove Banerjee has been taken on demand from the 11-member executive committee,” said samity executive president Ashutosh Singh. Ashutosh alleged that Banerjee had formed a new outfit (Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samity) and his supporters had met chief minister by using the letterhead of the new organisation. He has also changed the name and registered address of the samity without consulting the executive,” Ashutosh claimed. According to him, Banerjee conspired to tarnish the image of a registered body and also that of Rambabu Singh. “As per the by-laws of the samity, a member should not have family ties with other members but Banerjee has included his family members in the outfit,” Ashutosh explained, adding that they would initiate disciplinary action against Banerjee. He admitted that infighting was against the very purpose of the formation of the samity. “The outfit was established to monitor the festival and try and solve problems (if any) faced by the puja committee and liaise with the district administration. But Banerjee and his men wanted to hijack the outfit and run it in his whims and fancies,” Ashutosh asserted. The executive committee also set aside the suspension of Rambabu Singh. Arun Singh, secretary of the outfit headed by Banerjee, said they would take legal action against Rambabu Singh who has made the samity his pocket organisation. "A resolution was passed on August 21 last year to nominate Banerjee as president. Names of other office-bearers and a 74-member executive panel was also approved at that meeting. Rambabu Singh has been functioning without taking the president or secretary into confidence. We would move court against him," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Heavy rain likely across Jharkhand from Tuesday||A low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal is expected to result in widespread rain over Jharkhand after from Tuesday, which means that the beginning of Puja is likely to see heavy showers. Deputy director of IMD 's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said on Saturday that the low-pressure system is expected to gain momentum around Tuesday, October 20. Tuesday. "The low-pressure developing over the Bay of Bengal will further delay monsoon departure from the state. We are expecting a good shower show in Jharkhand next week due to the impact of the low pressure," said Anand. He went on to say that the withdrawal line of the Southwest Monsoon was still far away from Jharkhand. IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued an alert of thunderstorms and lightning in Jharkhand during the next two days. The Met offices also issued a nowcast (short term forecast) of thunderstorm and lightning in Ranchi, Garhwa and several other districts in the next 24 hours. Met data revealed that several places in the Kolhan region, including Ghatshila and Chandil, experienced light to moderate showers during the past 24 hours. Places like Jamshedpur, Khunti, Ramgarh and Chaibasa have already witnessed formation of convective clouds which trigger thunder and lightning. Weatherman said they were expecting rain in the first two days of Puja (October 22 and 23) due to the influence of the low-pressure system. IMD New Delhi has also issued an alert of heavy rain in neighbouring Odisha due to the impact of the low-pressure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Home for rescued victims of human trafficking inaugurated in Palamau||Rescued victims of human trafficking will now have an address of their own until they are taken back by their families said sources. Deputy commissioner Palamau Shashi Ranjan told The Telegraph Online that an 18-room house at Birsa Nagar in Shahpur, named Ujjawala Grih, will now be a home for the survivors. The home, which was put up by an on-probation IAS employee Dilip Pratap S Shekhawat, will be the first of its kind here in Palamau. Sources said Palamau was infamous in the eighties and nineties for bonded labour (bandhuwa mazdoor). Bengal-based writer Mahashweta Devi and Swami Agnivesh used to frequent the place to campaign for the cause of anti-bonded labour. The administration is being cautious while running Ujjawala Grih, due to its experience with two of their children’s homes for boys and girls often being in the news as children have escaped from there. The NGO Gramin Samaj Kalyan Vikas Manch has signed an MoU with the administration to run Ujjawala Grih. NGO head Hashmat Rabbani said his team will work hard to make this Ujjawala Grih a ‘home’ for the rescued victims of human trafficking. “Rescued people of human trafficking of the three districts Latehar, Garhwa and Palamau will be housed here,” said the DC. Sources said illegal cattle smuggling and second human trafficking plague these three districts. Rescued cattle being ferried in high containers, re-designed oil tankers etc. are given to the nearby locals for them to keep in their fields. However, humans who have been trafficked are far less wanted. “We have found that families are reluctant to take them back. This becomes a very piquant and tight situation for us as we wonder where to put up such unclaimed rescued ones,” said Ranjan. Many do not reveal their addresses or their family’s locations. It will be now far easier to carry on legal procedures for the survivors with the help of paralegal volunteers (PLVs). However, sources said Ujjawala Grih has one drawback so far privacy of the survivors is concerned. Most rescued boys and girls are in their teens and will be housed together, sharing washrooms, kitchens, bedrooms etc. This has been a cause for worry as sexual exploitation has been found to be rampant in identical shelter homes in places like Bihar. “We will see what best can be done for the rescued ones, with males and females living separately,” said Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Armed miscreants open fire at Gola railway siding, 2 injured||Two bike borne miscreants opened fire at Gola railway siding under Muri-Barkakana railway section on Friday night. Two security guards on duty sustained injuries. The injured were immediately rushed to the Community Health Center in Gola. One of the security guards, Vinod Ram, sustained scratches from a bullet shot and is getting treatment in a local community health center, while another security guard Md. Akhtar was hit in the thigh. Headquarters DSP Prakash Soy, Inspector Sanjay Gupta along with the station in-charge B.N. Ojha reached the spot and started investigation. Eye witnesses said that two criminals, riding in a Pulsar bike without a number plate, arrived here and ran away after firing at the security guards. The incident is the result of extortion demand or dominance in the siding. A few months ago the railway siding was closed by the district administration. However, the railway siding was started. Coal and iron ore are dumped here through racks in railway siding. It is then transported to various factories with the help of Hywa. DSP Soy has confirmed the firing incident. He said that the police reached the spot and are investigating the matter. The chairman of Vidyalaya Management Committee inspected Kendriya Vidylaya Hazaribagh on Friday in post Covid unlock period. In his maiden visit, Ravi Gandhi, who is also the Inspector General of Border Security Force's Training center and school situated in Meru Camp, was given a warm welcome by the Vidyalaya's principal P. Mandal along with other senior teachers of the school. During the inspection, he motivated the students to join online classes in more numbers. He joined a maths online class. The principal drew his attention towards the scarcity of electricity in the Vidylaya and the need for building renovation. He assured the issues will be addressed in the near future. A group of eight to ten armed men set two dumpers and a coal loading machine on fire at CCL's Bachrarailway sidings under the  Piparwar police station of ​​the district on Thursday midnight. Bachra is situated 72kms away from Chatra district headquarter. According to sources, armed men identifying themselves as extremists opened fire at the site, sparking fear among workers present there. They stayed at the spot for half an hour before escaping into a forest. A team led by Tandwa subdivsional officer Ashutosh Satyam brought the fire under control. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha ordered raids in the area. He didn't confirm as whether Maoists or criminals were behind the incident and said that it will be clear after an investigation. Suresh Kumar, a non teaching employee on Friday lodged a complaint against a police officer and assistant sub inspector of Dhanbad police station for beating him during a vehicle checking drive. Kumar in his complaint said that the policemen signalled him to stop, and before he could halt his bike by reaching road side they started beating him. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh on Friday held a meeting with all puja committee members and instructed them to observe all the puja related guidelines and SOPs of the state government. Singh asked them not to hold massive immersion ceremonies,no entry to devotees inside the pandal and strict observance of immersion routes.He warned against any posting or forwarding of sensitive news or rumours on social media platforms by anyone without verifying the same from the district administration and police. Singh siad the administration will act against sale or production of illicit liqour during puja and will carry out raids to arrest those engaged in such activities. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Friday held a meeting with representatives over the construction of flyovers including the  proposed flyover from Matkuria to Birsa Munda Chowk and discussed its feasibility. Dhanbad MP, P.N. Singh who was present, demanded the broadening of railway underpass near the Rangatand Chowk of Dhanbad. Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha said the proposed flyover from Matkuria to Birsa Munda Chowk will not make a difference as it will divert the heavy vehicle on the flyover which already do not enter the town due to no entry during the day time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
17-10-2020||Jharkhand||Minor tribal girl gangraped and murdered in Dumka||The gangrape and murder of a tribal girl, a fifth standard school student, rocked poll-bound Dumka on Friday, resulting in a string of protests in the district. Opposition BJP went on an offensive against the Hemant Soren led government on social media, citing growing lawlessness in the state. Taking cognizance of the incident, the CM in a tweet prompted state DGP MV Rao and local police to ensure quick action, directing them to put the case in a fast track court, and asking to keep him apprised of developments. The incident took plaxce in Bhalsumar village under Ramgarh police station in Dumka. The girl left home around 7 am for tuitions on her bicycle. Hours later, her battered body was found from an abandoned place on the Bhalsumar-Dharmpur road. A local journalist said, “According to the girl’s parents, she went for tuitions in neighbouring Dharmpur at 7 am. Around 10 am, when she didn't return, her parents began looking for her. An hour later, her cycle was found abandoned on the Bhalsumar-Dharmpur road followed by her body in the bushes nearby.” An official fromk the Ramgarh police station informed that they learnt about the incident around noon when protests began. “Prima facie, it seems to be a case of gangrape and murder, but we can only be sure after formal medical examinationm,” he said, adding that a few condoms were also recovered from the spot. Dumka SDPO Animesh Nathani said that the body was sent for postmortem. “Preliminary reports indicate gangrape and murder. She seemed to have been strangulated,” he said. This is the second incident of such nature in the Santhal Parganas over a week. The body of another minor girl was exhumed by police in Sahibganj two days ago for probing alleged gangrape and murder. Four people have been taken into custody in the case. Ahead of the upcoming byelection, BJP has aaccused the Hemant Soren government of failing to provide a safe and secure environment for women and children since it took charge earlier this year. Lois Marandi, BJP’s Dumka candidate tweeted: “Tribal girls and women in Jharkhand aren’t safe anymore going by the rate of crimes against them. The JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, which claims to work for the rights of adivasi-moolvasis, has failed to protect their asmita (dignity). Shame on the Hemant government.” Replying to the CM's directives, DGP Rao tweeted: “Senior police officers have been directed to reach the scene of crime and expedite investigation. Persons involved in this horrific crime will be arrested soon. Trying hard to contain such crime with a campaign to create public awareness apart from ensuring fast track trials.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-264
