18-10-2020||Calcutta||Water woes  in Salt Lake||An underground pipeline network in Salt Lake’s IA Block has sprung leaks in at least five places, triggering a water crisis in a couple of blocks. At least two craters filled with water and multiple puddles have formed near the Amul roundabout close to Salt Lake stadium. On Saturday, several residents of IA and LA blocks in Sector III said they did not receive water in the morning. Rathindranath Mukherjee, a resident of IA Block said, water in his house ran out by 11am. “We were without water without any warning. We had to buy packaged water jars.” Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials noticed water leaking from a joint connecting several pipes in the network, a civic engineer said. The pipes carry water from Tank No. 13 to IA, IB, IC, JC, JD, KB, KC, LA, LB and a few other blocks in Sector III. Broadway has been filled with several craters because of the leak. “These pipes are joined with a lead joint, which seems to have given away. Multiple pipelines have leaks as well,” the engineer said. Indrani Bhattacharya, a resident of IB Block, said her family had been facing water shortage for the past several days. “The supply has reduced to a trickle… our water tank at our house barely gets filled,” Chakraborty said. A resident of IC Block, Sandeep Kumar Jha, said the crisis had forced him to buy potable water. “We are storing as water as much as possible… but I still have to buy drinking water.” Another engineer of the Salt Lake civic body said all joints as well as pipes in the underground water network would be replaced in phases. The civic body has started overhauling and cleaning water pipes to prevent leaks and wastage. But the existing network, which had been laid when the township was coming up, has weakened with age, the engineer said. “Sediment deposits inside pipes have reduced their capacity to a large extent and weakened them considerably,” the engineer said. Salt Lake is supposed to receive close to eight million gallons of water every day from the treatment plant in New Town. But the township hasn’t been getting it because of inadequate supply pipelines. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority has been laying pipelines across Salt Lake to ensure it gets adequate water supply. The new pipes are made of high-density polyethylene — a synthetic material, which according to officials, is not prone to leaks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||School heads march for Father Stan Swamy ||Heads of schools, priests and teachers came out during the pandemic to protest against the arrest of 83-year-old Father Stan Swamy on Saturday who has been in jail for the 10th consecutive day. The Telegraph spoke to some of those who were present. Father Rodney Borneo, Principal, Loyola High School “What has happened smacks of complete denial of the entire process of democracy and the respect for the senior strata of society. The fact that this man has spent more than 50 years in the service of tribal community is being totally ignored.” As long as he was giving food to the poor he was hailed as a hero the moment he asked why are these people poor he has been arrested.” Father Devraj Fernandes, Principal, St Aloysius Orphanage and Day School “I came here to stand for Father Stan Swamy who has been arrested in an inhuman way and confined in jail. As a true disciple of Jesus he stood for the marginalized and the downtrodden.” Sister Jayshree, a member of St Catherine’s Homes and Sister Pranita Lepcha, Superior, St. Teresa’s Higher Secondary School “We stand for justice and his release. Despite the risk (of a pandemic) one has to stand for justice,” said Sister Pranita Lepcha who came with five other sisters and non-teaching staff.” Anthony Arun Biswas, Chairman, Mother Teresa International Award Committee “He(Father Stan Swamy) has been working for the poor for so many years…he has been serving the poorest of the poor and now he has been put in jail. What is his crime? Is doing good a crime? This is a political game.” Reverend Shreeraj Mohanty Presbyter-in-charge, St Thomas’ Church Free School Street “We stand in solidarity with Father Stan Swamy and through our silence presence ask the government to do justice to a person who stood for adivasi voice. I believe our silent protest will make a difference.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Hakim calls for rethink on meter box location||The fire brigade and the CESC have to think about old houses with electric meter boxes below staircases and close to exits, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “They have to do something… there are hundreds of such houses. The CMC no longer allows meter boxes near exits,” he said on Saturday. “How will people come out in case of a fire if the meter box is near the exit?” Hakim asked. “I had once gone to a house on Clive Row… the electric wires from the meter boxes went up the walls along the wooden stairs. I shuddered at the thought of a fire breaking out… how will people come out? “It is impossible for the CMC to check if meter boxes are fixed near the exits of old houses. The fire brigade, too, will find it difficult to do so…. I will speak to the CESC; they have to ensure that fire rules are followed while giving permission for new meters.” A retired fire brigade officer said the fire directorate had suggested that old buildings shift meter boxes to a passage outside buildings and away from exits. “This is a genuine problem with old houses. We had suggested several years ago that owners and tenants can build a shed on a passage and shift the meters there to keep the exit free of fire hazard.” A CESC official said the company had stopped issuing new meters in case of property apportionment. “We no longer issue new meters in old buildings if space is now divided between two or more people and if the meter box is near the exit,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Meter box blaze cuts off exit, kills 2||A 65-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy were killed in a fire in a seven-storey building at 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue on Friday night. Twenty fire engines fought for more than six hours to bring the fire under control by dawn on Saturday. The boy, Unais Rahaman, died when he slipped and fell off the rooftop. Samima Begum was found dead inside a toilet on the fifth floor of the building, Moon House, built in 1938. Unais was taken to SSKM Hospital and then Belle Vue Clinic where doctors said he had died. At least five other people, including two women sustained burns. Sanatan Behra, 50, and Anjan Barik, 56, have been admitted to the trauma care unit of SSKM. Both are critical because of the extent of their burns, according to doctors at the hospital. Samima Begum, several residents and eye-witnesses have said, had taken refuge inside the toilet after failing to climb a steep flight of steps to reach the rooftop where other residents were after the fire had broken out and the building was covered in black smoke. Doctors at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital where she had been taken to said she had suffered an asphyxial death after struggling to breathe inside the smoke-filled toilet. “The door to the rooftop was open or else more people would have possibly died,” a fire officer said while drawing parallel with the 2010 Stephen Court fire on Park Street, which had left 43 people dead. The fire started from an electric meter box to the right of the building’s entrance which, some residents alleged, is cramped with empty packing boxes and rows of two-wheelers parked on one side at night. Some 50-odd families who live in the building as tenants got to know of the fire around 10.20pm on Friday when thick smoke enveloped the building and cries of “aag (fire)” rang out in the air. Once they realised the fire had started on the ground floor, they kept calling each other up and asking everyone to gather on the rooftop. Manwar Khan said he was getting ready to go to sleep when he heard a commotion from his fifth-floor window on Ganesh Chandra Avenue below. His wife was in the bedroom and he in the drawing room. As he opened the windows to find out what the commotion was about, a gush of thick black smoke hit him on the face. “The power had snapped and the lift wasn’t working. It was difficult to see through the smoke,” Wali Ahmed, another resident said. “The only option was to use the stairs. There were elderly people and children. It became difficult with every passing minute.” With the flames leaping up and black smoke swirling around the night sky, several residents of the building adjoining Moon House found it difficult to breathe. “It seemed something had exploded… when I opened my windows, there was smoke and fire outside,” Nadira Patherya, a resident of Premier House, the building adjacent Moon House, said. Residents of Moon House who had gathered on the rooftop realised if they could reach the rooftop of the adjacent building they use the stairs to go down and out in the open. But a barbed wire fence came in the way. “We finally managed to cut the fence and brought everyone to the rooftop of the adjacent building,” Gulzar, a resident who owns a computer shop on the ground floor of Moon House, said. Firefighters said they had trouble accessing the building’s reservoir on the ground floor and that electric cables dangling at the entrance had posed a challenge. Hydraulic ladders were brought in to reach the top floors. Additional fire engines were brought in as water ran out. Fire services minister Sujit Bose was among those on the spot. “There were no means to fight the fire inside the building,” a fire officer said. Police have started a case of negligence resulting in death against the owner who has told investigators another person was responsible for the building’s maintenance. Residents alleged that repeated reminders to install new wires and keep the building safe from fire had fallen on deaf ears. “We are waiting for the report of forensic experts,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Moon House and a mindset||Moon House on 21 GC Avenue was next to the building in which I lived — as in sharing the same wall and joined at the hip so to speak. It is a building I knew best after my own by the virtue of all my adda friends living there — Ram on the sixth floor, Tushar on the fifth, Dipen on the fourth and Raju on the second. It is a building where we started our company Trisys in 1995, occupying the mezzanine floor and probably only a few metres from the machine room that started the fire. The Moon House terrace was where we would hold the annual dandia, covered by The Telegraph with a picture on the front page in October 1982. Moon House was in a state of perpetual civic ruin; the corridor that led from the gate to the lift would be a parking lot for bikes at night (‘Yahaan nahi rakkhega to kahaan rakkhega?’ could well have been the indignant response). A paanwalla blocked 40 per cent of the gate during the day with no one questioning his right. The collapsible lift door would extend only 70 per cent after which the lift acquired a sensory intelligence to jerk into vertical motion. The lights on the landing gave the impact of a 20W bulb, presumably to save electricity. The bottom corners of each landing were more red than grey mosaic. Over the years, the corridors and landings narrowed; there were apartments built into the terrace with residents possibly looking the other way. The water ‘wars’ were legendary as that precious liquid would be pumped only two hours each morning. The liftman would be perpetually drunk, barefoot and unwashed. There was never security to man its main gate (the durwan would generally be absconding) so anyone could walk in and tour the building from ground floor to top without being asked ‘Aap kaun hai?’ So why did residents not demand better conditions? One, because the moment they did, the makaan-maalik would say ‘Bhaara badhaiyye’ (raise the rent), the instinctive trigger for residents to dissolve (I would be surprised if the total monthly residential rentals for a seven-storeyed building as large as Moon House could have been higher than Rs 50,000). Two, the residents reconciled and made their peace with the civic collapse (‘Ab aur kitna kharaab hoga?’), little realising one day residents might have to lose their lives because of their indifference. Three, Moon House was a happy community; the paanwalla was ‘part’ of the landscape and could not be ejected; the liftman had to be retained in larger humanitarian interests; the durwan may have been slack, arrogant, over-aged and under-trained but so what. Four, there was no concept of a residents’ association; every discussion came down to the singular point (rent versus rights). I can almost imagine residents saying ‘With what face do we ask for better conditions?’ Five, in most such Waqf buildings, the only money or real income the caretaker landlord generated was when tenancy was transferred from one to another (happened rarely). Six, there was a progressive dilution in the building’s character — residential owners moving out and commercial offices (with no emotional stake in the building) moving in. Seven, someone in the government did certify Moon House as safely livable year after year; so, who the hell were residents to complain? The story of Moon House then is not about isolated indifference. It is about a mindset. It is about you and I staring probable danger every day in the face and dismissively saying ‘So what?’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Traced, gang abandons 26kg gold  ||A gang of armed men abandoned a vehicle with 26kg of gold ornaments they possibly had looted from a non-banking financial institute in Howrah’s Jagachha on Saturday when they were caught in a queue at a police checkpost. At least five men with their faces covered in masks had entered the institute around 1.30pm and held all employees at gunpoint inside a room before taking away their phones, preliminary investigations have revealed. They had cleared the vault of 26kg of gold ornaments and left in a white car, police said. Their operation had lasted not more than half an hour. Police officers in Howrah scanned CCTV footage and zeroed in on the number plate of the vehicle in which the men had fled. The number was circulated across the state. A few hours later, around 6pm, the police received information that the stolen gold ornaments had been found in an abandoned car with the same number plate on NH2 in Burdwan. The police in Burdwan said they had received an alert about a white Suzuki Swift Dzire that had possibly been used by the gang to flee. “We were alerted by Howrah police about the robbery. During a check near Nababhat on NH2 we found the car with the gold ornaments. We have handed over the vehicle and the ornaments to Howrah police,” Bhaskar Mukherjee, the East Burdwan police chief, said. Cops had been posted at eight strategic points in the district, the police said. There was a long queue of vehicles at Nababhat because of the police check and the suspects left the place the moment they realised they were caught in a queue leading them straight to the checkpost, the police said. Cops in East Burdwan are trying to get footage of CCTV cameras closest to the spot where the vehicle was found abandoned to get pictures of the men. The police are trying to find out where the men had been immediately after robbery. “It is apparent they had gone somewhere before heading for Burdwan. There is a time gap,” a Howrah police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit of safety steps||Is every visitor wearing a mask? Has sanitiser been sprayed in all hands? Is the queue socially distanced? Is the pandal well-ventilated? Come Tritiya and these are some of the questions that need to be on the minds of every pandal volunteer. Safety has acquired an entirely new meaning this Durga puja, as the dance of the pandemic continues unabated. Therefore, in its 18th edition, the True Spirit Puja movement, which is all about making our greatest festival safe, happy and meaningful, has gained a whole new significance and momentum. Covid-19 safety compliance measures have been added to the parameters of judgment in CESC The Telegraph True Spirit (TSP) Puja 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner. Social commitment of the puja organisers also acquires added import in the light of the disruptions brought upon by the virus as also the trail of devastation and distress left behind by the cyclone Amphan. The older parameters remain, like visitor comfort – by providing drinking water, toilet facilities, first aid and help desk – fire and electricity safety measures, traffic management, waste disposal, eco-friendliness and display of TSP signage. “This year is the 18th year of collaboration between The Telegraph and CESC. This year is also the year of the pandemic. Hence both the institutions thought it wise to adopt online screening of the pandals so that safety prevails. And that is at the heart of True Spirit Puja this year,” said Joyneel Mukherjee, executive director, corporate communications, CESC. Indeed, the entire process has shifted online—from application to judgment. Over 300 pujas from across Calcutta and Howrah had applied on the newly created website truespiritpuja.com and after screening, close to 250 have come on board. On Chaturthi and Panchami, the first round visits of judges will take place virtually, followed by the final round on Sashthi morning when organisers of the short-listed pujas will give the judges a virtual walk-through of their preparedness in receiving visitors to the pandal. Said former Mrs Universe Richa Sharma, who is the brand ambassador of David & Goliath and will be part of the final day judges' panel: “This year, Durga Puja should not only be celebrated with basic safety measures -- like fire protection, security of assets, etc. – but there should also be escalated assurance of salvation by ensuring appropriate distance among the guests visiting the pandal, temperature check at the entrance and repeated sanitisation. Entry should only be permitted if guests are wearing their masks, that too in limited numbers at a time. Enjoying Puja is important but Covid-19 should not be taken lightly.” The pujas adjudged to be in the top three in each of the four zones will be in contention for the top prizes. The Model Puja and the three Five Star pujas will be declared on Sashthi and be handed the prizes by the evening. The others making it to the honours list will receive their prizes on Saptami, allowing them to display the trophy and the certificate before visitors on the remaining Puja days. But it would be no time to put their feet up. For in no other year has it been so important for each and every puja organiser to stay vigilant and true to the TSP pledge till the last visitor has left the pandal and the idol has been immersed. This year, the penalty for not doing so will be far more serious than docking of points.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Calcutta||Other brothers behind Stan Swamy||The Centre should release Father Stan Swamy, otherwise all minorities will come together and agitate, an Imam of Nakhoda Mosque said at the end of a silent walk on Park Street expressing solidarity with the 83-year-old Jesuit priest. “If one brother is facing injustice, the other brothers will not be silent spectators…,” said Maulana Shafique Qasmi. Maulana Qasmi added: “Father Stan Swamy has been arrested without having committed any qasoor and it is our request that the government release him unconditionally. Else, all minorities in the country will agitate against this.” The Imam was part of a protest where a group of Christian priests and nuns walked through Park Street. School principals and teachers joined them. Archbishop Reverend Thomas D’ Souza, who joined the event after the walk concluded, said: “The way he was treated, very inhuman way, cruel way I might say. It is not acceptable to us. Therefore, along with all countrymen, right-thinking people, people of goodwill, we also want to show our displeasure and certainly want to protest against that treatment to an elderly, sick person who has worked for the poor. Therefore, today we appeal and demand that he be released and like him so many others…. “Thank you for coming here to show your solidarity for this particular cause. Once again, we appeal to the government to release Father Stan Swamy.” The archbishop added: “We are here to show our solidarity with him. He is not alone but we are with him so that his suffering and the cause for which he has fought and has been fighting… for the tribals, the Dalits, their issues of injustice, their human rights, has been uppermost for him all his life. To tell him we are with him.” Maulana Qasmi said: “We condemn this arrest… and appeal to all that people should raise their voice against those who are being oppressed…. If we want everyone to be good, we have to treat everyone with love and sympathy. We should not think who is being subjected to cruelty. If one person is being subjected to injustice, all others are brothers and sisters. If one brother is facing injustice, the other brothers will not be silent spectators. It’s an appeal to the government to release Father Stan Swamy.” Father Stan Swamy was arrested in Ranchi on October 8, taken to Mumbai the next morning and sent to judicial custody till October 23. Father Stan Swamy is from the Jamshedpur province of the Jesuit Order. The vice-chancellor of St. Xavier’s University, Father J. Felix Raj, one of the leaders of the rally, said the Calcutta protest would inspire many others to raise their voice. “We are here as brothers and sisters of Father Stan Swamy and raising our voice. And I am sure our rally, our attempt, our effort will be an inspiration to many, many churches, to many, many communities and centres, to many, many organisations to start and express their opposition, express their protest, raise their voice,” said Father Felix Raj. “This is the 10th day he (Father Stan Swamy) is in jail. Let us wait and see what happens…,” Father Felix Raj added. “He has been working for the people of Jharkhand, particularly for the tribal community, for more than 50 years. He is not an activist alone. A man who has studied, a man who has researched the lives, the problems of the tribal communities. His life has been issue-based. His stand for the tribal community has been issue-based. He has faced all these issues and stood with the poor tribal people, particularly the youth, particularly for their rights, the language that they have. So he has been standing with the tribal community and this is the consequence that has happened,” Father Felix Raj said. Father Felix Raj said the case against Father Stan Swamy could continue. “But there must be a compassionate, concerned approach towards a senior citizen.” The number of participants at the rally was restricted to abide by Covid protocols. Schoolteacher Beulah Caleb said: “Covid or no Covid, it is important to come for a cause like this and make the government listen.” The walk, organised by the Mother Teresa International Award Committee, started from the gates of St. Xavier’s College and ended in front of the statue of Mother Teresa at the crossing of Park Street and Camac Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-267
18-10-2020||Business||HDFC Bank reports 18.4% growth in net profits for September quarter||HDFC Bank on Saturday beat Street estimates when it reported an 18.4 per cent growth in net profits for the September quarter. The country’s largest private sector bank posted a standalone net profit of Rs 7,513.11 crore against Rs 6,344.99 crore a year ago. Analysts were expecting the lender to report profits in the region of Rs 6,500 crore. Incidentally, this was the last quarter under Aditya Puri who will step down later this month. Puri will be succeeded by Sashidhar Jagdishan. During the July-September period, the lender’s asset quality improved with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross advances declining to 1.08 per cent from 1.36 per cent on a sequential basis. Bad loans on absolute terms fell to Rs 11,304.60 crore from Rs 13,773.46 crore in the same period a year ago. During the period, provisions and contingencies rose to Rs 3,703.50 crore (consisting of specific loan loss provisions of Rs 1,240.6 crore and general and other provisions of Rs 2,462.9 crore) against Rs 2,700.68 crore. The bank disclosed that total provisions for the second quarter included contingent provisions of around Rs 2,300 crore for “proforma” NPA and additional contingent provisions to make the balance sheet more resilient. The Supreme Court had, through an interim order on September 3, directed that accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31 shall not be declared as such until further orders. HDFC Bank said that following the interim order, accounts that would have otherwise been classified as NPA have not been and will not be classified as bad loans till such time that the apex court rules on the matter. However, had the bank classified accounts as NPA after August 31, 2020, the proforma gross NPA ratio would have been 1.37 per cent as on September 30, 2020 against 1.36 per cent as on June 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Paytm 2% fee on credit cards||Paytm users will have to pay a 2 per cent fee on the amount added to their e-wallet using a credit card. Till now, users had to pay a 2 per cent fee if they loaded more than Rs 10,000 in their e-wallets via credit card in a month. “A nominal charge of 2 per cent is applicable on adding money using credit card. The nominal fee is applicable since we pay high charges to your bank when you add money using a credit card. Please use UPI or debit card to add money for free,” said a message when customers tried to add money to their Paytm wallet via credit card. Paytm is also providing an offer, wherein users will get 2 per cent cashback up to Rs 200 on adding a minimum Rs 50 using credit card, according to the message. A Paytm Payments Bank spokesperson said customers have the flexibility to add money to their Paytm wallet from any of their preferred funding source, including UPI, net banking and cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Jharkhand refuses loans to make up for GST revenue shortfall||Jharkhand has rejected the Centre’s proposal to take a loan to make up for its GST revenue shortfall, chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet in Ranchi late on Friday. The Jharkhand cabinet has also decided not to avail itself of loans meant for power distribution companies under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package. This stand is being seen as a retaliation against the move of the Union power ministry to auto-debit a sum of Rs 1,417.50 crore from the state’s consolidated account — maintained by the RBI — to pay for DVC’s dues. This amount is the first installment of the Rs 5,600 crore Jharkhand owes DVC for power supplied to seven of its districts. “It’s really unfortunate that the Centre is unable to pay GST compensation to states. To add to our woes, it is asking the RBI to debit money from the state’s consolidated fund,” Soren said. “Such misuse of power was never seen since Jharkhand was formed or even earlier.” “Coal sector units owe us huge amounts but we never stopped them from carrying coal from the state or never stopped the DVC from using water from our rivers,” Soren said. “Why should we take a loan when the Centre was supposed to pay us GST compensation,” Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon told The Telegraph on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||Business||Kalrock Capital-Murari Lal Jalan win Jet Airways bid||Creditors to Jet Airways have approved a resolution plan which will give the country’s oldest private carrier a new lease of life, the airline said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. Eighteen months after it shut down and sixteen months after it became the first airline company to be admitted under the insolvency and bankruptcy code (IBC), a plan submitted by a consortium of London-based Kalrock Capital and UAE-based businessmen Murari Lal Jalan was approved on Saturday. In April 2019, Jet — which operated a fleet of more than 120 planes serving dozens of domestic destinations and international hubs such as Singapore, London and Dubai — was forced to ground all flights, crippled by mounting losses as it attempted to compete with low-cost rivals. Claims made by financial creditors, operational creditors and employees have ballooned to over Rs 40,000 crore, out of which claims to the tune of Rs 15,525 crore has been admitted by the resolution professional. Financial creditors such as SBI, Yes Bank, and others have claimed Rs 11,344 crore but only Rs 7,459. 80 crore has been admitted. The approved proposal will now go to the National Company Law Tribunal. After the tribunal approves it, the airline will have to apply to the civil aviation ministry for its approval. Jet Airways RP (resolution professional) Ashish Chhawchharia said in a filing to the bourses that the plan was approved after the conclusion of the e-voting on Saturday. Jet Airways had received another valid bid from the consortium of Haryana-based Flight Simulation Technique Centre, Big Charter of Mumbai and Abu Dhabi’s Imperial Capital Investments LLC. On Friday, the airline had extended the deadline for voting as only half the lenders had submitted their votes and the remaining had sought time till Saturday evening to submit their votes. Under IBC norms, an approval by 66 per cent (by value) of the lenders is necessary for a resolution plan to go through. While the announcement was silent on how much votes the winning plan secured, it is understood to be over 70 per cent. Financial details of the winning plan will be known once it is presented to the NCLT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
18-10-2020||India||Kerala paying for gross negligence, says Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Kerala, which was witnessing a spike in coronavirus infections recently, was paying the "price for gross negligence" during Onam festivities when unlocking of services, along with an increase in travel for trade and tourism, led to the spread of COVID-19. The minister said this ought to serve as a good lesson for all the state governments that were being negligent in planning for the festival season. Kerala's COVID-19 tally has crossed 3.3 lakh while the toll climbed to 1,139 on Saturday. Prior to Onam (August 22), the state had reported around 54,000 cases, while the death toll was nearly 200. During an interaction with  social media followers on the sixth episode of “Sunday Samvaad”, Vardhan reiterated his request to everyone to celebrate festivals at home with their loved ones in the traditional way to ward off the risk of coronavirus infection. This festive season, charity must take precedence over celebrations, he said. "My own celebrations too shall remain subdued due to the heart-rending impact of COVID-19 on lakhs of corona warriors across the world battling for us," the minister stated. He said there was no shortage of medical oxygen in the country and that the government was ready to scale up production capacity to meet any further increase in demand arising due to the pandemic. On Kerala, Vardhan said between January 30 and May 3, the state had reported just 499 cases and two deaths due to the disease. He regretted that "Kerala was paying the price of gross negligence" during the recent Onam festivities when state-wise unlocking of services, along with an increase in inter and intra-state travel for trade and tourism, led to the spread of COVID-19 across various districts. “The epi curve of Kerala changed completely due to Onam festivities across the state. The daily new cases nearly doubled," Vardhan said.No mutation Vardhan also said that as of yet no mutation of coronavirus had been detected in India that is either more transmission efficient or more pathogenic. Answering a question on the discrepancy in the COVID-19 death figures, Vardhan said that the Ministry of Health has taken up the issue of correct certification of COVID-19 deaths with all states and UTs on multiple instances. It has also shared a proper modality of reporting of deaths with them to ensure consistency in reporting of COVID-19 related deaths across India, the minister said. Replying to a query, Vardhan said that community transmission of COVID-19 is limited to certain districts in a limited number of states. In different pockets across various states, including West Bengal, community transmission of COVID-19 is expected to occur, especially in the densely-populated areas, he said. "However, this is not happening across the country. Community transmission is limited to certain districts, occurring in a limited number of states," Vardhan said. The minister was responding after a participant, while citing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's remark that there are instances of community transmission in her state, asked which states have seen community transmission.Newspapers are safe Vardhan rekindled the joy of having morning tea with the daily newspaper in a respondent by reassuring him that there is no scientific evidence that proves that novel coronavirus transmission can happen via newspapers. "Reading newspapers is completely safe even during the COVID-19 pandemic," he said. On the availability of medical oxygen in the country, he said the current oxygen production capacity of India is around 6400 MT/Day. The government is ready to scale up the production capacity to meet any further increase in demand arising due to the pandemic, he said. “The Empowered Group constituted by the home ministry is monitoring the requirement of medical oxygen across India. The health ministry is also monitoring the availability and supply of medical oxygen at the field level through regular video conferencing with state nodal officers as well as with principal secretaries or mission directors,” he said.Intranasal Covid vaccine trials Vardhan remarked that although there are no intranasal COVID-19 vaccines under trial in India at the moment, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are expected to pursue clinical trials of such vaccines in the country in the coming months on receipt of regulatory approval. In a follow-up to a question from the last episode, Vardhan was asked on phase 2 of the COVID-19 grants to states, to which he said Rs 1,352 crore have already been released as part of the second COVID Package to 33 states and UTs. This phase 2 grant has been released in trenches during August, September and October this year, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Mar Thoma church head passes away||Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, the primate of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, died early Sunday at a private hospital here after battling cancer, church sources said.  The 90-year old head of the Marthoma community was under treatment for pancreatic cancer and breathed his last around 2.30 AM, hospital sources said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the spiritual leader, saying the Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives of the poor.  "His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives the poor and downtrodden.  He was blessed with abundance of empathy and humility. His noble ideals will always be remembered. RIP," Modi tweeted  The Prime Minister had on June 27 inaugurated the 90th birth anniversary celebrations of the Metropolitan.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the demise of the Metropolitan was not only a loss to the church but to the society as a whole.  "He worked for the liberation and welfare of the homeless and marginalised people in the society. His involvement in rehabilitating children from the Red Street in Mumbai and uplifting transgender persons into the mainstream shows how he battled for the downtrodden," Vijayan said in a statement.  Vijayan said Metropolitan fought fearlessly against social evils.  Born as P T Joseph to Alakunnathu T Lukose and Mariamma couple at Maramonin Pathanamthitta district, Joseph Mar Thoma became Mar Thoma metropolitan in October 2007 after the then Mar Thoma, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, expressed his desire to transfer responsibilities of the church to his successor due to his deteriorating health.  He was ordained as Ramban on January 11, 1975 and designated as suffragan metropolitan on 15 March 1999, when Philipose Mar Chrysostom, the suffragan metropolitan, was designated as the officiating metropolitan.  The mortal remains have been kept at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla where people from all walks of life paid their final respects to the Metropolitan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Covid-19: 61,871 new infections, 1,033 more fatalities in country||India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 74,94,551 with 61,871 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 65,97,209 pushing the recovery rate to 88.03 per cent, according to the Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,14,031 with the virus claiming 1,033 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of active cases of coronavirus infection remained below 8 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 7,83,311 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, comprising 10.45 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.52 per cent.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh cases on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh cases on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 9,42,24,190 samples have been tested up to October 17 with 9,70,173 samples being tested on Saturday.  India stood second behind the US in terms of active cases of COVID-19 as well as total caseload, according to Worldometer, a website that publishes coronavirus statistics from across the globe.  India is in the number one position in terms of the number of recovered cases while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil.  The 1,033 new fatalities include 463 from Maharashtra, 95 from Uttarakhand, 71 from Karnataka, 61 from West Bengal, 57 from Tamil Nadu, 40 from Uttar Pradesh and 35 from Delhi.  Total 1,14,031 deaths reported so far in the country include 41,965 from Maharashtra followed by 10,586 from Tamil Nadu, 10,427 from Karnataka, 6,629 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,406 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,992 from West Bengal, 5,981 from Delhi, 3,999 from Punjab and 3,626 from Gujarat.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
18-10-2020||India||Journalist’s face shows telltale sign of changed country||A young journalist covering a protest by students near Delhi University has complained of custodial assault by an assistant commissioner of police and said the cops asked those picked up “aap ko pata nahi hai ki desh badal gaya hai (don’t you know that the country has changed?)”. “Desh badal gaya hai” is a BJP refrain and “Mera desh badal raha hai (My country is changing)” was a song released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after completing two years in office in 2016. In a complaint to police commissioner S.N. Shrivastava on Saturday, The Caravan magazine’s Ahan Penkar, 24, wrote ACP Ajay Kumar kicked and stamped on his face, back, shoulders and ankle after he was picked up while on assignment on Friday. The Caravan, some of whose journalists have been targeted by the police earlier, had reported extensively on the controversy surrounding the death of Judge B.H. Loya, who was hearing the Sohrabuddin Sheikh “encounter” case in which BJP leader Amit Shah was an accused, in 2014. Shah, now the Union home minister, was discharged from the case after Judge Loya passed away and a new judge took over. On Saturday, Penkar, the journalist, said the police assaulted the protesters with the ACP stamping on the neck of one of the persons. The journalist said the other cops at Model Town police station had supported Kumar’s actions on the ground that he had been deprived of sleep after night duty because of the protest. ACP Kumar had been in the news last December after a man resembling him was seen in a widely circulated video ordering students in paying guest accommodations near DU to vacate their rooms because of law-and-order problems amid the protests against the Centre’s citizenship thrusts. The police claimed that the video was fake. Penkar had been covering a demonstration outside Model Town police station by Left student groups and family members of a 17-year-old domestic help who was found hanging at her employer’s premises on October 4. The family, who are Dalits, suspects that she had been raped and murdered and has demanded that the police’s crime branch probe the case. The post-mortem report of the girl says she died due to hanging, and the police have denied foul play. In his complaint, Penkar has written that he was forcibly taken inside the police station by cops along with an aunt of the deceased whom he had been interviewing at the protest spot around 3.15pm. He wrote: “Despite seeing me hold my press card and despite me repeatedly telling them that I am a journalist, the police took me along with four other persons into a room on the ground floor of the police station and asked all of us to sit on the ground…. ACP Ajay Kumar kicked me in the face first and I fell… to the ground. When I was on the ground, the ACP kicked me on my back and my shoulders. When I sat back up, the ACP made me prostrate with my head nearly on the ground and then hit me on the back again. The ACP also stamped on my ankle.” The Caravan has released images of Penkar that show injuries to his nose and upper back. Penkar said in the complaint to the commissioner: “I saw the ACP slap one person twice, then made him lie on the ground and punched him in the liver repeatedly, and then put his foot on the man’s neck.” The journalist alleged that the police forced him to unlock his phone and deleted all pictures of the demonstration. “The police also said things like, ‘Aap ko pata nahi hai ki desh badal gaya hai (don’t you know that the country has changed?)’ and told us that the ACP had night duty the previous day and had to come to the station while he was resting and therefore it was natural that he would beat us up because of it,” Penkar has written in his complaint. A DU student who told this newspaper he was tortured in the same room as Penkar corroborated the journalist’s account of his ordeal described in the complaint. The student said some protesters had also told the police that Penkar was a journalist. “The ACP hit him so badly that he started crying,” the student — who was treated for bruises at a government hospital on Saturday — said. He added that they were allowed to leave around 8.30pm on Friday. Delhi police said Penkar had been summoned for questioning in connection with his allegations and claimed that he had been “seen protesting” in violation of pandemic-time rules. The police said in the statement that the post-mortem and the inquest had “conclusively” confirmed that the girl had died by suicide on October 4. “On 16.10.20, some protesters staged a dharna/ demonstration outside PS Model Town to put undue pressure on the police and tried to give the incident a different colour.… A case has also been registered for the violations under relevant sections of the IPC, Epidemic Act and the DDMA Act,” the statement said. “One Ahan Penkar, who was also seen protesting amongst the crowd of protesters, was also detained and subsequently released. He later claimed himself to be a press person and alleged misbehaviour. The police have issued notice to him for his statement and interrogation in the matter,” it added. In August, three journalists of The Caravan  had been roughed up by a mob in Northeast Delhi where they had gone to investigate reports of communal tension in the area, which had witnessed riots in February in which 53 people were killed. Back then, the police had said in a statement: “Today afternoon some journalists were taking photographs and interviews in the communally sensitive area to which local people objected. The police acted swiftly to pacify the situation.” In 2016, during a protest outside the Delhi office of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh against student Rohith Vemula’s suicide, Rahul Meesaraganda, a photographer freelancing for the magazine, had been chased and caned by the police, and his camera smashed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020, with a “serious” level of hunger that puts it behind every one of its neighbours. The hunger level is calculated on four indicators: undernourishment, child wasting (children under five who have low weight for their height), child stunting (children under five who have low height for their age), and mortality rate for children under five. According to the report published by Ireland’s humanitarian agency Concern Worldwide and Germany’s aid agency Welthungerhilfe, prevalence of wasting among children in India, which reflects acute undernutrition, has gone up in the period 2015-2019. Sudan scored the same as India on the hunger index: 27.2. Countries which have fared worse than India include North Korea, Rwanda, Nigeria, Afghanistan, Lesotho and Sierra Leone. A GHI score of less than 9.9 is considered to be low hunger, between 10 and 19.9 is moderate, between 20 and 34.9 is serious, between 35 and 49.9 is alarming, and a score over 50 is extremely alarming hunger. India’s score was 38.9 in 2000, 37.5 in 2006 and 29.3 in 2012. Last year, out of 117 countries that were ranked, India stood at 102. Only countries on whom sufficient data are available to calculate the score are ranked. In 2018, India stood at 103 among 119 countries. Every other country in the subcontinent has fared better in feeding their people than India. Nepal with a score of 19.5 faces moderate hunger and is ranked at 73 and Sri Lanka with a score of 16.3 is even higher at 64. Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan face serious hunger but were placed well above India, at 75, 78 and 88, respectively. Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University with specialisation on poverty and inequality, said the benefits of economic growth in India were not reaching the public. “Growth does not mean everybody is benefiting in India. There is huge inequality because the fruits of growth are enjoyed by selected sections of society,” he said. Himanshu said the benefits can reach more people if the government spends more to improve public education, health care, nutrition, social security and gender empowerment. There is no sign of increase in investment in these areas, he added. “The neighbouring countries are actually investing more in education, health care and so on for the last over two decades. This report has rightly pointed out the problem. But things are unlikely to change in India going by what we have been seeing,” Himanshu said. The report presented a case study on Nepal, pointing out that the landlocked country had alarming hunger levels as recently as 2000. Interventions to improve children’s health have done a great deal to reduce child mortality and raise children’s nutritional status. India in August 2019 had passed a law to ensure workers do not get wages less than a minimum threshold level notified by the Centre, but the rules are still to be finalised. The economic contraction associated with the pandemic could increase the number of children who experience wasting in low and middle-income countries by 6.7 million, the report said. The report has significance for India since its GDP for the first quarter of this financial year was minus 23 per cent. The mortality rate of children under age five in South Asia as of 2018 was 4.1 per cent. India experienced a decline in under-five mortality in this period, driven largely by decreases in deaths from birth asphyxia or trauma, neonatal infections, pneumonia and diarrhoea. However, child mortality caused by prematurity and low birthweight increased, particularly in poorer states and rural areas, the report said. According to the report released on Friday, 14 per cent of India’s population is undernourished, the rate of stunting among children under 5 is 37.4 per cent while the rate of wasting among children under 5 is 17.3 per cent. The under-five mortality rate is 3.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||MLA seeks ‘justice’ for Uttar Pradesh murder accused||A BJP lawmaker has demanded “justice” for an aide who is accused of shooting dead one person following a disagreement over bagging the contract for a ration shop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district. Surendra Nath Singh, the MLA of Bairia, broke down while speaking to reporters on Saturday about the accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, his associate and the Ballia district ex-servicemen’s cell chief of the BJP. Surendra demanded that an FIR be registered against the supporters of Jai Prakash Pal, who was shot dead allegedly by Dhirendra. He claimed that Dhirendra had fired in self-defence and threatened to launch a massive protest. “Like me, Dhirendra Pratap Singh belonged to the Kshatriya caste. The police are denying justice to him. The bureaucracy is conspiring against the BJP. Dhirendra and his family members would have been killed had he not fired at his rivals in self-defence,” Surendra said. “I warn the police that I will organise a massive protest in front of Rewati police station if an FIR is not registered against the enemies of Dhirendra,” the MLA added. Dhirendra is accused of opening fire during a meeting on Thursday to settle a dispute over who would bag the contract to run a ration shop in the area. Villagers had claimed that after it was decided that the contractor would be chosen through voting, Dhirendra brought in outsiders and fired from his pistol when they were stopped from casting their ballots. Jai Prakash’s family members have accused the police of allowing Dhirendra to escape. Surendra, the MLA, on Saturday said he took six women to the district hospital and claimed that they had suffered injuries during Thursday’s clash. “These women are family members of Dhirendra and his friends, against whom the police have registered a case for killing a rival and leaving others injured. This is injustice and I will not let this happen,” Surendra said. Later, he escorted the women to Rewati police station and submitted an application urging the police to file a case “against those who wanted to kill Dhirendra and his followers”. “I am giving a week’s time to the police to register an FIR against the members of the rival group,” Surendra said. Azamgarh DIG Subhas Chandra Dubey did not answer questions from the media on the MLA’s threat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||BJP leader killed in Uttar Pradesh ‘over panchayat polls’||A BJP leader was shot dead in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district late on Friday night allegedly following a dispute over contesting panchayat elections, lengthening the list of politicians from the party to have been murdered in the state in the past year. Dayashankar Gupta, 45, the divisional vice-president of the BJP unit of Tundla, was walking home after closing his building materials and grocery shops around 8pm when three motorbike-borne assailants fired at him. He suffered bullet injuries in his chest and died an hour later at a hospital in Agra. Police have arrested three persons belonging to one family on the basis of Gupta’s dying declaration. Among them are Viresh Tomar, a school owner, and his relative Devendra Singh Tomar, a medicine seller. Atul Gupta, the younger brother of the deceased, said: “The Tomar family had been mounting pressure on my brother not to seek a ticket for the upcoming panchayat election in the area as one of them wanted to contest. They had threatened my brother with consequences.” The Guptas said Viresh and Devendra wielded influence in multiple political parties. “They used to work for the Samajwadi Party earlier but began attending meetings of the BJP when it came to power in 2017 in Uttar Pradesh,” a family member of Gupta said on the condition of anonymity. The BJP denied having any links with the accused. Manvendra Pratap Singh Lodhi, the district BJP president, said: “The murder of Gupta is unfortunate. The police must take the harshest action against the killers.” Mukesh Chandra Mishra, the superintendent of police of Firozabad, said: “We are close to cracking the case as the arrested accused have provided some leads.” Earlier on September 17, Sanjay Singh, 45, a doctor who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was killed in his sleep by three men. Singh was the district vice-president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a private militia of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The police had arrested two persons and cited personal reasons for the murder. Sanjay Khokhar, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh member and former BJP president for Baghpat, was shot dead on August 11. Ranjeet Bachchan, a Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants in Lucknow on February 2. Kamlesh Tiwari, a leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was shot in his office at Lucknow on October 18 last year. His death spawned many conspiracy theories, including one with a communal and terrorist angle. Three suspects were arrested. Sandeep Nagar, a Hindu Yuva Vahini activist from Gautam Buddha Nagar, was stabbed to death and hung from a tree on November 27 last year. The police have yet to crack the case. Rakesh Sharma, divisional general secretary of the BJP’s Hapur unit, was shot dead on September 9, 2019. One arrest was made at that time. Kapoor Singh alias Kallu, a BJP leader in Kanpur, was shot dead on September 5 last year along with his friend Bachha Singh Gaur. Two persons were arrested. Sompal Saini, an RSS official from Habibpur area of Muzaffarnagar, was shot on August 29 last year. One arrest was made. Surendra Singh, a BJP leader from Amethi, was shot dead in front of his home in village Baraulia on May 26 last year. Three accused were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||Go-ahead for Russia vaccine trial in India||India’s drug regulatory authority has approved a clinical trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine candidate against the novel coronavirus disease on healthy Indian volunteers, setting the stage for the country’s fourth Covid-19 vaccine trial. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved “an adaptive phase 2/3 clinical trial” of Sputnik V, implying the vaccine will be assessed for its capacity to both generate an immune response and protect against the Covid-19 infection. The Hyderabad-based drug company, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, will conduct the trial in India under a pact it had signed last month with Russia Direct Investment Fund, the Russian government’s sovereign wealth fund which is promoting Sputnik V worldwide. Both DRL and RDIF on Saturday announced the trial’s approval but declined to specify the number of sites or the number of healthy volunteers set for the phase 2 component of the trial. A phase 2 trial typically involves a few hundred volunteers distributed across multiple locations. Sputnik V, which uses human adenoviruses as delivery vehicles, had become the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 on August 11 when Russian regulators approved its use after phase 1 safety and phase 2 immunogenicity trials in Russia. Around 40,000 volunteers are expected to receive Sputnik V during the phase 3 trial currently underway in Russia. A phase 3 trial of Sputnik V also began in the United Arab Emirates last week. “In addition to the Indian clinical trial data, we will provide safety and immunogenicity (data) from the Russian phase 3 clinical trial. This data will further strengthen clinical development of Sputnik V in India,” RDIF chief executive officer Kirill Dmitriev said in a statement on Saturday. India is already assessing three other vaccine candidates — two homegrown and one developed by Oxford researchers. The trials of the homegrown candidates had started in mid-July and scientists expect the outcome of the phase 2 or human immunogenicity analysis to emerge any time now. The phase 3 efficacy  trials are expected to take longer as researchers have to wait for sets of volunteers to develop the coronavirus disease and demonstrate that the proportion falling ill in the recipients’ group is significantly smaller than those in the non-recipients’ group. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting to review India’s Covid-19 epidemic and vaccine efforts and stressed the need for advance planning for the efficient delivery and distribution of vaccines when they emerge. A National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has in consultation with state governments prepared a detailed blueprint for vaccine storage, distribution and administration. The NEGVAC is working with states to identify priority populations. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier this month said the Centre had set a rough estimate of vaccinating around 250 million people across India by July 2021. The health ministry has asked states to prepare lists of priority population groups to receive the vaccine first. These lists are expected to include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, health surveillance officers, sanitary staff and others involved in testing, tracing and treating Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||Kashmir: Unlikely voice joins Article 370 chorus||A senior leader of Apni Party, which was floated with Delhi’s blessings last year to wean people away from Article 370-centric politics, has called for unity among all Jammu and Kashmir parties to fight for the restoration of the state’s special status. The call is a grim reminder of how the Centre’s attempts to create an alternative to traditional political parties are not working. Altaf Bukhari-led Apni Party’s vice-president Choudhary Zulfikar Ali’s call for unity came two days after top Jammu and Kashmir parties, including National Conference and People’s Democratic Party, formed People’s Alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370 and resolution of the Kashmir issue. “All the political parties must unite to fight for the honour, dignity, status of the people of state including restoration of State irrespective of our political ideologies,” Choudhary, a former minister from Jammu, tweeted. In a related development, Jammu Muslim Front welcomed the formation of People’s Alliance and said the front supported restoration of Article 370. Choudhary later told The Telegraph these were his personal views and he strongly felt Article 370 should be restored. “We have lost everything, our identity, our state, our special status, which was a sovereign guarantee to us. We have lost everything that day (on August 5 last year),” he said. The leader of Apni Party — called King’s Party — said he was in favour of joining hands with the newly floated People’s Alliance for their rights although he had not discussed the issue with his party. “This matter has not been decided in my party platform, but I think if we want to achieve something we must unite together and fight for our rights... This is our struggle and we all should be part of the struggle,” he said. “We have a common goal, common issue. We must be together to fight for it. I don’t know whether other leaders in my party will agree with my opinion, but this is my personal opinion that whatever we lost was the dignity of our state. It is our responsibility as people’s representatives to fight for it.” Another party leader said last year’s decisions had hurt the people of the state and other leaders too shared Choudhary’s views. “There is disillusionment in our party as we have not been able to achieve our smallest demand of restoration of statehood to which the central leadership has already agreed,” a leader said. Bukhari was not available for comment, but his spokesman Javid Baig said these were the party vice-president’s personal views. “He is our vice-president and I respect his statement. It is not proper for me, as he is my senior, to comment on it,” he said. “In our meetings with the Prime Minister (and others), we have submitted memoranda and our agenda is clear that some issues (restoration of Article 370) are in court and we will abide by its decision. We are pursuing our goal of the restoration of statehood.” The spokesman said Kashmir was not in Delhi’s focus as the country was confronting two grave issues in the form of Chinese incursion and the faltering economy. “But that will not always be the case and we will achieve our goal,” he said. Apni Party was floated with much fanfare last year after Delhi succeeded to engineer a divide in PDP and woo leaders such as Bukhari, Choudhary and Baig — all former legislators — into its fold. But the party has failed to make inroads and the Centre, too, has not been forthcoming to concede to its demands. With Valley’s top leaders of major pro-India parties out of jail, Apni Party is likely to lose face a bit more. The party has been relentless in its criticism of rivals NC and PDP. Bukhari recently claimed they were “hoodwinking people” and “creating a smokescreen by demanding the restoration of Article 370.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||Official axed in Kerala gold smuggling case in hospital||A top bureaucrat suspended for his alleged links with some of the key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case has landed in emergency medical care at Thiruvananthapuram after a purported attempt to arrest him. M. Sivasankar, former secretary in the chief minister’s office, took ill on Friday night after customs officials went to fetch him from his home. The officials rushed him to a private hospital after he complained of chest pain and uneasiness. After several tests, the hospital said in a bulletin that Sivasankar had suffered a disc prolapse and advised neurological care. The hospital said he did not have any cardiac issue although there were some variations in his ECG readings. Sivasankar was on Saturday moved to Government Medical College Hospital in the Kerala capital. The purported attempt by the customs department to arrest Sivasankar came two days after Kerala High Court directed the Enforcement Directorate not to arrest him till October 23. The ED is probing a money-laundering angle in the case while the National Investigating Agency is looking at a possible terror angle. Senior counsel S. Rajeev, who represents Sivasankar in the customs case, told The Telegraph that there was an attempt to arrest the bureaucrat on Friday. “Perhaps they thought they could keep him in custody for at least two days since no bail plea can be moved until Monday,” he said. The name of the IAS officer, who used to run the CMO before his suspension, cropped up after Thiruvananthapuram airport customs officials busted the attempted smuggling of 30kg gold ingots valued at Rs 14.82 crore concealed in what appeared to be diplomatic baggage addressed to the attaché of the UAE consul-general in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5. Sivasankar is suspected to have connections with some of the key accused, including former UAE consulate employee Swapna Suresh. The Opposition BJP and Congress in Kerala have been demanding the scalp of communist chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the alleged involvement of Sivasankar.Sources said the customs department was trying to link Sivasankar to the allegation that Swapna had tried to move $1.90 lakh out of the country. The money was suspected to be kickback received from the Kochi-based Unitac Builders and Developers that won a contract to build homes for 140 flood-affected families in Thrissur. The builder had allegedly paid Rs 4.25 crore to Swapna and some officials in the consulate as bribes for the contract funded by a UAE charity. The project costing close to Rs 20 crore was entirely funded by the Emirates Red Crescent Society, the UAE arm of Red Cross, and money had been channelled through the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The sources said the customs had claimed to have unearthed details of how Sivasankar had allegedly got a bank official to convert the kickback into US dollars at the behest of Swapna. Asked if the customs would record Sivasankar’s arrest, Rajeev said they wouldn’t be able to interrogate him while under medical care. “They can record his arrest but cannot question him considering his health condition,” the senior advocate said. Three central agencies probing the gold smuggling case — customs, the ED and the NIA — have so far questioned Sivasankar for 90 hours over 100 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||Nitish Kumar trains guns on Lalu Yadav, young leaders||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday took a swipe at his bete noire Lalu Prasad by questioning whether during the 15 years of RJD rule the government did anything for the upliftment of women except for anointing his wife on the chief ministerial chair. Nitish also took an apparent dig at RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav and LJP chief Chirag Paswan, without taking any names, saying that “those even having no knowledge of alphabets of politic are making statements against me day and night to gain publicity”. “Let them take publicity, I don’t bother because I believe in working and not making speeches for the sake of publicity,” he said at rallies in Nabinagar in Aurangabad and Dinara in neighbouring Rohtas district. On Saturday, he held public meetings at Nabinagar, Nokha, Karaghar and ended at Dinara in Rohtas district. Making special mention of condition of women during the two regimes, Nitish asked “while the leader at that time installed wife on the chair (of CM) but did he do anything for welfare of the females?” RJD president Lalu, who became chief minister in 1990, had made his wife Rabri Devi take the seat when he went to jail in 1997 in connection with the multi-crore fodder scam case. Her tenure even exceeds that of Lalu’s seven years. Highlighting work done for women during his 15 years at the helm, Nitish said while girls were inspired to pursue studies through bicycle yojana, 50 per cent of seats in the panchayats and urban local bodies were reserved for women. The state government has also earmarked 35 per cent of jobs for women in police and other state government services. “Does any state have more number of women in the police force than Bihar?” he asked the crowd. Nitish also made reference to the JEEVIKA programme which provides easy finance to women self-help groups. “We had planned to enrol 10 lakh women through SHGs but the number has increased to 1.2 crore now,” he said at a rally in Dinara in favour of state minister and JDU nominee Jai Kumar Singh. He also mentioned providing Rs 10,000 assistance to girls clearing plus Class XII exam and Rs 25,000 to those completing graduation. He said the assistance would be increased to Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively, if his government returns to power. Nitish highlighted the bad law and order situation during the RJD rule and cited latest figures of the National Crime Records Bureau which placed Bihar on 23rd position in terms of crime now. He said while they believe in working for the people, the history of the opponents makes it clear that they work only for their wife, sons and children. “Due to this greed of working only for self, they are behind the bars,” he said, adding that “some more will follow the suit”. Nitish heaped rich praise on the Centre for assisting the development of Bihar and caring for its people.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi government is providing free foodgrains to the poor from March to November in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. He also gave Rs 6,000 assistance to farmers,” he said. He said if voted to power, the state and the central government would further step up efforts to see Bihar stand among the frontline states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||India||15 jailed for Islamic State 'conspiracy'||A special National Investigation Agency court has sentenced 15 people to rigorous imprisonment for terms ranging between five and 10 years in connection with an Islamic State conspiracy. The IS, a proscribed terrorist organisation, had allegedly hatched a criminal conspiracy to establish its base in India by recruiting youths through social media platforms. In a statement, the NIA said on Saturday that the case had been registered in December 2015 and that the accused were arrested during country-wide searches. According to the NIA, the accused persons had formed an organisation named Junood-ul-Khilafa-Fil-Hind, which sought to establish a Caliphate in India and pledged allegiance to the IS, to recruit youths and carry out terror activities in India at the behest of one Syria-based Yusuf Al Hindi. “After the arrest of (the) ISIS terrorists, their activities were minimised,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-608
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition improving gradually: Doctors||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition is improving gradually and the octogenarian is speaking a few words, opening his eyes as well as responding to verbal commands, doctors said on Sunday. Chatterjee's oxygen saturation has been consistent, his organs are functioning normally and all other parameters are fine, they said. "Mr Chatterjee is doing fine and gradually improving. But we have some ways to go for his complete recovery and going back home. He doesn't have any corona-related lung issues. "We have reduced the oxygen requirement as he is still holding on to his saturation which is above 96 per cent to 99 per cent," Dr Arindam Kar, leading the team of doctors to treat the veteran actor at the medical facility, said. According to the doctor, Chatterjee being drowsy is their only concern at the moment. "The only problem that we are facing is his consciousness. He is presently drowsy but completely arousable. He is responding to verbal commands. He is trying to recognise people, intent of speech but he is only speaking some words. We are also concerned about his age and the comorbidities he is having," Dr Kar said. The veteran actors's daughter Poulomi Basu said "Baba (father) is improving and his vital parameters are okay. But we are told that doctors are working on his neurological side which needs improvement." Chatterjee is still made to listen to music of his choice and on Saturday evening he communicated with his daughter when she visited him at the hospital, the doctor said. The actor has developed no new complications and has no fever, he added. "We are reasonably sure that he will recover from this deadly disease and in the coming four to five days he will be in a much better state," the doctor added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has the rare distinction of having worked with maestros like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital here on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had to be shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||North Dinajpur explosions injure 3 TMC workers ||At least three Trinamul supporters were injured on Saturday when crude bombs exploded during a clash in Lakkhipur area under Chopra block of North Dinajpur. Trinamul leaders blamed the CPM and Congress for the bomb attack. Denying the charges, the CPM and Congress accused Trinamul supporters of carrying bombs to a rally. The Chopra block committee of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad announced a rally against the recent Hathras atrocity and farm bills, said sources. Around 3pm, hundreds of Trinamul supporters assembled in Lakkhipur. A group of CPM and Congress supporters had assembled nearby. All got involved in a verbal duel, escalating to an exchange of blows and kicks, and attacks with bricks, stones and sticks. Crude bombs were also hurled. A police team brought the situation under control. It was found that three Trinamul workers were injured as some crude bombs had exploded near them. All three were rushed to the Dalua health centre and one of them was later shifted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. “We planned a peaceful rally but some CPM and Congress supporters attacked our supporters without provocation. They hurled bombs at us which left three of our men injured,” said Mohammad Ajharuddin, a Trinamul leader and sabhapati of Chopra panchayat samiti. Congress and the Left leaders, however, denied the charges. “Some Trinamul leaders have planned to unleash violence in the area on the pretext of a rally. Many supporters of the party were carrying firearms and crude bombs. Ahead of the rally, some bombs in their possession exploded and injured some of their men,” said a Congress leader. Senior policemen who visited the area said the situation was under control. “Policemen have been deputed in the area. Our officers are trying to find out the source of such illegal crude bombs,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Drive to restore Sunderbans mangroves||Members of the Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha, one of the largest people’s science movements in India, along with a group of students, have launched a plantation drive in the Sunderbans to restore the mangroves damaged by Cyclone Amphan. The group of activists attached to the Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha’s Ichchamati Vigyan Kendra, and Alter Life, a voluntary outfit of Calcutta University students, have since last week planted around 30,000 mangrove saplings along the 1.5km stretch adjacent to the thatched dam of Dansa river in the Rupmari-Bererchak area of Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas. “This is just the start. We will continue to plant saplings to restore mangroves of the Sunderbans that suffered damage,” said Pradipta Sarkar, secretary of Ichchamati Vigyan Kendra. According to a state government assessment, about 28 per cent of the Sunderbans, which spans over 9,630sqkm on the Indian side, was damaged by Amphan that hit Bengal on May 20. In a bid to restore the green mangrove, the Bengal government on June 5 or World Environment Day, launched a restorative plantation drive in the Sunderbans to cover around 1,200sqkm. Members of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha planted saplings of mangroves such as kalo bain (Avicennia alba), peyara bain (Avicennia marina), hargoja (Acanthus ilicifolius), kewra (Pandanus odorifer), geoan (Excoecaria agallocha), garan (Ceriops decandra), and sundari (Heritiera fomes). Plants belonging to the mangrove variety are shrubs or small trees that grow in saline or brackish water. With their dense network of roots and vegetation, they filter and trap sediments and other pollutants in water and help prevent erosion of banks. Sarkar said what they were doing “goes beyond a mere plantation drive”. “We have involved villagers to ensure the trees are taken care of.” Partha Mukherjee, president of Ichhamati Vigyan Kendra and Alter Life member Bipul Gyne, said their focus was plantation near thatched dams adjacent to the rivers in the Sunderbans to prevent soil erosion and flooding. A state forest department official welcomed the initiative. “Cyclone Amphan caused major damage to mangroves, with Patharpratima and Kultali in South 24-Parganas and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas being worst hit. We (the government) planted around 4 crore mangrove saplings. But this is not enough. Any initiative to restore the mangrove through plantation is welcome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Scramble for ‘character certificates’ ||Tanjila Biwi, 32, of Gangadhari village near Nowda, has been running from pillar to post ever since she received a “frantic phone call” from her husband who wanted a “character certificate” from the BDO so that he could continue to work as a mason in Indore. The call by Rakibul Mollah, 37, was triggered by the arrest of nine Murshidabad residents by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for their suspected links with the al Qaida terror outfit. While the NIA picked up six from Murshidabad, three others were arrested from Ernakulam in Kerala, all on the intervening night of September 18 and 19. Since then, many migrant workers have been calling up their families back in Murshidabad, asking them to procure character certificates from the administration. Around 3 lakh migrant workers, mainly Muslims, from Murshidabad district are employed in various states. According to the 2011 Census, the percentage of Muslims in Murshidabad is 66.27. Working in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, Rakibul wants a character certificate from his home district to escape “possible harassment”, his wife said. “Ever since the youths were arrested, a feeling of insecurity has gripped us,” she said. The Nowda BDO office faced operational hurdles following the Covid death of BDO Krishna Chandra Das on September 1 and the acting BDO testing positive this month. But Tanjila said she had to keep trying for her husband’s certificate as they had two school-going children. “My husband can’t afford to lose his income or goodwill,” she said. Nowda panchayat samiti sabhapati Biswajit Ghosh confirmed the trend of migrant workers applying for “character certificates”. “But since it is a new thing, we have to look at proper channels,” he said. At Mullickpur in Lalgola, Lutfa Biwi, 45, said her son Harun Rashid, a mason in Hyderabad, asked her to contact the panchayat samiti urgently for a character certificate with his photograph. “We can give a letter approving his background. For more, we forward requests to the DM’s office,” said Lalgola panchayat samiti chief Jahangir Mian. District magistrate J.P. Meena said they had received such requests and that his office would coordinate with the labour department on them. Families of migrant workers in Nadia’s Tehatta are equally worried. Sources said the NIA investigation provided hints of militant links in the Nadia district, which shares a border with Murshidabad. According to the sources, employers at places like Bankura and Purulia and in states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu asked migrants who were set to return to their workplaces to rejoin their duties only after they submit NOCs or no-objection certificates. “These demands are mainly being put forward to Muslim residents of Murshidabad, but we are also coming under the radar owing to sheer proximity,” a labourer at Betai near Tehatta said on condition of anonymity. For more than a week now, he has been out of work, awaiting an NOC, which in many cases is difficult to procure by family members who are often aged or without access to resources. “This is an unusual trend. I have been working for about 10 years in Kerala but have never encountered such a problem. Generally, employers check voter identity cards or Aadhaar, but this time, our employer has asked to submit an NOC from police confirming no pending case against us because we hail from Tehatta,” Anwar Mondal (name changed) said, alleging that Muslim labourers were being “singled out and harassed” using the NOC. The sources, however, confirmed that labourers from other communities and hailing from districts other than Murshidabad and Nadia were also being asked to submit NOCs by employers. Biswanath Adhikary, who was set to join a Larsen & Toubro project in Bankura this month, was asked to produce an NOC by his employer. Biswanath, who has appealed to the Tehatta police to issue the NOC, said: “I was earlier working for a separate project in Madhya Pradesh. But after the lockdown, I was asked to go to Bankura, where they are now making me wait for the NOC.” A senior officer of Krishnagar police district said: “A few hundred applications have been received at several police stations recently, mostly under Tehatta subdivision. We have asked the District Investigation Bureau to check the antecedents of the applicants so that the necessary certificates can be issued.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja adds cheer to Digha tourism||The East Midnapore seaside tourist spots of Digha and Mandarmani have proved unlikely beneficiaries this Durga Puja season, contrary to the otherwise tepid lockdown-induced tourist market. Hoteliers in both towns, who are accustomed to weekend tourists from Calcutta and suburban towns for weekend picnics, have witnessed near capacity bookings for this upcoming week. Digha, where railway services were suspended since March 23, received a shot in the arm when South Eastern Railways resumed one special Howrah-Digha daily service running for the next 42 days. “Digha tourists are heavily reliant on trains and buses to get here, so our tourism industry had been depressed since March despite partial re-openings since July,” said Digha hoteliers’ association secretary Dipra Das Chakraborty. “But we are at above 50 per cent capacity in bookings for the coming week, which is a very pleasant surprise.” Sources said in addition to the Howrah special train, 52 government bus routes had been resumed this month to and fro Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur. Sources added that though train fares were notably high, at a Rs 485 round trip (air-conditioned chair car), bookings were coming in thick and fast. “If things continue at this rate for another month we might even recover our losses from this year sooner than expected,” added a New Digha hotelier. Swarnali Hazra, 32, a resident of Howrah’s Bally, is eagerly looking forward to her family getaway next weekend. “We know crowds will spike in the city during the Pujas, so we are glad to be able to be in Digha, and be safe, for a few days,” said Hazra, adding she was “confident” about hotels’ Covid protocol. In Mandarmani, where most tourists travel by private cars, hoteliers’ association sources said pre-bookings had touched an “astonishing” 80 per cent. Association secretary Debdulal Das Mahapatra confirmed the trend: “We are confident in our safety protocol and believe our guests will take precautions. We are not relying heavily on public transport so that is a bonus.” Digha Sankarpur Development Authority has called for a mandatory safety meeting with all hoteliers on Sunday that will also be attended by the district magistrate and police superintendent. “We are taking care to ensure safe tourism here because this is the chief minister’s vision for Digha. We will take all precautions and instruct hoteliers (to do so too),” said DSDA vice-chairman Akhil Giri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||CPM admits to key ‘failure’ in hills||Some CPM leaders from the hills admitted to the party’s failure to properly address the ethnic issue in an event on Saturday to mark the 100 years of the Communist Party of India founded in Tashkent on October 17, 1920. K.B. Wattar, CPM district secretariat member and one of the two CPM leaders to win the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) seat in 1988, when the Subash Ghisingh’s Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) swept the hills with the Gorkhaland slogan, admitted as much at a news meet. “Our biggest failure was not to address the ethnicity issue properly,” he said in reply to a question from The Telegraph. The CPM opposes a separate state of Gorkhaland and instead vouches for “the highest form of autonomy” to transfer all powers — except home and judiciary — to the autonomous hill body. Saman Pathak, former CPM Rajya Sabha MP and state secretariat member echoed Wattar. “We looked at...the working class but probably failed in addressing the ethnic issue. We tried a holistic approach by looking at the working class,” said Pathak. As if they regretted their opposition to Gorkhaland in 1986, Pathak said they were against the “political” tussle with GNLF then. “After three years (1988 when DGHC was formed) we were accommodating (to the GNLF),” said Pathak. Leaders also traced the history of communists in Darjeeling hills, recalling that in 1943, Communist leader Sushil Chatterjee tied up with the fiery Ratanlal Brahmin, who was later elected to the Bengal provisional Assembly in 1946. For decades, communists were a force to reckon with in the hills as they could unite tea garden workers against the British. The party’s slide started from 1986 when the GNLF raised the Gorkhaland issue which the CPM vehemently opposed. In the 2019 elections, CPM candidate Saman Pathak polled only 0.6 per cent of the total votes cast in the three hill Assembly segments of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. “In 1986, we had 8,000 party members. It went down to 102 in 1996 (when the breakaway CPRM was formed). Today, we have 400-odd members,” said Wattar. As Bengal heads toward another election , the CPM leaders’ collective admission about the mistake in the hills hints at the party trying to start afresh with the realisation that they cannot ignore ethnic politics anymore. Pathak said that despite being against the formation of Gorkhaland, they were raising ethnic issues. “We were the ones to support the demand for the inclusion of Nepali language in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution. We are demanding linguistic minority status for Nepali,” said Pathak. The CPM said that the “political permanent solution” that is being talked about in the hills could not be anything different from the autonomous body the party had talked about since 1955.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||3,865 new cases, recovery rate dips||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,865 new Covid-19 cases, which took the total cases past 3.17 lakh, dragging the recovery rate further down to 87.66 per cent. This happens to be the 14th day so far in October when the figure for the highest jump in Covid-19 cases in the 24-hour window was reset. On Saturday, Bengal reported 61 deaths, with 15 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, and 3,183 cures. Bengal’s recovery rate, which reached a high of 87.98 per cent on October 6, dropped to 87.66 on Saturday. The national recovery rate, which till recently was far behind that of Bengal, overtook it with 87.98. “This has been an alarming spell of relentless rise. None of our interventions paid off yet. The Puja is already here. We can only pray that this does not turn into a full-fledged public health emergency over the next couple of weeks,” said a minister. Bengal’s 3.17 lakh total cases include nearly 2.78 lakh recoveries and 5,992 deaths. On Friday, BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh and Midnapore MP tested positive. Before him, five MPs — Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar, Jayanta Roy and Shanta Chhetri — had tested positive. Over 30 members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected since the onset of the pandemic, including nine members of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet. They are Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Tapas Roy, Manturam Pakhira, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. The virus also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete. With 43,428 tests, the total tests went past 39.47 lakh, at 43,864 tests per million people. The renewed surge in cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.03 per cent now. Of the total 5,931 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,971, with 15 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,357 deaths, 15 of them on Saturday. The state government reported 5,072, or 84.6 per cent of deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.88, substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. The state reported 37.82 per cent occupancy in the 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 93 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.43 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader Manish Shukla ‘killer’ a gold robber: CID||Subodh Singh, who allegedly planned the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla, was involved in robberies at gold loan institutions in Asansol and Barrackpore and is currently lodged in a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda, CID investigators have found. The CID probing the case found that Singh had sent six shooters to Calcutta for the assignment and engaged men in Barrackpore to give logistic support to the shooters. “Subodh Singh is a history-sheeter with several murder charges. He is one of the most notorious bank robbers across the country and was involved in multiple crimes in Bengal,” said an officer. Shukla was gunned down on the night of October 4 in Titagarh in North 24-Parganas. Police had earlier arrested a Titagarh businessman named Khurram and two others, including one Subodh Yadav, from whom they came to know about Singh. “Singh engaged Yadav to give logistic support to the shooters,” an officer said. The murder triggered a war of words between the TMC and BJP as the saffron camp accused the ruling party of killing Shukla. Shukla’s father had named two TMC leaders in his complaint at Titagarh police station. Trinamul leaders had denied the charges. Amid the charges against the police for their involvement in the murder, cops arrested Khurram and a man named Gulab Sheikh within a day of the incident. The arrest of Yadav, who led the cops on Singh’s trail, followed shortly. A team of CID officers recently visited Nalanda’s Hirsa jail and questioned Singh in judicial custody. “He cited personal enmity with Shukla which we are in the process of verifying,” an investigator said. Singh was arrested by Patna police in January 2018. In December 2017, Singh’s armed gang had allegedly barged into a gold loan non-banking financial institute in Asansol and left with 27kg gold and Rs 4 lakh cash. A year back in December 2016, four armed men entered the gold loan non-banking financial company’s Barrackpore unit on BT Road and fled with 30kg gold. An investigator said the modus operandi was the same: “His men arrive on motorcycles, carry out the operation and flee. Then they dump the bikes and leave the city.” The six shooters hired for the work had fled the spot in two-wheelers and then left the city the same night catching buses from Esplanade, police have found. The two-wheelers used in the operation were later found  abandoned in Sodepur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah tiptoes around ‘just’ demand for central rule||Union home minister Amit Shah has said in reply to a question that law and order in Bengal is in tatters and it is “wajib (just)” on the part of his party leaders to demand President’s rule in the state. Shah, however, added that the central government had to view the situation through the Constitution before taking a decision. “Dekhiye, political party ke neta hain. Stithi itni gambhir hai ki wo maang karen, unki jagah wajib hai (look, they are political party leaders. The situation is so serious that if they are demanding, it’s just on their part),” Shah said in an interview to CNN-News18. The Union home minister was replying when asked for his views on demands by his party colleagues in Bengal to impose President’s rule. Shah added: “So far as the government of India is concerned, we have to view the situation according to the Constitution. We have to take the decision based on what report the governor gives, how the situation stands. But what the BJP leaders are demanding, I believe that the situation is so serious that their demand is not wrong.” Pointed out that he was suggesting the situation in Bengal hadn’t yet reached a stage to impose President’s rule, Shah replied: “Maine aisa nahi kaha (I didn’t say so).” BJP leaders said in private in the capital that they did not get the impression that the Centre was considering any option to impose President’s rule so close to the Assembly polls scheduled in the summer as it might generate sympathy for the Mamata Banerjee government. It is only being used as a political tool to build an atmosphere against the Mamata government, a BJP leader said. The interview was the first extensive TV appearance of Shah against the backdrop of rumours floating about his health after two rounds of hospitalisation. Shah’s scheduled Bengal visit before the Pujas has also been put off. The interview appeared to be an effort to show that the home minister is fine. Before speaking about President’s rule in Bengal, Shah in reply to a question sought to paint a grim picture in the state and claimed the BJP would form the next government. “The law-and-order situation in Bengal is in tatters. Relief operations after Amphan went haywire. Even food grains sent by the Centre were scattered here and there due to corruption. The kind of arrangements that should have been in place for corona was not made. Corruption is at its peak.… Infiltration is going on unhindered. Bomb-making factories are found in every district. The situation is very bad,” Shah said. Asked about projecting a chief minister face, Shah said: “That too can happen.” At the same time, he stressed the people of Bengal want to oust the Trinamul Congress and that is the main thing. On the Bihar polls, Shah asserted that the BJP would abide by coalition dharma and keep its promise of having ally Nitish Kumar as chief minister even if the Janata Dal United won fewer seats than the BJP. Shah did not rule out the option of Chirag Paswan’s LJP coming back in the NDA after the elections, keeping the perception of the LJP acting as a “B team” of the BJP alive. “The people of Bihar understand why and because of who the coalition was broken. We will see after the elections whether the LJP joins the NDA. We are opponents now and will contest accordingly,” Shah said, asked whether the LJP would be back in the NDA after the elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
18-10-2020||West Bengal||Give us this year our daily bread||Bablu, 88, lives in Dhaniakhali, a weavers’ town in West Bengal’s Hooghly district. In his considerably long life he has seen many things, but nothing has prepared him for this virus onslaught. “Markets have been down for a long time. But I have never seen such a lockdown,” he tells The Telegraph. Typically, Durga Puja is when Bablu and his ilk make earnings for the entire year, but this time it is going to be different. Last year, in the run-up to the Pujas, Bablu had woven 1,000 Dhaniakhali saris, traditional cotton weaves with red or black borders. This year he has woven a few hundred. “Nothing on order,” clarifies the man who has a wife and a college-going son to feed and support. What will he do with these saris? “When the trains start running, I will take them to shops in Calcutta,” he replies. His team of weavers has dispersed with other jobs. Says Bablu, “Some are working as cooks, some are helping out on the farms or at one of the construction sites.” “The lockdown has driven nails in the coffin that is Dhaniakhali... And to think that the place has one of the oldest cooperatives of handloom weavers; it was set up in 1944,” says Kasturi Gupta Menon, who is the honorary president of the Crafts Council of India (CCI) and former development commissioner, handicrafts, in the ministry of textiles. According to Sujata Goswami, who is the executive director of Sarba Shanti Ayog — a platform of the fair trade NGO, Sasha — “The impact has been enormous and disquieting as this sector [handicrafts and handloom] is the second largest provider of employment in India.” She adds, “Small artisans and producer groups do not have the financial cushion to hold through such a crisis.” By producer groups she means community-based groups and entrepreneurial units that are run by artisans. With the traditional markets (fairs, festivals) and contemporary ones (retail places) almost totally closed, the artisans have had minimal cash sales. Says Goswami, “Wholesale buyers are not yet in a position to place new or volume orders. Typically, orders are planned much in advance as the usual lead-time required to complete a production cycle is two to four months.” Sasha has tried to support producer enterprises by settling payments and dues, and also by providing working capital support so they can pay the artisans wages. Uttam Bhaskar, a woodwork artisan from Kalna, had supplied a six-foot Ravana to the CCI a year ago. He had crafted three-foot Durga, Radha Krishna and Ganesha idols too. Today, he doesn’t have the wherewithal to complete a single big order. Says Uttam, “I don’t have the cash to buy wood from Nabadwip.” Like the council and Sasha, Biswa Bangla — the state government enterprise to promote textile and handicrafts of the state — has tried to re-strategise. A lot of it involves tying up with e-commerce platforms. Even so, according to Snehasish Sarkar, Biswa Bangla’s COO, the brand has been able to achieve only half the business brought in by the brick-and-mortar stores. Ranjit, who runs a sari shop in Nadia district’s Phulia, is waiting for the local trains to start plying. He turns the tap on his list of woes, “We have just about managed to recover from Cyclone Amphan. Trees had fallen, the room where my loom was located was in a bad shape. Now we are confronted with transport issues.” Ranjit has tried his hand at online sales, but in that he is the exception, not the rule. “We are definitely thinking of going online but we have so little manpower,” says Nandini Mahtab of Bengal Home Industries Association. And while there are one-off efforts — private enterprise Paramparik Karigar is holding webinars for karigars and hosting online exhibitions for them — as former secretary of CCI Nandita Pal Choudhury points out, “There is a general lack of dynamism where handholding of artisans is concerned.” This year, according to the almanacs, Ma Durga arrives on horseback. Sign of an embattled year ahead; but then everyone including the artisans knows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-340
18-10-2020||North East||Assam superintendent of police in custody in paper leak case||A local court here on Friday remanded senior Assam police officer Kumar Sanjit Krishna in police custody for five days for “further investigation” in the sub-inspector paper leak and recruitment racket case, the police headquarters said. Friday also saw leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia demanding an inquiry by a sitting judge of Gauhati High Court into all recruitments made by the BJP-led state government since it came to power in 2016. Kumar, who was arrested by the CID on Thursday night, is the “biggest catch” in the case, suggesting the presence of a deep-rooted recruitment racket backed by influential people, a charge made by the Opposition Congress. Kumar was arrested for his alleged role in the leak of the question paper from Karimganj district, of which he was the superintendent of police. He was transferred on Sunday as superintendent of police, Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO), Barpeta in lower Assam. The police headquarters on Friday said the CID has arrested 22 people in the case, including one Debraj Das of Barpeta on the same day. Over Rs 46.7 lakh in cash and gold ornaments weighing 79 tolas were recovered from a locker in Bank of Baroda opened in the name of Das’s wife. Earlier, Rs 1.83 crore was recovered from Das’s house. Besides the CID, the crime branch of Guwahati police and Nalbari police have also made arrests in the September 20 paper leak and recruitment case. Over Rs 6 crore has been recovered from several places following confessions of the accused, suggesting a “flourishing” cash-for-jobs racket. Kumar is the brother of chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, who had tweeted a few days ago that the “law will take its own course on the basis of evidence”. Saikia, who is also the Congress legislature party leader, on Friday evening accused the ruling BJP of operating a new syndicate in recruitment to various departments of the state government and demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge of Gauhati High Court into all recruitments made in the last four and a half years under its watch. Saikia alleged that “adherence” to a particular ideology or payment of bribes to specific middlemen were the means to secure jobs during the tenure of the incumbent state government.On the sub-inspector recruitment scandal, he said a few middlemen such as Saroj Sarma have been arrested along with a couple of former and serving police officers, but the police have been “unable to muster the courage even to question other suspects because the latter enjoy political protection”. He said it is clear that the recruitment scam is “all-pervasive and has been going on” for quite some time, because admit cards of recruitment examinations “pertaining” to other governments such as the irrigation department have been allegedly seized from Saroj and other middlemen. Saikia also referred to reports that around Rs 5 crore had been recovered from accused middlemen in Goalpara and Dhubri districts and said the police have deliberately refrained from trying to find out the names and the number of candidates who paid the bribes. He further alleged that the actual amount of money recovered so far is being kept under wraps due to political intervention and the money may have been “already misappropriated”. Referring to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s frequent claims of providing a clean administration and zero-tolerance towards corruption, Saikia reiterated his call for a judicial probe and said Sonowal ought to respect the faith reposed in him by the public. Saikia also highlighted the alleged irregularities in the recent recruitment drive by the irrigation department and the illegal trade in mineral resources such as coal. He said he had demanded a CBI inquiry into the illegal mineral trade in the Assembly and other fora. “However, the government has not dared to involve the CBI,” Saikia said.Reacting to queries about suspected involvement of more influential people in the case, senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said, “If a serving SP has been arrested, then there should be no doubt that others involved will be spared.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
18-10-2020||Opinion||Let us do some tann ki baat||The thing is that it is not a thing to last. But while it lasts it is the thing you might hold most dear. Because it is the thing you are, this tann. You know that, of course. If you didn’t you wouldn’t be reading this. It is because you know that, because you have a tann, that this is a thing that can be conveyed. It is because you know that you can receive. Without the tann, that would not be possible. Not for me to tell, not for you to hear. Lots of things would not be possible without the tann, it is the vessel of our beings, the house where we house ourselves while the tenancy of life lasts. Tann is the factory floor on which we become who we are, it is where we might do the things we might do, or mightn’t, it is the womb of our souls. And then the soul escapes the womb one day, of course, and leaves the tann behind. That is what we call death. The expiry of functions of a most complex concoction of things, innumerable things, let’s not even begin to count or draw an inventory of the tann, there would be no time for that. The tenant departs, those quarters would no longer admit another occupant. End of tann. But let us not go down that alley. Let us, in fact, just pause here. Let us not go beyond hearing to stuff like understanding and comprehending because those are not things one should necessarily expect. If people could understand, if people could comprehend, we would be a different sort of people. Suffices that you can hear. And you can hear because there is a tann. And hearing is part of many things a tann, or most tanns, are capable of, or so Nature ordained it. Many things were ordained but we learnt to not use them as they were ordained, and we learnt to abuse them too. You are listening. It is part of what you can do with a tann. You can hear tann ki baat. There are good tanns and there are bad tanns and there are tanns we may not bother about. There are young tanns and old tanns and tanns that hang about in between, not knowing what is to be done with the way the tann has become, neither supple nor wasted, neither sought nor forsaken, neither what it used to be nor what it will become. A house waiting upon the tenant to leave. That sort of tann. Are you listening? And then there are tanns that we do not leave alone to do their journeying. There are tanns we do things to. You must have heard. Or read. Or been told. We do not let them be. Because those tanns belong to this one or that one. Because we like those tanns so much we begin to hunger and lust for them. Because we hate those tanns so much we want to not let them be. Because we think nothing of those tanns, we do our willing with them — we scratch, we bite, we rip,  we squeeze and pinch and pull and probe, we bore, we break, we gag, we bleed, we wreak, we wreck, we feed. Until there is nothing to feed on anymore, and all that remains is the disposal of the tann. We do other things to other tanns, tanns that we don’t wish to lavish our hungers on. We whack and slash. We thrash and knife. We cut and slit. We drag and decapitate. We do such things to tanns. Tanns that we do not like and think should not be around or have no right to be inhabited tanns. Tanns that wear their otherness. Tanns that speak an otherness. Tanns that pray to an otherness. Tanns with rogue tenants that deserve to be banished because we don’t like their otherness. It is not an otherness. It is a rogueness. Those tanns we do such things to that they are not lived in any more. It has become a thing, doing things to tanns.Let me come to blood Let me come to bone Let me render all flesh And do it all alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Hate is normal||While goodwill fumbles like a simpleton, hate spreads like a raging Amazon forest fire. Of course, to its added advantage the haters can commandeer social media, while the do-gooders and mean-wells most likely bank on toothless, platformless empathy. There has been an “alarming” increase in hate crime against Asian-Americans in the United States since the outbreak of Covid-19, according to an August report by United Nations officials. The report says: “We are further concerned by the documented increase in hate and misogynist speech, including incitement to hatred and racial discrimination in public places and online, and the contribution of the President of the United States in seemingly legitimizing these violations.” The United Kingdom has claimed an overall drop in religious hate crimes in the last one year, but an increase in race hate crimes. Scotland is mulling a controversial piece of hate crime legislation. France adopted the hate speech bill or Loi Avia in May, which required that platforms take down “explicitly” hateful content flagged by users within 24 hours. In June, a more watered down bill was adopted for various reasons. The original Loi Avia is said to be modelled on Germany’s strict NetzDG that was passed in 2017. When a German woman faced a slew of hate comments after she posted a photograph of herself with a dead fox and shotgun, the abusers were heavily fined. Hate crime all over the world has become common and the online version of it nearly everywhere is difficult to combat as it requires not treading on the feet of free speech and expression. What happened in India last week over The Ad is significant not just because it is about hate, but because it is about normalising hate. It was a jewellery ad. The accompanying video clip was nudging at communal harmony. But what happened was unprecedented. Offence was spun. The Ad was demonised. The outrage that followed would have befitted Hathras and so also the collective chant for corrective action, bullish and urgent. Hoods and isms clashed with no one but made a lot of noise nevertheless, till nearly choking on its own poison, illogic frothed at the mouth. Next, big names in shining armour leapt into a discourse that most definitely was better off whimpering in ignominy and rarefied social media air. The Ad was spiked and the trolls and their cheerleaders had most likely moved on in search of new jugulars, but by then a virtual threat had jumped platform and a retail store had to apologise for… nothing. The store location, Gujarat; more specifically a town called Gandhidham.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Fleeting fame||Sir — Much has been said and written about a street-side food vendor, whose stall became famous after a food blogger and then some celebrities promoted it online. Now there are crowds — including politicians, actors and selfie-seekers — flocking to the stall and the fate of the vendor seems to have changed. But will this hype last? What will he do when the interest in his store wanes? As it is, many of those visiting the store are just taking pictures and not actually eating the food. Social media cannot be a replacement for social security provided by the State — something Indians do not have. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — I absolutely agree with Asim Ali’s piece, “Shared trajectory” (Oct 17). The similarities between Narendra Modi and Lalu Prasad presented by Ali really changed my perspective of the current Indian political scenario. Perhaps Ali would agree that the narrative or the image of Modi that is presented is far superior than the real personality behind it. As a prime minister, Modi is not just a representation of himself, but also a reflection of the majority’s political thought process, which at present runs on jingoistic nationalism. Political rhetoric is used to spread this pseudo-nationalism amongst the youth; they are made to feel as if they are responsible for bringing a revolution. This fake nationalism incites stubbornness, megalomania, war-mongering and so on. Unfortunately, even the Opposition succumbs to this kind of attitude occasionally. In the meantime, India is still struggling to get electricity in a host of its remote villages. While fugitive capitalists have settled abroad and are enjoying an exuberant lifestyle at the cost of Indian taxpayers, the safety of women and children are at stake while the prime minister makes promises he cannot fulfil. Hirakjyoti Chakraborty Calcutta Sir — Asim Ali will have to admit that Lalu Prasad can be criticized on many counts, but he is not responsible for why Bihar is underdeveloped. Bihar has seen the rule of many chief ministers, some of them were hailed for their statesmanship, progressive outlook and wisdom, but they all failed Bihar in terms of industrialization, creation of infrastructure and investment in health and education. Nitish Kumar has done well in his term, but even he has not been able to bring Bihar on a par with other states in the country. Prasad has withered a lot in his political career — the Congress holds a grudge against him because he decimated the party’s dominance in Bihar. He was challenged many a times by his own fellow socialist Lohiaite brethren, Nitish Kumar being a prime example. Apparently, former prime minister, H.D. Deve Gowda, allegedly let loose the CBI against him during his tenure, at a time when Prasad was one of the tallest leaders at the Centre. The present Bharatiya Janata Party dispensation in Delhi and the ruling alliance in Patna are hell-bent on destroying him politically. Many of his comrades have left him and are now in the Opposition camp. But he stands by his ideals. This is what separates him from Narendra Modi. Kamalini Mukherjee Calcutta Sir — The fact that India ranks at 94 out of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index, 2020, shows that there is a wide gap between boastful claims of the government and harsh realities on the ground. Even in Asia, India fares badly as far as human development indices are concerned. This is shameful given that even countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have improved their record significantly. India became self-sufficient in food production with its hard-won Green Revolution. Yet, it failed at equitable distribution, causing crores of people to go to bed hungry. The accessibility to and affordability of food grains, let alone to nutritious food is still not available for many. Wasting and stunting among children, the indicators of acute and chronic deficiencies, point at continued failure in strategies of the government The coronavirus will worsen the scenario and add to these numbers significantly. D.V.G. Sankararao Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Bihar polls: all about direct, indirect and hidden alliances ||The upcoming Bihar assembly elections have generated much greater curiosity this time than ever in the past because of the multiple layers of intrigues and conspiracies that have blurred the normal fight between two straight alliances. There are direct, indirect and hidden alliances and unforeseen post-poll possibilities keeping both political players and observers confused. The capital’s political grapevine is abuzz with speculation about another somersault by an anguished Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, who feels that the Bharatiya Janata Party has played a dubious game by using Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party to harm the prospects of the Janata Dal (United). Insiders reveal that both Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders have been discreetly trying to read Kumar’s mind and even accentuate the sense of hurt among the JD(U) workers. The Congress and RJD leaders expect Kumar to walk out of the alliance in the post-poll scenario if the BJP refuses to make him chief minister. Conspiracy theorists are referring to the Maharashtra model, where the Shiv Sena did the unthinkable by embracing the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party alliance, and wonder why the BJP leaders did not learn any lesson from that debacle. Interestingly, the former Maharashtra chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, who is seen as the key factor in the strained relations between the BJP and the Shiv Sena, is playing a key role in Bihar as well. The turmoil in the ruling alliance with the LJP’s exit may not be the last chapter in this edition of intriguing Machiavellian politics. One party that has managed to gain a toehold in the minds of Bihar’s voters in spite of being a complete newcomer to the state’s politics is the Plurals Party, founded by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, with the Greek mythological winged-horse, Pegasus, as its symbol. However, its name has not caught the fancy of the people. Educated last in the London School of Economics, Choudhary has declared herself worthy of the chief minister’s post. Dressed usually in black, she has been touring all over the state, and fielding candidates in almost all the constituencies in the upcoming assembly elections. Most of them are well-educated, earnest young men and women, but many of them are frustrated that the rural population cannot properly pronounce ‘Plurals’. “We have tried our best to teach the people, but they keep coming up with different pronunciations every time. At many places they just address us as ‘kariya kapra wali ki party’ (the party of the lady dressed in black). We just wonder if some Hindi name would have been more suitable in this state,” said one of the candidates. Another was worried about a situation in which Choudhary decides to sport some other colour. “And Shakespeare said naam mein ka ba [What’s in a name]. We can now answer him, naam mein e ba [This is in a name],” he spoke loudly. Rajiv Pratap Rudy and Shahnawaz Hussain used to be two high-profile BJP faces from Bihar. They were ministers in the first BJP-led Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Not anymore, and without even having breached the unofficial 75 years retirement age set by the current Narendra Modi-Amit Shah regime. This criterion has seen many party stalwarts like LK Advani being edged out. Rudy is 58 and Hussain just 51. Their marginalization got highlighted recently when none of the two figured in the list of 30 BJP campaigners for the Bihar polls. While Rudy is a Lok Sabha parliamentarian now after having been dropped as a minister, Hussain does not even have that. Since he lost the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he has been waiting on the margins. Hussain was offered a ticket to contest the Bihar polls from Bhagalpur, insiders said. Running for a legislative assembly seat after having been a member of parliament and a Union minister was no less than having salt rubbed into his wound. The pain of being in the wilderness had pushed Hussain to accept the offer, but he finally refused, according to whispers in the BJP corridors. Many, however, feel his refusal was owing to ground reports suggesting that he could lose. Politics is as much about man management as it is about taking the right decision at the right time. The Arunachal Pradesh chief minister, Pema Khandu, has yet again displayed his timely managerial skills by appointing as many as 22 members of legislative assemblies as advisers to assist ministers in the smooth functioning of the government and early completion of projects. Government observers feel that the appointments and allocation of additional portfolios to his ministerial colleagues suggest that Khandu was either under pressure or wanted to check any sort of power tussle by accommodating these MLAs in the ‘power structure’. The size of the council of ministers in the 60-member state assembly cannot exceed 15 per cent. And since the appointment of parliamentary secretaries could attract the attention and axe of the judiciary, as was seen last month when the high court of Manipur ruled the appointment of 12 MLAs as parliamentary secretaries unconstitutional, Khandu chose the adviser route, that too at ‘no’ financial cost to the state exchequer. The crowd waiting for the arrival of Nitish Kumar to address the election rally at Tarapur heard the blades of the helicopter and became excited. But the helicopter brought a virtual cyclone, destroying the tent erected for the audience. People panicked and the administration had a tough time preventing a stampede. During Kumar’s address, sections were busy discussing whether the contractor did a shoddy job despite taking money. “All the roads, bridges, embankments, drains and other infrastructure works suffer from this syndrome,” a voter quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||People’s president||Rashtrapati Bhavan has long had a tradition of printing a brochure with the caption, President of India, Curriculum Vitae. Does a president need a CV? Not really. But the publication becomes useful when the Head of State is travelling abroad and his or her hosts need to know the basics about their distinguished guest of whom they have not heard much, if anything at all, from before. The length of the publication conforms to the length of the president’s career. But also to the depth of the Presidential Office’s anxiety to stretch that length to the farthest horizons of the reader’s credulous interest. This document in respect of K.R. Narayanan, India’s tenth president, contains but four meagre pages. My copy of it is now archival. Its stiff cover has aged, mellowed. The four pages inside have turned into a natural sepia. But in the making of this, as with anything that appeared over his name, President Narayanan was directly and intensely involved. It gives the date of his birth — 27 October, 1920. Nine days from now, he would have turned a hundred. The CV does not burden us with the further detail that another tradition gives his birthday as 4 February, 1921 after the account that his uncle, who escorted him to school on admission day, forgot — or did not know — the actual date and so just improvised and said ‘27 October, 1920’. It is, therefore, possible that he would have been 99 this year and not a full 100. Either way, the ‘story’ tells us everything about the fragility of life’s certitudes in an Indian village. Poverty, caste and dispossession in Uzhavoor, Kerala, in the early years of the twentieth century, made calendars paper things for a Dalit family. The journey from the hut where he was born and grew up in to Raisina Hill went through a tortuous path where many helped, many hindered, and many more simply ignored the intellectual aspirations of this son of a practitioner of traditional medicine. Until, that is, with scholarships from the Travancore Royal House that assisted his collegiate education in Kerala and then from the House of the Tatas which saw him through his study at the London School of Economics, they could ignore him no more. Lest it be thought this ‘journey’ ended in Rashtrapati Bhavan, the reader must know that it did not, for President Narayanan did not regard his lofty address as ‘an arrival’ or a culmination. He took the office and the responsibility as something that had just come his way in the much larger trod through life where fortune and misfortune beguile us by their reputations for power. And so the sheerness of his presidential CV’s size and the ephemeral haze over the date of his birth go to show that in his scheme of things, his experience of Indian society, politics and ethos in the larger arena of a changing world were far more important than the factoids of his career. A lesser man would have seen to it that any official chronicle of his life would have mentioned his conversation with Mahatma Gandhi on April 10, 1945 when the twenty five year old met (not without difficulty) him in Bombay’s Birla House to get his wishes before sailing for England to take up his study at LSE. And not just because the conversation was with the man it was with but because the young man’s sharp questions do him such credit, one of which, given below, fetching the future diplomat a nugget of an ‘External Publicity’ clue. KRN: How can a Harijan who goes abroad best serve his country and his community from abroad? MKG: He cannot serve the one without the other. Abroad you will say it is a domestic question which you are determined to solve for yourselves. It took the launch in London (1993) of a biography of Harold Laski for the then vice-president Narayanan to speak in public about his hugely successful stint of study for a B.Sc in Economics at LSE which he completed with a first class honours. “The Kerala people there,” he reminisced, “threw a party to felicitate me. And Krishna Menon was invited to be the chief guest. Leaning on his walking stick at the doorway Menon said to me, ‘So, Narayanan, I hear you have got a First. You know, some people get it by fluke.’ I do not know how but I managed to say, ‘Is that how you got yours?’” Narayanan learnt to protect, not flaunt, his sense of self-respect, exactly as he learnt to protect and advance without trumpeting India’s sense of its greatness. And he did that with a quiet elan that was his own. His speech at the banquet he hosted for President Bill Clinton on March 21, 2000 is a classic of plain-speaking. “As an African statesman has observed to us,” he said, “the fact that the world is a global village does not mean that it will be run by one village headman.” And he concluded the speech with a quote from, appropriately, an American philosopher, Henry David Thoreau, which only he, in the New Delhi of short-termist thought and action, could have thought of and set down: “It takes two to speak the truth — one to speak and the other to listen.” India in 2000 was different and yet not so different from what India is in 2020. In his Republic Day address in 2000, President Narayanan said something which resonates with our experience of migrant workers fleeing in panic from their extinguished worksites during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The unabashed, vulgar indulgence in conspicuous consumption by the nouveau-riche has left the underclass seething in frustration. One half of our society guzzles aerated beverages while the other has to make do with palmfuls of muddied water. Our three-way fast-lane of liberalization, privatization and globalization must provide safe pedestrian crossings for unempowered India.” In a public conversation with N. Ram on the eve of Independence Day, August 14, 1998, President Narayanan thought aloud on the scope of his high office: “...there is a subtle influence of the office of the President on the executive and the other arms of the government and on the public as a whole... (but) he can play it successfully only if he is, his ideas, and his nature of functioning are seen by the public in tune with their standards.” Describing himself as “a working President”, he spoke of the president’s influence and said, “You can call it moral authority” and then, with characteristic self-effacement, added “I don’t want to elevate it to such a position.” And yet that — moral authority — is what he had, and exercised without the slightest display of a personal ego at work. I started with the CV and must end with the same document. He ensured that the spare text has space yet for the First Lady’s interests and accomplishments over the decades. This was but right for Usha Narayanan, born to Burmese parents, was a remarkable life-partner of his. Prior to their going to Tokyo on a posting, Prime Minister Nehru had asked the young couple to tea. Turning to Usha, he asked how, being of Burmese descent, she viewed their prospective time in Japan. “Life is about healing hurts,” she replied, “We have to look ahead.” The former translator and broadcaster of news for the external services of AIR could not have put it better. Mrs Narayanan did not tell me, as she recounted this conversation in the August of 2000, what Panditji said to her in response. But we can be sure that he knew India was going to be well represented in Japan by this young couple that knew hurts, when it is helped, heals. If not, hurt seethes. The author was secretary to President K.R. Narayanan from 1997 to 2000||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Opinion||Glory unbounded||India is well on the way to redefining the word, ‘science’: high-flown statements of belief without proof. Unable to keep up with this advance, 400 scientists — no doubt behind the times — have endorsed a letter to the chairperson of the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog asking how it has been ‘scientifically proven’ that keeping cow dung cakes at home reduces radiation. The Aayog was formed in 2019 to protect and promote indigenous cattle, and the chairperson has now claimed that a chip made from cow dung will guard people against radiation from cell phones. Being old-fashioned, the letter implies that science is based on evidence, not claims, so the scientists are asking for the relevant data supporting the chairperson’s pronouncement. But evidence is not the forte of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led dispensation. What its adherents declare should be accepted as the incontrovertible truth: anything that glorifies the majority community and the land it believes to be its own has a kind of supranatural truth that transcends the need for mundane evidence. The judge in the Rajasthan High Court who had said that the cow should be India’s national animal had also mentioned that peacocks are celibate; peahens become pregnant by swallowing the peacock’s tears. Old-fashioned scientists, however, resist swallowing anything. This is not the first time since 2014, when the Narendra Modi-led government came to power, that they are objecting to the parading of myth and fantasy as science. The most recent letter says that without evidence, the chairperson is propagating superstition and pseudoscience. Not only does that violate the Constitution’s direction to promote a scientific temper, but it also indicates a waste of public money when scientific research in India is suffering from scant resources. But the innocent cow is, for the Hindutva-minded, a vehicle of unfathomable virtues that data-minded scientists cannot plumb. It carries gold, whether in its milk, as the BJP chief of West Bengal claims, or in its urine, as claimed by researchers in Junagadh Agricultural University, is not yet clear. Pragya Singh Thakur said that a mixture of cow’s milk, urine and dung cured her breast cancer — till her surgeon, notable wet blanket, said she had had three surgeries for it. Scientists had sharply criticized the waste of public money and the propagation of unscientific traditional beliefs when the government called for proposals for research on ‘cowpathy’ under a funding programme to study cow effluents to produce medicines — for cancer or diabetes, for instance — and pesticides, shampoos, hair oil and floor-cleaners. But it is impossible for mere scientists, however many times they may object, to rain on the parade of those who declare that Gandhari’s offspring were born of stem-cell research, that Ganesha’s head proved that ancient Indians knew plastic surgery, or that the sage, Bharadwaj, directed the construction of aircraft. Glory be. Superstition, false history and the anti-scientific temper are obviously inextricable from the BJP’s brand of nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Officials, police conduct raid at Dhanbad jail||A high-level team of district officials and police on Sunday conducted a raid at Dhanbad divisional jail and seized tobacco, cash, chess pieces, playing cards and other material. The team, led by city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar, comprised officials including ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar and subdivisional officer Surendra Prasad and others. The raid was conducted after a tip-off regarding the presence of illegal arms in the jail. Ramkumar said: “The raid was part of our regular drive at various jails.” When asked about the articles seized from the jail, he said: “We have seized only small amounts of cash and tobacco from the jail and no other objectionable material was found.” The raid began around noon and concluded around 2.30pm during which all the 34 wards of the jail situated over 15 acres were thoroughly searched by six teams. This is the second raid at the jail in the recent past. On August 27, a similar raid was conducted at the jail under the leadership of Ramkumar and SDO Raj Maheshwaram after the death of BJP leader Satish Singh, who was close to Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. The five accused in the murder of deputy mayor Niraj Singh — Aman Singh (arrested on May 3, 2017, from Mirzapur), Quarban Ali alias Sonu and Sagar Singh alias Shibu or Vijay (arrested from Varanasi cantonment area and Pratapgarh police station area, respectively, on June 23), Satish Singh alias Chandan Singh (arrested from Varanasi on July 9) and Pankaj Singh (arrested on September 16, 2017) — are lodged in the jail. Former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, who is believed to be the key conspirator in the case, is also lodged in the jail. The special branch of Jharkhand police recently informed the prisons department about the possibility of shooters lodged in the jail and the possibility of their causing a major incident. Following this, inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhushan instructed the authorities to shift all the five accused to different jails. The plan is to shift Aman Singh to Hotwar jail, Sagar Singh to Gaghidih jail in Jamshedpur, Qurban Ali to Medininagar jail in Palamau, Satish Singh to Dumka jail and Pankaj Singh to Hazaribagh central jail. The five prisoners had petitioned seeking a stay on their shifting but additional district and sessions judge Alok Kumar Dubey on Friday dismissed their petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi Puja organiser to honour nine parents of girl children through Navaratri||A prominent Durga Puja organizer in Ranchi has decided to honour parents of newborn girl children from underprivileged backgrounds, one on each day of Navratri this year, as a symbolic gesture to promote the girl child and government’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign. The move by the Rajasthan Mitra Mandal, established in 1979, comes at a time when crimes against women and children seem to be on the rise both in Jharkhand and in other parts of the country. On the first day of Sharodiya Navratri on Saturday, the organizers zeroed in on one Vikash Chandra Choudhary, a resident of Ratu road, who became the father of a baby girl on Saturday after his wife delivered at the Sadar hospital. Choudhary is an electrician working in different places to run his family. Talking to The Telegraph Online, president of the Puja Samiti, Ashok Purohit said, “We will select one parent or family on each day a girl is born to provide them token financial assistance publicly.” “Initially, we thought of giving Rs 5,100 to the newborn on a daily basis through a formal programme but now we have decided to bring all nine parents together on the occasion of Dashami at our Puja venue to felicitate them with the cash amount as a thank-you gesture for bearing a girl child,” he said. There can’t be a better way, said Purohit, than to honour the girl child as we celebrate the arrival of Ma Durga. “More than the financial assistance, the idea is to encourage girl children and their good upbringing. Beti bachao, beti padhao, beti padhao,” he reiterated. Asked how are they selecting beneficiaries, Purohit said that since their target is financially underprivileged people, their team is finding out about deliveries at the Sadar hospital or places where affluent people usually don’t go for delivery. He added that unlike earlier years, they are doing a very low-key puja this time in wake of the restrictions placed by the government due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, their budget too has been trimmed drastically. “We are doing puja with barely Rs 5-6 lakh this time, which is just 10 per cent of our earlier puja budgets,” he said, adding that they are also relaying all the puja proceedings through social media pages as part of the crowd control initiative. Purohit, who also happens to be the president of the Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti, an umbrella outfit of over 100 puja organizers, said that they have also asked other Samitis to roll out online streaming facilities to restrict crowds at pandals and mandaps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto back on ventilator, experts being flown in||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, battling Covid-19 for over a fortnight at a private hospital here, was put back on ventilator on Sunday after his condition deteriorated and chief minister Hemant Soren took it upon himself to talk to doctors and plan the next course of his treatment. Hemant said experts were being flown in to help with Mahto’s treatment and indicated that the 52-year-old minister may require lung transplant. “We are on our toes… doing all that is possible for his recovery,” he said. Speaking to the media outside Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital where Mahto is being treated, Hemant said: “Lung experts from Chennai are scheduled to come tomorrow (Monday), but we have requested them to come tonight (Sunday) itself. As advised, decision to shift him to Chennai or to any hospital in any other state for possible lung transplant will be taken on Monday after his check-up by visiting doctors.” On insistence of the chief minister, Medica authorities had consulted two experts from Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on Saturday, via a zoom call, to explore other treatment possibilities. Sources said that Mahto’s oxygen saturation level fell below 60 per cent, lower than the prescribed limit of 90 per cent on Sunday which forced doctors to shift him on full ventilator support. Medica’s director and critical care head Dr Vijay Mishra said Mahto’s radiological and pathological reports were fine, but that these weren’t reflecting on his health condition. “After assessing the situation, we are taking every critical decision promptly. Although he is holding on, he is critical, which prompted us to put him on ventilator,” he said. After testing positive for the coronavirus on September 28, Mahto was initially treated at state-owned Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). Later, on October 1, he was shifted to Medica since his condition did not improve. Subsequently, the state government formed a medical team comprising experts from RIMS and Medica to work in tandem and treat him. Mahto is the fifth minister in the 11-member state cabinet to have tested positive for Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand in March. While state minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of cardiac arrest last month arrest hours after testing negative for Covid -19, other ministers—Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture) _ have recovered and resumed duties. Over a dozen MLAs cutting across party lines, who were also infected, were cured too. Mahto made headlines in August after he got himself enrolled in a college in Bokaro to complete his intermediate studies. He also earned applause from many quarters when he gifted cars to this year’s Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) toppers in matric and intermediate exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Senior citizens miss 10-day long Ramleela at Sakchi maidan||For the first time in years, the Sakchi Ramleela Maidan will not host its popular 10-day long Ramleela. Shambhu Singh (75) looks at the Maidan and sighs “Kabhi socha nahi tha ye bhi din dekhna padega (Never thought will have to witness this day).” Ramleela during Navratri has been an integral part of Singh’s life since childhood. A resident of Flour Mill Road, about 1.5 km  from the iconic Ramleela Maidan, Singh reminiscences how he has never missed the performance even for a single year. A generation that swears by Netflix and  Amazon may not be bothered with the Ramleela, but for senior citizens, the pandemic has taken away an integral part of their lives. Abhay Kumar Chakraborty (61), who now resides in Kadma, said, "I was not that regular but Ramleela is close to my heart because it was the only mode of entertainment in the city a long time ago. There were very few pujas and the Ramleela. That is how we celebrated our Durga Puja. Things were simpler then." The Ramleela Utsav Samity did not want to take a chance by organising the performance this year, but are upset with the break. This would have been their 98th year. For many, the Ramleela Maidan in Sakchi looks barren. Usually, performances would begin on the first day of the Navratri festival, concluding on Vijaya Dashami with Ravan Dahan. The Samity has hosted Ramleela troupes from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Even with financial struggles, the Samity has managed to run the show with donations annually. Apart from the threat of Covid spread, cash has been low and donations almost nil this year. "This year there neither will be proper pandals, nor idols and bhog distribution. There are also social distancing norms in place. Organizing the Ramleela wasn't feasible and safe. Also, it would have been a risk for the performing team. We didn't want to take that responsibility. The sad part is that senior denizens and us because will miss it terribly as we are so emotionally attached to this event. For some of us, organizing the festival has been there for generations even with financial struggle," said Manoj Mishra, president of Ramleela Utsav Samity. Mishra added, "We pray everything takes a positive turn within the upcoming months and we shall celebrate better next year for sure."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tirkey writes to President, PM and home minister on Swamy||Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey joined the league of protestors fighting for the release of 83-year-old tribal and social rights activist Stan Swamy on Sunday by writing letters to the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister, demanding revocation of cases against the octogenarian priest in the interest of healthy democratic values. Tirkey also called for amendments in NIA’s rules and regulations so that the state government’s consent is made mandatory before any coercive action is taken against anyone in future. Backing Swamy and his body of work, Tirkey, who joined the Congress this year, stated that whoever knows Swamy, or has worked with him, would vouch for his integrity and commitment towards tribals, Dalits and other marginalised sections of society. “He has dedicated his life fighting for the oppressed and has been at the forefront of their causes. He has also been a strong advocate of Panchayats Extension to the Scheduled Areas (PESA) Act in the state, which is aimed at empowering tribals and forest dwellers. Not only this, through decades-old research and work at the grassroots, he has been sensitizing people about basic constitutional rights. Charging him with anti-national cases to silence and threaten voices of dissent is a black mark on democratic values,” he wrote. Tirkey also accused Maharashtra police and NIA for wrongly implicating Swamy, and many like him, under the influence of their political masters. “All cases filed against intellectuals, writers, social workers and rights activists in the name of Bhima Koregaon probe should immediately be revoked and they be released,” he pleaded. Ever since Swamy’s arrest, several rights bodies have been holding protests and demonstrations across the state to demand his release. The Catholic Churche in Jharkhand has also thrown its weight behind Swamy, denouncing NIA’s action by forming a 5km-long human chain on Friday as a symbolic protest against the actions of the Centre and its agencies. Chief minister Hemant Soren has also criticised the Union government, hailing  Swamy as a stalwart of tribal rights activism in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two men on bike snatch a woman's gold chain in Sakchi||Two bike-borne men snatched a gold chain worth over Rs 1.5 lakh from a woman near her home in the Sakchi thana area on Sunday morning. The woman, Gayetri Devi (55), also sustained injuries in her legs and her neck as she fell down when the snatchers attacked her. The incident took place close to Jail-gate on Dhalbhum Road, about 50 metres away from Gayetri’s house, at 7.30 am while she was out for a morning walk with her husband Dr AN Jha. According to her, both she and her husband were out for a morning walk at 6.30 like everyday. "We were returning home after the walk.  My husband went to a medical store near the Jail-gate to buy some medicine, while I moved to pick flowers from nearby houses. That is when two young men on a bike came very close to me.  Before I could even react, I felt a jerk on my neck and the next moment I was falling down.  I soon realised that they snatched my chain," Gayetri told The telegraph Online. She said she saw the two speed away and disappear after taking a turn toward Sakchi market. "No one around, my screams fell on deaf ears.  As I got up, I felt pain in my legs.  Later, on reaching home, I found bruises on both my legs.  There was a scratch on my neck too," she added. Soon after Dr Jha, who is posted at the MGM Medical College Hospital, reached Sakchi thana along with Gayetri and lodged an FIR. A police team led by Sakchi OC Kunal Kumar inspected the spot and also collected footage  from CCTV cameras  installed along the road and in front of the Jail-gate. "There has been an incident of chain snatching on Dhalbhum Road.  We have identified the criminals and hope to nab them soon," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC said police are aware of chain-snatchers in the areas and has arranged for patrolling in certain pockets. "We did not anticipate that such criminals would attack morning walkers on a busy street like Dhalbhum Road," the OC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Villagers angry over frequent jumbo attacks in East Singhbhum||Villagers in Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, who are upset with local forest officials for not doing enough to prevent regular elephant attacks, have now threatened to hold an agitation at the range office. The villagers, under the banner of Janadhikar Suraksha Samiti (JSS), met range officer Ashok Singh on Sunday and handed him over a demand letter. They said elephants from neighbouring Bengal were testing their patience and were continuing to damage standing crops. Villagers feared coming out of their homes at night in view of marauding elephant herds Among the demands voiced in their letter are proper compensation for crop damage, increased compensation to the family of those killed in elephant attacks _ from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 10 lakh _ and a government job to the next of kin. They also wanted forest officials to ensure that bushes along roads leading to jungles be trimmed regularly, install high-mast lights in jumbo-affected villages and set up watch towers and corridors for elephants. The members of the samiti said they would hold an agitation at the range office if the foresters did not find a remedy to regular elephant attacks within a month. “Job opportunities have shrunk due to Covid-19 and we are somehow managing to sustain our family with farming. But elephants are damaging our standing crops and wiping out vegetables. Chakulia block is experiencing elephant menace for nearly two years now but the foresters are doing little to find a remedy,” JSS secretary Kanhai Gope said on phone from Chakulia. Range officer Ashok Singh said they were alert and trying their best to shepherd elephant herds to Bengal. “We are aware about the problems faced by the villagers. We are doing our best to prevent elephant herds from venturing into farmlands. However, the elephants make it a point to return to Chakulia block. Elephants are moving animals and don’t remain at a particular place for long,” he added. Singh said they were operating with quick response teams to drive away elephants to Bengal. Village youths are also helping foresters who move in jeeps. Vvillage youths are armed with mashals (torches) and drums. The forest range office has also distributed crackers among the villagers Apart from herds, a lone tusker is giving sleepless nights to villagers near Amlagora. The jumbo with two large tusks has been in Chakulia block for over three months now.  The tusker is part of a herd but stays aloof. It is temperamental and has taken a liking to venturing into villages, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Masks distributed, peace meets held as Daltonganj gears up for festive season||The Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti in Daltonganj has set an example here on the very first day of 9-day festival of Durga Puja on Saturday, when the club’s president and other members in collaboration with traffic police distributed masks among pedestrians and bikers who were found not wearing them. Sources said the Mahasamiti members and cops asked people to live every moment of life while following health protocols, so as not to contract Covid-19. BM Pandey, a member of the Mahasamiti and chief train ticket examiner at the East Central railway said, “Our president Durga Johri and our team, along with traffic police-in-charge Saras and his team distributed masks among pedestrians and bikers who were without masks and looked most unconcerned about Covid-19.” “It hurt us to find people throwing caution to the wind when there is no room for any complacency in this pandemic,” he said. “When we asked them why they weren’t wearing masks, they just grinned toothily!” Pandey added. No puja organizations here have launched such a drive to make people aware of the lurking health hazards that come with flouting Covid norms. The Mahasamiti has taken this bold initiative in creating Covid awareness before the onset of Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, when hordes of people come onto the street to see the pandals. “Last year we went hopping from one puja pandal to another to see which one is the best decorated, but this time we will be moving around to find which of the puja pandal here in our town is most simple,” said English Honours student Sweetie Kumari, adding that the background to the Pujas this year is most austere. There was a tinge of deep sadness in her voice when she made this comparison. The Telegraph Online spoke to SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar who said that police along with civic officials have conducted peace meets of people drawn from both Hindu and Muslim communities in all of 25 police stations. “The two communities have resolved to have an incident-free Puja here in this district,” he said. DC Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “We are soon going to have a central peace committee meeting with Sri Kendriya Durga Puja Mahasamiti to drive the point home and also to hear from them at length.” Sources said Palamau district, which has seen frequent bouts of communal eruptions during Durga Puja in the past, ironically has a good tag about it as well. During Muharram, the Mahavir Nav Yuvak Dal, popularly known as the Ramnavami Committee, holds a reception in honour of the members of the Muharram Inteezamiya Committee and felicitates them with shawls and mementoes. Similarly, during Ramnavami, the Muharram Inteezamiya Committee reciprocates in the same fashion and warmth. On Sunday a peace committee meeting was held under the joint venture of SDO AS Baraik and SDPO Sadar Sandip Kumar Gupta, where members of the two social outfits, besides elites of the town, participated and reiterated to celebrate this Puja in a restrained manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
18-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raghubar Das uses foul language against government||BJP's national vice president and former chief minister Raghubar Das on Saturday termed the leaders of JMM-Congress government as ‘chotta (a petty thief)’ ruling the state. Das was in Bokaro for a campaign for Yogeshwar Mahato in the Bermo Assembly by-election. He was addressing a Mahila Chaupal organised at the Tiro Mor of Jainamod. He also stated that the Hemant Soren government is “Nikkami (useless)” and that it's every lie is coming out. Co-working president of Jharkhand Congress, Rajesh Thakur said BJP has now started using abusive words against them as they are fearing defeat. "The kind of language being used by the former Chief Minister is not at all tolerable. Today, the way Raghubar Das has used abusive words among women about the government is disgraceful. Before saying such wrong words Das should first realise that many cases are still pending against them in the Anti-Corruption Bureau.” Deputy Commissioner, Rajesh Singh held meetings with traffic officials and directed them to prevent road accidents by placing rambles breaker and signage boards on the roads. Receiving complaints about unsystematic parking of trucks and trailers making the road accident prone specially near Weigh Bridges, the DC ordered necessary legal action against the heavy vehicles parked chaotically on roadside. Many vehicles were found parked in the wrong direction said district transport officer, Sanjeev Kumar. Assistant sub-inspector, Vijay Tirkey posted at Nagar police station committed suicide on Saturday. The wife of the deceased informed the city police that her husband was not picking up the phone. After this, a constable was sent to Vijay's house from Nagar police station. When the policeman reached Tirkey’s house, he saw him hanging and informed the police station. An SUV overturned near the Hazaribagh wildlife sanctuary on Ranchi-Patna highway on early Saturday morning killing the driver on the spot. Two persons present in the SUV in which one Kundan Kumar died on the spot and another Kunal Kumar sustained severe injuries. The body was sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. The two were residents of Bokaro and were going to Aurangabad in Bihar. Police officials said the driver Kundan lost control on the vehicle and it overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-263
