19-10-2020||Calcutta||Part of puja funds to help the needy||A puja in Kasba’s Rajdanga has allocated a part of its budget for buying sewing machines, beauty kits, saris and a month’s grocery for some women from South 24-Parganas whose income has been hit by Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan. Rajdanga Naba Uday Sangha handed over the sewing machines to 15 women, beautician’s kits to 50 women and grocery to 100 women, said Susanta Ghosh, the president of the puja committee. Ghosh said the club had distributed ration among residents of the Sunderbans immediately after Cyclone Amphan devastated their villages. “We kept aside Rs 5 lakh from our Puja budget to help them,” said Ghosh, who is also the ward coordinator of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s ward 107. Among the recipients was Kanika Dalui from No. 10 Punyakhali village in Basanti block. Kanika, 35, used to work in a creche at a school in Kasba. The creche closed after the lockdown was imposed in March. “The children are at home. There is no need for the creche. We lost our jobs as a result,” she said. Then Amphan ruined the seeds that she and her husband had sowed. “We were already living on reduced income after I lost my job. Then the cyclone completely ruined our investment of about Rs 5,000 we made in sowing the crop,” she said. Kanika said the ration provided by the club - rice, wheat, cooking oil and turmeric - was adequate for one person for a month. The elder son and mother of Prabhabati Mondal, 49, who got a sewing machine, lost work during the pandemic. Prabhabhati works as a tailor and trains women in her village in sewing. “In earlier years, I would have no time to spare before Durga Puja. This year I have little work,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Fatal fall in bid to flee||A man died after falling from a third-floor apartment in north Calcutta from where he was allegedly trying to flee as police were knocking on the door. The incident happened on Saturday night inside a housing complex in Chitpore, where the man — identified as Abdul Hossain, alias Shentia – was staying in his employer’s apartment. Police said Hossain and a few of his colleagues, who too were employed by the flat owner, were drinking in the apartment when a brawl broke out. The fight spilled outside the flat, prompting guards of the complex to intervene. Hossain ran inside the flat and locked the door. A team from Chitpore police station, which reached the spot following an alert from residents, found the flat locked from inside. “When cops knocked on the door, Hossain tried to slip out of the balcony using a curtain. But he soon lost grip and tried to hang on to a nylon rope. But he lost grip again and fell on the lawn,” said an officer. Hossain was taken to RG Kar hospital, where he was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta|| Two ‘tusks’ seized, 7 held||A pair of purported elephant tusks were seized and seven persons were arrested from a house in Jyangra, near Baguiati, on Sunday. Officers of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, accompanied by a team from Baguiati police station, raided the house following a tip-off that a pair of elephant tusks were on sale. The seven persons who were arrested were allegedly trying to sell items that looked like elephant tusks. Trade in ivory is banned under the Wildlife Protection Act and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. An officer of the bureau said each seized item measured around 18inch in length and weighed around 3kg. “We were very vigilant and it took some time to arrest the men based on specific intelligence,” said Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the bureau.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Early morning blaze at LIC Building, three injured||A fire broke out early on Sunday on the third floor of LIC Building on Central Avenue, barely 500m from Moon House on GC Avenue where a fire had claimed two lives on Friday night. Eyewitnesses said they were awakened by explosion-like sounds around 3am on Sunday and saw black fumes coming out of the fourth floor of LIC Building at 22 Central Avenue. Some residents of the area alerted police and the fire services department. Five fire tenders reached the spot and took more than an hour to control the blaze. The three people who were inside a canteen in the building when the fire broke out were evacuated. They suffered burns and were taken to SSKM Hospital. “The fire appears to have started from some inflammable items in the kitchen,” said an official of the fire services department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Brief visit to homes damaged by fire||Living space damaged, electric connection snapped and the only wooden lift completely burnt — 50-odd families of the fire-ravaged Moon House at 21 Ganesh Chandra Avenue struggled throughout Sunday trying to retrieve whatever little they could lay their hands on. Since late on Friday, when the fire broke out in the metre room on the ground floor of the seven-storey building, the structure had been cordoned off and no one was allowed to enter. The curb was relaxed on Sunday, from morning till afternoon. Two members from each family were allowed to visit their flats for a brief period and no one was allowed to remove any heavy item. “We are not sure whether the building is fit for living. We will decide on whether the residents can move back in after the forensic experts finish their inspection,” a police officer said. “The building will have to be cleared and marked safe to enter before residents can be allowed in.” The fire, which broke out around 10.15pm on Friday, killed two residents - a 65-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy — and left several others injured. Around 20 fire tenders took over six hours to control the blaze. Residents of Moon House have since shifted to relatives’ houses in Bowbazar and other parts of the city. On Sunday they returned to the building to pick up clothes, valuables and cash while gearing up for the uncertainty spawned by the fire. “My cousin’s marriage is scheduled for November 1 and several items meant for the groom’s family were in our flat. My sisters could retrieve some clothes and a few jewellery items,” said Gulzar Alam, a resident of the top floor of the building. “Where will we stay? How will we prepare for the wedding? Life has suddenly become very uncertain.” Police said they would like to consult with civic engineers on whether the building was fit for living any more. The heat from the fire, which raged for several hours, had eaten into several parts of the building and officers said they would not take a risk by allowing residents to return to Moon House without the consent of a competent authority. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said the civic body was yet to receive any formal request from the police about Moon House. If such a request comes, the CMC asks the owners and tenants to get the building inspected by a certified structural engineer. “We have received no request from any agency about the fire-hit building on GC Avenue,” said the official. “The fire brigade, CESC and the police have the primary responsibility to decide whether people could be allowed back in a fire-ravaged building. The CMC gets involved if these agencies approach us and seek our opinion on whether the structure is fit to live in.” Many tenants said the building had been neglected for decades and alleged that the landlord had refused to spend on maintenance. “Around four years ago, officers from the fire services department had asked the landlord to make arrangements for installing fire safety gadgets. But no such effort was made,” alleged Manwar Khan, a resident who had shifted to his relative’s family in Tollygunge. “The space leading to the stairs on the ground floor was rented out to two-wheelers for parking.” Investigating officers said the owner had told them that electric cables were replaced a few years back and talks were on to increase the overhead storage capacity of tanks to fight any emergency. The building does have an underground reservoir, which apparently had water when the fire broke out. But fire-fighters said they couldn't access it because the keys were not available. “We are trying to find out how a part of the building's main entrance was converted into a garage,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Rescuer in tenancy dispute killed ||A man who tried to rescue a neighbour when he was being assaulted died after being allegedly stabbed in his chest and hit on his head in Tangra on Saturday night. Six persons have been arrested and charged with murder and attempt to murder. Police said Anil Das, whose father owns a building on DC Dey Road in Tangra, allegedly hit one of their tenants following a tenancy-linked dispute on Saturday night. Some other members of the family allegedly joined Anil in assaulting the tenant. “Manoj Ram, who was a resident of the locality and not related to the tenant, intervened and tried to rescue him. Suddenly, Anil stabbed Ram in his chest with a pair of scissors. Another family member then attacked Ram on his head with a wooden plank. Ram was also attacked by four other members of the family,” said an officer of Tangra police station. A man named Gautam Das, who lives in the same locality, tried to rescue Ram from the six members of the Das family. Residents of the neighbourhood rushed to the spot and took Ram, in his early 30s, to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where he was declared dead. Based on a complaint filed by Ram’s wife, officers of Tangra police station registered a murder case against six members of the family -- Sunil Das, Anil Das, Rabi Das, Baby Das, Bedania Das and Sanjay Das. The six have also been charged with attempt to murder for attacking Gautam Das with a pair of scissors, that left his arms grievously injured. All six were arrested early on Sunday and remanded in police custody.  The police said Ram was an electrical contractor by profession. Investigators said they had seized the murder weapon and collected blood samples from the spot where Ram was allegedly attacked on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Stay with family, do  not crowd pandals||The house is a ship and the terrace its deck, says one of the many posters at a community puja in Kasba’s Haltu. The message: spend time with your family members on the deck of the ship, there is no need to crowd pandals. Purbachal Shakti Sangha is one of 50 pujas in Calcutta that have come together to campaign for the safety measures needed in the festive season amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Paray Paray Covid Asur Badh, an initiative by 91.9 Friends FM, saw all participating pujas come together for a Zoom session on Sunday morning — where they showcased the safety and awareness measures undertaken at the pandals through slogans, wall paintings, street arts and similar tools to make this a “Puja with a difference”. The session was streamed live from the Facebook page of the radio station. At Shyampukur Adi Sarbojonin, a graffiti on a wall showed the goddess, her face behind a mask, and her hands carrying sanitiser, a thermal gun and other weapons to combat Covid-19. There was a slogan accompanying the painting: “No mask, no entry”. Almost all clubs showed how circles had been drawn on the roads leading to the pandals so visitors could maintain distance among themselves. Masks, sanitisers and thermal guns were also in place at the pujas. Doctors and public health experts have expressed fears of a surge in the Covid-19 numbers during and after the festive season. They have repeatedly urged caution and restraint on the part of revellers. The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has asked all private hospitals to increase the number of beds for Covid patients and not refuse any patient. On September 25, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion. The directives, issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind, include spacious pandals, low-key inaugurations, pandal-hopping between Tritiya and Ekadashi and staggered timings for anjali and sindoor khela. “This year, 91.9 Friends FM has come up with a project called Covid Asur Mardini where the demon to be slayed is the Covid-19 virus. The pujas in Calcutta have made this a mass movement to ensure that everyone comes together to enjoy the festive spirit with all the safety and precautions,” said Jimmy Tangree, the station head of 91.9 Friends FM. Sunday’s virtual session turned out to be a festival in itself — a collage of innovative posters, placards and paintings. Tikiapara Sarbojonin in Maniktala showcased a canvas inspired by Madhubani paintings. The canvas had 10 Covid-related messages, each accompanied by a weapon used by the goddess. Jagat Mukherjee Park in Sovabazar displayed a unique canvas — acrylic on wood and cloth. A painting showed the masked goddess washing her hands at a basin. She looks into a mirror and the reflection shows her unmasked face. “The image offers a peek into our actual self. But in reality, there is no place for complacency and a mask should always be worn. Even the goddess sets an example,” said an organiser. At Mudiali Club, the organisers spoke of ensuring the safety of the artisans and workers. “A puja is not only about the organisers and revellers. The workers who are behind all of this — their safety and well-being are also paramount,” said an organiser. Metro Railway will run 156 trains daily from Monday to Saturday, starting October 19. The number is now 146. Starting next Monday, the last trains will leave Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash (New Garia) at 9pm, instead of 8.30pm. The last train from Noapara will leave at 8.55pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Chirp delight and Chhat worry||Dozens of migratory birds have checked in at Rabindra Sarobar, raising hopes of an exciting winter of birdwatching and also stoking fears that many of the winged visitors would exit if Chhath Puja is allowed on the banks of the lake. The migrants include one Taiga Flycatcher, which breeds in the Siberian region and round the Himalayas to winter in a warmer clime, birdwatcher Arka Sarkar said. The bird was sighted in September. A Yellow-browed Warbler and a Thick-billed Warbler, seen earlier this month, also flew over the Himalayas. Among the other significant sightings were a Crow-Billed Drongo and a Chestnut Winged Cuckoo, which breed in the Himalayas, said Sarkar. “Both these birds are passage migrants, meaning their stay at the Sarobar is a stopover in their flight from the Himalayas to the place where they winter. The Cuckoo travels to south India during winter,” he said. “It feels so exciting to know that birds in the Sarobar have actually flown thousands of miles, from the Himalayas as well as places in the extreme north like Siberia,” said a regular visitor to the Sarobar. “The winter migratory birds are the ones that come down from the extreme cold climate in the mountains during winter. They spend the winter months in the plains and again return to the mountains around the onset of summer,” said Sudip Ghosh, an IT professional and a keen birdwatcher at the Sarobar, who is also compiling a list of birds seen there. The good beginning to winter birdwatching may not sustain, fear the birdwatchers, if Chhath Puja is again allowed. “Crackers are burst, drums are beaten during the rituals. This scares and irritates the birds for sure,” said Ghosh. “Every year, we notice this phenomenon. Migratory birds are not found at the Sarobar immediately after Chhath Puja. The passage migrants do not return at all,” said Sarkar. The National Green Tribunal has turned down an appeal from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar but Firhad Hakim, the urban development minister, has said the state government could approach the Supreme Court against the order. Rabindra Sarobar is now open to visitors for three hours every morning. The authorities are likely to keep it open for longer hours. Hooded Pita, a rare resident bird of south Bengal, has also been sighted at the Sarobar this year. “It is an important sighting because of its rarity,” said one birdwatcher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Calcutta||Shopping frenzy on last Sunday before Puja||The city’s shopping malls erupted in festive frenzy on the last Sunday before Durga Puja as young faces looking for the latest fashion picks headed to the shopping hubs in droves. Many were, however, spotted without masks. Quite a few were wearing masks but those were hanging around their ears or below their chins. Public health experts have again and again been stressing the need to wear masks and sanitise hands to prevent Covid-19 infection. The Telegraph hopped from one mall to another to witness the shopping blitz The parking lot of the Salt Lake mall was chock-a-block on Sunday afternoon. The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business as people stepped in for some sip and bite after a round of shopping. Metro spotted an elderly couple from Salt Lake, Soumyajit and Priyadarshini Chatterjee, walking out of the mall carrying four shopping bags. “I bought a sari for myself and a couple of shirts for my husband. We also bought some clothes for our grandchildren. Puja is knocking on the door and we could not stay back home,” said Priyadarshini, who taught at a government-run school. Sanjana Agarwal, 26, who headed to a restaurant for lunch with friends, said: “We have been cooped up inside our houses for so long that we had to be here shopping today. All of us are wearing masks and we are carrying sanitisers as well,” said Agarwal. A college student and her friend were spotted without masks. “We are heading to a restaurant. How can we eat with masks on? So we have taken them off,” said the girl who refused to be named. Sukanta Mukhopadhyay, the mall head, said the footfall crossed 35,000 on Sunday. A steady stream of cars, two-wheelers and app cabs was seen making its way towards the mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road on Sunday afternoon, slowing down traffic. The guards at the main entrance to the mall asked visitors without masks to wear one. “I have left behind my mask in my car by mistake. They did not let me in. I am headed to the parking lot to fetch the mask,” said Arvind Saraogi, a businessman from Alipore. The mall recorded footfall in excess of 48,000 on Sunday, an official said. “The shopping pattern has changed completely. People who used to visit malls multiple times to shop have changed tactics and are visiting once or twice and buying all the stuff they need,” the official said. Dum Dum resident Gitanjali Sehanobis had come to the mall with her mother and sister Mouli on Sunday evening for dinner. “We stepped out for the first time since March and are here for dinner. We have brought sanitisers and are making it a point not to touch anything, including escalator grab rails,” said Gitanjali, who works at an IT company. The Kasba mall was teeming with shoppers on Sunday afternoon. One of the big draws at the mall was the gaming arcade, where parents took their children to play while they headed to stores. The food court as well as the restaurants were bustling as well. A mall official said the day’s footfall had crossed 20,000. “All stores at the mall are doing good business. We are ensuring that everyone is wearing a mask. Sanitisers have been kept at the entry and exit of the stores,” said K. Vijayan, the general manager of Acropolis Mall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-266
19-10-2020||Business||Bangladesh is upbeat, it’s where things can only get better||We’ve all heard the story of tortoise and the hare, but have you heard the one about the termites and the elephant? It’s a story in which the termites cross the finishing line before the lumbering elephant. Anyone who thinks this an unlikely tale should travel to the Mirsarai Special Economic Zone, that’s coming up on 30,000 acres of reclaimed land a short distance from Chittagong. The sea here is held back by an enormous “super-dyke” and in the midst of this barren landscape, Asian Paints is building a $20-million factory slated to start up next June. Not far away, Berger Paints is putting up its second factory in Bangladesh for $29 million. Even more ambitiously, Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone has begun work on a $115-million India Special Economic Zone (ISEZ) that will sprawl over 1,000 acres and be used exclusively by Indian investors. With a nod to Amit Shah, our “termite friends” seem to be moving faster than our own Indian elephant. Bangladesh, which to India’s chagrin is forecast by the IMF to surpass us in per-capita GDP this year, is positioning itself as the new high-growth, low-wage country that aims to be an Asian industrial hub. It’s wooing everyone from giant Japanese corporations like Marubeni and Mitsubishi to South Korean and Chinese companies. Mirsarai is also located close to Chittagong Port from which exports can be easily and quickly shipped out of the country. “You can’t beat Bangladesh for low wages. We’re the biggest exporter of cheap labour,” says one veteran analyst. He adds: “Bangladeshis will do all jobs and are even cheaper than Indians.” But low wages are only one part – though an important one – of the Bangladesh economic success story. Today, 93 per cent of the country’s households have electricity and the government says that will hit 100 per cent in two years. Dhaka, which had power cuts that lasted six to eight hours daily two decades ago, now has weeks, even months, without power outages and it’s the same story in the rural areas. The Shapoorji Pallonji group, owned by construction tycoon Pallonji Mistry, and the Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group are both putting up power stations in Bangladesh, and the Adani Group plans to export power from India to Bangladesh. Shapoorji Pallonji, though, has reportedly put its Bangladesh plant on the block to cut debt. The homegrown Summit Group, meanwhile, is one of the largest power players in Bangladesh, a country of 164.4 million. There are multiple factors tilting in favour in Bangladesh which India helped liberate in 1971. One Chinese company, Jinyuan Chemical Industry, is investing $6 million initially in Bangladesh and is about to go into production. The company’s chairman Wang Yang told a Bangladeshi newspaper she was exiting China to dodge tariffs the company might face if exporting to the US. “My first aim is to avoid the impact of the US-China trade conflict and make my products competitive,” she said. A much larger Chinese investment is the state-owned Kunming Iron & Steel Co that is looking to invest $2.13 billion in Mirsarai’s Iron and Steel Industries Park. Bangladesh’s huge textile industry is also being taken care of and there will be room for 76 garment factories at Mirsarai. Around 1.5 million jobs are expected to be created totally at the industrial park when it is fully operational. The Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Shilpa Nagar (as Mirsarai is officially known) is the flagship export zone for the country’s industrial development. But Bangladesh also aims to put up another 100 industrial parks around the country by 2030 to super-charge economic growth. Political stability under Hasina Will all this happen? There’s currently political stability and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has created the right conditions for growth but inevitably like any emerging market, there could be both political and economic upheavals. Also, the Islamists have grown much stronger politically in recent years, carrying out deadly attacks on liberal bloggers, academics and religious minorities. By contrast, it could be said that India has taken its eye off the ball when it comes to the economy. The giants of the corporate sector were weighed down by excessive debt taken during boom times. We also squandered the opportunity offered by falling oil prices in 2014. And we indulged in costly experiments like demonetisation – we’ve never been able to figure exactly how much damage it did, but it certainly didn’t do any good. In addition, there was the botched switchover to GST with its multiple tax levels. During this period the Bangladesh has been forging ahead and its GDP has grown faster than ours in the last two years. Also, another point in its favour is that the Bangladeshis have turned into entrepreneurs in a big way. There are at least 10 groups with revenues of more than $3 billion. Even in the $35-billion garment industry, almost $32 billion is exported by Bangladeshi entrepreneurs. Says an observer: “No matter who’s ruling, these people can take the country forward. The zeal for investment is quite high. New industrial groups are coming up fast.” Vulnerable to external shocks Still, don’t imagine that Bangladesh is about to overtake India as an economic power even though news that the country’s per capita GDP is overtaking ours has jolted many. “I’ve been telling people they shouldn’t get too excited,” says Zahid Hussein, former lead economist at the World Bank, adding: “India is much more integrated with the global economy so the Covid shock is much bigger.” Hussein adds also that 84 per cent of the country’s total exports still come from one industry -- garments -- which makes Bangladesh vulnerable to external shocks. But there’s no denying that Bangladesh has grown steadily over the last decade and since 2016 growth has crossed 7 per cent each year. India, by contrast, has had its ups and downs and full-year growth in 2019-20 dropped to 4.2 per cent. In 2018-19, it was at a relatively lowly 6.9 per cent. On a per capita basis, India’s GDP is expected to contract this year by 10.5 per cent to $1,877 while Bangladesh’s per capita GDP is expected to increase by 4 per cent to $1,888. Another sobering fact is that five years ago Indian per capita income was 25 per cent higher than its neighbour. “We had good fiscal management. The macro-economic position has been stable. India has gone through ups and downs,” says Ahsan H. Mansur, head of the Dhaka-based Policy Research Institute. Bangladeshis look with bemusement at the economic shocks that have convulsed India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi such as demonetisation and the hastily introduced GST. Remittances have climbed Most crucially, Bangladesh has been less hit by the pandemic than India over the last eight months. (Its infections peaked in June while ours have yet to peak). Remittances from non-resident Bangladeshis have climbed to over $18 billion, an increase over last year, at a time when the Gulf countries have been sending workers back. That’s in sharp contrast to India where remittances are expected to drop this year from around $83 billion to around $64 billion. Remittances account for about 6 per cent of Bangladesh’s GDP. Importantly, says Mansur, most Bangladeshis abroad are from the rural areas. “Because they are from the rural areas, they send 100 per cent of their remittances to the rural economy,” he adds. How have Bangladesh remittances actually risen during this crisis-filled time? Many theories have been doing the rounds including a suggestion that Bangladeshis working in the Gulf are dispatching all their savings back home before returning themselves. Alternatively, economists speculate Bangladeshi workers abroad are sending back more money to families who’ve been more in need of cash during the last few pandemic-and lockdown-hit months. But the most likely explanation is that the pandemic shutdown hit the illegal cash transfer channels and Bangladeshi workers were forced to send money back via legal routes, adding to the recorded amount. Also, analysts say Bangladeshis may be hanging on to their jobs in places like the Gulf because they are paid even less than the Indians there. Around 10 million Bangladeshis work abroad in the Gulf, Europe and other parts of the world. They’re the second-largest contingent in the Gulf after the 8.5 million Indians there. Each year, about 2 million Bangladeshis enter the workforce and around 25 per cent are thought to head abroad (most Bangladeshis insist that youngsters looking for jobs do not head to India but other parts of the world). Though the picture is changing, remittances, the vibrant textile sector and farming are the three pillars of the Bangladeshi economy. Like India, the Bangladesh economy is primarily all about consumption-led growth as the population has become more affluent. Also, agriculture has grown steadily and that includes fisheries, livestock, poultry and high value crops. Micro-credit, which has played a bigger role in Bangladesh than anywhere else in the world, has had an important impact in building the agricultural sector.  More women have also been involved in poultry and livestock farming. Bangladesh is now amongst the world’s top ten fish producing countries because of its successful freshwater aquaculture. There were great fears that Covid-19 would decimate Bangladesh’s economy and particularly its garment factories which operate in cramped conditions. But the garment units have come out relatively unscathed with the help of government financing. One explanation is that garment factory workers – who are mainly women – are young and therefore haven’t been so badly hit by the infections. Bangladesh’s exporters initially said $3,25 billion worth of orders had been cancelled but now report that 80 per cent of these orders have been reinstated. Also, the garment exporters have built up a new business making PPE suits and other health-related products. Far behind in education What are the downsides to the Bangladesh growth story? Education is far behind desired levels. Political leaders at all levels have a huge say in the education system and the appointment of teachers. In terms of higher education Bangladesh is far behind India and doesn’t have established institutions like the IITs and the IIMs. Corruption is rife and, of course, there are fears that Islamist elements could destroy the country’s founding secularist principles. On healthcare and hunger, Bangladesh outperforms India. For instance, Bangladesh ranked 75 out of 107 nations in the Global Hunger Index 2020 while India stood at 94. The country managed to end open defecation more than a decade ago and there are toilets in even the smallest village houses. In most villages, all houses have power connections and indoor toilets. LPG is also widely used. The availability of stable power has created a demand for refrigerators, TVs and even rice cookers. Even in a pandemic-battered year, economists say that the mood in Bangladesh is upbeat and there’s a feeling that things can only get better. The IMF, meanwhile, forecasts that India and Bangladesh will likely be running neck-and-neck in terms of GDP per capita income in coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||India loses Farzad gas field in Persian Gulf ||India has all but lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran decided to prefer domestic companies over foreign firms for the development of the field, sources said. ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to $11 billion for the development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. After sitting over OVL’s proposal for years, the National Iranian Oil Co (NIOC) informed the firm in February this year about its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company, sources said. OVL, however, continued its engagements with NIOC over the development of the field and sought terms and conditions of the proposed contract for its evaluation, they said, adding that Iran has so far not responded to the Indian firm’s request. Farzad-B holds total reserves of around 21.7 trillion cubic feet of which around 60 per cent is recoverable, and production is slated to be around 1.1 billion cubic feet per day. Sources said unconfirmed information suggests that Iran has identified a local firm for the development of the field, but OVL has not yet given up hopes and continues to chase Iranian authorities for the contract. The 3,500-square-kilometre Farsi block sits in water depth of 20-90 metres on the Iranian side of the Persian Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||MSME loan relief till month-end||The government is unlikely to extend the Rs 3-lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for the MSME sector beyond October even though the sanctioned amount so far is only nearly 65 per cent of the target, sources said. The scheme is meant to provide financial support to businesses, primarily micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), impacted by the slowdown triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. The sources said the objective is to provide support to all those affected and if there are no takers for the scheme, there is no need to extend the scheme even though there is some room left. On August 1, the government widened the scope of the  scheme by doubling the upper ceiling of the loans outstanding and including certain loans given to professionals such as doctors, lawyers and chartered accountants for business purposes under its ambit. To ensure more companies  benefit, the upper ceiling of loans outstanding as on February 29 for being eligible under the scheme was increased to Rs 50 crore from Rs 25 crore. The maximum amount of Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line funding under the scheme was also raised to Rs 10 crore from Rs 5 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||10 bad investment habits you must get rid of||The festive season brings respite from what has been an extremely challenging year. We can take a breather and rejoice in the fact that we have overcome steep odds. The Covid-19 crisis has turned our world upside down.We are slowly returning to something resembling normalcy. However, things remain difficult for countless people because of the economic fallout of the pandemic. Money management has never been as critical as it is now. We’ve been taught some harsh lessons we’d do well to remember when better days come. In keeping with the festive spirit and the triumph of good over bad, here are the 10 demons you’d do well to exorcise from your financial life. To borrow a 2020 metaphor, going without health insurance is like stepping into a crowded marketplace without a face mask —you may survive this adventure, but is the risk worth taking? By now, you may personally know someone who had multiple family members hospitalised for Covid-19, their finances devastated by the ordeal. Depending on savings, friends and family, or even crowd-funding websites isn’t ideal.Protect yourself: buy health insurance. This year provided us plenty of moments to reflect upon our mortality and think about how our families will sustain themselves should we are not around. Relieve yourself of some of this stress. Get adequate term insurance coverage that’s at least 10 or 20 times your current annual income. The time to be sitting on the fence about life coverage is past us. At a time of economic hardship such as this, money in hand is worth gold. If you are solvent, you are likely to survive. And for you, losing income temporarily would be just a bump on the way, and not a calamity that puts an end to your life plans. Therefore, save up. Save at least three to six times your currently monthly income. The pandemic had nothing to do with the crisis some banks experienced this year. Their depositors were left without access to their life savings. The result? Weddings had to be postponed. Medical treatments couldn’t be funded. This is a reminder that there’s no such thing as risk-free banking. Savings must be diversified with different banks to lower risks and maximise rewards. Interest rates have been trending downwards. Economists says we’ll not see double-digit rates soon. Among its repercussions is the impact on fixed income earners — especially senior citizens. Their retirement savings have been hurt, making sustenance a challenge. This is a reminder to not be hung up on guaranteed returns. Taking no risk is also a great risk. If you’re young, equity investment may be good for you. Gold won in 2020. But those who tried to get into gold in 2020 may have lost. The message is clear. Long-term thinking helps. Short-term thinking leads to crushing losses. A well-balanced portfolio with fixed income, equities, gold, real estate and small savings is your best bet against volatility. So invest to your plan, and buckle down for the long run. The economy shut down in April. Millions struggled with their debts. Then came the moratorium on loans. But the option to defer payments was given only to those regularly repaying their dues till February 2020. It seems only they will now benefit from the waiver of compounded interest, if it happens. . In a tough time, your late payments could snowball into an unmanageable crisis. Petty debt is easy to get into. Petty debt is also expensive. One must exercise caution using credit cards and other forms of unsecured credit to fund lifestyle. Credit is easily available when the times are good. During tough times, the high rate of interest can become an albatross around your neck. Therefore, pay off your expensive debts aggressively, within the interest-free cycle. It will help you when the going gets tough. The ongoing situation demands frugality. However, frugality can be maintained even after we come out of the pandemic. Having a monthly budget and sticking to it, ensuring forced savings, differentiating between needs and wants and goal-oriented thinking are useful habits to have at all times but especially during a tough period. With a deadly virus in the air, we're constantly reminded that life is delicate.But life must go on, too. Continuity of financial plans-whether you're there to see them through or not-is crucial to any family. Therefore, empower your dependents with knowledge of what needs to be done if you're incapacitated. If you’re of a ripe age, prepare a will. Settle unsettle debts. Tie up the loose ends in your finances. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||WBIDC thrust on single-window facility upgrade||Rajiva Sinha, the newly appointed chairman of Bengal’s premier investment promotion vehicle West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC), has hit the ground running. After assuming charge on October 1, following the completion of his tenure as the chief secretary of the state, Sinha has held informal consultations with city-based chambers and industry-specific trade bodies. He also appeared to have prioritised the areas that WBIDC should concentrate. Speaking to The Telegraph in his first interview after assuming his new role, Sinha said: “WBIDC will work like a consultant and service provider, doing all the leg work within the framework of existing government policies and laws. Setting up more industrial parks, multi-sector or product-specific, directly or in partnership with the private sector, is an immediate  priority area.” Sinha’s statement suggests that the government agency would make yet another attempt to provide a truly single-window assistance to industries, big or small. Even though a mechanism is in place to address the myriad issues and problems an investor faces while setting up industries, the system can do with an upgrade. “WBIDC is ideally positioned to be a one-stop shop for all sectors and all categories of industry - small to large. It can act as a facilitation centre and the investor could be from any sector -manufacturing, service, logistics,” Sinha, who held charge as the secretary of the industry department and MSME, said over the weekend. The agency, set up in 1967, will provide the prospective investor with all the assistance in getting land, power and licences. However, that does not mean the inherent power to grant licence and clearances of the different departments will be absorbed into WBIDC. “It will ensure that they (investors) don’t have to run around different departments and government offices. The already created ecosystem of online and time-bound services needs strengthening,” Sinha added. Known for his unconventional and dynamic approach, Sinha — one of the very few non-politician to adorn the chairman’s post — will have his task cut out as the pandemic has all but shut down the investment tap. Courting outsiders to set up shop in Bengal, not exactly a top of the mind destination for investors, is all the more harder. Holding road shows, making promo films may go out of the window for now as the state government refocuses on homegrown entrepreneurs —  the sons of the soil. Sinha believes there are major opportunities within the state, especially in MSME, IT and agri-business sectors that need to be harnessed with WBIDC playing a facilitative role. “Unless we take care of the problems that the existing or potential industries are facing in the state getting investments from outside would remain a challenge. Moreover, this Covid has thrown up fresh challenges. If industry believes that the government is there to offer a helping hand and understand and recognise it, this will do more good than holding road shows or investment -promotion activities,” Sinha said. Creating more infrastructure in public-private partnership for a plug and play model would be accelerated. The chairman said the industrial parks can come up in Siliguri and the neighbouring districts in North Bengal; the Asansol-Durgapur belt; the Howrah-Kharagpur belt and areas within 40-50 km from Calcutta. In other districts, the agri industry focused parks would be considered. Will WBIDC again take up the role of putting seed capital by way of equity as it had in the past? Sinha did not see such opportunities in the immediate future but stressed that it would facilitate bank lending or even funding from private equities. While industry would welcome a recharged agency, it would also hope that faster disbursal of promised and contracted incentives. Asked to comment, Sinha directed the matter towards the government. “Incentive is governed by state policies. WBIDC is just a channelising agency,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||MG Motor looks to use Volkswagen idle capacity||Chinese auto company MG Motor India is eyeing idle capacity at the Volkswagen plant for contract manufacturing. MG Motor India is a subsidiary of SAIC, a Chinese auto giant. With investments through the FDI route subject to maximum scrutiny from the government following the border standoff with the Chinese , MG Motor India is in talks with Volkswagen Group India to lease out their idle capacity in plants for contract manufacturing. Talks are in advanced stages with Volkswagen who is a partner of SAIC, said sources. The capacity at MG India’s Halol plant stands at 1 lakh unit per annum. At present, the capacity utilisation stands at 50 per cent. About 3,000 units of the Hector are manufactured there. The ZS EV and the Gloster SUV, launched recently, are assembled in India. “It makes sense for the company to go for brownfield projects than greenfield plans. The investment is much less. For a greenfield plant, the investment required would be worth Rs 6,000 crore. But to take on lease idle capacity, the company needs to pay around Rs 2,000 crore,” said a source. As Volkswagen is a partner of SAIC, it is logical that the German company will help out MG India, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||Audi questions Centre's quality norms||Luxury automaker Audi has asked for a separate quality control regime for the premium segment which is subject to a higher tax regime than the mass market manufacturers. Audi India head Balbir Singh Dhillon told The Telegraph, “As we are subject to the highest customs duty and GST rate, we should also have a quality control regulation regime separate from the mass market.” Dhillon was referring to the recently notified quality control order for automobile wheel rims, making it mandatory for all wheel rims of vehicles, either imported or domestically manufactured for use in the country, to be certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The certification will be effective 12 months from the date of notification in the official gazette. There will also be quality control orders for glass, alloy wheels, tyres. The quality control order exempts low-volume players, following suggestions made by the automobile industry to the government. The industry, however, says that the exemptions are not enough. “It takes time to implement such regulatory orders. We face a lot of problems. We have to first shut down production and then meet the regulations. Hence, we request for a stable policy regime and a clear road map for us to operate without a hitch,” Dhillon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
19-10-2020||Business||Micromax makes a comeback call||Homegrown consumer electronics brand Micromax is planning a comeback in the smartphone segment. The company has unveiled its subrand “in” as it hopes to take on the Chinese handset makers backed by policy support from the Indian government. Micromax started operations in 2008 and by 2015 had become a global Top 10 handset maker, according to research firm Gartner. It had a 20 per cent marketshare in  2016, with Hollywood heartthrob Hugh Jackman endorsing the brand. But the fall was equally swift as the rise with Chinese brands Xiaomi, Oppo and Vivo muscling the Indian company out of the market. In the second quarter of 2020, the three Chinese handset makers together commanded more than half of the smartphone shipments in the country, according to data from IDC. The trio not only relied on e-commerce channels but also spent heavily on distribution and marketing in India. The advent of 4G drastically changed the landscape and Micromax found itself not in a position to compete with the Chinese in a price sensitive market. “With the other players like Nokia, Samsung, Sony etc, it was fair play. But the Chinese were burning money and we were not able to do that,” Rahul Sharma, co-founder, Micromax, told The Telegraph. But Sharma sees the present global geopolitical situation and the thrust of the government in the domestic manufacturing of electronics as an opportunity for a comeback. The central government has announced a production linked incentive scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing in the country with benefits in the range of 4-6 per cent for a period of 5 years. “The PLI scheme is a fantastic move. We will be able to tackle the pricing war. Moreover the sentiment against China is also strong. India today needs a domestic smartphone option and we are in a position to offer that,” said Sharma. The company has factories in Rajasthan and Hyderabad and plans to invest Rs 500 crore in expanding local manufacturing, research and development with an eye to produceg around 2 million phones per month. “India is one of the top five mobile gaming markets in the world and with the ‘in’ brand we will provide a bona fide choice that will allow consumers to edge ahead with high performance oriented products, without infringing on privacy,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Exide Life Insurance upbeat about growth in second half of 2020-21||Exide Life Insurance hopes to bounce back in the second half of 2020-21 with a 10-15 per cent growth in new business. A combination of new products along with rising awareness of insurance and a gradual opening up of the business will aid the growth. According to data from IRDAI, the first-year premium collection of Exide Life Insurance for the period up to September 30, 2020, was down 29.93 per cent to Rs 268.07 crore from Rs 382.60 crore in the corresponding year-ago period. “As far as new business is concerned I would be happy with a growth of 10-15 per cent compared with last year in the second half. We have countered the decline in the first six months in new business premium by being cautious in terms of managing cost. In the second half, we will be able to grow,” said Kshitij Jain, MD and CEO of Exide Life Insurance. According to Jain,  the first-year premium comprises different products and even as sale of investment oriented products have gone down, the amount of premium the industry has picked up from protection products have gone up. The average sum insured has also increased in the first six months signifying an increased awareness. He gave three-fold reasons supporting the growth. “There is rising customer awareness as far as the need for protection is concerned. There is an overall increase in business with our branches opening up and our sales people engaging with customers. We are also coming out with compelling propositions at the end of this quarter and beginning of next quarter,” he said. The company has launched a pension product to enter into a market it was not participating earlier. Also improved versions of its existing smart term plus policies will be coming up shortly, Jain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Uniform term plan pitfall||The “Saral Jeevan Bima” policy proposed by the IRDAI may pinch the pockets of policyholders as insurance companies venture into the uncharted territories of risk pooling. The regulator has issued guidelines for a standard term life insurance product with a sum assured as low as Rs 5 lakh and going up to Rs 25 lakh. The policy which offers death benefits but no maturity benefit can be bought by individuals between 18 years and 65 years. All life insurance companies have been mandated to offer the standard product with effect from January 1, 2021. According to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), there are many term products in the market with varying terms and conditions; customers who cannot devote adequate time and energy to make informed choices find it difficult to select the right product with the intended sum assured. “To take care of this situation and to make available a product by all life insurers that will broadly meet the needs of an average customer, it is felt necessary to introduce a standard, individual term life insurance product, with simple features and standard terms and conditions,” the IRDAI said. The regulator added that this will reduce mis-selling and disputes at the time of claim settlement. The IRDAI, however, has left the pricing of the policies to the insurance companies. The insurance industry while welcoming the decision said that the target customers would be different with lower middle income individuals set to be the potential beneficiaries. At present, the majority of the term plans sold by the insurance companies have a sum assured starting at around Rs 25 lakh and these are mostly availed by individuals with income above Rs 3 lakh per annum. The new policies will benefit individuals who cannot afford a higher sum assured. “The product caters to a different segment of customers as compared to the segments currently being served by the existing term products. This will increase insurance penetration,” said Anjali Malhotra, chief customer, marketing, digital and IT officer, Aviva India. But for insurance companies, this adds to the risk. Several factors such as the place of living, the level of education, the job and lifestyle of the individual and the ability to afford healthcare will all add to the risk. “Insurance is risk pooling. The lifestyle of a daily wage earner would be vastly different from that of a person working in a corporate office. So, when there is a pooling of both kinds of risk, premium is expected to be relatively higher,” said Santosh Agarwal, chief business officer, life insurance, Policybazaar.com. “But the other way to look at it is there is now an option to have term insurance for this population,” said Agarwal. “In terms of direction this is absolutely spot on. But, implementation is going to be complex because pure protection carries a certain amount of risk and in order to take on that risk a life insurance company needs to do a fair bit of due diligence of the customer which for a small policy is difficult to establish unless there is a clear binary system of saying which are the kinds of life that will be covered and which are not,” the CEO of a private life insurance company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||Business||Clock ticking on BPCL stake sale||The Centre is unwilling to extend the deadline for the submission of expressions of interest for state-owned refiner BPCL as the Modi-government  struggles to meet its selloff target for the fiscal. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times, with the present one being November 16. The BPCL share price on Friday at Rs 339.95 on the BSE is far below its 52-week high of Rs 549.70, and a stake sale of 53 per cent will fetch the government around Rs 40,000 crore. The selloff target for the fiscal is Rs 2.10 lakh crore. Senior finance ministry officials said “we expect the bidders to be ready this time. We hope we need not extend the deadline further, otherwise it sends a wrong message”. Global and domestic players had shown interest in the stake sale of BPCL during the road shows. However, reports suggest energy majors such as Saudi Aramco, Russia’s Rosneft may not bid because of lower prices and fragile demand recovery. “The competition will be a key factor for BPCL to help the government get a better price,” the officials said. Analysts said the government’s expectations of a hefty premium to the current market price may be misplaced and the quick privatisation of the PSU may prove to be challenging. “We maintain neutral on the stock, with the slim possibility of divestment in the current circumstances,” Motilal Oswal said in a research report. Fitch Rating said “the government may require OMCs (oil marketing companies) to cut marketing margins to keep retail fuel prices affordable if crude oil prices continue to rise. However, state interference in fuel prices, if any, will have a bearing on its plans to divest BPCL, which we believe will limit any drastic steps.” Fitch had also said the potential privatisation of BPCL is an “event risk” as there is little information about bidders and potential transaction structure. “We all will appreciate looking into the net worth and looking into the size. The government is trading very cautiously on how to off load the stake through a proper process,” oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called. The financial bids will have to be evaluated and approved by the cabinet and the transaction will close once the payment is made, sources said. The government has barred PSUs from the bidding. The government has proposed a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL — comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, or 52.98 per cent of  share capital — along with the transfer of management. BPCL will not sell its 61.65 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery to the strategic buyer. The Numaligarh stake will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas firm. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion to present their bids. A maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, with the lead member holding 40 per cent. Other members of the consortium must have a net worth of $1 billion. The EoI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-260
19-10-2020||India||Making necessary changes in all sectors for country's growth, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said necessary changes are being made in every sector to ensure growth and to make this decade India's. "In the last 6-7 months you might have seen the speed and the ambit of reforms are increasing. Whether it is agriculture, space, defence, aviation or labour. In every sector necessary changes are being made for growth," Modi said. Addressing the centenary convocation of the University of Mysore through video conferencing, he said it is being done for the sake of crores of youth in this country and to make this decade India's. "This decade can be India's only when we make our foundations strong. This decade has brought immense opportunity for the youth," he added. Modi greeted the people of the state on the occasion of "Nada Habba" (state festival) Dasara. Expressing sympathy towards those affected by floods in several parts of the state, the Prime Minister said the central and the Karnataka governments together were doing every bit to provide relief to all those affected. Speaking on the National Education Policy, he said, skilling, reskilling and upskilling were the need of the day and the policy focuses on it. He also said that efforts were being made at all levels to make India a global hub for higher education and our youth competitive. Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan were present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah quizzed by ED for alleged fraud in J&K Cricket Association  ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah in connection with a money laundering probe in a case related to the alleged embezzlement of Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association funds, officials said. They said the National Conference president's statement will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as in the past. The ED case is based on an FIR filed by the CBI, which booked former JKCA office-bearers, including general secretary Mohammed Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza. The CBI later filed a chargesheet against Abdullah, Khan, Mirza as well as Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali, Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh (former accountant of JKCA) for the "misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore" from grants given by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to promote the sport in the state between 2002-11. The ED said its probe found that JKCA received Rs 94.06 crore from BCCI in three different bank accounts during financial years 2005 2006 to 2011 2012 (up to December 2011). Abdullah's son Omar Abdullah tweeted that the National Conference would be responding to the ED summons shortly. "This is nothing less than political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. To set the record straight, no raids are being conducted at Dr Sahib's residence," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Fired in 'self-defence', arrested BJP leader claims||Dhirendra Pratap Singh, a local BJP leader who was arrested for allegedly shooting a man during the allotment of ration shops here, has told police that he fired in self-defence and claimed the other side started the quarrel, officials said on Monday. He also assured police that he would help in the recovery of the weapon used in the crime, they said. Singh allegedly shot dead Jai Prakash Pal Gama (46) on Thursday following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area. Senior administration and police officials were present at the meeting when the incident took place. After evading arrest for days, Singh was arrested by the UP Special Task Force on Sunday from Lucknow. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 had been announced for his arrest. "DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey interrogated Dhirendra Pratap Singh for nearly an hour, and he gave the details of the incident. He assured the police that he would help in the recovery of the weapon (used in the crime), and said that he had fired in self-defence," said SHO of Kotwali police station Vipin Singh. He told police that around 2,000 people had gathered in the village on Thursday and there was a fracas over the allotment of ration shops, the SHO said. The accused claimed that the other side started the quarrel and opened fire, injuring his nephew and five-six women of his family. His nephew later succumbed to his injuries, he added. Singh also blamed the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and the circle officer for the incident, the police said. He alleged that the SDM colluded with the other side. He claimed that initially the SDM had announced that the allotment of shops will be done on the basis of majority. But later he said only those having identity cards can take part in the voting, according to the police. The Uttar Pradesh government has already suspended the SDM, the circle officer and other policemen present at the spot. Besides Singh, four others -- Santosh Yadav, Amarjeet Yadav, Ajay Singh and Dharmendra Singh -- were arrested in connection with the case from Ballia on Sunday. So far, police have arrested 10 people in the case, in which an FIR has been lodged against around 30 people, most of whom are yet to be identified. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on Saturday said it would invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) and the Gangsters Act against the accused. Under the NSA, one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to national security or law and order. Under the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of property, whether movable or immovable, if there is a reason to believe that it has been acquired as a commission for an offence triable under this law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Musician's plea to Maharashtra govt for live concerts||A musician out of work due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions has appealed to the Maharashtra government to allow artists to hold live concerts and shows to sustain their livelihood. Amar Wankhede, who used to earn his living by playing synthesizer in orchestra shows, stood in a market place in Aurangabad city for 12 hours on Saturday carrying a placard with the message: 'Don't let us beg, save artist, save art'. Since the lockdown came into force, live concerts and musical performances are prohibited across the state. As Wankhede is left with no other means of earning, he came out on a road in Cannought area here to make people understand the plight of artists like him. "Live shows and musical events are not being held since the past seven months. Many people are dependent on this profession for their bread and butter," he told news agency PTI. "We dont want any incentives or aid from the government. We only need permission to resume our work," the artist said. Wankhede said he also came to know that an artist from Pune committed suicide 10 to 15 days ago. "The government is chalking out standard operating procedures (SOP) to resume activities in many sectors. We will also follow the norms and take all precautions if we are allowed to resume work," he said. Wankhede also appealed to people to run a online campaign to save artists like him. "We expect to get permission to resume work from next month, otherwise we will have to agitate for our demands," Wankhede said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||‘Every step in Hathras aimed at destroying evidence’ ||Protected by the authorities, the powerful have in recent years come to believe they can get away with all kinds of atrocities on the powerless, Malini Bhattacharya, activist, former professor of English at Jadavpur University, former chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Women and former member of the National Commission for Women, tells Subhoranjan Dasgupta in the context of the Hathras outrage. Q: The Hathras victim said without ambiguity that she had been raped. Why is the state authority so hell bent on proving that she had not been raped? Bhattacharya: Your question presupposes the answer. Initially the victim, also the principal witness, was not in a fit state even to utter a word. On September 14, as far as we know, she stated on video that "jabardasti", a word commonly used for rape, had been perpetrated on her. On September 22, she was able to make a statement to the Aligarh magistrate and there she deposed that she had been raped. She also mentioned the names of four persons who had attacked her. Legally, this was her dying statement and was to be given full importance as such in the investigation. The fact that even after that a UP police official said publicly that no evidence of rape could be found shows that it was their predisposition which made them give more credence to a botched forensic report than to the girl’s own dying statement. Q: The entire administration, which includes the police, is repeating ad nauseam that the family will receive Rs 25 lakh as compensation. The district magistrate had the temerity to say that this lucrative compensation should silence queries and doubts. Bhattacharya: The district magistrate of Hathras and the high-ups in the UP police have much to answer for. Even if half the objectionable statements the DM is seen making on video are true, legal proceedings must be taken against him. It is, however, unfortunate that many people seem to think that the compensation legally due to the victim/her family is the price paid to them to ensure their silence. Compensation, which relates to the damage done to the aggrieved (for instance, the disruption of their lives and livelihood), cannot affect the course of justice and due punishment of the culprits. Q: Isn’t the state apparatus aware that any forensic examination conducted one week after the outrage would carry no evidence of rape? Bhattacharya: The delay in sending the materials for forensic examination is deliberate and of a piece with the delay in taking the FIR, the neglect in ensuring proper medical attention to and treatment of the victim, the delay in preparing the medical-legal certificate and, worst of all, the cremation of the body in the dead of night by police personnel without the permission of the family and in defiance of all legal and humanitarian norms. Each and every step seems to have been taken with the precise intention of destroying evidence and subverting the course of justice. Now that the case has been handed over to the CBI, there still seems to be cause for concern because their website is at present showing that their investigation will proceed on the basis of the Hathras FIR, which has no mention of gang rape and murder. The people apparently being sought to be protected by the administration must be very powerful people indeed! Q: What is most dreadful is that the act of rape was followed by the battering of the rape victim to death. Why this malignant violence, this merciless act of killing? Bhattacharya: The horrific nature of the violence is no longer unique these days. I can immediately think of half-a-dozen recent cases in UP and elsewhere which are unparalleled in sheer brutality and vindictiveness. It proves what many activists have been saying over the years, that rape has less to do with the sexual urge and more to do with power that seeks absolute subjugation. In the last few years, cases of caste-based and communal violence and violence against the economically deprived have increased greatly, even as the powerful have felt that it is their privilege to gang up and inflict all kinds of torture on the powerless and get away with it. It has become much more difficult in recent years to bring such people to justice because the tentacles of their political influence have gone deep down into the police and administrative system, and even sometimes the judiciary. That more rapes are being followed by murder could have another factor behind it: activists had warned the then government of it when it was decided to introduce an additional provision in the IPC prescribing capital punishment for rape and murder. Far from being a deterrent, this measure might instigate the culprit to silence the victim, who is also the main witness. It is not by making the penalties harsher but by demonstrating that unbiased and timely implementation of laws is possible even when the victim is poor and helpless that more culprits can be brought to book and violence may be checked. But in the last few years, whatever administrative and judicial infrastructures had been set up for that purpose have been reduced to a shambles in the interests of the powerful. I think this answers your other question too regarding the situation in Bangladesh. I am sure that among my sisters in Bangladesh there are many seasoned activists who would agree with me and instead of finding a panacea for rape in capital punishment would focus more on seeking improvement of the justice delivery system in their country to combat sexual violence. Q: Would you endorse Rahul Gandhi’s contention that Dalits, tribal people and Muslims are not considered human beings by many Indians (read upper caste Hindus)? Bhattacharya: I have already partially answered the question. Caste has always been an important dimension in sexual violence. In Hathras, the administration and the police are of course working for the powerful and rich Thakur community while the girl comes from a poor Valmiki family. Besides, the Modi-Shah regime seems to have encouraged "upper caste groups" to gang up unconstitutionally as in so-called "honour crimes" to protect culprits from the same caste. Still, caste is but one of the aspects of illicit power we have to consider. The real question all of us, including Rahul Gandhi, should be trying to answer is: How can we stop the powerful from their arrogant destruction of democracy, which endangers not just the lives but the rights of women, of Dalits, of religious minorities and the poor?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Defections that mock law and morality||A Gujarat bypoll candidate’s claim that he had been offered Rs 52 crore four months ago to vacate his seat has reignited the debate on a new tactic to subvert the people’s mandate by asking MLAs to resign en masse. Congress MLA Akshay Patel, who is contesting the Karjan seat on a BJP ticket after resigning from the Assembly in June just before the Rajya Sabha elections, has now told a TV channel: “Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani (of the Congress) says I was bought for Rs 16 crore. He has no knowledge. I was offered Rs 52 crore at a meeting in a farm house in the past. But I rejected that offer. I am not into this dhanda (business). Whatever I have earned is through my business. I have sugar mills.” Of the eight Congress MLAs who resigned in Gujarat to gift the BJP the third Rajya Sabha seat that the ruling party didn’t have the strength to win, five are contesting bypolls. Although Patel did not specify who made the offer, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “Who else can make such a mind-boggling offer of Rs 52 crore to one MLA other than the party which is ruling Gujarat and the country? We have seen what happened in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. “We have seen how Rajya Sabha elections were manipulated in Gujarat by luring away MLAs to whittle down the Congress’s strength. Narendra Modi says na khaoonga, na khane dunga (neither will I accept bribes, nor will I allow anyone to take money). But the BJP has reduced democracy to a saleable commodity.” Singhvi alleged that MLAs were being treated like “seth ka galla (trader’s stuff)”. “Modi has blurred the difference between politics and trade. Two other former Congress MLAs who resigned before the Rajya Sabha elections to ensure the victory of an additional BJP candidate are heard on tape saying that money and ticket to contest are assured. They hail the BJP for fulfilling its commitment, not running away from its promise after the task is fulfilled,” the Congress spokesperson said. Like in Gujarat, the plot is playing out on a larger scale in Madhya Pradesh where all the 25 Congress MLAs who resigned to facilitate the BJP’s return to power have been fielded in by-elections. In Karnataka, 15 of the 17 Congress-JDS lawmakers who resigned to topple the government have been given tickets by the BJP. In each of these states, the BJP had claimed that it had played no role in the defections and blamed the fall of governments on Congress infighting. The defectors from Karnataka had been kept in Maharashtra, then ruled by the BJP, and the rebels from Madhya Pradesh had been given shelter in BJP-ruled Karnataka. The courts refused to see these operations as a threat to democracy. Both beneficiary chief ministers — B.S. Yediyurappa of Karnataka and Shivraj Singh Chouhan of Madhya Pradesh — publicly proclaimed that they had returned to power because of the “sacrifices” of the Congress MLAs and so these lawmakers needed to be looked after. Many of these MLAs were immediately made ministers in the BJP governments. The Congress had then quoted conservative figures — Rs 20-25 crore for each such MLA — much less than the Rs 52-crore claim floated by Patel. Former chief minister Kamal Nath, a victim of this technique of changing the colour of the people’s mandate, on Sunday told a Congress rally in Madhya Pradesh: “People say election is a festival of democracy. But these bypolls are a festival of saudebaazi (bargaining). This is a celebration of the bikau (saleable). The Constitution-makers didn’t anticipate politicians to stoop so low, they didn’t provide legal remedy for this amorality.” The former chief minister added: “This act of inducing defections using money has darkened the face of Madhya Pradesh. People outside suspect everything is on sale in the state. Chambal-Gwalior was known for valour. Now MLAs have given a bad name to this region. This is not loktantra (democracy), this is dhan-tantra (money power). The people sent the BJP packing after 15 years; money power sent us packing in 15 months. This BJP government is made of notes, not votes.” As if this discourse itself is not a blot on India’s democracy, Congress spokesperson and top lawyer Singhvi lamented that no remedy was possible. “Who will make the law to nullify this shameful technique, those who use it to their advantage? If your mindset is to violate the law come what may, you will find some loophole to exploit it. It is not about law, it is about morality,” he pointed out. Singhvi said it was not about Gujarat, Karnataka or Madhya Pradesh, but about the credibility of Indian democracy. “Constitutional issues are involved. Governments are elected for five years. But now it depends on the BJP’s will. They can artificially reduce the majority into minority and change the government. Not less than 100 MLAs of Opposition parties have resigned without a reason in the past six years. This is nullification of the democratic mandate,” Singhvi said. He added: “The anti-defection law, known as the Tenth Schedule, is reduced to a mockery. The Supreme Court has ruled in at least 10 cases that such defections are constitutional sin. Now any mandate can be manipulated. An ordinary MLA is given the allurement of ministership and money and he resigns. This will have to be addressed. To begin with, a sitting Supreme Court judge should be asked to investigate the Rs 52-crore claim of the BJP candidate and an FIR should be registered forthwith. But we know nothing will be done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Head of  Mar Thoma Syrian Church dead||Metropolitan His Grace the Most Rev. Dr Joseph Mar Thoma, the primate of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, passed away early on Sunday at a private hospital in this Kerala town following a battle with cancer, church sources said. The 90-year-old head of the Mar Thoma community had been under treatment for pancreatic cancer. He breathed his last around 2.30am, hospital sources said. Born as P.T. Joseph at Maramon in Pathanamthitta district, Joseph Mar Thoma became the Mar Thoma Metropolitan in October 2007 after the then Mar Thoma Metropolitan, Philipose Mar Chrysostom, expressed his desire to transfer responsibilities of the Church to his successor due to his deteriorating health. Joseph Mar Thoma was ordained as Ramban on January 11, 1975, and designated as Suffragan Metropolitan on March 15, 1999, when Philipose Mar Chrysostom, the Suffragan Metropolitan, was designated as the officiating Metropolitan. The mortal remains of Metropolitan His Grace the Most Rev. Dr Joseph Mar Thoma have been kept at the Church headquarters in Thiruvalla where people from all walks of life paid their final respects to him. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of the spiritual leader, saying the Metropolitan was a remarkable personality who served humanity and worked hard to improve the lives of the poor. The Prime Minister had on June 27 inaugurated the 90th birthday celebrations of the Metropolitan. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the demise of the Metropolitan was not only a loss to the Church but to the society as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
19-10-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi tells Congress: Fight for citizens ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s "mismanagement" and intent to serve the interests of crony capitalists had created crisis on every front, from the economy to agriculture to safety of citizens. Asking the party’s newly appointed office-bearers to wage a relentless struggle against injustice and discrimination in every sphere of national life, Sonia said at a meeting called to review the political scenario: "Your responsibility is even more onerous and important as our democracy is passing through its most tumultuous times. There is a designed attack on our Constitution and our democratic traditions. Our country is ruled by a government that is systematically bartering the interests of our citizens at the altar of profiteering by a handful of crony capitalists." She added: "The current government has attacked the very foundation of our resilient agrarian economy by bringing in three anti-agriculture black laws. A conspiracy has been hatched to defeat the gains of the Green Revolution. The lives and livelihoods of crores of farm labourers, leasehold farmers, small and marginal farmers, toiling labourers and small shopkeepers are under attack." Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, announced that the meeting decided to intensify the agitation over the farm reforms and the atrocities against Dalits and women. The Congress will organise demonstrations throughout the country on November 5 against the attacks on farmers and Dalits, and mark October 31 — the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Indira Gandhi — as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. Day-long fasts will be organised by party leader and workers at every district headquarters. Between November 1 and 10, tractor rallies will be taken out in every state. On November 19, the Congress will submit 2 crore signatures collected from farmers all over the country to the President. Sonia also criticised the government over its handling of the pandemic. "The country was pushed into the abyss of the pandemic by the sheer ineptitude and mismanagement of the Modi government. All this happened as we witnessed the biggest unplanned, unmanaged and cruel migration of crores of migrant labourers as the government remained a mute spectator to their miseries," the Congress chief said. "The stark truth is that a Prime Minster who promised to defeat corona within 21 days has abdicated his and his government’s responsibility towards the citizens," she added. On the economy, Sonia said: "The government has simultaneously demolished our economy.... Never has the country witnessed such a free fall in GDP…. "Today, the young have no jobs. Nearly 14 crore jobs have been lost. Small and medium businesses, small shopkeepers and other small enterprises are shutting at an unprecedented pace, yet an uncaring government remains a mute spectator. So much so, the government is now failing to honour even its constitutional responsibilities. "The share of GST compensation is being denied to the states. How will the state governments help our people if the Centre is to renege on its constitutional obligations? This must be the first example of economic anarchy being spread by the central government."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Keep Covid guard up at least till February||India’s Covid-19 epidemic will end by February 2021 after three million more lab-diagnosed cases, a government panel of scientists predicted on Sunday, underscoring the need for rigorous adherence to mask norms, physical distancing and the no-crowding appeals. The panel of mathematicians and medical experts said the epidemic had peaked in mid-September but new infections would continue to emerge until India’s cumulative case counts crossed 10 million by February-end, after which the epidemic would stop. But the scientists also warned that the infections could spike to over 2.5 million new cases within a month if people abandoned personal protective measures such as masks, physical distancing and no-crowding. Some scientists, however, said the study appeared handicapped by a lack of appropriate data. Mathukumalli Vidyasagar, distinguished professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, who led the effort, said: “We’re not saying that the infections will go to zero after February-end, but we should expect only minimal infections after that.” Public health experts too have long predicted that at some point, the epidemic would cease and the infection enter an endemic phase during which a trickle of new infections would continue to emerge but no longer threaten to overwhelm hospitals. While health experts have already recognised the downtrend in daily new infections since the mid-September peak of one million active patients, the new study is the first to forecast the numbers and a month for the end of the epidemic. The study has estimated that the proportion of people already infected with the virus was about 14 per cent in August and has currently grown to around 30 per cent. People infected by the virus are viewed as not susceptible to infections in the near future and thus pose barriers to the spread of the virus. “This mix of already infected and thus non-susceptible pool of people along with precautions such as masks and physical distancing over time makes it harder and harder for the virus to spread,” said Manindra Agrawal, professor of computer science at IIT Kanpur and a study team member. The researchers have stressed that the epidemic’s end would not mean that any vaccines that might emerge would be redundant. “We do not know how long people are protected after becoming infected — and even after the infection has become endemic, there would be a need for vaccines,” a medical expert involved in the study said. The study has also predicted how India’s coronavirus disease counts, nearly 7.5 million on Sunday, would increase under various degrees of precautionary measures: from 17.6 million under no precautions at all, to 10.5 million under current restrictions to 8.3 million under stronger restrictions such as lockdowns. “Lockdowns are now undesirable. Our data suggest that district or higher-level lockdowns will not be much effective now,” Vidyasagar said. “However, localised lockdowns might be necessary in some areas if the increase in infections threatens to overwhelm the health facilities there.” The modelling effort involved top experts from the IITs, the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta, and the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government. But the experts had to rely on crowd-sourced infection data instead of actual data from the Indian Council of Medical Research. Two researchers involved in the effort said the study group had no access to ICMR data. A senior ICMR official declined to comment on the findings. Other officials were not immediately available to explain why ICMR data were not available to the research group. An infectious disease specialist familiar with the research who requested not to be named said: “This is just another model. It is not clear what exactly it is telling us that we can act upon. An effort like this should have been done with reliable data six months ago.” In line with earlier forecasts, this model too has suggested that the lockdown, which started on March 25, averted a sharp rise in infections that would have quickly overwhelmed India’s healthcare infrastructure. The study has estimated a peak load of over 14 million cases by mid-June had the lockdown not happened at all. Had India waited till May to impose the lockdown, the peak load of active cases would have been about five million by June, according to the study that, the researchers said, has been accepted for publication in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. “The emphasis on the lives saved by the lockdown is unusual since the comparisons are to a relatively unrealistic situation where no interventions happened at all,” said Gautam Menon, an infectious disease modelling expert at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who was not associated with this effort. “But the message about increased precautions to prevent spread in the festive season is important. I’m glad they have stressed this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||V.J. Emmanuel, uncommon crusader for free speech, is no more||When 78-year-old V.J. Emmanuel died of old age on Wednesday evening, his passing received scant attention even in his village of Koodalloor in Kerala. To most of the villagers, the retired English professor from Kuriakose Elias College at Mannanam, near Kottayam, was little more than an ardent preacher for the Christian sect Jehovah’s Witnesses. Only a handful remembered him as the petitioner who won a landmark judgment from the Supreme Court on August 11, 1986, that defended the Constitution’s Article 19(1)(a), which guarantees free speech and expression, and Article 25(1), which upholds the right to practise and propagate one’s religion. The judgment had upheld Emmanuel’s claim that forcing someone to sing the national anthem infringes on certain fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. The court had granted protection to three of Emmanuel’s children who had not joined in the singing of the national anthem at their school at Kidangoor in Kottayam. Thirty-four years on, the Bijoe Emmanuel vs State of Kerala judgment, delivered by the bench of Justices O. Chinnappa Reddy and M.M. Dutt, continues to be cited in legal and political circles whenever the freedom of expression or religion faces a threat. To jurists, the verdict remains one of the pillars of free speech in India. Four years ago in 2016, the case and the verdict had become part of the larger discussion when the apex court directed all cinemas to play the national anthem before the start of screening, and ruled that those present “must stand up in respect” to “instil a... sense of committed patriotism and nationalism”. However, in 2018, the top court, after a similar submission by the Centre, made playing the national anthem in cinemas optional and exempted disabled persons from standing up. The 1986 judgment, while ruling that joining in the singing of the national anthem was not compulsory, had noted that standing for the anthem was appropriately respectful but refrained from making it mandatory. After winning the legal battle, Emmanuel had sent the three children to school for just a day. After that, he decided that none of his seven children – the eldest a college student and the youngest not yet in school – would have anything to do with formal education. “At the morning assembly, the students sang the national anthem Jana Gana Mana daily. We used to stand respectfully but preferred not to sing the anthem. For us, singing the anthem of any country is against the tenets of our religious faith,” Emmanuel’s daughter Bindu said. “Our faith permits prayers only to God Jehovah. The national anthem is a prayer and there started our objection. We used to stand in respect while others sang. The school management, teachers and other students never objected to our refusal to sing,” Bindu’s brother Bijoe said. In the beginning, there was no compulsion from the school to sing the anthem. But in 1985, a local MLA found the behaviour of Bindu, her elder sister Binu Mol and Bijoe unpatriotic and raised the issue in the Assembly. A commission of inquiry was formed and it visited the school to collect evidence. The commission reported that the children were “law-abiding” and had shown no disrespect to the national anthem. However, the headmistress expelled the three children on July 26, 1985, under instructions from the deputy inspector of schools. Emmanuel moved a writ petition in the high court seeking an order restraining the authorities from preventing the children from attending school. A single bench rejected his plea and a division bench threw out his appeal, prompting him to approach the top court. “My father treated it as an opportunity to ensure clarity on the freedom of worship guaranteed by the Constitution. Education rights were only a second priority with him,” Bijoe said. Bijoe was 15 and studying in Class X while sisters Binu and Bindu were 14 and 10, students of Class IX and V, when their school expelled them. The school, managed by the Hindu caste organisation Nair Service Society, had 11 students from the Jehovah’s Witnesses sect at the time. The Supreme Court ruled: “We may at once say that there is no provision of law which obliges anyone to sing the national anthem nor do we think that it is disrespectful to the national anthem if a person who stands up respectfully when the national anthem is sung does not join the singing.… Proper respect is shown to the national anthem by standing up when the national anthem is sung. It will not be right to say that disrespect is shown by not joining in the singing….” By the time the judgment arrived, the three children had lost one academic year. Anyway, the professor pulled all his seven children out of educational institutions, he and wife Lillikutty preferring to provide them with home education. One of Bijoe’s two elder siblings was in college and the other in Class XII at the time. Bisny, the youngest of the seven, never went to school. All of them are now involved with evangelical initiatives. Emmanuel’s eight grandchildren do not sing the national anthem at their schools but have faced no problems. While getting them admitted to school, the family had each time furnished copies of the verdict. “The unique case and its petitioner must be remembered for ever as the country is facing the tough challenges posed by religious intolerance, hate and wrong notions of nationality. The verdict is matchless in its broader and inclusive approach,” said Dr K.M. Sheeba, writer, thinker and a teacher at the Sri Sankara Sanskrit University at Kaladi in Kerala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||NEET result reply  to merit sniggers||Nearly 82 per cent of the successful Dalit, tribal and OBC candidates in this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) have cleared the cut-off set for their general category peers, debunking the “lack-of-merit” slur that makes campus life miserable for many quota students. Of the 492,104 Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes students who have cracked the all-India medical and dental undergraduate entrance test, 403,430 or 81.98 per cent have a percentile score of at least 50 — the qualification criterion for general candidates. Only 88,674, or 18 per cent, have got through with percentile scores less than 50 but above 40 — the relaxed cut-off for Dalit, tribal and OBC students — the results announced on Friday show. (See chart) With 771,500 of the 1,366,945 students who took the exam having qualified — and only 80,000 medical college seats and 27,000 dental college seats available — only a small fraction of the successful candidates will actually secure admission. All the 4.03 lakh SC, ST and OBC students with percentile scores of 50 or above will be eligible for general category seats, and those that succeed in bagging such seats will have freed up reserved seats for their less successful brethren. The trend isn’t new: last year, too, more than 80 per cent of the Dalit, tribal and OBC students had made it to the general merit list. Sudesh Ghoderao, Ambedkarite scholar and a teacher at Bytco College, Nashik, attributed the trend to increased awareness about the importance of education among the deprived communities. This has increased the pool of students aspiring to higher education, he said. “Parental priorities have changed. There’s an increased realisation of the value of education. School dropout rates have fallen among SC, ST and OBC students,” Ghoderao said. Many Dalit, tribal and OBC students have been known to face systematic humiliation from their peers and professors on campus over their presumed “lack of merit”. Some have been driven to suicide by the caste-shaming. Dr Payal Tadvi, a PG gynaecology student at Mumbai’s Topiwala National Medical College, hanged herself last year after allegedly facing caste taunts from three senior students. Tadvi was from the Bhil tribal community of Jalgaon district, Maharashtra. Rohith Vemula, a PhD student at Hyderabad University, committed suicide in January 2016 amid accusations of the victimisation of Dalit students by campus authorities after a prod from a central ministry. Ghoderao did not feel that the success of examinees from the marginalised castes would reduce discrimination on the campuses. “The discrimination is linked directly to the caste consciousness of the people from the dominant castes. Many of the well-educated among them, even some who go abroad, fail to shed their caste identity. Rather, they consolidate on the basis of their caste,” he said. Recently, California regulators sued tech firm Cisco Systems after a Dalit engineer faced discrimination from higher-caste Indian members of his team at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. However, Ghoderao said, the reserved-category students’ increasing success in competitive exams will enhance their communities’ “social capital” — that is, young aspirants from these castes will have successful, older peers to turn to for help, guidance and inspiration. Kancha Ilaiah, author and researcher, said that most of the students from the marginalised communities who were cracking competitive exams had been educated in English-medium schools. “Good-quality English-medium education will bring social change. In my opinion, the states keen on social change should introduce English-medium schooling from Class I,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Pangolin smuggling racket busted in Odisha||The Odisha crime branch has busted a pangolin smuggling racket and rescued a pangolin near Rajakothi in Subarnapur district, around 280km from here. Two people were arrested in this connection. The Indian pangolin species has been listed as “endangered” by the International Union of Conservation of Nature. Its scales are used in some traditional medicines. A team of the special task force raided the hideout and seized pangolin scales weighing 5.65kg from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||Bhubaneswar BJP MP suit threat over office sealing ||Bhubaneswar BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi has threatened to file a defamation case against municipal corporation authorities for sealing her office after accusing her of violating Covid-19 guidelines during her birthday celebrations on its premises on October 7. The IAS-turned-politician’s threat came soon after the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), which had shut down her office on October 10 and said it would remain closed for 15 days, re-opened it on Saturday. The municipal body’s decision to lift the curbs against the MP earlier is being seen as a moral victory for Sarangi who quit the Indian Administrative Service to join the BJP ahead of the last elections. She won the Bhubaneswar seat, widely perceived to be a Biju Janata Dal bastion, against all odds. The BMC had cracked down on her, saying that norms such as compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing were not followed during her birthday celebration on the office premises. Unfazed by the civic body’s action, Sarangi had accused the ruling BJD led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik of violating Covid guidelines and demanded closure of its city office. She wrote a long letter to the chief minister citing instances of Covid guideline violations by BJD leaders and attached 17 photographs as proof. Her aggressive posture pushed the government on the back foot. The MP also continued with her mass-contact programme, hearing the grievances of the people on the roadside with her supporters. As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, the municipal authorities decided reopen her office as a damage-control exercise. “This has been done with a malicious intent, contrary to the spirit of law, and is in clear violation of the provisions contained in the law. This has caused me pecuniary hardship, mental agony and has been done with the intent to malign my image before the society. I reserve my right to claim adequate compensation from BMC for such excessive use of authority beyond its jurisdiction, to initiate defamation proceeding and to initiate such other legal proceeding as may be suitable,” Sarangi said in her letter. Sarangi also cited an order of the health and family welfare department, which states that there is no need to close an office building or halt work in other areas of an office after the detection of a Covid case and that work can resume after disinfection according to the laid-down protocol. However, if there is a large-scale outbreak, an entire building will have to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. All the staff attached to the office will be asked to work from home till the building is disinfected. “When the health and family welfare guideline itself suggests a maximum closure period of 48 hours in case of a large outbreak of coronavirus cases, I am wondering about the authority and provision under which the BMC decided to seal my office premises for 15 days when there has not been a single case of Covid in my office-cum-residence,” said the MP. Sarangi added that she had checked the penal provisions under the Disaster Management Act, the Epidemic Act and Section 188 of the IPC. “Neither the Act nor any regulation made under this Act empowers BMC to seal a private person’s office-cum-residence for 15 days,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||India||BJP leader arrested while jogging in Lucknow||A BJP leader accused of shooting dead one person at a meeting in Ballia was on Sunday morning arrested apparently while he was jogging in a park in Lucknow 400km away and three days after the murder. The special task force in Lucknow arrested Dhirendra Pratap Singh, the president of the Ballia unit of the BJP’s ex-servicemen cell, around 7am at Janeshwar Mishra Park. Dhirendra is accused of shooting dead fellow villager Jai Prakash Pal during a meeting on Thursday in Ballia’s Durjanpur after opening fire to settle a dispute over bagging the contract for a ration shop. Jai Prakash’s family had accused the police of allowing Dhirendra to escape. The local BJP MLA, Surendra Nath Singh, had demanded “justice” for Dhirendra, threatened to begin an agitation if Jai Prakash’s supporters were not booked and claimed that Dhirendra had opened fire in self-defence. “The main accused in the unfortunate incident of murder at Durjanpur village in Ballia district was arrested by the special task force in Lucknow on Sunday. Ballia police are bringing him back from Lucknow for interrogation,” said Subhas Chandra Dubey, the deputy inspector-general of police of Azamgarh. A police officer in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity: “Dhirendra was arrested while he was jogging.” An eyewitness claimed that he saw two police jeeps stopping in front of the park and Dhirendra trotting out of the gate and getting into one of the vehicles. BJP sources said the leadership had sought an explanation from Surendra, the Bairia MLA, for threatening an agitation and backing Dhirendra, an aide. “The party will take action against the MLA if he has done something wrong,” said Naveen Srivastava, a spokesperson for the Uttar Pradesh BJP. DIG Dubey, who had on Friday announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to those who would help the police trace eight absconding accused, said: “Before Dhirendra’s arrest in Lucknow, Ballia police had nabbed two co-accused, Santosh Yadav and Amarjeet Yadav, from the Kotwali area of Ballia city. Two more were arrested from Ballia on Friday. We hope to arrest the remaining three identified accused soon.” A total of 20 people — eight named and 12 unidentified — have been named in the FIR. The DIG said the government would take action against Dhirendra under the stringent National Security Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-607
19-10-2020||West Bengal||People flout social distancing norms and go pandal-hopping in Calcutta||Braving intermittent rain, hordes of people were seen flocking big-ticket Durga puja pandals in the city on Monday morning with little or no regard for social distancing norms. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had last week announced that revellers can go pandal hopping from 'Tritiya' - three days before the rituals begin -- to avoid crowding on the last four days of the annual extravaganza. At some of the popular marquees in the city, such as Ekdalia Evergreen, Singhi Park, Sribhumi Sporting and Badamtala Asar Sangha, people were not allowed to step inside without masks. Crowd management, however, remained a challenge as swarms of revellers gathered outside the pandals, despite repeated warnings by the puja committees. At Sribhumi Sporting, in the northern part of the city, many were seen huddling at different corners to click photographs of the deity, bedecked in gold jewellery. Subham Das, a pandal-hopper from Dumdum, said outside the Sribhumi pandal, "This pujo is a must-see for me, Covid or no Covid. What is the point if I can't stay back a little after coming all way from my place, which is some 8km away?" Partha Ghosh, an office-bearer of Shivmandir Durga Puja in south Kolkata, said volunteers at the exit and the entry points are ensuring that people do not take off masks or push and shove one another. Thousands of people also thronged the city's shopping hubs for last-minute purchases. Rita Debnath, when asked why she wasn't covering her nose, hit back saying she was finding it difficult to breathe with the mask on. "Why just me, there are so many others who are not following protocols. This is the only time of the year I shop for my children and grandchildren...I can't break that tradition, the woman, in her mid-60s, said outside a shop in Gariahat. The COVID-19 death toll in Bengal went past the 6,000-mark on Sunday with 64 more fatalities, even as a record number of 3,983 fresh cases pushed the tally to 3,21,036.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||No entry of visitors to Puja pandals, rules Calcutta High Court||The Calcutta High Court on Monday ordered that all Durga Puja pandals across the state be declared no-entry zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A division bench of the high court comprising Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee, hearing a public interest litigation, said that no visitors will be allowed to enter the marquees. For small pandals, barricades will have to be put up five metres from the entrance, while for the bigger ones, the distance has to be 10 metres, the court ordered. There should be no-entry boards on the barricades, it said. The court also ordered that only 15 to 25 persons belonging to the organising committees will be allowed to enter the pandals. The bench was hearing a petition by a leader of the CPM’s labour arm, Saurav Das, who had challenged the government’s decision to give doles to Puja organisers. The court had on Thursday asked the Bengal government what was the need to celebrate festivals at a time schools and colleges were closed because of a pandemic. Justice Banerjee raised several other questions. Some of them were: The division bench posed the questions to the state’s advocate-general, Kishore Datta, after he submitted that 37,000 clubs had been given a dole of Rs 50,000 each so they could distribute masks and sanitisers among people. Each of the clubs has been organising Durga Puja for at least 10 years. The court also asked why the government could not distribute the masks and sanitisers through police? “What is the necessity to engage Puja committees in the distribution of masks and sanitisers?” Justice Banerjee asked. Counsel for the petitioner and senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya submitted before the bench that the government was encouraging the organisers to hold Puja without taking precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “There is every possibility of a massive spread of the disease after the Puja,” Bhattacharyya said. At this, Justice Banerjee asked the advocate-general: "Where is the blueprint of your safeguard measures?” He asked the lawyers from both sides to sit together to chalk out a blueprint of possible protection measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Plan to make Soumitra walk after significant improvement||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee's health condition has improved significantly and doctors are planning to make him walk with support in a couple of days, a senior medical practitioner treating him at a private hospital here said on Monday. Doctors said the octogenarian was administered "rigorous" physiotherapy to help him improve quickly and they are planning to read out stories to him, besides continuing his music therapy. "We have given him higher doses of steroids and there have been no complications. Hopefully, its effect will be evident in the coming days. He has responded today also. There has been no growth in cultures. The good thing is that we made him sit on the bed. "We have intensified his physiotherapy so that he improves quickly. We have also given him chest and limb therapy. Maybe, in a couple of days, we will start making him walk with support," Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading a team of doctors treating the actor, said. The thespian's oxygen saturation levels have been consistent without support, his organs like heart and kidneys are functioning normally and all other parameters are also fine, he said. "His music therapy is ongoing and we are also planning to read out books to him to make him feel better. This may help in psychological stimulation in the brain," the doctor said. Chatterjee has not developed any new complication and does not have a fever, he said. "We are reasonably sure he will recover from this deadly disease and in the coming four to five days, he will be in a much better state," Kar added. The critically acclaimed actor, who has worked with renowned filmmakers like Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha and Tarun Mazumdar, was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was shifted to the ITU after his condition deteriorated. Chatterjee had tested negative for the infection on Wednesday, after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Deb’s album of Tagore songs set for January debut||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb on Sunday announced that he had sung eight Tagore songs for an album slated for a January 1, 2021 release. He also released the teaser of his album titled “E Jibon Punya Karo” at an event in Siliguri. “Through this album, we have tried to put forth a message of harmony in these troubled times,” Deb said. The album also has legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s recitations at intervals. Deb added that he had always been an avid listener of Rabindrasangeet but was convinced to take up singing by his Calcutta-based mentor, Aninda Sankar Majumdar. “He mentored me and convinced me to take up the challenge of singing. The entire credit goes to him,” said Deb at the event. Known for his proactive attitude in the field of administration and politics, Deb said that since November last year, he had been taking music lessons from Majumdar. “Since March this year, because of the pandemic, we have at times thought of stopping the entire project. But as things gradually started getting (somewhat) normal, we decided to go ahead,” said Deb. While this would be Deb’s maiden musical album, Chatterjee’s recitations make it an added treat. Chatterjee, who recently contracted the novel coronavirus, is under treatment in Calcutta. The teaser suggests that the album was shot in the picturesque locales of Darjeeling hills and the lush greens of the Dooars. “Making the album is just the beginning of a new journey for me,” said an emotional Deb. “It is like a transformation and taking refuge in Tagore. Through this album, we have tried to put forth a message of harmony in these troubled times. If everything goes fine, we will definitely try more such creative experiences in future,” he added. Along with the album, the minister, who is one of the senior political leaders of north Bengal, has started recording his experiences in politics, an arena in which he stepped as a young man back in 1975. “It is not an autobiography as such but I want to have a record of my experiences in politics,” said Deb. Subires Bhattacharyya, the vice-chancellor of North Bengal University who was present on the occasion, appreciated the album. “For someone remaining busy in political and administrative activities most of the time, it needs courage to explore a new avenue. What the minister did deserves appreciation,” said Bhattacharyya. In recent times, the most famous politician from Bengal who sings is Babul Supriyo. The Bollywood playback singer — with hits like Hum Tum to his credit — joined the BJP to win the Lok Sabha seat from Asansol. Supriyo is now a junior Union minister too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP yet to get a puja for Modi’s address||BJP leaders in Bengal are still hunting for puja mandaps for the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech to the people of the state on October 22 as most organisers are refusing to install giant screens or monitors. “Most of the puja committees are refusing to let us install giant screens or monitors.… We had plans to get a maximum number of puja committees on board for the programme. But that hasn’t happened at least till now,” said a BJP state leader. The BJP central leadership had instructed the state unit to use the puja mandaps for Modi’s address on October 22. “Our district leaders are informing us that the puja committees are rejecting our proposal... Most of these puja committees have taken the grant of Rs 50,000 from the state government and that’s acting as a deterrent,” said another state BJP leader. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the state government would give a grant of Rs 50,000 to each Puja. Besides, she also announced a waiver of 50 per cent on electricity rates and complete waiver of fees that civic bodies and the fire brigade charge from puja committees. Sources in the state government said around 50,000 puja committees had already availed themselves of the package. “The government’s largesse for the organisers has taken away the advantage we gained during last year’s puja,” said a BJP leader. After the BJP won 18 Lok Sabha seats in the general election, party leaders inaugurated hundreds of Pujas last tear. But this year, most of the pujas have gone back to the Trinamul fold. A BJP leader in Hooghly recounted that party MP Locket Chatterjee had inaugurated 56 Durga Pujas in Hooghly alone last year. “We haven’t received a single invitation for inauguration so far this year. It seems the puja organisers are maintaining a distance from us... Against this backdrop, you can imagine how difficult it is for us to convince them to install giant screen or monitors for the PM’s programme,” the Hooghly BJP leader said. The Hooghly district president of the BJP, Gautam Chatterjee, however, tried to put up a brave face and said the party was still hopeful of getting on board at least 100 puja committees to telecast Modi’s address. BJP leaders in other districts like Birbhum and East Burdwan said they were facing resistance from Trinamul in getting the puja mandaps for the October 22 address. “Trinamul always tries to stop any event of the BJP and this time, it is with money,” said Shyamapada Mondal, BJP’s Birbhum president. Trinamul leaders said the decision by the chief minister to inaugurate pujas in districts also helped the party push the BJP away from the inauguration scene. “We know that BJP is contacting puja committees with requests to telecast Narendra Modi’s speech. But no committees are agreeing as they love their chief minister,” said Asish Banerjee, the state agriculture minister. He added that he and his other colleagues are flooded with invitations for inauguration pujas this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,983 cases and 64 deaths||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,983 Covid-19 cases, which took the total number of patients past 3.21 lakh and dragged the recovery rate further down to 87.55 per cent. The maximum number of patients for a 24-hour period was reset for the 15th time in October on Sunday, the day on which the cases crossed 3,900 for the first time. The state also reported 64 deaths from the pathogen on Sunday, the third time to record the highest number of fatalities. The toll from the pandemic crossed 6,000 to touch 6,056. Bengal minister of state for labour Nirmal Maji tested positive for Covid-19. Maji, 59, a physician, tested positive on Saturday evening, barely a month after an attack of cerebral haemorrhage. Maji is the 10th minister to contract the novel coronavirus. North Bengal development minister Rabindra Nath Ghosh, minister of state for parliamentary affairs Tapas Roy, minister of state for Sunderbans affairs Manturam Pakhira, transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, backward classes welfare minister Binay Barman, food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick, fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had been detected with the pathogen earlier. “Ten ministers make up 23 per cent of the cabinet whose total strength is 44,” said the senior minister. Over 20 Trinamul Congress lawmakers, who include the 10 ministers, form over half of the 40-odd Bengal MLAs infected with the novel coronavirus. Six MPs from the state have also contracted the disease. They are Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury (Malda South) of the Congress, Dilip Ghosh (Midnapore), Locket Chatterjee (Hooghly), Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat), Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri) — all from the BJP — and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Covid-19 has also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, besides Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das, Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh and Indas MLA Gurupada Mete. With 43,520 tests logged on Sunday, the total number of swab samples recorded on Sunday went past 39.91 lakh and tests per million people are 44,347. The renewed surge in the cases has caused the positive confirmation rate to rise again, over the past week or so, to 8.04 per cent now. Of the total 6,056 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,984, with 13 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,374 deaths, 17 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 5,125 deaths (84.6 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.88, substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. The state reported 37.32 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals. Besides, there have been 3.47 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Army veterans from Nepal face citizenship poser||Born in Nepal, a retired subedar (name withheld on request) who served in the Gorkha regiment of the Indian Army for 28 years is increasingly feeling “stateless”. “I was born in a village near Pokhara (Nepal) and was recruited in the Indian Gorkha regiment as a youth. I have no family members in Nepal, no ties left there, as I have spent my life in India and my family is settled here. But I have nothing here, too,” the retired subedar said. A 1950 Indo-Nepal treaty allows citizens of both the countries to move freely and settle in each other’s territory. But many Gorkha jawans who were born in Nepal and served the Indian Army for decades feel “stateless” after they retire. There’s nothing to go back to in Nepal and the process of getting Indian citizenship is cumbersome, they say. After India gained Independence in 1947, an agreement generally called “Tripartite Agreement (TPA)” was signed the same year among the UK, India and Nepal, in which Nepal agreed to allow Gorkha troops in the armies of UK and India. Following the agreement, six out of 10 Gorkha regiments became part of Indian Army and the remaining four went with the British army. After the agreement, however, some Gorkha soldiers refused to join the British Army. To retain them, the Indian Army made the decision to raise the 11 Gorkha Rifles. Even though the TPA states that the Gorkha soldier must be recruited and must serve and be resettled as Nepal citizen, the British government allows personnel who have served for at least four years to settle in Britain (read: indefinite leave to remain) automatically and be naturalised as British citizens under law. While applying for citizenship in India, various documents like foreign passports are needed to be submitted to the Union home ministry. But a retired Captain born in Nepal who served for 34 years in the Indian Army said most jawans do not possess the passport. “We do not know what our future holds. We served the army as Indians....the bullets fired by the enemies never made a distinction (between soldiers of Nepal origin and Indians).” All he wanted now, he said, was a simplification of the process to get Indian citizenship. Colonel (retired) Keshab Rai, former secretary, Darjeeling Sainik Zilla Board, agreed with the retired Captain. “A simplified process to grant Indian citizenship rather than the normal cumbersome citizenship process should be facilitated for those jawans who want to settle in India. The process should start during the last year of their service,” said Colonel (retd) Rai. The retired Colonel added that most of these jawans were poorly educated and unaware of the process to apply for citizenship. “This is a growing problem…there a few thousand jawans facing this problem in our region,” he said, adding the lack of proper Indian citizenship deprives the jawans from enrolling with the Sainik Board, losing out on facilities, official recognition and education scholarship. Colonel (retd) Rai  made a strong case for the Indian government to simplify the process of granting Indian citizenship to such army personnel as “they spent their lives swearing by the Indian flag and anthem”. “The jawans are recruited at young ages, they spend anything between 17 and 34 years (depending on rank) in India and when they retire they prefer to stay in India because they have nothing left in Nepal,” he said. “Most of them are stateless persons...they languish as persons with no proper nationality even after having served in the Indian army for a long period of time. Their documents of Nepal are useless and they have no proper Indian documents.” Under the Indian Army, Gorkhas have served in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Siachen, and in the UN peacekeeping missions in Lebanon, Sudan and Sierra Leone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||DSP helps youths crack interview ||Chandan Das, the deputy superintendent of police (traffic) of Cooch Behar, is a happy man. As many as 55 of his “students” could succeed in the interview conducted to recruit constables in the Bengal state police force. For the past few months, Das had gone beyond the call of duty to guide a group of youths who were preparing for the final leg of the recruitment process, that is, the interview. Last Friday, he was pleasantly surprised to find many of his “students” in front of his office near Sagardighi of Cooch Behar town. Beaming broadly, they felicitated Das with a bouquet, cake and chocolates, as they told him that they had passed the interview and would be recruited as constables. One of them, Sourav Chakraborty, 22, said being a cop had been his childhood dream. “I had passed in the prelims, in physical fitness and in the main (of the recruitment exam). Then I had to wait for the interview. While waiting, I learnt that DSP (traffic) Sir is training some youths for interviews. I joined, and now because of his guidance my dream has come true,” he said. He and his friends said Das had held mock interviews and guided them on how to handle different and difficult questions calmly and confidently. Sources said that written exams were held last February and final interviews in August and September. Das, when asked about his unique initiative, said he had trained around 70-odd youths for the interview. “I helped them improve their confidence, guided their reading and showed them how to first judge a question, think it over and then answer. The mock tests, I believe, helped them. It gives me a good feeling as most of these boys are from economically weaker families,” the traffic DSP said. In Cooch Behar, the district police in July last year opened “Chila Roy Pathshala”, a training centre for job aspirants preparing for competitive exams. Das trained the youths at the centre located in district police lines. “The idea is to encourage youths and train them so that they can succeed in competitive exams. It is good that a batch of youths have proved their mettle,” said Cooch Behar district police chief Md Sana Akhtar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Women join hands for haat||Some women in Siliguri have joined hands to sell an array of products that they make themselves for extra earnings at a time the country is reeling under an economic crisis. Last week, they met at a community building for an exhibition-cum-sale of their products, which include garments, handicraft, jewellery, food items, handmade candles and colourful clay lamps. Christened the Rupang Dehi urban haat, the idea was to bring in buyers who can choose from a variety of products at one place and simultaneously create scope for each of the women to earn. “During the lockdown, I found so many women good at craft but do not find a place to sell their products. This made me float a campaign on social media. The campaign worked and many talented women contacted us. In fact, some left us amazed with the quality of their products, say handmade chocolates, and their dexterity. We drew up a plan under BRISK Educare and Culture, a community I had floated, to take up the task of bringing them together and connect to buyers,” said elocutionist Paramita Dasgupta, who initiated the endeavour. Paramita, who also teaches at a college, then started contacting the women who “responded spontaneously”. This made her plan “Rupang Dehi” on October 10 and 11. A community hall was chosen and participants were asked to come with their products for display and sale. “Each of those who participated showcased displayed and sold different products. It had the real essence of a ‘haat’ (a village market) and we could get a good number of buyers,” added Paramita. The response of buyers, who came to know about the haat from social media, has bolstered the confidence of the women, she added. “We want to continue the initiative,” Paramita signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja alert in pandemic year||Senior officials of the administration and state health department have alerted people to adhere to Covid-19 protocols during Durga Puja. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty on Covid deputed by the state government in north Bengal, warned pandal-hoppers not to become lax. “We have started random rapid antigen tests in marketplaces (to test for Covid). Mobile testing kiosk vans are moving through north Bengal districts and tests are being carried out randomly. The idea is to isolate Covid positive patients before Durga Puja. However, if people keep crowding at different places ahead of and during the festival, there is always a chance that positive cases will steadily increase. There is no space for leniency,” said Roy. “We are in touch with Durga Puja organisers and asking them to maintain Covid norms,” Roy added. On Friday, administrative officials and those in the health department held a meeting here to assess the situation and draw up plans to make necessary preparations ahead of the festivities. In Darjeeling district, sources said that the positive rate was 14.92 per cent, slightly on the higher side. “If people don’t take care of the Covid norms during the festivities, the positive rate will surely go up,” a source said. The health department, sources said, has made preparations to handle extra patients. In Siliguri, there are 484 beds at the Covid hospitals of which 114 beds are on standby. There are 186 CCU beds in Darjeeling district with another 88 beds recently added. In all, 197 ventilators are available for critical patients to which 88 more will be added. “We have an adequate number of doctors, nurses and health workers but still we do not want anyone to come to the hospital,” Roy said, underlining the need for caution during festivities. Administrative and police officers are worried about the extent to which the safety alert would work, because in places such as Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and Malda, thousands move in from other towns, villages of Bengal and from neighbouring states of Bihar and Assam for pandal-hopping. “There is no curb on peoples’ movement. If people keep on coming to Siliguri to visit pandals, we don’t know what to do (to contain the spread of Covid). With overcrowding, there is always a risk that Covid cases would rise,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Nadda visit to focus on north Bengal seats||All eyes are on Siliguri now, thanks to the scheduled whirlwind visit of BJP national president J.P. Nadda here on Monday. A number of frontline leaders of the party and central leaders tasked with consolidating the BJP’ support base in Bengal, party MPs and MLAs have started congregating in Siliguri from Sunday. Elaborate arrangements are being made at a hotel off NH31 on the northeast end of the city where Nadda will address party leaders and workers and is likely to share strategies for securing most seats in north Bengal in next year’s crucial Assembly polls. In all, there are 54 Assembly seats and eight Lok Sabha seats in the region. At the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had secure seven seats and manage a lead in 38 Assembly segments. Trinamul, which could not bag even one Parliament seat from the belt, gained a lead in 12 Assembly segments. The Congress got a lead in four. A political observer said that since then, the BJP leadership had consistently focused on north Bengal. “The party wants to retain the leads in these 38 seats and increase the number of seats in the Assembly elections. Trinamul, on the other hand, is desperate to revive its support base. At this point, Monday’s meeting is significant as it is expected that the BJP president will unveil plans before party leaders and workers to perform better,” said a political observer. The observer pointed that Trinamul had started playing the development card again to woo voters from areas such as the tea belt and the Rajbanshi-dominated stretch. Nadda, party sources said, will reach Naukaghat More in southern parts of the city, from the airport. There, he will pay homage to Panchanan Burma, considered the most revered statesman of the Rajbanshi community. From there, he will visit a local Kali temple and then reach the meeting venue. He will leave for Delhi late in the afternoon. That the BJP will sharpen its political attack on the Mamata Banerjee government and her party and try and drum up support in the tea belt is evident from recent visits of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, to the tea gardens of the Terai belt or gardens on the outer reaches of Siliguri. On Sunday, Bista visited Putinbari, Fulbari and Hansqua tea estates. Here, Bista met people and slammed the state government for poor road connectivity to these gardens. “Putinbari is hardly 10 to 12km from Siliguri and it was shocking to see people there do not have any road connectivity. There is a river midway and people here use tractors to cross it. During rainy season, over 5,000 people who live in the adjoining areas remain completely cut off from Siliguri. A bridge had collapsed years back and no initiative was taken by the state to rebuild it,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||12km march to protest delay in river cleansing||Over 1,000 fishermen and nature activists from four blocks of Basirhat took out a 12km march on Sunday to protest the alleged administrative apathy to begin the long-awaited cleansing of the polluted Bidyadhari river. The protesters said the National Green Tribunal had last year ordered the cleansing of the Bidyadhari, along with 351 other polluted rivers. Despite the approval of a grant by the Centre, the work is yet to begin. Fishermen from Sandeshkhali, Hansnabad, Minakha and Haroa blocks gathered at Malancha on the Basanti Highway under the banners of the Bidyadhari Nadi Bachao Committee and the Dakshingan Matsyajibi Forum to start the march, which concluded at the Kulti crossing near Haroa. The fishermen said it had become a serious livelihood issue for them as the alleged pollution caused by the Bantala leather complex had been depleting several kinds of fish from the river. “Around 10,000 families in the four blocks are solely dependent on fishing. But because of the pollution in this long stretch, several species of fish have disappeared,” said a fisherman from Haroa who joined the protest march. An approximate 40km stretch of the Bidyadhari, from Haroa to Sandeshkhali, is polluted largely because of the alleged draining of industrial waste from the leather complex. “The leather complex authorities never realised they had been draining the poison into the river, not only endangering the riverine life forms but also robbing these people of their livelihood,” said Gopesh Patra, a Trinamul Congress leader who is also the convener of the committee. Last year, the National Green Tribunal directed state governments to ensure cent per cent treatment of sewage before release into river streams. The tribunal also directed the state government to begin installation of such treatment plants for sewerage and connecting drains by March 31, 2020 “After the order of the tribunal, the Centre had sanctioned Rs 4.5 crore for the work on a 20km stretch of the Bidyadhari. The state government was supposed to carry out the work, which is yet to begin,” said Patra. “We came to know that the state public health engineering department would do the work,” he added. A public health engineering department official in Calcutta said the detailed project report for the work has been finalised and sent for vetting. “We are hopeful of being able to begin the work soon.” A spokesperson for the Calcutta Leather Complex Tanners’ Association dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. “We have been adhering to the standard operating procedure from the state government and the state pollution control board. Had we not done so, they would have shut us down by now,” he said. Rakhal Halder, a fisherman from Haroa, said: “We want the state government to take care of the issue and ensure the work begins at the earliest, to save the river, to help us overcome the livelihood crisis.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP’s own puja widens rift  in party||The rift in the Bengal BJP appears to have widened over the decision to organise a Durga Puja this year, with one faction busy with the arrangements and another apparently disinterested in the event. While all puja meetings have been convened by the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, the absence of the party’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh — even before he was taken ill with Covid-19 — and general-secretary (organisation) Subrata Chatterjee has become a talking point at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane. “Dilipda and Subratada are seemingly unhappy with how Kailashji has been calling the shots about the Puja. In fact, Mukulda’s (Roy) involvement also didn’t go down well with them,” a BJP source said on condition of anonymity. “The idea to organise a full-fledged Puja came from Kailashji himself, but neither Dilipda nor Subratada was consulted for their opinion. All this has made the tussles between the Dilip-Subrata and Kailash-Mukul camps more palpable,” he added. Roy, the former de facto Number Two of Trinamul Congress, was made national vice-president of the party. This source also pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s nod to inaugurate the puja showed that the plan had the approval of the party’s highest ranks. “It is a sign that the central leadership is slowly taking over the reins of the state unit, rendering the state leadership virtually insignificant. Of course, the state leadership isn’t very happy with this,” he said. Ghosh, in a recent news conference, said the BJP wasn’t involved in organising any Durga Puja. However, contradicting him directly, other party leaders went ahead with the planning of the event, to be held at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, run by the Union ministry of culture. Sources said Ghosh was aware of the initial plan to hold a single-day cultural event on October 22, with the possibility of an address by Modi. “The change in the plan wasn’t communicated to Dilipda, which did not go down well with him,” said a senior party leader who was at the venue on Sunday evening to oversee the puja preparations. On Sunday, another Trinamul turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, looking after the erection of the pandal, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee were present at the venue to inspect the preparations. Dutta is a known Roy acolyte and the other two are known for testy ties with the Ghosh lobby. “We are very excited about the event. The theme for our puja is an old zamindar house,” Chatterjee said. She confirmed danseuse Dona Ganguly, wife of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, would perform there on October 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-338
19-10-2020||West Bengal||Kamtapuri study books sent for approval ||The Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy constituted by the state government has readied study books of all subjects which are taught at state-aided primary schools of Bengal in Kamtapuri language. The books were sent to the state government for approval while requesting introduction of Kamtapuri as a medium of instruction at pre-primary and primary classes at schools in the Rajbanshi belts of the state. On Saturday, members of the academy held a meeting in Jalpaiguri, where they also said they had used Bengali script for the books. In north Bengal, it is a longstanding demand of the Rajbanshi population to start primary education in Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi) languages. “We have carried out studies and have found out that several centuries ago, Kamtapuri languages had a different script. But for some reason or other, that script was not preserved and it would take years of research to collate the script. Also, we need to have software of the script for academic and other works like software of other languages. That is why we have decided to use Bengali script for the books,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. He said in total, 33 books of different subjects from pre-primary till Class IV had been prepared and submitted to the state government for scrutiny. “It is necessary to check out the books to affirm that those are in consonance with the syllabus that is followed in primary schools. We are hopeful that from next academic year, Kamtapuri language would be introduced as a medium of instruction in some schools,” Rehman added. On Saturday, the academy members unveiled a book on the grammar of Kamtapuri language that has been written by Dharmanarayan Burma, a prominent researcher. The official magazine of the academy was also published on this occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-339
19-10-2020||Opinion||Heroic tales of Frederick Walter Champion||Sir — It was an absolute pleasure reading Mahesh Rangarajan’s “The other hero” (Oct 12). As long back as in the earlier 1900s, the far-sighted Frederick Walter Champion’s photographic adventures to record and truly highlight the cause of the Indian tiger, among other predators, were path-breaking. This led to governmental recognition of the problems faced by these big cats and Project Tiger was launched by Indira Gandhi. The need to conserve fauna and flora cannot be overemphasized, more so now when we are faced with the prospect of recurring pandemics and natural calamities resulting from the wanton destruction of animal habitats, overconsumption and our ever expanding demands on natural resources. I wish the likes of Rangarajan to keep flagging these warning signs so that something can be done about them. Shibaprasad Deb,Calcutta Sir — I had the privilege of visiting the Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand in 2017, and what a memorable trip that was. It was my first tiger sighting in the wild. I had known about the master hunter and later conservator and spine-chilling storyteller of the man eaters of Kumaon, Jim Corbett. But thanks to Rangarajan, I learnt that there was another conservator working behind the lens under the shadow of Corbett — Frederick Walter Champion, the little-known hero of the wild. After my visit to the tiger reserve, I came to know in a news report that a tiger had turned into a man-eater and that the half eaten body of a forest guide had been found. That was indeed tragic news and a rare one in a tiger reserve. I have also been to the Sunderbans where there are man-eaters in abundance but unfortunately I could not see one. Later I had been to the foothills of the Himalayas where I got to see a leopard in the wild but the tiger always eluded me. Until I got to see one in the Corbett Tiger Reserve. I owe this experience to my guide and jeep chauffeur whose thorough knowledge about the routes of the jungle and animal habits helped us get a sighting of the big cat. These people are no less than the likes of Corbett and Champion, who work on the ground with the animals. One would be pleased that even today conservationists like them exist who make tourists like me aware of the fact that the land belongs equally to wild animals and humans. It is we who venture into their territory and occupy their zone making them blood-thirsty. Let us let them live in their own habitat and let the ecological balance be. Alok Ganguly,Kalyani Sir — Mahesh Rangarajan’s piece was enlightening to say the least. The work of the likes of F.W. Champion needs to be highlighted because it holds extreme importance for the present crisis facing the ecology. Ronita Biswas,Bolpur Wasted bounty Sir — A new trend among vloggers is going to restaurants and challenging themselves to finish large platters of food. What, one wonders, happens to all the food that they do not finish? Moreover, why would a restaurant serve 100 dishes as one meal? Even a large group of people would not be able to finish this amount of food amongst themselves. At a time when thousands are going hungry, such wastage seems criminal. Rishi Pathak,Gurgaon||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Scissor hands: A new era of genetics||The Nobel Prize for chemistry signals the ushering in of a “new epoch”. The CRISPR/Cas9 ‘genetic scissors’, discovered by Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer A. Doudna, indeed have the potential of vast medical applications, from curing genetic diseases, detecting and treating cancers and HIV by blocking replication in human cells, bioengineering new crops and plants, eliminating malaria, to editing DNA in live human embryos. But as scientists embark on this “new epoch” of genetic engineering, past challenges — not only medical but also ethical — must serve as a warning. Any initiative to eradicate flaws in the physiological form must recall the grievous wrongs perpetrated by government-sponsored eugenics programmes in the United States of America, Canada and, most significantly, Germany. From 1909-1979, around 20,000 sterilizations took place in California’s state mental institutions under the guise of protecting society from the offspring of people with mental illness. This perverse obsession to purge imperfection was not very different from the Nazi regime’s experiments to create a ‘pure race’. Prisoners in concentration camps were forced to undergo horrific medical tests to realize this grand vision. The question of consent was, of course, sacrificed. The temptation of playing god for future generations, that too without the knowledge of long-term consequences, has proved to be irresistible to certain regimes. Yet there is also a strong case to not delay gene research given the suffering and death brought about by a number of single-gene disorders. Cystic fibrosis and Huntington’s disease can be cited as two examples. The challenge, therefore, is to find the right balance between medicine and ethics. Germany, it seems, has found a way by taking lessons from the past. Last year, a German Ethics Council, while admitting the benefits of gene editing, called for a moratorium on gene-edited IVF embryos until such a point that suitable guidelines can be established, including international monitoring procedures and governance structures. More than 40 countries have passed similar laws against human germline editing. Some others, such as the US, are trying to regulate covert research by controlling the purse strings. But regulatory mechanisms have their own limitations. Scientific discoveries evolve faster than progressive legislation; human gene editing is, therefore, unlikely to remain contained by regulatory limits. Its adoption, goaded by a market hungry for the wonders of eugenics, would exacerbate discrimination and conflict. Genetic heritage is a public resource. Neither science nor the State has the right to tweak it without representative consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Poison ivy: India's communal ethic||The communal ethic, just like cancer, can be made to proliferate with ease. It spares none of the organs that constitute the body politic of a republic. New India seems to be a chilling example of such a metastasis. Three different but key spheres — business, security and health — witnessed yet another assault by the forces of bigotry recently. An advertisement endorsing the idea of interfaith marriage was forcefully dropped — the jewellery brand had to apologize for the commercial — because the projection of pluralism, the bedrock of Indian constitutionalism, apparently hurt the sentiments of the majority community. The army — its commitment to secularism, much like its pledge to bravery, is beyond reproach — was targeted next, with social media disseminating an outrageously falsified account of a ‘Muslim regiment’ — the Indian army has never had such a formation — refusing to take part in the war against Pakistan in 1965. Meanwhile, one of the top hospitals in Uttar Pradesh — arguably India’s most polarized state — is reportedly asking patients whether they participated in the Tablighi Jamaat conclave as part of its Covid-19 screening mechanism. It is true that these transgressions have not gone uncontested. A number of army veterans have written to the president, for instance, seeking redressal against the wilful falsification of the history and the dignity of this heroic institution. Two of India’s principal advertisement bodies have denounced the vilification of the commercial by vested interests. But it has to be admitted that the outrage against majoritarianism is yet to acquire a truly public dimension. If this were the case, India’s current regime, the alleged patron of such a deeply divisive agenda, would not have been re-elected with a brutal majority. The guardians of the Constitution — the courts, the media and other institutions — have, in the last six years, had their task cut out when it comes to defending constitutional principles given the unprecedented pressure that has been brought upon the fabric of inclusion. It cannot be said that they have carried out their responsibilities with distinction in every case. But institutional fidelity to the vision of India’s founding fathers is only one aspect of the unfolding challenge. Another formidable goal is to mobilize public opinion against these orchestrated depredations on cohesion. A divided people, history has shown repeatedly, only end up deepening the fault lines within the nation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||French allure: New Caledonia referendum||On October 4, New Caledonia voted to remain French by a majority of 53.3 per cent to 46.7 per cent. That’s hardly an overwhelming majority, but it was the second referendum in two years to reject independence in the South Pacific archipelago, so we may take it as a done deal. The odd thing is that almost three-quarters of the islands’ 2,70,000 people are not of European descent. They are ‘Kanaks’ (descended from the original Melanesian inhabitants), other Pacific islanders, or Asians, but a substantial proportion of them want to remain citizens of a European country more than 16,000 kilometres away. Yet it’s not unique. While the other powers of western Europe gave all their colonies independence more than a generation ago, France stays on not only in the South Pacific (New Caledonia and French Polynesia) but in Africa (Mayotte and Réunion), in the Caribbean (Martinique and Guadeloupe) and in South America (French Guiana). It does so with the approval of the local inhabitants, although nowhere are ethnic French people a majority. What is the mysterious allure of being French that persuades so many non-Europeans to vote in favour of living in ‘overseas departments’ of France itself? A large part of the allure is spelled M-O-N-E-Y. If you live in an overseas department of France, then you get a good, free education and a French level of public and social services. Per capita income in New Caledonia is ten times that in other nearby island nations like Fiji, Vanuatu, Samoa, and the Solomon Islands. It’s the same in the Caribbean. Guadeloupe and Martinique, each with around 4,00,000 people, have GDPs per capita of $25-27,000; the two nearest ex-British islands, Dominica and St. Lucia, are in the $7-10,000 range. And French Guiana has the highest per capita income in all of South America (albeit largely because it hosts the EU’s main spaceport). Most startling of all is the Comoros Islands, north of Madagascar. Three of the four main islands voted for independence in a 1974 referendum. The fourth island, Mayotte, voted to stay with France then, and chose full ‘overseas department’ status by a 95.5 per cent majority in another referendum in 2009. The proudly independent ‘Union of the Comoros’, one million people strong, has a GDP per capita of $1,400. Mayotte’s is ten times as high, and half of its quarter-million people are illegal immigrants from the other islands. The African Union still insists that Mayotte’s status is illegal, because it didn’t decolonize with the other islands, but the Mahorais aren’t interested, especially since the Union of the Comoros is also the world capital of military coups. They also don’t seem to mind that traditional Islamic law is now being replaced by the French civil code (or at least the female half of the population doesn’t). It makes perfectly good sense for a New Caledonian or a Réunionnais to trade in the doubtful blessings of impoverished small-state nationhood for the citizenship of a first-world country and access to all its benefits, without even having to leave home. And if you do want to leave home, you can move to France (as many do) or anywhere else in the European Union, for that matter. The real puzzle is: what’s in it for the French? It’s certainly not economic gain: the subsidies France pays far outweigh any profits it might get from privileged access to the limited resources of these small territories. The benefits for France are almost all psychological. Most other European empires were run as pragmatic business ventures. If the colonies are not turning a profit any more, perhaps because they are getting too expensive to control, then walk away and leave them to their own devices. France had a bigger emotional investment in empire, perhaps because it was in steady decline from being the greatest European power in the 18th century to a much humbler status today. It’s willing to pay for the privilege of having small bits of France in other continents. Who could criticise the residents of those places for taking advantage of this foible?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
19-10-2020||Opinion||Welcome to the ugly show: Trump vs Biden||The first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Joe Biden, his challenger from the Democratic Party, often descended to such a level that many commentators called it “unwatchable”. Chris Wallace, the moderator, also thought that it was “a terrible missed opportunity”. According to The Washington Post, the candidates interrupted Wallace or each other 90 times in the 90-minute debate, of which 71 interruptions were by Trump. Many viewers were surprised by the brawl-like exchanges. But were they really unanticipated? Four years ago, things had turned ugly during the first debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton in New York. The first presidential debate, between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, drew over 66 million viewers out of a population of 179 million. An estimated 73.1 million people tuned in to the chaotic Trump-Biden face-off, down from the 84 million who had watched the first debate between Trump and Clinton in 2016. Yet, the Trump-Biden debate ranked as the second-most-watched event this year, behind only the Super Bowl’s roughly 100 million viewers. In spite of numerous attempts, Wallace, the Fox News anchor, failed to control Trump. One wonders what would have happened if there had been no moderator at all. The seven debates in 1858 between Abraham Lincoln and Senator Stephen A. Douglas — the precursor to today’s presidential debates — were held without a moderator. The candidates took turns to open each debate with a one-hour speech; the rival had one-and-a-half hour for rebuttal and, finally, the first candidate closed the debate with a half-an-hour response. In his 1950 book, Persuasive Speaking, the American author and an authority on public speaking, Robert T. Oliver, wrote: “Persuasion is the civilized substitute for harsh authority and ruthless force.” Has the culture of debating become uncivilized in this age of post-truth? The first presidential debate in American history, the one between Kennedy and Nixon in Chicago in 1960, had been moderated by Howard K. Smith. In it, neither of the two candidates had interrupted each other, hurled personal insults or questioned each other’s mental fitness or loyalty to the nation. Even as recently as 2012, the first debate between President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney witnessed few disruptions: Obama interrupted Romney seven times, Romney returned the favour four times. Obama interrupted the moderator, Jim Lehrer, five times, whereas Lehrer was interrupted by Romney 12 times. However, things changed in 2016. The New York Times says that Trump interrupted Clinton 39 times while she interrupted him eight times in the New York debate. It was widely argued that interruptions were part of Trump’s debate strategy. It seems that his strategy has remained unchanged. Interruptions, a barrage of insults, bullying, and name-calling between two senior politicians were the chief highlights of the much-hyped Trump-Biden Cleveland show. Most people found it utterly tasteless. After the first debate between Trump and Biden dissolved into chaos, the Commission on Presidential Debates felt that “additional structure should be added to the format of the remaining debates to ensure a more orderly discussion of the issues.” Debate is a way of persuasion. The ancient Greeks called it the ‘science of rhetoric’. Plato was opposed to rhetoric in favour of dialectic, but his pragmatic student, Aristotle, defined rhetoric as the “faculty of discovering in the particular case all the available means of persuasion.” In his book, Post-Truth Rhetoric and Composition, Bruce McComiskey of the University of Alabama at Birmingham framed ‘post-truth’ within rhetorical theory, referring to the classic triad of logos, ethos, and pathos. Language has become purely strategic in this post-truth order. With the foundation of mutual respect eroded, the Trump-Biden presidential debates might be an occasion to reframe the theory of post-truth rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
19-10-2020||Opinion||Remote control||The news broadcasting business is under the scanner, and on the face of it, it looks like we are at a tipping point for the industry. The Supreme Court and high courts are examining news broadcasts even as complaints and public interest litigations are being filed. Advertisers are speaking out on the tenor of news shows — something they rarely do — and suggesting that they will not put their ads on ‘toxic’ programmes. A Bollywood fraternity of 34 producers and four industry associations has filed a civil suit that seeks to restrain news channels from making derogatory and defamatory remarks against their members and conducting media trials. All this over the last two months. A TV ratings scandal has broken out simultaneously and a carefully nurtured media culture of dog-does-not-eat-dog is showing cracks. TV anchors are naming rival channels with alacrity in the rating scam. But are the scrutiny and the pushback enough to make TV news less toxic? And for how long? The Broadcast Audience Research Council, the TV viewership measurement body, has responded by suspending weekly ratings until the problems are addressed. There have been ratings scams before, but corruption has few permanent solutions. As for content and what drives it, understanding what was driving the Sushant Singh Rajput story helps locate where the problem really lies. Regulation cannot work if it is subverted by the government of the day, the ruling party, and the social media forces they deploy. The TV channels that have been identified as culprits are part of the strategy. So when the courts ask the government again and again why there is no regulation or why it is not working, what is getting missed is that it suits the government’s purpose to not enforce it. If the distinction between free speech and hate speech is getting blurred, that too suits the government’s purpose. Two pieces of research, which have emerged in recent weeks, establish the drivers for the frenzy the country has witnessed since an actor committed suicide. The first study called Anatomy of a Rumour: Social media and the suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput examined data from Twitter, YouTube, and an archive of debunked misinformation stories to locate patterns. They found that retweet rates on Twitter clearly suggested that those who commented benefited from talking about the case. It got higher engagement than other topics. More significantly, they found that politicians, in particular, began to change the course of the discourse by referring to the case as ‘murder’ rather than ‘suicide’. One of the authors, Joyojeet Pal, an associate professor at the University of Michigan, writes that although depression and mental health were central to the discussions right after the actor’s suicide in June, as time went by, conspiracy-related topics became more prominent and the Bharatiya Janata Party was much more aggressive than the Congress in discussing murder rather than suicide. Simultaneously, the Bollywood industry became a central focus of trolling, with the trolls declaring themselves nationalists. One piece of misinformation put out suggested a Pakistani hand and the presence of Dawood Ibrahim among Bollywood stars. TV stories were part of the ammunition. The study suggests that viewers were drawn in by the story of an outsider making it in the difficult world of show business before his tragic end and rewarded news channels for following this story. It also tracks Republic TV’s aggressive coverage following the conspiracy angle suggested by the ruling party, and the meteoric viewership ratings that it got. The Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government got their share of attention, which suited the BJP’s political agenda. “The local police was proposed as incompetent, or in cahoots with the cabal, the state government itself was presented as nepotistic and inimical to the interests of poor outsiders.” The researchers looked at online groups claiming to seek justice for Sushant Singh Rajput and found “a heady mix of ultranationalism, casteism, distrust of Muslims, and misogyny.” Their study also found that the parliamentarian, Subramanian Swamy, became the most popular Twitter handle in wordclouds of trolls. A second study gives a clear sense of the intensity of the in-studio pursuit of personalities. Two researchers filed an intervention application last week in the Sudarshan News case, which is before the Supreme Court. They used broadcasts by two of the anchors named in the Bollywood suit to document media trials. Their measurement of airtime in news broadcasts says that 65 per cent of the total debates conducted by Arnab Goswami (of Republic TV) in the six weeks from July 31 to September 15, 2020 and 69 per cent of the total debates conducted by Navika Kumar (of Times Now) in the 14-plus weeks from June 16 to October 6, 2020 were on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case in spite of Covid-19, a struggling economy, and the border stand-off with China. These are the same channels and journalists named in the Bollywood civil suit filed in the Delhi High Court last week for derogatory and defamatory remarks against their members. Neither of them attracted any regulatory attention from the laws that are already in place, including the Cable TV Networks regulation. In September, when the Supreme Court was looking at the Bindas Bol show on Sudarshan News, which was airing the series called UPSC Jihad, again there was no evidence of the Cable TV Act being deployed against the channel although the show clearly violated a number of its provisions. While Amul withdrew advertising from the show, the UP government did not. The information and broadcasting ministry has a history of resorting to arbitrary bans to penalize channels for specific offences. Neither Sudarshan TV nor Zee TV, which ran a series on different kinds of jihad earlier this year, has been penalized with bans by the ministry. But it did order a ban on two Kerala channels earlier this year for their coverage of the Delhi riots. It alleged that Asianet News and MediaOne TV’s coverage of the riots “could incite violence and pose danger to maintenance of law and order,” and accused both of siding with a “particular community” in their coverage. MediaOne TV was accused of improperly questioning the role of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the parent organization of the BJP, in the violence. And Asianet of criticizing the role of the Delhi police in handling the riots. The ban was withdrawn after an outcry. So what price a pushback from advertisers or Bollywood, or criticism from the courts, when regulation is imposed or subverted according to what the government of the day wants? The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-131
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Director General of Police visits Dhanabd to assess law and order situation||Director General of Jharkhand Police MV Rao visited Dhanbad on Monday and held a meeting with senior police officers to review the law and order situation and discuss ways to improve crime control scenario in the district. Talking to the media before the meeting, Rao dismissed charges of deteriorating law and order situation in the state levelled by opposition parties. He said isolated incidents can’t be used for effective assessment. When asked about recent incidents of crime against women, especially those of rape and murder in Dumka and Sahebaganj, Rao said, “ Police is working on every case with all earnestness - be it rape, extortion, or attempts to disrupt communal harmony - and will make arrests as soon as possible. “As policemen under government service, we can’t make political comments. But, what we can say with conviction is that we are making all attempts to control all kinds of crime like we were doing earlier. Yet some people are analyzing things through different prisms, to which we have nothing to say as they are entitled to their opinions,” Rao said. “Police always act as per the law and no attempt to create disturbance will be tolerated, and those attempting to create disturbance will be dealt with firmly,” he added. When asked about resource constraints of Dhanbad police, he said, “We will be trying our level best to improve the resource availability for the police force in Dhanbad”. Earlier, after landing at Barwaddah air strip via helicopter, the DGP was presented with guard of honour by policemen. Senior police officials led by SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz and others welcomed him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players ready for Indian Super League pre-seasons in Goa||Indian players of Jamshedpur FC have started sweating it out at the gym, as they are all set to hit the turf for some much-needed outdoor training this week in Goa. Some have completed their 10-day isolation at the hotel, and are ready for the pre-seasons in a lead-up to edition VII of the Indian Super League (ISL). The league kick-starts at three venues– Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Margao, GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim, and Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco. The likes of Jackichand Singh, Mobashir Rahman, Sandip Mandi, Amarjit Singh Kiyam, Bhupender Singh, Issac Vanmalsawma, Ricky Lallawmawma, Laldinliana Renthlei, Jitendra Singh, Karan Amin, Rehenesh TP, Aniket Jadhav and Joyner Lourenco, who were in isolation at hotel Vivanta in Panaji, have already hit the gym in the right earnest. The JFC players, including the foreign recruits, will be completing their respective isolation periods by October 25 and begin the pre-seasons at Sangolda ground near Panaji, a team management member said on call from Goa. The venue has been decked up for the training sessions. Some members of the team management have inspected the ground last week and are somewhat satisfied with the condition of the greens. “It would not be right to compare the training ground here with the one in Jamshedpur. But our main priority now is to put players in training mode,” a member said. According to him, some of the Indian players, who will start training from Wednesday or Thursday onwards will train under assistant coach Noel Wilson. “Head coach Owen Coyle is yet to complete his isolation. So, Wilson will take charge in his absence,” he added on condition of anonymity. Another member of the team management said the pre-season has already been delayed due to the pandemic and it is time the players start outdoor training. “The tournament is not far away and our players need adequate time to train. Training holds the key to any competition,” he added. Some of the Indian players, who arrived in Goa earlier this month, have been training at their respective hotel rooms and keeping themselves fit. Sources said head coach Owen Coyle, who helped Chennaiyin FC make it to the summit clash after taking charge mid-way in the last season, has set his priorities and would be gradually putting his wards into hard work during the training sessions. The Scotland-born mentor, who replaced Spaniard Antonio Iriondo as head coach, has a huge responsibility on his shoulders when it comes to helping JFC put an impressive show in the cash-rich league. Given his record of accomplishment, Owen, an experienced hand is expected to make a turnaround to the fortunes of the Tata Steel-owned club, which has not made it to the playoffs since making its debut three seasons back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Govt jobs for sportspersons from next month, promises Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched two portals dedicated to sportspersons of Jharkhand on Monday, promising to begin recruiting medal-winners into state government jobs from next month. At the launch of Jharkhand sports registration portal and sports directorate’s portal at the Project Building, Hemant recalled how soon after coming to power, he had said that development of sports and players was one of the key priorities of his government. He said that in the first phase of promised recruitments, 33 national and international medal winners, who were initially shortlisted by the department couple of months back, would be inducted after which others awaiting jobs and assistances would be helped. “It feels bad to come across news of medal winners working as maids, vegetable sellers or doing other menial jobs for survival. Equally depressing is when we hear about miseries of past medal winners or coaches who groomed our athletes living in penury. Therefore, we thought of coming up with a dedicated portal to create databases of all our sporting treasures of the state and work towards their betterment.” The chief minister iterated his government’s commitment towards sports. Last month, the state government inducted 24 district sports officers to promote sports and players at the grassroot levels. “Our new sports policy too is ready. In the next one month, we are going to provide jobs to 33 shortlisted players in the first phase and will continue to do so thereafter,” he said. Explaining the idea behind a dedicated portal, sports secretary Pooja Singhal said it was aimed at creation of a database of players, their current status and other requirements for taking action from time to time, both for their betterment and the uplift of sports. “The portal for players is simple. A player needs to log on to the website, put in his/her mobile number for authentication and then fill a self-explanatory form. Even past players and coaches can join. The portal will offer various services, right from requisitioning cash awards to scholarships, financial assistance, among others. From time to time, the government will hold meetings to approve their requirements.” Till Monday evening, 553 sportspersons had already registered on the portal. “The portal will also serve as a repository of sporting legends of the state, details about existing facilities of training and coaches along with necessary phone numbers,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto flown to Chennai in air ambulance||Critically ill minister Jagarnath Mahto, who tested Covid positive on September 28 and has been hospitalised since then, was flown to Chennai from here in an air ambulance on Monday for better treatment, doctors treating him at a private hospital said. State education minister Mahto, who is on ventilator support, left Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi at 4.45pm on Monday. The air ambulance carrying the minister took off from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi at 6.30pm. It is expected to land at Chennai International Airport around 9pm, confirmed Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma. A two-member team of lung experts from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai visited Ranchi to examine Mahto on a special request from chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday. After a thorough medical examination and a series of meetings with local doctors and government representatives, Mahto was allowed to travel by air despite being critically ill, officials said. “He is critical and somehow fighting. The team from Chennai examined the minister and gave a go-ahead for shifting him to MGM in Chennai,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, who has been treating Mahto at Medica since October 1. There has been speculation that Mahto may have to undergo a lung transplant. But Dr Mishra clarified that there were no such plans as of now. “The doctors at MGM will take a call on the future course of action,” he added. The chief minister has been frequenting Medica in Ranchi and meeting doctors after Mahto’s health deteriorated. Hemant, quoting doctors, had said earlier that Mahto was not fit to travel, but that the team of doctors in Ranchi was in touch with experts from Chennai to provide the best possible treatment. Earlier in the day, Hemant said every minute detail related to Mahto’s health was thoroughly monitored by the team from MGM before taking the decision to shift him to Chennai. “He is stable now, but we want the best possible treatment for him,” said the chief minister. The 53-year-old minister, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri constituency, has been in the news for taking admission in an inter college and gifting cars to class 10 and class 12 toppers of Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) exams. He had also won appreciation for providing fee relaxations to children studying in private schools during the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||After lockdown lull, traders pin hope on Durga Puja||After six months of lull in business activities owing to a lockdown, the Durga Puja rush in the market has brought hope for traders in Jharkhand. The footfall of customers has increased since mid-October, and tradesmen in the state capital are expecting bumper sales that would help them cope with the loss incurred during the nationwide lockdown. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), which is the largest trade body in the tribal state, has been watching the changes in the market lately, and is optimistic about the revival of small and medium businesses during the festive season. Kunal Ajmani, the president of FJCCI, said that based on the inputs the trade body received from the market, it is clear that the footfall has increased in various shops and people are buying things from the market. “Production will also increase once the demand increases during the festive season. It is good news for the traders that people are visiting shops and malls to shop for the festivals, but I would also like to request the customers to follow Covid-19 precautionary measures while they are out for shopping,” Ajmani said. Since the reopening of the markets, the textile and the automobile industries have seen the highest demand in Jharkhand cities, Ajmani added. He said that the textile industry is expected to do well during Durga Puja and Diwali, while the automobile industry may see bulk bookings on Dhanteras. Rahul Minocha, one of the owners of Shopper’s Mart in Ranchi said that the footfall increased in the shops selling readymade clothes. However, the rush was still less in comparison with last year, he added. “The textile industry was worst-hit during the lockdown. We were also the last to resume our business post lockdown. The footfall is gradually increasing. Let’s hope that we make up for the loss,” he said. Ashok Mishra, an employee at Nexa Arena, said that the showroom has already started getting bookings for Dhanteras. Around a dozen cars, he added, were booked so far. However, tourism, hospitality, tent houses and event industries need time for revival. Sources said that the biggest setback was for the tent house and catering business. Vishal Singh of Chottanagpur Tent house said, "We were expecting some orders and contracts during Durga Puja, but we are yet to get major orders this time as the government has decided to have lowkey Durga Puja celebrations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to revert to paid parking system by Wednesday||The steel city is re-enforcing its pay-and-park rules, gone haywire during the prolonged lockdown, with the civic authorities beginning work on issuing fresh parking contracts to agencies that man the parking lots. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body under whose watch parking fees are collected, began issuing tenders for the process on Monday. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar said, “Over a dozen interested parties have expressed interest. Once the successful bidders are shortlisted, we will give out the contracts." said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The new parking system would be in place by Wednesday. The fresh parking contracts will remain valid up to March 31, 2021. Asked if new localities would be added, Kumar said they were looking into. Parking at public places is maintained by the JNAC through contractors at Bistupur and Sakchi areas only. At Bistupur, paid parking was in place on Bistupur Main Road, near Jubilee ark, Ram Mandir branch of HDFC Bank, near PM High-tech Mall on OC Road, General Post Office, State Bank of India and Kamani Centre. At Sakchi, the parking system was implemented on Kalimati Road, Sakchi Market and the Sakchi branch of HDFC Bank. The charges were Rs 10 for two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers. The system was welcomed by all. "Keeping my vehicle parked under the watch of an attendant was always safe. But now, I find it risky to park my bike unguarded before going shopping at Sakchi," said Amit Kumar Jha, a resident of Mango. JNAC sources said the existing parking system ceased to function during the lockdown as the existing contracts lapsed on March 31 and no fresh tenders could be issued. Some contractors would continue to collect parking charges in Bistupur and Sakchi, but this system too fell through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Migrant labourers help clean up Dhanbad’s many ponds||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is busy cleaning ponds, at least 90 of which are spread across 55 wards of five circles of the city, engaging migrant labourers in many of the water bodies. Among the ponds that are being cleaned are those in Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand. Smaller ponds are being cleaned using DMC’s own labours. But the larger ones, say, Raja Talab of Jharia, are being cleaned with help of migrant labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Kalyan Yojna. DMC’s Swachh Bharat Mission project in-charge Prem Prakash said the first round of work was likely to be completed by October-end by which time hyacinth would be removed from the water. “We began by cleaning some of the smaller ponds with our own labourers. Gradually, we will be engaging migrant labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Kalyan Yojna,” Prakash said, adding that the second round of cleaning would begin after Durga Puja and would be completed on November 14 ahead of Diwali. The final touches to ponds will be given after Diwali with sprinkling of bleaching powder, alum etc on ghats. “Besides the pond cleaning we have also started repairing street lights in all 55 wards ahead of Durga Puja,” he said and  added that night sweeping in all commercial places of the district, like Bank More, Part Market, Hirapur, Saraidhela, Jharia Bazar, Saharpura Market, was also in progress. DMC sanitary inspector of Dhanbad circle Arjun Ram said, “We have13 ponds in Dhanbad circle of which cleanliness of two is in progress with 15 labourers. Each pond will take around two-three days to be completely cleaned.” DMC project officer of Jharia circle Kunal Kumar said they had started work at Raja Talab, spread over 8.64 acre, with 29 migrant labourers three days ago. “We expect work to be completed ahead of Chhath on November 19,” he said. Jharia residents, led by former councillor of ward 37, had taken out a protest march on October 2, demanding cleanliness and renovation of Raja Talab, the historic pond developed by the erstwhile king of Jharia estate Raja Durga Prasad Singh in early 1920.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||NIT smart classes to debut after 2-year wait||Already delayed by over two years now, the ambitious Rs 140cr Diamond Jubilee Lecture Hall complex with smart classrooms and new faculty chambers will debut at the Adityapur-based National Institute of Technology (NIT-Jamshedpur) campus on October 20. The four-storeyed air-conditioned complex with a spacious canteen and parking lot will be inaugurated online by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and Sanjay Dhotre, the state minister for education on Tuesday. NIT director Karunesh Kumar Shukla and other senior officials and faculty members will attend the inaugural function which will be held on-campus. The ambitious lecture hall complex was slated to become functional by July last year, but construction work way delayed due to the Lok Sabha polls. Later, the Covid pandemic delayed the completion of the project even further. The lecture hall complex built on an area of 22,380 sq.m comprises 36 smart classrooms equipped with a large touchscreen LED display panel, computers, specialised software, audience response technology, assistive listening devices, networking, high-end audio-visual facilities and other hi-tech teaching gadgets for BTech, MTech and MCA students. Each classroom has a seating capacity of 120. The air-conditioned lecture hall complex also has 160 faculty chambers. The building is equipped with solar panels, LEDs and sensor-based lighting system. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had offloaded the work to Bokaro-based infrastructure development firm Kamla Aditya Constructions, which executed the multi-crore project. NIT sources said that out of Rs 140cr, Rs 68cr is being spent for civil construction work including wall panelling and false ceiling work while the rest of the amount is being spent on the installation of a centralised AC system and electrical fittings. NIT spokesperson Nishant Sinha said the online inauguration will take place at 3 pm on Tuesday. "The lecture hall complex has been built as per the specifications of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). Classes are expected to resume in November," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Less than 400 Covid cases in a day for the first time since August||The number of Covid-19 cases surfacing in a day across Jharkhand dropped below the 500 mark for the first time on Sunday since August, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 385 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday, while 452 Covid patients recovered on the day, causing a further rise in the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state, government data stated. On an average, the state reported around 1000 cases of Covid-19 infection daily throughout September and October. However, the low count of fresh cases surfacing on Sunday could also be attributed to fewer tests conducted on the day. As per government data, health workers on Sunday tested swab samples of 16,638 people. Throughout this month, the government has been testing more than 20,000 people for Covid-19 every day, government records show. While the Covid-19 recovery rate shot up at 92.38 per cent in the state on Sunday, casualties continued to haunt residents and doctors. At least seven more Covid patients, including three from Ranchi, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 839, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi on Sunday accounted for more than half of the fresh Covid cases surfacing in Jharkhand. Of the 385 cases, as many as 198 were from Ranchi, the district which has a Covid tally of 24,146, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum on Sunday reported only 20 cases, while Dhanbad and Bokaro reported 17 and 23 cases respectively. As per government data, there were 2355 active cases of Covid-19 in Ranchi on Sunday night. As many as 6502 people were battling the lethal virus across Jharkhand and over 1300 of them were from East Singhbhum. Government figures also highlight that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for nearly 60 per cent of active cases in the state. The seven deaths on Sunday caused a minor increase in the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, but it was still lower than the national average. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as on Sunday evening, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate was 88 per cent against Jharkhand’s 92.38 per cent. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 28.64 lakh people and tested 28.48 lakh of them. As many as 96,352 of the 28.5 lakh people tested in Jharkhand were found Covid positive. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.59 per cent, while the doubling rate was 115.8 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Raghubar Das attacks Hemant Soren, calls him 'incapable'||BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das on Sunday targeted Hemant Soren on his recent remark that the union government is attempting to destabilise the financial health of the state on DVC issue. Das stated that his former government has paid around Rs 13,000 crore to Damodar Valley Corporation under the Uday Yojana scheme in its five-year tenure. “I want to ask from Hemant Soren that when he had left the CM’s chair in 2014 had the state exchequer was full. He should tell the residents that when the JMM government had left 2014 what was the position of state exchequer and what was the due amount of DVC. We have run a transparent government and paid Rs 7000 crores to DVC and Rs 6000 crores in Uday Yojana in our five years tenure,” said Das, waiving the documents of payment made to DVC in his tenure. Soren had recently registered his protest against centre’s decision to auto debit 1417.50 crore from the state consolidated account in the Reserve Bank of India for payment of outstanding dues to the DVC. Das was addressing a press conference in Bokaro on Saturday while on an election campaign for BJP candidate Yogheshwar Mahto in Bermo by-election. Das said that Soren is the most 'incapable chief minister' as he has no vision, no policy, no wisdom and also no mentality to do anything better for the state. He also hinted that after this by-election in two assembly seats the political scenario in the state will change. Das said, “though we cannot achieve the magical figure to form the government this time, the residents have accepted our ideology. In the last held 2019 assembly election, BJP has scored 33 percent votes alone while alliance parties JMM, Congress, RJD and Communist parties have got 35 percent. We lost as AJSU-P cut 6-7 percent votes separately. However this time AJSU-P is strongly supporting us in the by-election." Das also took a dig at Soren for his non-performance in controlling Covid-19 virus from spreading. “See one of JMM’s government ministers Haji Hussain Ansari left us and now state education minister Jagarnath Mahto is battling with life after getting infected with the virus. Mahto's condition would not have deteriorated if he would have been shifted to some big medical centre in Delhi. Soren failed in saving his minister what he will do to save the residents.” He also pointed out that over 13 lakh migrant workers who had arrived during lockdown in Jharkhand have not got any job. They are returning back from where they had come.  He asserted, "If Soren cannot able to run the government, he should give resignation from the post." Maoists shot a woman in her forties in Lalkimati village in Pathalgaddha block of Chatra on Sunday evening. Police have recovered a Maoist pamphlet claiming responsibility of the incident and branding the woman as a police informer. Subdivisional police officer Vachandev Kujur said raids were on to nab the culprits. The woman has been sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. 17 Btech students of BIT Sindri on Sunday cleared the TCS digital recruitment process of which three received TCS Digital offer of Rs 7 lakh per annum while 14 other secured TCS Ninja offer of Rs 3.36 lakh. Training & Placement Cell in charge of BIT Sindri Ghanshyam Rai said," Altogether 216 students appeared for the test conducted earlier this month out of which 17 were selected."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
19-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bomb hurled at Dhullu associate’s house||Unidentified persons on Sunday hurled a bomb at the house of a close associate of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto in Nichitpur area around 6am.  No one was injured in the incident. Dhullu, who reached the incident spot soon after, protested the attack on Rajesh Gupta’s house. He demonstrated at the Katras police station. Dhullu ended the sit-in after the arrival of Baghmara DSP Nitin Khadelwal, who assured the MLA of swift action. This was the second attack on Gupta’s house. On September 13 around 10.30pm, unidentified persons fired at the house, following which police found some empty bullet shells. Later, Dhullu claimed that the attack had been carried out at the instance of Congress leader and former water resources minister Jaleshwar Mahto. “The police have assured me that those behind the incident will be arrested within three days. We will resume our agitation if the police fail to arrest Mahto soon,” said Dhullu. Gupta is a coal trader and considered close to Dhullu. The police had lodged a case against Dhullu and five others for releasing Gupta (who had been accused of extortion) from police custody in Nichitpur area on May 12, 2013. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh along with more than 50 party workers also demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters in Dhanbad against deteriorating law and order in the state, including in the town, under chief minister Hemant Soren. Singh said that incidents of rape have increased. “While looting, burglary, dacoity, robbery and snatching have increased manifold in the state due to unemployment, the government is busy fighting the Centre,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-262
