20-10-2020||Calcutta||Principal of MP Birla Foundation School dead||The principal of MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School, Herbert George, died in the city on Monday following a short illness. He was 75. George had been principal of the Behala school from 1988 and was known as a “strict disciplinarian”. He gave importance  to both academic and co-curricular activities. Before joining MP Birla Foundation, he was associated with Don Bosco Liluah and St Augustine’s Day School, Calcutta. He is survived by his son and daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Pujas start to mark visitor-rekha in Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers wasted no time and started to demarcate the 10-metre boundary outside pandals beyond which Calcutta High Court has allowed visitors. Some painted a boundary and some have put up barricades after leaving 10m around the periphery of the pandal’s external structure. Some big puja pandals — like Singhi Park in Dover Lane and the neighbouring Hindustan Club — have been built in a way to ensure drive-through viewing where people need not step out for a dekko. “Our pratima (idol) is anyway visible from the road. We are calculating the distance of 10 metre starting from the pratima (idol), because if we start calculating from outside the pandal, people on the other side of the barricade will have to stand in the middle of the main road,” said Bithi Basu, the general secretary of the Hindustan Club puja committee. Singhi Park puja committee members said they would wait for government orders before deciding if anything needed to be done to their structure. Several puja committees, however, complained against the last-minute directive. “Initially, there was confusion on the point from where we have to calculate the distance of 10 metre. But now things are clear. It would have been easier for us had the instructions come a little earlier,” said Sandip Chakraborty, of Badamtala Asharh Sangha. Members of the Mudiali puja committee said they had made all necessary arrangements keeping in mind the government directives till now. “Now we are holding discussions on one particular point. If only a few fixed number of people are allowed inside the pandal on the Puja days, the others won’t get any chance at all. But they, too, are an integral part of the festivity,” a member said. The court conceded: “It is possible that the aforesaid measure may not be able to control the spread of the pandemic if people come out to the streets in big numbers.” But the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee, which issued the order on pandals on Monday, wanted to discourage people from stepping out altogether. “If the pandals are made no-entry zones and a certain distance from all sides of the pandals is covered as a part of the no-entry zone, the public at large will be aware that there will not be any access within the pandals or even close to the same and the affinity to take to the streets may be less. It will also be possible in such a scenario for the virtual coverage of the pandals, as has been appropriately suggested in the guidelines by the State, and for ordinary citizens to make do with virtual darshan this year and wait for the normal fare to return the next year,” the order said. Mudiali, like many other pujas, is banking on its live streaming set-up to reach out to people who would not be able to enter the pandal. Many big puja organisers said the dhakis and the priest and his help would mandatorily have to be allowed inside the pandal. “This means, out of the 25-30 people whose entry will be permissible, six to seven will be dhakis and priests. That will result in even fewer club members and residents of the neighbourhoods entering the pandal,” said a puja committee member in south Calcutta. The secretary of Bosepukur Sitalamandir puja committee, Kajol Sarkar, said: “It is surprising to see the new directive on Tritiya while we have entered the fifth phase of unlock. For a big puja like Bosepukur Sitalamandir, the pandal’s visibility will not be a problem even from a distance of 30ft. But the smaller ones inside lanes and bylanes will face difficulty in complying with the court order,” Sarkar said. In its order, the high court said that though the state and the police had mentioned elaborate plans on crowd management and sanitisation, there was lack of clarity in implementation. “Notwithstanding the exemplary guidelines issued both by the State and by Kolkata Police, it does not appear that there is any blue-print which has been prepared for the implementation of the relevant measures,” the order said. According to the state’s figures, the Calcutta police district alone has 3,000 pujas. Around 34,000 pujas across Bengal have got a Rs 50,000 dole from the government this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta clinic for post-Covid recovery||Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Monday launched a clinic for people who have recovered from Covid-19, many of whom are suffering from complications such as lung fibrosis, heart ailments, neurological problems and arthritis. The clinic will run between Monday and Saturday, alongside the regular OPD services. Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, the director of medical services at the private hospital, said anyone suffering from persistent problems after recovering from Covid-19 could visit the clinic. He said elderly people or those with comorbid conditions were at greater risk, but complications were found in others, too. Even those who recovered at home and were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic could visit the clinic and get themselves checked, he said. “Covid-19 is not a disease of two weeks in all cases. It is leaving behind footprints in many patients even after they have recovered,” said Bandyopadhyay. “We have a patient who is now admitted in the hospital with arthritis (after recovering from Covid). Lung fibrosis is the most common footprint of Covid-19. Other post-recovery complications are lack of strength in legs.” A doctor at the hospital said fatigue and shortness of breath were the most common post-recovery problems, while lung fibrosis was the most dreaded. “For shortness of breath and fatigue, we are recommending breathing exercises,” said the doctor. A doctor in another hospital said lung fibrosis meant that the tissues of the lungs were scarred. “It has been found that those who received delayed treatment are having lung fibrosis. Some of them could need lifelong oxygen support,” he said. Rana Dasgupta, the chief executive officer (eastern region), Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, said many Covid patients contacted them following recovery because of complications. “Many patients who have recovered from Covid-19 at our hospitals have been contacting us for symptoms they are having and not knowing where to go. To address these issues we have set up the clinic, he said. Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients are consulting doctors online after they test positive as there is a bar on them stepping out of home for 17 days after the onset of symptoms. “It is advisable that they consult a doctor in-person once after recovery,” said Bandyopadhyay. A few other private hospitals in Calcutta are running similar clinics. Arafat Faisal, the head of medical services at Fortis, where a similar clinic functions, said they were usually asking patients for two or three follow-up checks depending on the severity of the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||NIT issues hostel exit plan for students||The graduating students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Durgapur who hail from other states can collect their belongings from hostels, the institute has said. The authorities want to sanitise the hostels and keep them ready for the institute’s research scholars, an NIT official said. The institute on Monday issued guidelines with the protocol students have to follow on reaching the campus to collect their belongings, which they had left while vacating the campus in March when the Centre had announced the lockdown. The NIT had in July asked students living in Bengal to collect their belongings, the institute official said. Now that the travel restrictions have been eased, students from other states can collect their belongings from the hostels. “The Centre has advised institutes to resume academic and research activities in phases, including visits by PhD students who require laboratories for their work,” Anupam Basu, the NIT director, said. “Once students collect their belongings, we can start disinfecting the hostels to accommodate PhD students while maintaining safety protocols.” If the students living outside Bengal find it difficult to reach the campus, they can authorise someone living in Bengal to collect their belongings, another institute official said. “We have to sanitise the rooms thoroughly before research scholars are allowed in.” Since classes are being held online, second and third-year students are not present on the campus, another official said.  First-year admissions are underway. Research scholars across the country have long been petitioning the education ministry to let them resume research work as many had to leave crucial research midway because of the lockdown, a teacher said. At NIT Durgapur, outgoing final-year undergraduate students who live in Bengal had to vacate the hostels 4, 5 and 13 between July 27 and August 2 and hostels 9 and 10 between August 3 and 10. “A similar detailed exit advisory will be issued for those who are from other states,” an official said. At the Durgapur institute, half of the seats are reserved for those domiciled in Bengal. Students have to wear face masks and follow distancing rules on reaching the campus. They have to return any pending library books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Use safe homes, government to patients||The state government wants more Covid patients —asymptomatic or with mild symptoms and staying at home — to be encouraged to use the safe homes. This will ensure better utilisation of the facilities and monitoring of such patients, government officials have said. The government recently held a meeting with district health authorities where the chief medical officers of health of the districts and civic officials were present. They were told to urge Covid patients, especially the elderly or those with comorbidities, to stay either at government safe homes or at the satellite units run by private hospitals. When the health department receives information of a Covid patient, the CMOHs and civic health officials would be asked to speak to these patients. If they are elderly or have comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, renal problems, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, cancer, or other diseases that compromise immunity, they would be urged to stay at safe homes or at private hospital-run satellite units, a government official said. “Non-utilisation of safe homes and private satellite units is worrying. In the initial days of the pandemic, people with mild or no symptoms had rushed to hospitals. Now that the fear is gone, people prefer to stay at home and seek advice of doctors,” the official said. In Bengal, there are 200 safe homes with 11,507 beds. According to the state health department, on Monday, there were 1,276 occupants in these facilities, which is barely 10 per cent of the number of beds. The safe homes have facilities for regular health monitoring of patients. If parameters such as level of oxygen in blood become abnormal then they can immediately be shifted to hospital. But that cannot happen if one is at home, another official said. Although asymptomatic Covid patients and those with mild symptoms are advised home stay, many, particularly those with comorbidities, turn critical because they often fail to realise when hospitalisation is required. “Several people have died because of delay in getting admitted to hospital. We have been able to bring down the number of deaths through timely intervention. But better surveillance by bringing more people to institutional quarantine will further bring down the death rate,” a health official said. In Bengal, 6,119 people have died till Monday because of Covid. Sixty-three people died from the disease on Monday, according to health department records. Of this, 84.6 per cent of patients had comorbidities. The safe homes were created for people who would find it difficult to follow safety protocols at home and for those who needed monitoring. There are at least two safe homes in Calcutta with proper infrastructure but most beds are empty, a health official said. One is at Anandapur off the Bypass and another at New Town. At Calcutta airport, for example, a safe home was created for international passengers reaching the city. The facility was created at the old domestic terminal building but later it was shut down because for want of takers. The satellite units run by private hospitals, too, have a few takers. Metro had recently written how many private hospitals were planning to shut down the facilities because of recurrent losses. The government, though, has urged them not to do so. Private hospitals have tied up with hotels to set up the facilities. “To popularise these satellite units, we have proposed to private hospitals that they will get clinical establishment licences to set up monitors, oxygen cylinders and other facilities so that patients with moderate symptoms, too, can be treated there,” a government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro to run fewer trains during Durga Puja||Metro Railway will run 64 trains every day from Saptami to Dashami (October 23 to 26), instead of 152 daily trains now, an official said. On October 23, 24, 25 and 26, the first and last trains are likely to leave the terminal stations at 10am and 9pm. The timings and the number of trains from Saptami to Dashami are similar to the present Sunday schedule. Metro sources said the order was in keeping with the spirit of the high court’s Monday order that all puja pandals must be treated as “containment zones”. The order does not say anything about public transport. “The high court has discouraged crowding at pandals. We want to run a reduced number of trains to send a message that people should stay home during the Puja for their safety,” said the official. From Monday to Saturday, the carrier runs 152 trains every day. The number was increased from 146 from Monday. The first and last trains leave the terminal stations at 8am and 9pm. Till last week, the last trains used to leave at 8.30pm. Metro had earlier reported that unlike previous years, there would be no Metro trains through the night from Saptami to Navami as a precaution against the spread of Covid. Doctors and public health experts have been fearing a surge in Covid numbers after the Puja. The city’s transport lifeline ferries a substantial load of puja revellers every year. At stations like Dum Dum and Kalighat, a sea of heads is a recurrent sight throughout the day. In 2019, Metro had carried 61.6 lakh passengers between Tritiya and Dashami. On Saptami, Ashtami and Navami, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 1pm and 4am. The suspension of suburban trains, which most people from outside the city count on before they hop on to Metro, will also have reduced the puja crowd. The carrier’s daily passenger count has breached the 80,000 mark and is inching towards 100,000, the target the authorities had set in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services. Amid the Covid pandemic, officials are apprehensive of managing even a fraction of the usual Puja rush. “We respect the high court’s decision. The puja schedule is being finalised. This year’s Puja is different from the past and we have to take into account the risks associated with the pandemic,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission colleges start classes||Two colleges run by Ramakrishna Mission started classes on digital platforms for first-year undergraduate students earlier this month and a third will start in November even as state-aided colleges are yet to take a decision amid the Covid pandemic. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, started classes on digital platforms on October 3. An official of Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, Rahara, said they had started doing so on October 1. A notice posted on the website of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, says the first-year undergraduate classes will commence on November 9. Swami Ekachittananda, the officiating principal of Vidyamandira, said classes were being held through both online and offline mode. “Teachers are holding classes through teleconference for those who don’t have access to the Internet or don’t have a smartphone’’ he told Metro. A teacher said that at times they were holding live online classes for students who have good Internet connectivity at home. Study materials in the PDF format are being mailed or WhatsApped to the students. “At our college there are students who are first-generation learners and many of them are from remote areas like the Sunderbans. They cannot be expected to attend online classes. For them we are organising classes over phone individually or through conference calls,’’ he said. A similar blended approach is being followed at Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur. Classes will be held online or through offline mode based on the availability of options among students, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur. “Classes will be held through phone calls for those who lack a smartphone or are facing connectivity issues,’’ he said. Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College, too, will follow a similar approach. An official of the higher education department said that although they had said that first-year classes in state-aided colleges could start in December, they would welcome autonomous institutions like RKM colleges to start classes through suitable modes whenever they deem fit. “State-aided colleges re-quire time to put a mechanism in place for holding classes online. But the RKM colleges have the required expertise. So, why would we object to starting classes whenever they deem fit?” he said. Since the UGC is insisting on starting first-year classes at the earliest, the department does not want to come in the way of commencement of the session by those who can. Classes for the students in the intermediate semesters at the RKM colleges are underway and some of the students who are extremely poor have been brought to the campuses so they can use the Internet facility of the institutes to attend online classes. “Some of our teachers and former students have bought students smartphones to enable them to attend classes on digital platforms from home,” said Swami Ekachittananda, of Vidyamandira.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Nurse exodus hits plan to raise bed count in Calcutta||A fresh round of exodus of nurses from private hospitals could slam the brakes on plans to ramp up Covid beds ahead of the festival season. At least 40 nurses have resigned from Peerless Hospital in the past week. AMRI has had 40 nurses resigning from its three units (Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake) in the past one week. Belle Vue Clinic has had 20 nurses resigning in the past two days. Officials of several other private hospitals said nurses in large numbers had submitted their resignations to join state government hospitals. The state health department had recently started a recruitment drive for nurses. At least 570 nurses have been recruited for government healthcare facilities in the districts, health department officials have said. Many of these recruits are from private hospitals. Private hospital nurses resigning to work in government hospitals is a regular phenomenon in Bengal. But nurses resigning in large numbers can pose a serious problem because all healthcare units have started expanding Covid beds ahead of Durga Puja, officials of several hospitals said. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Commission and the health department have separately asked private hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds because they fear a spike in the number of patients during and after the festival season. Private hospitals have pledged close to 500 additional beds during a meeting last week, the commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, has said. “So many nurses leaving on a day’s notice have posed a serious constraint in increasing the number of beds. We have started recruiting nurses… but most of those who have resigned were doing duties in Covid wards and at least one-fourth were in critical care units,” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “It will take at least a month to train new nurses on donning and doffing PPEs and monitoring Covid patients.” The requirement for nurses has gone up because of the pandemic. “Earlier, nurses would work in three shifts. Now, in Covid wards they are working in four shifts for six hours. They are unable to work any longer wearing PPEs,” Ipsita Kundu, CEO, Charnock Hospital, said. The hospital has seen several nurses resigning in the past two days. Belle Vue Clinic has recruited 45 nurses from its college. The hospital has increased its Covid bed count to 160 from from 130. “The new recruits are undergoing rigorous training of 12 hours a day from Monday. We expect them to be ready to take care of Covid patients soon,” Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue, said. AMRI Hospitals has recruited nurses from colleges in Jharkhand, Odisha and Tripura. “We can’t stop the government from recruiting nurses. We also can’t prevent anyone from leaving. So, we are recruiting from wherever possible to meet the demand,” Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said. The hospital has increased 60 beds in its three units. At the meetings with the regulatory commission and health department last week, some of the private hospitals had said increasing beds would be a problem if nurses resigned. “The health department had assured us that the recruitment would be held now but nurses would join after the Pujas. But nurses are not reporting for duty after submitting their resignations… there is nothing one can do,” an official of a private hospital said. Better pay, job security and apparent less workload lure nurses from private hospitals to government ones, officials of several healthcare units said. Public health experts said there had to be a way out of the problem. “Private and government healthcare systems have to go hand in hand during the pandemic. A solution needs to be evolved,” a public health expert said. A health department official said recruitments were essential to boost healthcare facilities in the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Calcutta||No adda at Maddox Square Durga Puja||Maddox Square in Ballygunge will be a no-adda zone this Puja. Members of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, which organises the Maddox Square puja that has over the years emerged as a favourite meet-and-chat point for pandal-hoppers, have decided to prevent any gathering at the park as a precaution against Covid-19. In previous years, addas at Maddox Square would continue throughout the night on all five Puja days. “This time around 70 volunteers will spread out across the park in shifts and request everyone to leave after darshan,” said Amalendu Sarkar, one of the organisers. “We will request visitors with folded hands that let the adda sessions be held at your homes and not here.” This will be the first time that the organisers of the 85-year-old puja will make such a request to visitors. Members of the puja committee will visit the 350-odd homes of the locality with the request that none of the family members or guests stays back at park after darshan to lounge around. “We will try to explain to everyone of our para-family that since this year is different, we have been forced to take certain steps for the benefit of all,” said Subhasish Adak, of the puja committee. Apart from regular announcements through the public address system, the organisers have decided to set up a police picket inside the park for round-the-clock surveillance. Police will be requested to join the volunteers in requesting visitors to leave the park after seeing the idol. No stalls will be set up at the park to avoid crowding. Veterans recalled how decades ago Maddox Square would have night-long cultural programmes during Puja. While such programmes stopped long back, Maddox Square continued to be the favourite adda zone for puja revellers, including those from outside Calcutta. Metro had earlier reported how Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease, had appealed to the people to avoid crowds during the Puja to avert a spurt in Covid-19 cases after the festivity. “Puja will not be the same without adda at Maddox Square,” said Chaitali Deb, a second-year college student from Ballygunge. “But we have to come to terms with the new normal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-265
20-10-2020||Business|| GST compensation row: Centre told to borrow more||The GST compensation row is festering over the sum the Centre must borrow to bail out the states who have their hands full with the pandemic. Opposition ruled Kerala, which have been in the forefront to gouge out more from the Centre on account of the shortfall in GST collections, wants the Centre to borrow the entire shortfall of Rs 1.83 lakh for the year and not the Rs 1.10 lakh crore offered by the finance ministry. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac on Monday asked the central government to take the initiative to settle the matter. “Having come half way through for amicable settlement on the issue of who should borrow, the Centre now should take the initiative to settle the remaining issue: How much to borrow?” Isaac tweeted. The state, thus, wants the Modi government to borrow the Rs 73,000 crore shortfall estimated to be caused exclusively by the coronavirus as well as the Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the result of GST implementation. “Higher borrowing will not affect the Centre’s FD (fiscal deficit). Fears of crowding out private investment is misplaced in recession,” Isaac tweeted. The shortfall to states and the Centre’s obligation on that count had threatened to spill over to the Supreme Court with eight Opposition states, including Bengal and Kerala, rejecting the twin options proposed by the finance minister. In August, the Centre had told the  states to a) either borrow Rs 97,000 crore on account of GST implementation from a special window facilitated by the RBI or b) the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, including Rs 1.38 lakh crore because of Covid-19, from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.6 lakh crore, respectively. The Centre had made much of the fact that it had given them a larger borrowing window of Rs 1.6 lakh crore instead of Rs 73,000 crore which is the actual sum for the fiscal given the dues of February and March are rolled over to the next fiscal. Last week, the Centre gave in to the demands of the Opposition states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram in a tweet said the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has written to the states that the central government will borrow Rs 1,10,208 crore and give them “back-to-back loans”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||Sharp spike in raw material shipments from India||The sharp spike in raw material shipments from India compared with manufactured goods in the first half of the current fiscal has raised the eyebrows of the government, prompting the commerce ministry to study the data and take requisite measures, if needed. According to trade data, of the 12 major commodities that account for 80 per cent of the country’s exports, only four commodities — drugs and pharmaceuticals, rice, iron ore and plastic products —  witnessed growth in the first half of 2020-21 over the corresponding period last year. These four commodities have a 17 per cent share in total exports. Exports contracted 3-55 per cent for the other eight commodities. Petroleum products and gems and jewellery witnessed the sharpest decline at 43 per cent and 55 per cent, respectively. Engineering goods, which is the largest component of the  export basket with a 27 per cent share, fell 15 per cent in the first half of the current fiscal. Commerce ministry sources said,“The data needs to be studied to see if it was a one-off issue or there is a pattern that needs to be reversed. If the pattern continues, it is a worrying thing as value addition of raw material increases manufacturing output, results in job creation and better returns to the product.” The country is keen to increase the share of manufacturing in GDP to 25 per cent from 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||IL&FS: Vineet Nayyar steps down||The IL&FS group on Monday said Vineet Nayyar has resigned as the company’s executive vice-chairman because of poor health. A statement from IL&FS said Nayyar requested the board to relieve him of his duties as the executive vice-chairman with effect from October 31, 2020, on grounds of “indifferent health”. “The board, in its meeting held here on Monday, has accepted Nayyar’s resignation with effect from October 31, 2020, and granted him leave till then, on medical grounds,” it said. The group disclosed that in the interim, C.S. Rajan, the managing director of IL&FS, has been asked by the board to discharge Nayyar’s responsibilities and, in consultation with the senior management, put in place a revised organisational structure. Nayyar was appointed the executive vice-chairman and managing director of IL&FS on October 4, 2018, in the first meeting held by the new board immediately after its constitution by the corporate affairs ministry. He has been leading the IL&FS resolution, involving over 300 companies, for the last two years with the new board. Nayyar had served as the former executive vice-chairman of Tech Mahindra. He was also credited with turning around Satyam Computer Services which was later renamed Mahindra Satyam (later acquired by Tech Mahindra and merged with the latter). “Vineet brought with him unique insights and conviction with respect to our challenges over the last two years. I wish him speedy recovery,” Uday Kotak, the non-executive chairman of IL&FS, said. Kotak was appointed by the Centre as the head of the infrastructure financier’s board in 2018 to help the company come out of its difficulties. Recently, the government extended the term of Kotak as the non-executive chairman of the IL&FS group by one year, till October 2, 2021. “Nayyar’s vast experience in corporate resolution with Satyam and his sharp understanding of government functioning has provided the new board with immense learning at every stage of the complex IL&FS resolution process. We wish him speedy recovery,” Rajan said. In June this year, the IL&FS group’s chief operating officer, N. Sivaraman, had decided to part ways with the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||Britannia consolidated net profits up 23%||Britannia Industries on Monday met Street estimates when it posted a 23 per cent rise in consolidated net profits at Rs 495.20 crore for the September quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 402.73 crore in the same period last year. Total revenue rose 12.15 per cent to Rs 3,419.11 crore during the quarter against Rs 3,048.44 crore a year ago as the country-wide lockdown was lifted in many places. Britannia Industries managing director Varun Berry said the company got its full range of products to the market, focussed on efficiency in distribution, followed continuous replenishment system of distribution and inched closer to normality in advertisement and promotions. Further, all the adjacent businesses delivered a healthy growth. “On the cost front, we witnessed moderate inflation in the prices of key raw materials and expect the prices to be stable given the positive outlook on monsoon and harvest,” he said. However, it sustained a large part of the gains in the previous quarter through supply chain efficiencies and reduction in wastage. “These measures helped us sequentially sustain the shape of our business and record a massive 390 basis points increase in operating profit during the quarter versus last year,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
20-10-2020||Business||India needs to export six million tonnes of sugar||India needs to export six million tonnes of sugar in the 2020-21 marketing year, which started this month, as production is estimated to increase 13 per cent to 31 million tonnes on higher availability of sugarcane, trade body Isma said on Monday. The output has been estimated after taking into account a likely diversion of about 2 million tonnes of cane juice and B molasses for ethanol production, it said. In the 2019-20 season (October-September), sugar production remained lower at 27.42 million tonnes and diversion to ethanol was about 0.8 mt. Since higher production is forecast for the 2020-21 season, Isma said India will need to continue to export about 6 million tonnes of surplus sugar this season. With higher availability of sugarcane and surplus sugar production, it is estimated that a larger quantity of cane juice /syrup and B-molasses will get diverted to ethanol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
20-10-2020||Business||Third win for JSW in insolvency courts||JSW Steel has won the approval of the National Company Law Tribunal to acquire value-added steel maker Asian Colour Coated Ispat Pvt Ltd (ACCIPL). The company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sajjan Jindal-promoted JSW, presented a resolution plan entailing Rs 1,550 crore for the Khopoli, Maharashtra-based unit. The principal bench of the NCLT, Delhi, approved the plan with certain modifications on Monday. This is the third acquisition by JSW from the insolvency courts. In 2018, the company’s plan for integrated steel maker Monnet Ispat was approved. The Monnet proposal was placed in partnership with AION Capital, where AION was a majority partner, with a deal size of Rs 2,457 crore. It also made a small acquisition of Vardhaman Industries in 2019 for Rs 63.5 crore. The ACCIPL deal will give JSW access to a million tonnes of value-added products such as colour-coated sheets and coils and galvanised corrugated sheets. The Pradeep-Agarwal promoted secondary steel maker has a large land bank at Khopoli and Bawal in Haryana, which JSW can use to scale up its production. Industry sources say the product line would bolster JSW’s presence in the western market and help it compete with AM/NS India (formerly Essar Steel). The basic raw material for ACCIPL is hot rolled coil, which JSW can supply from the Dolvi plant in Maharashtra. The ACCIPL facility would add to JSW’s overall capacity of cold rolled value-added products as it also makes colour-coated sheets/coils and galvanised sheets at its Vijaynagar plant in Karnataka. The acquisition comes at a time benchmark prices for steel have gone up in the domestic market, backed by demand from the user industries, especially consumer durables and automobiles. Frontline integrated steel makers had reported strong sales in the second quarter and the momentum is expected to continue in this quarter too. A buoyant market would help JSW to quickly turn around the asset. JSW is also keen to close the acquisition of Bhushan Power and Steel — its biggest bet through the IBC route so far. The Rs 19,500-crore offer for the primary steel maker is now stuck in a legal logjam at the Supreme Court. The company is also in an early stage of making an offer for Gonterman Peipers (India).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
20-10-2020||Business||Finance minister keeps the pot boiling on stimulus||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman spoke of the possibility of another round of stimulus and said the Centre would come out with fresh growth and budgetary estimates for the pandemic-ravaged fiscal. “I am not closed to the option of further stimulus package. Every time we have announced one, it has been after much deliberation and aimed at specific sections. If there is a need, further stimulus is an option I am open to,” Sitharaman said at the launch of the book Portraits of Power by  N.K. Singh, the chairman of the 15th Finance Commission. The government had last week announced steps to stimulate consumer demand, including the advance payment of a part of the wages of central government employees during the festival season and more capital spending. Analysts said the total fiscal stimulus from the government till date amounts to 1.5-2 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP), with the package of last week just a piffling 0.2 per cent of GDP, She said the Centre would revise the growth estimate and the budget figures for the fiscal. “We have only now started doing some sort of assessment of the economy and budget numbers. We have had inputs now which are very different from July. Sometime, we will have to come out with a statement, whether I do it in public or in Parliament is what we have to decide,” she said. At a separate event, the finance minister asked central public sector enterprises to complete 75 per cent of their planned capital expenditure for the fiscal by December itself. Reviewing the performance of the PSUs, the finance minister  said capital expenditure needed to be scaled up for the current and the next fiscal year as it a “critical driver for economic growth”. She held a virtual meeting with the secretaries of oil and coal along with the chiefs of 14 PSUs associated with the ministry. In the fourth such meeting with her, Sitharaman sought greater co-ordination at the secretary-level of the concerned ministries and the heads of PSUs to achieve the targets, a finance ministry statement said. The ministry data showed the PSUs to have spent just one-third of their targeted capital expenditure in the first six months of the fiscal. In 2019-20, against the capex target of Rs 111,672 crore for these 14 PSUs, the achievement was Rs 116,323 crore, which is 104 per cent, the statement said. It further said the achievement in the first half of the current financial year stood at Rs 37,423 crore (32 per cent of the target), while it was Rs 43,097 crore (39 per cent) in the previous financial year. She said the better performance of PSUs can help the economy to recover in a big way from the impact of Covid-19. The capex review of PSUs is carried out jointly by the department of economic affairs and the department of public enterprises Last week, Sitharaman said an additional budget of Rs 25,000 crore would be provided as capital expenditure to develop roads, defence, water supply, urban development and domestically produced capital equipment to boost economic growth. India has asked at least eight state-run companies to consider share buybacks in the fiscal year that runs through March 2021, two government officials said, as New Delhi scours for ways to raise funds to rein in its fiscal deficit, according to Reuters. The firms asked include Coal India, NTPC, minerals producer NMDC and Engineers India Ltd, said one of the sources. The government is unlikely to be anywhere near its fiscal deficit target of 3.5 per cent of GDP for 2020-21 as coronavirus curbs hit tax collections and delayed efforts to privatise BPCL and Air India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-259
20-10-2020||India||The lockdown may be over, but coronavirus is not, warns PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a short, pointed televised message to all Indians that Covid-19 still needs to be defeated and that they shouldn’t relax on safety measures like wearing masks and social distancing during the upcoming festival season. Speaking unusually early at 6pm, well before prime time, Modi kept his appeal brief, speaking only for 12 minutes, and he stuck to his Covid awareness theme, hammering home the message that even though the festival season is here, “this is not a time to be careless. Don’t think corona has gone.” He referred to videos of people across the country thronging malls and markets to load up on festival shopping as examples of what shouldn’t be done. “People aren’t being careful anymore. This isn’t right. If you step out without a mask, you put your families at risk,” Modi said in his address to the nation. “In this festive season, markets are bright again but we need to remember that the lockdown might have ended but the virus still persists,” he said. Modi’s speech came at a time when new infections are zooming worldwide, especially in the US and in Europe; and one country, Ireland, has just announced a tough, six-week lockdown till December 1. In France, President Emmanuel Macron has enforced a curfew starting at 9pm every night. Said Modi: “The numbers are rising abroad and there is a second wave in Europe. We shouldn’t think we have won the battle.” In his latest televised broadcast on the coronavirus since the pandemic erupted, the Prime Minister was sporting a new look, with a much longer, but shaped beard and hair combed back. He looked somewhat more fatigued than in previous broadcasts. Modi referred to the fact that people have been worn down by the eight-month-long anti-virus battle but warned bluntly that there wasn’t room for the slightest complacency, saying: “It has been a long journey. But the virus has not gone and we must not let it come back.”  He said that India was in a “stable situation. We must not let it deteriorate… Remember, whether it is America or Europe, cases declined and then there was a sudden spike.” Modi’s message came a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan referred to Covid-19 cases shooting up in Kerala in the weeks after Onam, the state’s biggest festival, saying the state was “paying the price for gross negligence.”  Initially, it was thought Vardhan was taking a potshot at an Opposition-run state, but he clarified that wasn’t his intention and that he was only seeking to impress on other states the need to observe health protocols during the Dussehra and Diwali festival season. In Bengal, where the Mamata Banerjee government has been encouraging organisers to hold Durga Puja festivities amid strict Covid safety guidelines, the high court had to intervene once crowds began to appear in streets amid fears of a post-festival spike in the number of coronavirus cases. The Calcutta High Court’s ruling on Monday banning the entry of visitors inside Puja pandals this year managed to spread a degree of relief among those bracing for a sudden explosion in Covid-19 cases like in Kerala after Onam. A  more positive note in Modi’s address came when he pointed out that the healthcare system – doctors, nurses and care workers -- has learned better how to tackle the virus and that fatality rates are down and recovery rates are looking good. He added that we have fewer infections than the US and that our death rates are better than in many European countries. Modi also spoke about the many Indian companies racing to develop an anti-Covid vaccine and promised that “when the vaccine is ready, we will ensure every Indian gets it.” In the meantime, he repeated the mantra that it was necessary to maintain distance, wash hands and wear a mask. India is still battling the first wave of the pandemic but countries like Ireland are facing a severe second wave with record numbers of infections being hit in the last two weeks. Ireland imposed its six-week lockdown after health authorities warned there that a three-week lockdown would be insufficient to stop infections. Numbers are also rising steeply in Spain too and in the UK the government is battling city and other local governments about imposing a new, limited lockdown in the wake of infections rising to the highest level since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
20-10-2020||India||Testing times for Kerala’s Covid-19 fight||Is Kerala fumbling its fight against the novel coronavirus? The state was the star performer in India’s anti-Covid-19 drive but now daily infection numbers have soared. Was it the million people who returned from the Gulf and other parts of India who brought the virus with them or the huge Onam festival crowds that triggered the huge rise? Or has Kerala’s campaign to suppress the virus been undermined by the state government failure to test enough? Whatever may be the causes of the mounting caseload, Kerala government officials insist they’re not worried. “Don’t look at the Covid case numbers, look at deaths. We’ve focused on reducing the deaths,” says Dr Mohammed Asheel, a top state government official. Asheel, who’s executive director of the Kerala Social Security Mission, argues that the government has got its control strategy right and that the virus numbers were bound to rise.  “We delayed the peak. In fact, we have not peaked yet even after eight months,” he says. He adds that other nations are going into a second and even third wave of infections during the same timeframe. Most crucially, Asheel argues that the actual number crucial to look at is not the number of cases, but the “number of fatalities per million”. On that score, he points out, Kerala is still way out in front. After eight months, the death toll is now a remarkably low 1,161 on October 18. By comparison, Karnataka had 9,666 deaths till October 11. And Tamil Nadu had 10,371 up to October 13. And deaths all over India have crossed 110,000. Even if the government may have fumbled in other areas, “we have kept the case fatality ratio low,” Asheel says. And how has the state done that? “Through careful clinical management,” says Asheel.  Even with its failings on testing, on case fatalities, Kerala still appears to be doing exceptionally well. Kerala’s case fatality rate (CFR) stood at around 0.36 per cent or 36 per million in October. That compares with Karnataka’s 160 per million and Tamil Nadu’s 140. But internal medicine specialist Dr Arun N M, who collects material at the ground level from a variety of sources, alleges that Kerala state authorities are undercounting the number of fatalities by around 40 per cent. Says Arun: “A lot of secrecy is there, and a lot of doctors are complaining” about causes of deaths of patients being ascribed to comorbidities rather than the virus. But even using the 40 per cent undercounting estimate, mortality rates don’t come anywhere near neighbouring states. State officials reject any suggestion that the death figures have been manipulated. State health secretary K.K Shailaja says all that counts is how many lives Kerala’s doctors save and that “the mortality rate of 0.36 is among the best in the world.” Nationally, the government says the country’s case mortality rate is 1.8 per cent, just over half the global average of 3.2 per cent, something government doctors attribute to the fact that the strict nationwide lockdown in March gave doctors here time to learn treatment protocols from other countries. Also, there’s the fact that India has a younger population. Even though Kerala is doing exceptionally well in keeping down fatalities now, there are concerns that it may not be able to maintain its success if infections keep rising. There are serious questions about Kerala’s Covid positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of those overall who’ve been tested.  Those numbers are bad.  Kerala’s Test Positivity Rate or TPR stands at 18.16 per cent which is more than double the national average of 8.4 percent. The World Health Organization suggests a desirable positivity rate that would indicate an epidemic is being reined in would be less 5 per cent so Kerala’s double-digit positivity rate may be a sign state authorities are losing control of the spread of the virus. In the past week, the state added 50,000 cases to its numbers, the most rapid caseload increase nationwide. Here’s why testing matters:  without sufficient testing, there’s no way of assessing the true scale of the pandemic and it becomes extremely difficult to figure out the healthcare resources and infrastructure needed. Also, testing is a vital means of infection control because with more testing, more positive cases can be isolated along with their contacts, helping avert the spread of the illness. But when tests are in short supply, they’re only performed on those who have a higher probability of being sick and when the positivity rate rises sharply it’s a clear sign that testing is lagging. Kerala’s government which reported the state and the country’s first Covid case on January 30 used its solid healthcare system and experience from fighting swine flu in 2009 and the Nipah virus in 2018 to hold back the virus. The daily new infections which were in single digits in mid-May but then the Great Wall of Kerala seemed to develop a breach as infection numbers began climbing steadily. With Onam, the state’s only really big festival that brought shoppers out on the streets, the figures zoomed. On one day, daily infections spiked to 11,755 and the state’s total number of infections since it reported its first case in January stands at over 3.03 lakh. Kerala’s cumulative case load took until September 11 to hit one lakh, it reached one lakh in October and it racked up a further one lakh in only 12 days.  Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said at the weekend the state was paying “the price for gross negligence” during the Onam festival when services were unlocked. With the caseload surging, the anti-Covid battle is taking its toll on Kerala’s medical fraternity. Doctors and nurses in the state who don’t want to be named say they are “tired and frustrated”. Also, the state is so short of money that government salaries – including doctors and nurses – have been cut at a time when everyone is working longer hours and in very difficult conditions. Asheel, himself, says he has gone home only occasionally in the last eight months and has mostly slept in his office. His wife, who’s also a doctor, has also been going on 10-day shifts and they’ve mostly sent their daughter to stay with a neighbour. Couldn’t the virus have continued to be suppressed as indeed Kerala managed to do for several months? Asheel points to the population density to defend the state’s performance. Kerala’s population density is 859 per square kilometre which is close to twice the national average of 467. Sweden, one of the few countries which hasn’t had a lockdown, has a population density of 26 per square kilometre which has enabled it to stay relatively unaffected by the pandemic -- though its “corona-light” measures are not without controversy as its Covid-19 death rate per person is one of the highest in Europe, and 10 times the rates of neighbouring Norway and Finland. Italy, which was in a desperate state early in the year, has a population density of 216 and is recording daily infection rates of close to 9,000. In Kerala where the villages and towns merge into one another into what’s called one great rural-urban continuum, keeping the coronavirus at bay was always going to be a tough proposition to say the least. Says Asheel: “Even if I lock up nine out of 10 people in a district, I will still have a higher population density than in Sweden.” Incidentally, at one point, Italy had a death rate of around 20 per cent. Italy was one of the first countries to be hit by Covid-19 and the doctors were just learning how to tackle the illness. Turning to the most serious concern of insufficient testing, in late June the state was doing only around 5,000 tests daily and it pushed that figure up to a peak number of over 73,000 tests in early October. But that number has since fallen to just over 50,000, a fall attributed to problems in the state’s new Lab Diagnosis and Management System. By comparison, Tamil Nadu, next door, has been conducting around 90,000 daily. Asheel says Kerala had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 3 per cent or even 2 per cent in the early days of the outbreak so there was no indication more tests were needed. I’s only with the TPR hitting more than 18 per cent that it is clear more testing is needed.  “That does indeed indicate we’re testing less than is required,” says Asheel. And there is another problem with Kerala’s testing. The testing shortfall combines with the fact that Kerala has mostly used the less reliable Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) rather than the far more reliable RT-PCR tests. The Union Health Ministry, in fact, had sent out a directive to states to only use the RT-PCR tests. Asheel defends using the RAT tests, saying the results from those crucially come back within a few hours. RT-PCR tests, by comparison, take a day at the earliest. If large numbers are being tested by the state, then the results are likely to take even longer. “When you are going for containment and when the spread happens rapidly, you need the results at the earliest. Otherwise, the infected people will be going around normally for three or four days and they will keep spreading the infection,” says Asheel. But one virologist points to a flaw in this argument. “If the RAT tests are coming up with wrong results, then infected people will be walking around without being detected,” he says. Arun, however, suggests that the state could have purchased larger capacity PCR machines that could have processed a far higher number of tests very swiftly. He points out that Tamil Nadu has consistently done more tests. He notes, however, that Kerala is one of the few states that tests people in hospital before releasing them rather than relying on the number of days elapsed since the initial test. Even now, Asheel maintains that the situation is under control. Deaths have risen very slightly to about 20 per day. Most importantly, the ICUs have about 60 per cent occupancy. He reckons that case numbers will fall by December. But he warns that there could be a second wave of infections early next year. Kerala also has its own singular problems. It has a large elderly population and also over 600 old-age homes. There are reckoned to be 4.3 lakh elderly people and, of those, 2.5 lakh are in the most vulnerable category. About 20,000 of these people live in old age homes. These people were asked to stay at home and, in some cases, food was taken to them. Also, mobile units with doctors and nurses did the rounds looking after these people. Dr Dileep Raman, who’s director and co-founder of cloud-based critical care start-up Cloudphysician, argues that nationwide it’s impossible to keep the virus down forever. “It’s viral kinetics. Either you completely lock down till the vaccine has been found. But that’s not practical,” he says. Raman agrees that a second wave this winter is almost inevitable around the country. “What’s going to happen when the Mumbai trains are fully open? The virus is not going to change its behaviour.” Kerala now seems to have accepted this inevitability and is no longer screening those arriving by road for Covid and it opened on Saturday the Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala. But there’s been no let-up in the effort to prevent deaths. The state’s using a tiered care system under which mildly symptomatic Covid patients are monitored in nurse-run establishments while just those in serious condition are admitted to hospital. Only the young or those who are infected but display no symptoms can home quarantine.  At the end of the day, keeping the virus under control comes down to being a “disciplined population,” says Raman.  “Unless we’re all model citizens, keeping the virus away is a pipedream,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Covid blow to private hospitals this year ||The pandemic will eat up around 40 percent of the operational profit of private hospitals this fiscal, as billing has plunged drastically due to the virus outbreak and the resultant proclivity of people to avoid hospitals for non-emergency situations, says a report. The Crisil report released on Tuesday, however, noted that a large number of pandemic cases, which though is low-margin, will get these hospitals an additional revenue to the tune of 15-20 per cent. Further, with the relaxation in lockdown and travel restrictions, footfalls have started improving from July, helping bed-occupancy levels. The report also expects bed-occupancy levels to stabilise 65-70 per cent of the pre-lockdown levels in the second half of the fiscal. This, along with additional revenue from the pandemic treatment will help limit overall decline in revenue to 16-18 per cent, as against 17 per cent annual growth logged in the two preceding fiscals, it said. Since the pandemic-driven lockdowns that began late March, hospitals have been on a crisis path as people began to avoid going to hospitals for regular consultations and began to postpone elective surgeries, which have been the most lucrative procedures for any hospital, especially organ transplants among others. "A triple whammy of postponement in elective surgeries, revenue loss from the highly profitable medical tourism segment, and increasing costs will lead to 35-40 per cent reduction in operating profit of private hospitals this fiscal," Crisil said. The report is based on the analysis of 40 hospitals, including 36 rated by the agency, which account for over Rs 36,000 crore of the sector's revenue. Even though the trauma and emergency treatment account for 28-30 per cent of revenue continued, but at a much lower level, given the fewer accidents during the lockdowns. On top of these, medical tourism, which accounts for 10-12 per cent of revenue but gets the highest margins, especially for large hospitals, came to a complete standstill, due to travel restrictions imposed as part of the lockdowns. However, the pandemic is set to bring them around 20 per cent of the revenue despite low margin. "Treating COVID-19 patients is expected to provide an additional revenue stream and may contribute 15-20 per cent to revenue this fiscal. But it is not as profitable as other revenue streams. Additionally, given the high fixed cost structure of hospitals, lower overall occupancy will result in lesser absorption of overheads. "This, coupled with the increased cost of safety and sanitation will lead to 35-40 per cent decline in operating profit this fiscal," the report said. Weakened operating performance accentuated cash-flow challenges in the first half and to manage the situation, hospitals have deferred 35-40 per cent of planned capex for this fiscal, and are now resorting to short-term debt funding. About a third of the agency-rated hospitals also availed moratorium for loan repayments which supported their liquidity during the first half. Nonetheless, the credit outlook for the sector remains moderately negative, with credit metrics being impacted primarily by lower profit, the report said adding that the deterioration in performance is expected to be only temporary, and a strong bounce-back is likely in the next fiscal supported by pent up demand. "Elective surgeries cannot be postponed indefinitely and medical tourism is also expected to recoup as travel restrictions ease. We expect a healthy 25 per cent revenue growth in fiscal 2022, and operating profitability to recover to pre-pandemic levels, including due to lower share of less-profitable treatment for the pandemic patients," the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Chinese soldier ‘strays’ across LAC in search of a 'wayward' yak||The standoff on the eastern Ladakh border has been dragging on for so long that it was a matter of time before the yak entered the picture. The yak appears to have done so on Monday by getting lost, apparently setting the stage for a Chinese soldier to “stray” across the contested Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in search of the animal. The Chinese soldier was “apprehended”, the Indian Army said. It added that the soldier would be returned. China remained silent through the day. At night, CGTN, the Chinese state-controlled media outlet, said: “China border troop informed India for helping to search a PLA soldier, who was getting lost near border. He was helping herders to find lost yak. India side agreed & promised to find & return him.” CGTN said that Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, People’s Liberation Army, West Theatre Command, had confirmed the incident. Earlier, the Indian Army had said it had received a request on the whereabouts of the missing soldier from the Chinese army. It was not disclosed whether the yak had been found. “A PLA soldier identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long was apprehended in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh on October 19 after he had strayed across the LAC,” the Indian Army said in a statement. The Chinese soldier, the statement said, was provided medical assistance including oxygen, as well as food and warm clothes, to protect him from the effects of the extreme altitude and the harsh climate. “As per established protocols, he will be returned back to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after completion of formalities,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||WHO: Count down but shouldn’t be complacent||The World Health Organisation on Monday cautioned against any relaxation of precautions or response actions after the slight decline in coronavirus disease cases across South Asia, including India, where daily cases are still rising in some states. The upcoming festival season and the approaching winter could aggravate the situation if people let their guard down, a top WHO official in New Delhi warned amid a near-steady decline in India’s daily new Covid-19 cases for over four weeks. “There should be no complacency in view of the declining numbers in recent weeks,” Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the WHO’s regional director for Southeast Asia, said in a statement. “The pandemic continues unabated and the region still reports large numbers of Covid-19 cases. We need to continue to do our very best. Our response needs to be strengthened further to curtail the pandemic,” she said. India’s seven-day average of daily new cases has declined steadily from around 97,000 in mid-September to 61,000 in mid-October. Over this period, the daily count has declined in most of the states but increased since Onam in Kerala and now in Bengal. Bengal’s seven-day average has increased from 3,206 on September 18 to 3,747 on October 18, a steady rise that public health experts have attributed to greater mingling of people ahead of the coming festival weeks. A Chennai-based scientist, who has been tracking Covid-19 across the states, said Bengal’s R value — a measure of how quickly the virus is spreading — has shown a marginal increase over the past four weeks from 1.01 to 1.03 to 1.05 to 1.07. “Even a marginal increase like that, if sustained over many weeks, could result in large increases in the numbers of active cases,” said Sitabhra Sinha, the scientist from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Kerala, for instance, experienced a sharp rise in cases in the weeks after Onam, its seven-day average of daily cases climbing from around 2,000 in early September to more than 8,400 by mid-October. Kerala now has the third-largest number of active patients (over 87,000) after Maharashtra’s 247,000 and Karnataka’s 115,000. The falling nationwide numbers look good for now but epidemiologists have cautioned that any relaxation in precautions such as the wearing of masks or physical distancing could quickly send the Covid-19 counts rising. “We know from experience that health systems can get overwhelmed quickly,” an epidemiologist said. India on Monday had over 772,055 Covid-19 patients under medical supervision. The country’s total count has crossed 7.5 million, with over 6.6 million patients having recovered and 114,610 having died. Southeast Asia has registered a 6 to 8 per cent decline in Covid-19 cases, mainly thanks to a decrease in reported cases from India and Bangladesh. The region has reported over 8 million of the nearly 40 million Covid-19 cases worldwide. The WHO, reaffirming messages already issued by health authorities in India, cautioned that the co-circulation of seasonal influenza and Covid-19 in winter might present challenges to the health facilities since both diseases feature similar symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||CR Park to give pandals a miss||The pandals of south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park will be missing this year after their organisers told civic authorities on Monday that there wouldn’t be any public festivities because of the coronavirus pandemic. After steering a meeting between organisers of several Durga Puja pandals in the area and the district administration, police and municipal authorities, local MLA and spokesperson of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, Saurabh Bharadwaj, said over a dozen committees of C.R. Park, Greater Kailash, Alaknanda and Kalkaji were unanimous in their decision to eschew large gatherings and pandals. “Most of the population of C.R. Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important that they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj said. “Only for religious reasons, a small Kalash Puja or Ghot Puja will be attended by 10-15 committee members. This will ensure continuity of puja by those committees.” C.R. Park is a major settlement for people from East Bengal who were displaced because of the Partition. This will be the first time since 1970 that there will be no pandals this year. Major pandals in other parts of the National Capital Region are also not being erected this year. Many puja committees are offering online streaming of the pujas. One pandal in Gurgaon has collected money to be sent to dhakis (drummers) who usually come from Bengal to play here. C.R. Park’s Kali Mandir is offering home delivery of bhog via online booking with Rs 1,500 a plate. A source said cooks would be tested for Covid-19 before the festival begins and would be required to stay on the temple premises until the festivities end. Cable channel DEN and Tata Sky are also expected to broadcast the morning pujas and evening aartis.In the meeting with authorities in Delhi, puja committees and local representatives have asked police to put barricades on roads to restrict visitors entering C.R. Park who may not know that there are no pandals this year. In contrast, crowds have locked pandals in Bengal until Calcutta High Court banned the entry of public on Monday. Delhi’s iconic Ramleela’s and symbolic igniting of effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna for Dussehra will also not take place. Mughal emperor Shah Jahan began the burning of effigies and fireworks around 350 years ago. The only year it did not take place was in 1965 when then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri asked people to donate the corpus for festivities to families of troops killed in the war with Pakistan. This year, all major Ramleela committees — including the ones where the President, Prime Minister and other political leaders go to symbolically fire an arrow to set Ravana ablaze — have declared that they are unable to implement the stringent Covid-19 guidelines put in place by the Delhi government, only last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Court breather for Sivasankar||Kerala High Court on Monday ordered the customs department not to arrest senior bureaucrat M. Sivasankar until Friday pending hearing of his anticipatory bail plea. Sivasankar, the former secretary to the chief minister’s office, is under suspension over his alleged links with the key accused in a gold-smuggling case. Earlier in the day, his counsel had moved an anticipatory bail plea citing his health condition. He was under treatment for a disc prolapse at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. In the evening, the hospital discharged Sivasankar based on the decision taken by a medical board that studied his case. He has been advised to take rest at home. Sivasankar had to be rushed to a private hospital on Friday evening when customs officials picked him up from his home in Thiruvananthapuram. He had then complained of chest pain and discomfort. On Saturday, the private hospital ruled out any cardiac issues, but confirmed a disc prolapse that needed specialised care. He was then moved to the medical college hospital. In his bail plea, Sivasankar cited that the customs department, Enforcement Directorate and National Investigation Agency had subjected him to over 90 hours of interrogation in 100 days, but could find nothing incriminating against him. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for the bureaucrat, argued that more than 600 hours of travelling to appear for interrogation had taken a toll on his client’s health. The counsel informed the court that his client was cooperating with the agencies and had honoured the summons to appear before it. Senior lawyer K. Ramkumar, who appeared for the customs department, opposed the anticipatory bail plea, but the court ordered him to file a counter affidavit by Friday. Friday has been set as the next date of hearing. Last week, the high court had granted Sivasankar interim bail till Friday in a case filed by the Enforcement Directorate that was probing the money-laundering angle in the gold-smuggling case. Sivasankar was under the lens because of his links with Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair —three key suspects behind the attempt to smuggle gold in a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of the Consulate General of UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The Thiruvananthapuram airport customs had busted the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold worth Rs14.82 crore on July 5. The government suspended Sivasankar, who was also the principal secretary in the IT department, over his close links with Swapna and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Decision on Chirag berth after polls ||The outcome of the Bihar election will decide whether the Lok Janshakti Party gets a place in the Narendra Modi government to fill up the vacancy created by the death of Ram Vilas Paswan, sources said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, the largest constituent in the NDA after the BJP, has lodged a strong opposition against the inclusion of LJP but the BJP wants to wait for the poll results to take a final call, sources said. At present, the JDU has 15 MPs in the Lok Sabha and the LJP 6. Chirag Paswan-led LJP’s decision to contest outside the NDA and go all out against Nitish has led an angry JDU to lodge a strong protest with the BJP. According to sources, the JDU has told the BJP that the LJP should not get a place in the central government and also refused to lend its support in case the LJP is asked to fill the vacancy in the Rajya Sabha created by the death of Ram Vilas. The BJP leadership, however, has maintained silence, waiting for the results of the Bihar polls to decide on the LJP’s utility. The LJP’s role has led many to believe that the party is acting like a BJP proxy to end Nitish’s stature as the big brother of the NDA in Bihar. “We are slamming the LJP for spreading confusion in the polls, but at the same time we may need its support if the NDA falls short of majority,” a BJP leader said. The leader pointed out that home minister Amit Shah, too, had indicated this by not closing the door on the LJP despite pressure from the JDU. In an interview last Saturday, Shah said the LJP decided to go it alone despite being offered a reasonable number of seats to contest, but didn’t rule out the possibility of the party being back in the NDA after the election. “We will see after elections on whether the LJP joins the NDA. We are opponents now and will contest accordingly,” Shah had said. While Shah’s statement added to the perception that the LJP was indeed in a covert relationship with the BJP, party leaders said it was also driven by feedback from the ground. Periodical assessments by the BJP have generated a fear that the JDU-BJP combine along with two other allies, Hindustan Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insaan Party, may fall short of the majority mark in the 243-member Assembly. “In that case, if the LJP manages to win a substantial number of seats, then it can fill the gap,” a BJP leader said. “If we start saying that there is no place for the LJP in the NDA, then it could join our opponents,” the leader added. On the LJP’s firm refusal to accept Nitish as the chief minister, the BJP leader said. “That will be resolved post-elections.” Many believe the BJP, despite promising to stick with Nitish, may hoist its own chief minister with the help of the LJP if the JDU’s tally dips substantially. However, if the JDU-BJP combine manages to return to power comfortably and the LJP fails to make a mark, then the BJP could be compelled to slam the door on the LJP. In that case, Chirag may find it difficult to fill his father’s shoes in the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: HC says TV channel can't publish confessional statements||The media cannot access or publish confessional statements of accused that are not in the public domain, Delhi High Court observed on Monday while questioning a news channel’s act of broadcasting the alleged confession of a Delhi riots suspect. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said that journalists do not have the right to take out police case diaries and publish them. “These are documents which you cannot take out and publish. There is no doubt about it,” he said. Accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia student, has in his petition accused the police of forcing him to sign certain papers in custody and then leaking the statement with malicious intent. The high court directed Zee News Media Corporation Ltd to file an affidavit revealing the name of the source from whom the journalist received the purported statement. It refused the media house’s request that it be allowed to reveal the name in a sealed cover to avert any risk to the person or his family, and set the next hearing for October 23. “Police have already initiated a vigilance inquiry into the matter. You (Zee News) have got access to documents which even the accused does not have. You file the counter reply disclosing the source from where you got the document,” the judge said. The police have told the court that none of their officers leaked the statement. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, representing Zee News, said the journalist had requested not to be pressed to reveal his source. He argued that pressing for disclosure of the source would amount to interfering with media freedom, as guaranteed under the Constitution. Besides, he said, the source was not under protection. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, said: “One has to determine from where the document is coming. The accused were not being given copies of remand applications in which there are details about their case, but journalists are given everything.” Tanha’s petition said he was aggrieved by various publications reporting he had confessed to orchestrating the Delhi riots and sought a direction to them to take down content leaked by the police. Refusing to pass an ex-parte order, the high court directed media houses Zee News and OpIndia and social networking platforms Facebook and YouTube to respond to the plea, saying it would hear all the parties. Tanha, arrested in May, is in judicial custody. The third-year BA student of Persian had earlier been arrested in connection with the December 15 violence near Jamia during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots,” the police have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Political pot hot, ED spoils Farooq lunch||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah was questioned on Monday by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the 2012 cricket scam, kicking up a political storm as parties called it a vendetta against the formation of an alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370. Abdullah, the National Conference president and Srinagar Lok Sabha MP, was summoned and questioned from 11am by ED officials at its Srinagar office in connection with his alleged role in the Rs 113-crore Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association scam that had rocked the state in 2012. Abdullah, after daylong grilling, vowed not to give up his struggle for the restoration of Article 370, although he refused to link his questioning with the recent developments. “We have a long way to go. We have a long political battle. That fight will continue whether Farooq Abdullah is alive or whether Farooq Abdullah is dead,” Abdullah told reporters. “Our resolve has never changed, our resolve will never change even if am to be handed. It is the struggle of people of Jammu and Kashmir, not Farooq Abdullah’s.” The NC leader said he is not scared of the ED and mocked his only concern was that he could not have his lunch on Monday. “My only regret is that I could not have my lunch today. I could not bring my lunch here,” he said. The former chief minister’s questioning triggered an outcry as the NC, the People’s Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference and other parties called it a political vendetta. These parties floated the People’s Alliance last week to fight for restoration of Article 370 and resolution of the Kashmir issue. The NC, in a statement, said: “We knew it was coming” and claimed the BJP has unleashed the agencies after failing to politically fight Abdullah. “The ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is clearly the result of the unity that Dr (Farooq) Sahib has been able to forge among mainstream political parties in J&K,” the statement said. “This is the price one faces when opposed to BJP’s ideology and divisive politics. Recent history is a witness to how BJP has been employing coercive and intimidative measures through various departments to target Opposition leaders across the country. The recent ED summon to Dr Farooq Abdullah is a case in point.” An NC spokesman said the “timing of the recent summon is very clear” as his “previous summons were just before August 5 last year and today’s summon comes within days of forming the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration of which Dr Farooq Abdullah has taken a lead”. “Dr Farooq Abdullah continues to maintain his innocence and will cooperate with the authorities in what is nothing but a witch-hunt,” he said. The Gupkar Declaration, signed by major J&K political parties, is a pledge for restoration of the state’s special status. Abdullah’s son Omar condemned the summons but denied some media reports that the raids were conducted at his residence. Former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti also took to Twitter to censure the central government and vowed to fight on. “ED’s sudden summon to Farooq sahab displays the extent of GOIs nervousness about mainstream parties in J&K fighting as one unit. Also reeks of political vendetta & wont in the least blunt our collective resolve to fight for our rights,” she tweeted. The scam surfaced in 2012 over allegations of misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 113 crore in the JKCA, then headed by Abdullah. The money was sent by the BCCI to the JKCA. Jammu and Kashmir High Court officially handed over the case to the CBI in September 2015 and the ED too chipped in with the filing of an FIR. The ED actions have in the past coincided with major political developments, raising eyebrows. The ED filed a chargesheet in July last year against Abdullah and three others for allegedly misappropriating Rs 43 crore, amid unprecedented uncertainty ahead of the August 5 abrogation of Article 370. Abdullah then claimed he had done no wrong and was open to investigations. BJP spokesman and former Brigadier Anil Gupta rejected the claims and said the party has nothing to do with the ED investigations. He said the timing of investigation is decided by the agencies, which are “autonomous”, and not by the BJP. “Blaming the BJP for all their woes has become a political compulsion for the National Conference. Dr Farooq Abdullah did not consult the BJP when it created the scam. At that time he used both hands to muster the money and today when he is being questioned for that he is blaming the BJP and its ideology,” he said. “The case was already going on. The timing of the investigation, when they want to investigate or question, is decided by the agency. They are not BJP agencies, they are agencies of the government of India. They ate autonomous bodies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Urgent appeal to SC on RTI  vacancies||RTI activist Anjali Bharadwaj on Monday applied to the Supreme Court for an “urgent” hearing of a petition that seeks the immediate filling of all the vacancies at the Central Information Commission, where six of the 11 posts are currently unoccupied. The vacant posts include that of the chief information commissioner, the application underscored, adding that the commission faced a backlog of over 36,000 complaints and appeals filed under the Right to Information Act. It accused the Centre of not just deliberately failing to fill the vacancies but of having misled the apex court in April by saying it had complied with its December 2019 order to fill all the vacant posts. It alleged that some of the vacancies had persisted for the past two years. The application for urgent hearing, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, is expected to be heard only next week after the Dussehra vacation ends on October 25. “With the retirement of the chief (information commissioner) on 26.8.2020 and another commissioner demitting office (at) the end of September, 2020, currently 6 posts... are lying vacant and the pendency of appeals/ complaints has risen to over 36,600,” the application said. It alleged the Centre had on April 24 falsely claimed to have complied with the apex court’s December 16, 2019, directive — which came on a petition from Bharadwaj — to fill within three months all the four posts that were vacant then. “It is submitted that this assertion is patently false and misleading as the respondent was to fill all the vacancies which were advertised on 12.12.2019,” the application said. What the Centre did, the application alleged, was to fill just one of the four posts and elevate an existing commissioner as the chief information commissioner. By April 24, when the Centre filed its affidavit, one more post had fallen vacant, restoring the number of vacancies to four, it added. “The affidavit notes that 250 applications were received pursuant to the advertisement for 4 posts of information commissioners. However, no reason is given as to why only one vacant post was filled,” the application said. It alleged that “it appears the (Centre) is resorting to issuing fresh advertisements instead of filling all the advertised vacant posts in a bid to cause undue delay in the appointments, thereby frustrating people’s right to information”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-605
20-10-2020||India||Australia to join Malabar drill ||India on Monday announced that Australia would join the upcoming Malabar naval exercise, which effectively means that all the four member countries of the Quadrilateral coalition (Quad), would participate in the mega drill next month-end, a move seen as a snub to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh. The exercise will bring together militaries of the Indo-Pacific nations — the US, Japan, India and Australia — in the Bay of Bengal in the backdrop of China’s aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” said a statement from Indian defence ministry. The participants of Exercise Malabar 2020 are engaging to enhance safety and security in the maritime domain. They collectively support free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and remain committed to a rules-based international order, the statement added. Sources in the defence ministry said India was expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region with an effort to contain China’s growing clout there. The drill has been conducted off the coast of Guam in the Philippine Sea in 2018 and off the coast of Japan in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
20-10-2020||India||Government to collect data on migrant workers ||The Centre is poised to launch three surveys to collect data relating to the wages and social security of, respectively, migrant labourers, domestic workers and those like lawyers’ or doctors’  assistants or receptionists. The government had faced severe criticism from Opposition parties and civil society groups last month after it told Parliament, in reply to MPs’ questions, that it had no data on the migrant workers who had died during the lockdown. Shortly after the MPs had submitted the written questions, the labour and employment ministry had on September 9 set up a 15-member committee chaired by S.P. Mukherjee, a professor emeritus with Calcutta University, to design the surveys and their methodology. Government sources said the surveys were expected to begin in November and would take six to seven months to complete. Labour economists said there were no credible, up-to-date data on any aspect of migrant workers’ lives and livelihoods — such as their number, wages or state-wise and sector-wise distribution. A 40-year-old law says that migrant workers must be registered both in their home state and workplace state. But several committees, including a parliamentary standing committee, have found that most of the states never implemented this law. So, the government had no data on them during the lockdown, which left millions of migrant workers jobless and stranded. Many perished while attempting to walk hundreds of miles home virtually on empty stomachs. Enumerators of the labour bureau, a government body, will conduct the surveys. The surveys will tap households, employers and the government agencies that register commercial establishments or keep records about them, said Amitabh Kundu, labour economist and committee co-chairperson. “There aren’t much data on domestic workers or the people engaged (as helpers) by (unregistered) professional firms or individual professionals (such as lawyers, architects or doctors),” Kundu said. “The government wants to know about the remunerations and social security of these categories of workers.” Kundu said the survey data would help devise policies to implement the labour laws passed recently. Parliament last month passed three labour laws — on the workers’ occupational safety and health, right to strike and form trade unions, and social security, respectively — after having passed a wage code last year. The law on occupational safety and health mandates the creation of a database of migrant workers, and the wage code allows domestic workers to seek the minimum wage. Kundu said the committee had a three-year tenure and would, whenever required, oversee the conduct of similar surveys to generate data for policymaking. Although the government has no data on deaths among the migrant workers, public database Thejesh GN has found that at least 972 migrant workers died from lockdown-related causes between March 25, when the lockdown was enforced, and August end. The causes of death included starvation, financial distress, exhaustion while travelling home under primitive conditions, road and train accidents, lack of medical care, suicide, and withdrawal symptoms brought on by the unavailability of alcohol. Among the other causes were brutality by police, who often targeted home-bound migrant workers for violating the lockdown restrictions, and attacks by criminals on the way home. Forty-nine of the deaths occurred at the quarantine centres, known to be overcrowded and bereft of amenities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
20-10-2020||India||Kerala Covid lapse worry||Two alleged lapses by Covid-19 healthcare workers have shaken Kerala’s health department, once toasted for its initial handling of the outbreak but now facing censure over a recent surge in infections in the state. One of the charges is that a Covid-19 patient died because his ventilator tube was not properly fitted. The other is that a hospital mixed up the identities of two Covid-19 patients and allowed the family of one of them to go on believing he was alive for three days after his death. The allegations surfaced on Monday, a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan blamed Kerala authorities’ “negligence” during the Onam festival in August for the spike in Covid-19 cases. One of the allegations owes to a leaked audio message, purportedly from a nursing officer, that had been shared within a WhatsApp group of nurses, government officials said. The speaker in the audio warns the nurses against any lapses and cites how a poorly fitted ventilator tube had cost Harris, a patient, his life on July 20. “Harris was ready to be moved to the ward. His family complained about his death but we somehow escaped blame. The doctors didn’t blame us,” the speaker says. State health minister K.K. Shailaja on Monday ordered an inquiry into the death of a patient named Harris at the Government Medical College in Kalamassery, Ernakulam. A nursing officer at the hospital, Jalaja Devi, has been suspended. In the audio, the speaker admits to multiple instances of negligence. “Several patients have died because of such lapses. Doctors have reported them, but not taken any action against us because we are working hard. Yet such small lapses on our part have cost the lives of several patients,” the speaker says. “They (doctors) have told us about these issues and asked us to tell the staff to be extra careful. In case we get caught there will be problems.” The Congress and the BJP protested outside the hospital on Monday. Zainaba, elder sister of Harris, told reporters that “no one should go through this”. The family said it had sought an explanation from the hospital how a patient who seemed to be recovering well could die so suddenly, but had received no response. “Our 85-year-old mother is distraught. His (Harris’s) wife is a mental wreck. He has two children,” Zainaba said, adding that the family had lodged a police complaint of medical negligence. In the second instance, a family from Kollam has alleged they were kept in the dark about the death of a member, whose body was eventually found in the morgue of the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram after a hunt. A Covid-19 team had taken Sulaiman Kunju, 85, to a private hospital and then a Covid treatment centre, before moving him to the government medical college in the district. From there he was shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram hospital, but the family was not told. The family said they regularly left food packets and fresh clothes for Kunju at the security desk of the Kollam hospital, believing he was there and recovering. “I regularly checked on my father’s health condition by calling the security desk. On Thursday I got a call saying my father had been moved to the non-Covid ward. When I went to meet him on Friday, I realised there had been a mess-up,” Kunju’s son Naushad said. Apparently, the health updates Naushad was receiving were those of a namesake of his father, admitted to the Kollam hospital. “We sought the help of the local panchayat officials, who traced my father to the morgue in Thiruvananthapuram three days after he had died on October 13,” Naushad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-606
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC bars pandal-entry for visitors across the state||Visitors will not be allowed inside Durga Puja pandals this year, Calcutta High Court has said in a ruling that has spread a degree of relief among those bracing for a post-festival explosion in Covid-19 cases. The order by Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee is being hailed as the right step and one that is expected to go a long way in hammering home the gravity of the threat. The division bench laid down a series of measures to be taken in and around pandals to prevent overcrowding. “Life has not been normal for the human species since about March 2020 and it may have been better if restrictions were put in place as to how the Durga Puja festivities would be celebrated this year…. In public interest, all pandals where Durga Puja is being celebrated this year are made no-entry zones for members of the public,” the bench said. Areas within 10 metres of a big pandal or five metres of a small pandal will be barricaded as “no-entry zones”. The idol can be viewed from 10 metres “beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal” on any side at the big pujas, and from 5 metres at the smaller pujas. The state director-general of police and the Calcutta police commissioner have been directed to file compliance reports before the court on November 5. The bench underscored its constructive role, saying: “This order must not be seen to be a finding against the State for the inadequacy of the measures attempted to be put in place, but only as a supplement to ensure the proper implementation of such measures by the limited police personnel, volunteers and other administrative officials and workers.” Politically, the Mamata Banerjee government is now freed of a dilemma. The chief minister faced a stark choice: stop the pujas on her own or handle the issue with kid gloves and risk a spike in cases — either way, the BJP would have sought to reap political mileage. But administratively, the perception in the government is that if a similar court order had come earlier, it would have spared the pujas, especially the smaller ones, a great deal of effort. A plea by some puja committees for a review of the order is not ruled out. Several puja organisers in Calcutta said it would have been better had such restrictions come earlier rather than three days before the Puja. They said they had worked overtime to raise funds in a crisis year and build pandals abiding by the government’s restrictions. The question also remains how the Rs 50,000 grant, two-thirds of which the court had earmarked for safety features such as sanitisers in a separate case, would be used. The high court appreciated the government’s efforts and said there was only so much the state could do. “There can be no doubt that appropriate guidelines have been prepared by the state and individual aspects, such as the activities within the pandals, prohibition of carnivals and entertainment programmes and the like, have been extensively referred to in the guidelines. There is also no doubt that police personnel and administrative authorities across the state will put their best foot forward to ensure that the guidelines are followed just as all puja organisers are expected to adhere to the same,” the court said. It referred to the unrelenting onslaught of Covid while underscoring the need for caution. “The virus refuses to go away. Though the healthcare facilities in the state have been augmented, with the limited resources available, the state can only do so much. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention than to allow the festivities to go on without any checks and repent later that adequate resources may not be available to provide for the massive cure that may become necessary.” The court acknowledged that implementation may be difficult, given the police’s limited manpower. “If the guidelines issued cannot be implemented in the lead-up to the pujas and the overcrowding in the markets in big city Calcutta and the small towns elsewhere in the state has remained by and large unchecked, the same cannot be allowed to be repeated over the four or five days during the Durga Puja celebrations.” The state’s advocate-general prayed for a stay on the high court order but it was turned down. Some government lawyers felt the government would not mind the order, given that the court had put a leash on overcrowding in and around the pandals. The order came on a PIL filed by advocate Saurav Chatterjee that alleged that although the number of people affected by Covid in Bengal is rising every day, the state has allowed organisers to hold Durga Puja as usual. “Instead of restraining the organisers from holding Puja, the state government had issued permission to all the committees,” counsel Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told the court, moving the petition on behalf of Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government job balm for kin of elephant attack victims||The Bengal forest department has prepared a list of 749 families across districts who have lost their kin in elephant attacks, and submitted it to the state government. The move follows a recent announcement of chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her Jhargram visit, saying her government would provide the job of special home guard to one member of each of these families. The job offer comes over and above the existing cash compensation. “So far, family members of a person killed in an elephant attack were given Rs 4 four lakh as compensation. But from now, added to the compensation, one member of the family will also get a job,” said a senior forest official. At the meeting, the chief minister had also said all such families who lost one or more than a family member in such attacks from January 2011 to December 2019 would also get jobs. “This is why we have prepared the list of 749 families  and submitted it to the state government,” said Ravikant Sinha, the principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Sources in the department said that among the 749 people who died from attacks by wild elephants, 424 were from north Bengal and the rest 325 people were from south Bengal districts. “Area-wise, the highest number of deaths (105) from elephant attacks has been reported from the fringes of the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district,” said a forest source. For years now, the demand for jobs was raised by these families, who pointed out that in many cases the person killed in the elephant attack was the main or sole earning member in the mishap, plunging the entire family into financial crisis. A senior Trinamul leader in Alipurduar said this move could help the party draw support from people in the areas reporting frequent man-elephant conflicts. “A government job would be of immense help to these poor families. It would also help us (the party) approach them and seek their support as the chief minister has time and again proved that her government is sincere in addressing such long-pending demands of the people,” he said. Officials of the state forest department have decided to intensify patrolling and other protection activities in two sensitive locations — Zero Bandh in Gorumara National Park and Nathua forest range area in Jalpaiguri forest division — ahead of the festive season. Along with forest guards, pet elephants have also been deputed in these places to conduct patrolling in the forest areas. A senior forester, speaking on the decision, said the department had information that poachers from the northeast could sneak into forests around this time. Thus high alert has been sounded in the reserve forests of north Bengal during the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid-hit Bengal district hails Calcutta High Court puja order ||The Monday order of Calcutta High Court making pandals no-entry zones has come as a big relief to the administration of North 24-Parganas — one of Bengal’s high-incidence Covid districts — that on Sunday had got 1,096 Durga Puja organisers in Basirhat subdivision to pledge compliance to Covid protocol. Since Covid positive rate in North 24-Parganas district is hovering around 25 per cent, containing the spread of the virus during festive days is a challenge, which officials feel will become easier in the wake of the high court order. A senior district official said the high court order was a big relief. “The pandal no-entry order will discourage many from hitting the streets.” Basirhat district police authorities on Sunday had released an 11-point guideline and made Puja organisers swear adherence to it. It included compulsory wearing of masks for every pandal-hopper, sanitisation and entry regulations. The administration, nevertheless, is concerned about crowding for immersion of deities on Dashami in river Ichhamati. “Usually, people take joyrides on boats to watch the immersion,” Basirhat SP K.P. Barui said. “People from Bangladesh also join from the other side of the river. This year, we directed puja committees to keep immersion rituals to a minimum. Only five persons can accompany the deities for immersion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri administration readies homes for tea workers||The district administration in Jalpaiguri has geared up to implement “Cha Sundari,” the housing scheme announced by the Mamata Banerjee government for tea workers of north Bengal, with indications that distribution of homes in tea estates will start ahead of the Bengal polls next year. On Monday, Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary held a meeting with officials of various state departments and agencies to take stock and draw up a plan to implement the scheme in three closed tea estates in the first phase. The scheme announced by state finance minister Amit Mitra this February has been allotted Rs 500 crore. Last month, Mamata during her visit to Siliguri had announced that 3,694 families residing in tea gardens would get houses in the first phase. “In Jalpaiguri, 206 houses will be built in Manabari, 562 houses in Redbank and 285 houses in Dharanipur tea estate under this scheme. The state housing department will execute the project in association with some other departments,” said a source in the administration. District magistrate Tiwary told newspersons after the meeting that land and land reforms department had conducted surveys in these three tea gardens to identify land for the housing project. “As land leases of all these three gardens have been cancelled, the land is with the state government now and there is no problem in going ahead with the scheme. The survey has ended and now the design of the houses and overall planning would be done before the start of construction. After Durga Puja, a high-level team will visit these gardens for further steps,” Tiwary said. Similarly, houses would be built in some tea gardens of Alipurduar district. The scheme, political observers said, was important for Trinamul ahead of polls. “It was a longstanding demand of the tea garden residents and once implemented, could give considerable political mileage to Trinamul in the brew belt. Proactive moves on the administration’s part indicate that distribution of homes would commence ahead of Assembly polls,” said an observer. Workers of two tea estates — Kalchini and Raimatanag — of Alipurduar district have received state financial aid of Rs 1,500 per month for five closed months though both had reopened last month. “These gardens were closed from April to August this year. They received the entire sum, that is, Rs 7,500, at one go, though the gardens have reopened,” said a tea trade union leader. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||BSF shoots Bangladeshi national in cattle row in Nadia||The Border Security Force (BSF) gunned down a Bangladeshi national on the India-Bangladesh border in Nadia early on Monday, terming it as retaliatory fire to an attack by cattle smugglers. BSF and local sources said that on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, two groups of cattle smugglers — one each from India and Bangladesh — gathered at Maluapara village close to an unfenced stretch of border. Multiple sources said smugglers on the Indian side gathered with cattle heads near the border road, the final line of domination of the BSF, for the Bangladeshi smugglers to receive the animals. A spokesperson for BSF’s South Bengal Frontier in Calcutta said: “As Bangladeshi smugglers aggressively moved towards their Indian counterparts, our personnel asked them to stop. They continued to approach fast by hurling stones at our personnel. BSF jawans adopted non-lethal measures to disperse them. But both groups of smugglers increased hurling stones at our personnel and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. The BSF team was compelled to fire only two rounds from the lethal weapon in which a Bangladeshi smuggler was killed and others managed to flee.” This happened amid a growing demand by Bangladesh authorities for the BSF to use non-lethal weapons while guarding the border. Early this year, Bangladeshi foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen urged the BSF to use non-lethal weapons during border vigilance and had identified areas where people from his country died in firing by the security forces. The BSF authorities of South Bengal Frontiers reaffirmed its commitment to honour the understanding reached with their counterparts in Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) for use of non-lethal weapons such as pipe action guns (PAG) and slingshots (locally known as gulti). The body of the Bangladeshi smuggler was later handed over to Bhimpur police for post-mortem. BSF authorities also filed a case with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid cases jump by 3,992 in a day||Bengal logged another high in daily spike with 3,992 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, a day Calcutta High Court stepped in with a landmark no-pandal-entry order aimed at preventing the pandemic in Bengal from spiralling out of control amid the festivities. This was the 16th time in October that the record for the highest 24-hour rise was reset. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases went past 3.25 lakh. It includes 2.84 lakh recoveries and 6,119 deaths. Bengal also reported 3,272 recoveries and 63 deaths on Monday. Eighteen died in Calcutta and 10 in North 24-Parganas. “The high court ruling, if implemented properly and adhered to by the masses, will possibly avert a major crisis,” a minister said. “From here, we are probably looking at a daily rise in numbers of 5,000 or so, because of the Puja. Not anything beyond that, which was being estimated before the (high court) order.” He admitted that October “has been relentless for us”. In the 19 days of the month so far, the state recorded nearly 68,000 new cases and 58,000 recoveries. In the same period, the total active cases rose from around 26,000 to over 34,000 now. There have been 1,161 deaths in these 19 days. The recovery rate is now 87.48 per cent, behind the national recovery rate of 88.37. Till recently, Bengal’s recovery rate was significantly higher than the national average. Of the total 6,119 deaths reported so far, the state government reported 5,172, or 84.5 per cent, as comorbid. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.88, the national rate is 1.51 per cent. At least 17 persons in Visva-Bharati tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday after over 100 persons in the varsity underwent rapid antigen tests. The offices of the vice-chancellor and registrar are shut. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Santiniketan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Nadda prod to win over north Bengal communities||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Monday asked party leaders in north Bengal to reach out to different communities and apprise them of several schemes rolled by the Narendra Modi government. Nadda was in Siliguri to attend a meeting with BJP leaders in eight north Bengal districts. During his whirlwind visit, Nadda tried to reach out to different communities in the region and promised to meet demands like formation of Narayani Sena regiment in the Indian Army, establishment of a medicinal hub to boost cinchona plantations in the hills and improvement of railway services. The Rajbanshi population has for long been demanding Narayani Sena regiment on the lines of the one that existed in the Cooch Behar kingdom. “We had mentioned two major issues of the hills in our Sankalp Patra. One is a permanent political solution for the hills and the other is granting of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 communities. Our party is committed to meeting these demands,” Nadda said at the meeting. He then trained his guns at Mamata Banerjee. “Many welfare schemes introduced by the central government have not been implemented in Bengal. The entire responsibility is with chief minister Mamata Banerjee who keeps on saying ‘Hobe Na, Hobe Na (will not happen)’. We want to say, ‘Hobe, April e hobe (it will happen next April)’. Once our party is voted to power in the state, we will implement all these central schemes. Trinamul wants to divide people by offering them doles but we want to bind people together. People here should know this and then make their choice,” the BJP president said. He said the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented in Bengal and the delay was on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nadda also met representatives of different social and community organisations separately. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP, told media that Nadda was in charge of the party’s campaign in north Bengal during the 2019 general election. “Out of eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, we could win seven. We will grab 50-odd seats in north Bengal in the coming Assembly polls,” said Basu. The Trinamul Congress said Nadda was in Bengal at a time the state is in a festive mood. “The irony is not lost when the President of the BJP talks about ‘divide and rule.’ ‘Divide and rule’ is a ploy learnt from the colonial past and played out deviously every day by your party,” reads a statement issued by Derek O’ Brian, Trinamul’s Parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||West Bengal||Puja relief and headache for Bengal government ||The restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court on visits to Durga Puja pandals may be seen as a political relief to the Mamata Banerjee government, which has been apprehensive of the festival turning the Covid-19 pandemic into a full-fledged public health emergency in Bengal. At the same time, a section of senior officials said Nabanna feels the judgment was delivered too late and was too sweeping in nature for it to be implemented smoothly. Several seniors in the ruling party and the government said the high court had possibly helped avert a much larger crisis. “Having gone out of her way to enable the festival even during Covid-19, the restrictions have now come from the court. So, it is not something that can be held against the chief minister,” said a minister. “Had she imposed any restriction on the festival, the saffron camp would have accused her of being anti-Hindu. Because she allowed everything, they were gearing up to seize on the political opportunity from a major spike in Covid-19 cases after Puja,” he added. The minister said Trinamul was also pleased with several key observations of the court, which went in favour of the government, such as the stress on the administration’s right intentions which were evident from Puja guidelines. “The court also saved us any possible damage from malicious propaganda by the Hindutva brigade by ordering repeated announcements from all pandals what the restrictions are,” he said. Some in the top brass at Nabanna said the order would help them handle crowds in a far more efficient way and make them adhere better to the Covid-19 protocols. A source said the foremost priority of the state government would now be to duly barricade and cordon off the pandals in compliance with the order. “The state government has to ensure that physical distancing is maintained and devotees wear masks outside the barricades. This is a much easier job, especially with the smaller turnouts we now estimate,” said an official. “Considering the way people have been rushing to pandals from last week itself, it would have been very tough for us to manage crowds had the order not been issued,” he added. Senior government officials led by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had held a videoconference with district magistrates and the commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, besides the city police commissioner, to finalise a plan of action to deal with the rush. “The surge in Covid-19 cases through October was enough of an indication. The chief minister herself had been warning against the revelry worsening the outbreak and asserting that community transmission had begun,” said a government official. Although Mamata herself has been out inaugurating several important pujas of the city, besides fulfilling some social commitments of the festival, she has been advocating strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols. However, administrative sources in the state government said Nabanna was now worried how the judgment could be implemented. “It is already the second half of Tritiya. It is extremely difficult now to enforce such an order across tens of thousands of puja pandals in every nook and cranny of the state,” said a senior official. Puja is Bengal’s biggest festival and is a major emotive issue for the state and its residents, and rendering all pandals no-entry zones overnight is easier said than done, he added. Another senior state official said thousands of medium to small pandals in and around the city and elsewhere in the state didn’t have the means or the ability to comply with the order, having already completed the entire process of organising the festival. “The state government and a few agencies are not the sole stakeholders in this. There exist, among others, tens of thousands of organisers with so much at stake. In passing the order, one might argue, not everyone was adequately heard,” he said. “While the state government is unlikely to challenge the order and seek a review, there is every possibility that organisers, or some other stakeholders, might,” he added. The official also pointed out that the court had earlier ordered in a separate case that the Rs 50,000 grant to puja organisers from the state government was to be used on masks, sanitisers and Covid-19 management in and around the pandals. “Now, there is no clarity on what happens with that fund. Given the pandals being turned into no-entry zones, there cannot possibly be expenditure of Rs 50,000 under such heads,” said an official. The on-record statements issued by several senior Trinamul leaders, all associated with big-ticket pujas, were unenthusiastic. Most, such as urban development minister and the immediate past city mayor Firhad Hakim — principal patron of the Chetla Agrani Sangha puja — said they would like to go through the order fully before responding. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, principal organiser of the Sreebhumi Sporting Club puja, alleged “step-motherly treatment” towards Bengal’s biggest festival. The most balanced response from the ruling camp came from Calcutta’s immediate past deputy mayor — currently the member in charge of health at the board of administrators to run the civic body — Atin Ghosh. “As the principal organiser of 17 north Calcutta pujas, I have to say I am disheartened and in a state of utter confusion over what we can do to save those pujas,” said Ghosh, a foremost leader of the ruling party in north Calcutta. “But, as the person in charge of the city’s public health, I have to say some restrictions were necessary and the high court’s decision is welcome,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-337
20-10-2020||North East||Viral video of doctor dancing in PPE to cheer patients||A doctor in Assam is not just treating Covid patients, he is also dancing for them. A video of Dr Arup Senapati dancing in his PPE kit to send a “positive message” to patients is winning wide praise, both for his moves and his gesture. Dr Senapati, who is doing his MS (ENT) from Silchar Medical College, had danced to the Ghungroo number from the movie War starring Hrithik Roshan, who retweeted the video with the message: “Tell Dr Arup I’m gonna learn his steps and dance as good as him someday in Assam. Terrific spirit.” By 11pm on Monday, the video had over 2.6 million views, 93,100 likes, 3,300 comments and over 18,800 retweets. Stand-up comedian Abhineet Mishra was among those who responded to his Facebook post, saying “this energy of him and several others are keeping us going”. 34-year-old Senapati, who is in home quarantine after his Covid duty ended on Sunday evening, is on cloud nine. He told The Telegraph that the response to the video and the messages and incessant calls he had been receiving were “simply” unbelievable. “I too had posted the video on Facebook, but my colleague (Syed Faizan Ahmad) posted it on Twitter with the message that I was dancing in front of Covid patients to make them feel happy. It went viral after it was retweeted by Hrithik sir,” he said. Dance has been Senapati’s passion since his childhood. He is not a trained dancer, but was hooked to the videos of Michael Jackson and Hrithik. He used to participate in inter-institutional dance competitions and won a few. “Hrithik sir has been my hero since childhood, an inspiration since Kaho Na Pyar Hai…. The video is my humble effort to cheer those affected by Covid and my colleagues before going into quarantine,” Senapati said while inviting the actor to Assam. Hailing from Shantipur in Guwahati, the son of a former SBI official, Senapati took the opportunity to send another message to everyone: “Don’t lower your guard. The infection rate may be coming down, but the war against Covid is not over yet. Please follow all Covid protocols and stay safe.” Before joining the Silchar Medical College on September 12, he was working as a medical and health official for six years in Goalpara district where he was actively involved in Covid management. “It is an unprecedented and painful situation. Only those directly impacted know how painful the situation can get. The condition of a Covid patient changes in no time. We have experienced it. Therefore, it is important that we don’t lower our guard against Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
20-10-2020||Opinion||Landslide victory for Jacinda Ardern||Sir — The prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, delivered the biggest election victory for the centre-left Labour Party in half a century last Saturday, with voters rewarding the leader for her effective response in combating the Covid-19 pandemic (“Jacinda in biggest election victory”, Oct 18). With 95 per cent of ballots counted, the Labour Party held 49 per cent of the votes, far ahead of its main opposition, the New Zealand National Party, which managed to win only 27 per cent of the votes. Labour won an astounding 64 seats in a unicameral legislature of 120, the highest number held by any party since the adoption of the proportional voting system in 1996. This was a historic election in more ways than one with this year’s results being one of the biggest swings in the country’s electoral history in 80 years. This is a well-deserved win for Ardern who had brought about important legislative changes and exhibited immense grit in the face of numerous calamities that had plagued her first term in office. In a population of around five million, the country has so far reported only 25 Covid-related deaths. This is an immense achievement for any country, proving beyond a doubt that there could be no better person than Ardern to lead the nation during this time. Moreover, her swift response in implementing a sweeping nationwide ban on most semi-automated weapons last year in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on two mosques in Christchurch significantly contributed to her popularity. Ardern is truly the kind of leader that the world needs in this hour of crisis. Khushboo Ved,Calcutta Sir — In the final election debate, the prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern, had proclaimed, “Real change requires steps that bring people with us. I stand by my record... I am not done yet.” It seems that the New Zealanders agree with that statement. Ardern, the youngest person to hold the top office in the country, formed a coalition government in 2017 but this time, in the 2020 elections, the Labour Party has been given a sweeping mandate with the opportunity of forming a single-party government in decades. However, a question that arises is whether the win is a result of the hard work of the party as a whole or a personal win for Ardern, whose decisive yet humble disposition has endeared her to the common people. In either case, the upcoming days will be crucial for the prime minister as she leads the tiny island nation through a pandemic and a rapidly polarizing world. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Sir — Jacinda Ardern and the Labour Party must be congratulated for their landslide victory in the general elections in New Zealand last Saturday. Dubbed as “the Covid election”, Ardern had campaigned on her government’s success in eliminating community transmission of the virus which has caused just 25 deaths in a population of five million. The pandemic is one of a string of emergencies that tested Ardern’s leadership during a torrid first term after she rode to an unexpected victory in the 2017 polls on the back of a wave of support that many had termed as “Jacinda-mania”. Ardern has now cemented her position as New Zealand’s most popular prime minister in generations, if not ever. Saturday’s vote marked the first time any leader won an absolute majority since New Zealand adopted a proportional voting system and was also the party’s strongest showing since World War II. Ardern displayed both empathy and decisive action on gun control after the attack on two mosques in Christchurch in early 2019, but again found herself comforting a shocked nation when a volcanic eruption at White Island, also known as Whakaari, killed 21 people and left dozens more with horrific burns in December 2019. Now, as the prime minister assumes power for the second term, it remains to be seen how much further she is able to push her progressive ideals. S.S. Paul,NadiaJustice denied Sir — It must be acknowledged that the plight of the Dalit community in our country is truly deplorable; institutional complicity protects upper-caste criminals even in instances of caste-based atrocities (“Just so”, Oct 16). The findings of a study showed that cases of atrocities against Dalits are diluted by the administration from the time of registration of a crime to further legal proceedings. The incident in Hathras is a prime example of such mishandling. Authorities must urgently undertake measures to rectify the criminal justice system from top down. Benu Kumar Bose,Calcutta Name game Sir — It seems that the European Parliament is set to vote on whether to ban terms such as ‘veggie burger’ and ‘veggie sausage’ after meat industry lobbyists complained of “cultural hijacking” by vegetarian/vegan products leading to consumer confusion. The premise of cultural hijacking, at least in this context, is flimsy, as is the argument that people confuse vegetarian or vegan products as meat. As long as products are clearly packaged, the nomenclature is irrelevant. Vegan or vegetarian companies, like all others, should have the opportunity to name and market their products as they see fit. Bani Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Chess moves: Centre's 'Naya Kashmir'?||Having built New India, has the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre now begun building ‘Naya Kashmir’? The possibility — it has raised concerns within the political fraternity in Kashmir — cannot be dismissed. An amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act has led to the facilitation of direct election for members of the District Development Councils. Having divested Kashmir of statehood and, in the process, dismantled its political framework, the Centre is now keen to project this intervention as the restoration of a semblance of democracy. But are elections — the board members were nominated earlier — the only sign-post of a functioning democracy? It must be borne in mind that the amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act came in the light of an unprecedented realignment in the restive region’s political firmament. Several prominent regional parties — the Peoples Democratic Party and the National Conference are among them — decided to come together under the People’s Alliance to uphold the Gupkar Declaration. Among other demands, this charter seeks to restore Jammu and Kashmir’s status and rights that had been abrogated in August last year. Direct elections to the DDC could well be the Centre’s response to undercut the political potential of the People’s Alliance. Public endorsement of the revamped DDC, the BJP is hoping, would discredit the constituents of the People’s Alliance; the resultant vacuum could then be filled by India’s ruling party. Unsurprisingly, Kashmir’s parties view this move not only as an assault on regional autonomy but also as an attempt at depoliticization. The strategy to bypass the Valley’s legitimate political representatives — as many as six parties are in the People’s Alliance — to reach the people cannot be an endorsement of democracy. In fact, the chances of the polls to the development councils succeeding would have brightened if the Centre had opted for a process that prioritized consultation and consensus. A true democratic set-up cannot be run via remote control. In spite of their squabbling, Kashmir’s political parties have helped sustain democracy through a period of unprecedented turmoil. New Delhi cannot risk alienating these parties or, worse, watch as they turn rogue. That could deepen the crisis in Kashmir. The BJP’s Kashmir policy, as is the case with most of its policies, is riddled with inconsistencies and ideological blinkers. The price of this myopia could be steep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Dhaka model: India's growing poverty||The latest World Economic Outlook published by the International Monetary Fund makes projections for economic growth for 2020 and extends its forecasts till 2025. One piece of evidence being talked about is the estimation that India will become poorer than Bangladesh by 2025. The statistics are quite sobering. During the last five years, India’s per capita gross domestic product was, on an average, 40 per cent higher than that of Bangladesh. This, undoubtedly, is a significant difference. However, by 2019, India grew at 4.2 while Bangladesh grew at 8.2 per cent. Compare this with the figures for 2014 when India was growing at 7.4 per cent and Bangladesh at 6.1 per cent. India slid down while Bangladesh continued to grow at a brisk pace. This year, the pandemic will cause a 10.3 per cent decline (negative growth) in GDP in India, while Bangladesh will continue to grow at (positive) 3.8 per cent. It may be noted that very few countries are expected to clock a positive GDP growth this year. By 2025, India and Bangladesh will grow at rates that are pretty close according to the IMF: India at 7.2 per cent and Bangladesh at 7.3 per cent. However, looking at the levels of per capita income, Bangladesh will have a higher per capita income than that of India. Bangladesh will be at $2,756.11 while India will be at $2,729.24. There are some important lessons for the Indian government in these figures. First, even as Indian political leaders were busy comparing the nation with those of China, Japan and the United States of America and while the prime minister was promising a $5 trillion economy in five years, a small, neighbouring nation was forging ahead in economic terms. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has done all the wrong things possible as far as economic policies are concerned. A number of its slogans have come to naught. Second, the pandemic cannot be entirely blamed for the plummeting growth rate. The economic trends before 2020 were fairly discouraging. Indeed, India’s bilateral relationship with Bangladesh deteriorated substantially on account of rash comments made by the powers concerning illegal migrants from Bangladesh. In the light of the IMF data, it will be difficult for these hot heads in power to provide an economic rationale for Bangladesh’s citizens migrating to India. Unlike its bigger neighbour, Bangladesh, despite its many internal problems, has concentrated on economic reforms and export markets. It has also taken efforts to channel a part of its sizeable international remittances into productive investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||Far deeper problem with the farm bills||Vijay Koreti’s problem is not that he can’t sell his paddy for a bumper price. The one-acre farmer’s problem is he can’t make enough money round the year from his land to meet his needs. Because he can’t find work to sustain his needs in his village in Maharashtra’s Gondia district, he must migrate every six months. In 30 years, the 39-year-old witnessed marginal improvements in his village, but most things remain unchanged. His father migrated. He does that too. Single-crop isn’t enough. How do the September “reforms” — the three acts that supposedly “liberate” a farmer — help the likes of Koreti? It is naïve to say the three acts would help small farmers. Anyone who has lived in a village for some time would get that. In the long run, they would replace one set of intermediaries with another, crush the age-old mandi and build food oligopolies. The three laws, passed without a debate, would alter the regulatory framework for farm trade and stocks; they won’t fix a gigantic small-farms issue. The claims are as good as the Union finance minister’s summer stimulus package. India’s poverty is deeply entrenched in rain-fed small farms. If you superimpose the map of rain-fed small and marginal farms on that of poverty, they’ll match. The agricultural census of 2010-11 tells us that almost 50 per cent of India’s total population consists of small farmer households, and 85 per cent of all farms are less than two hectares. Their income levels are low, in both absolute and relative terms, matching minimum subsistence wages in agriculture, the reason why millions migrate to cities. This farmer has been economically ravaged the most in the last 30 years. Markets, unfortunately, are not the solution. They could be a means of intervention. The Centre and state governments can’t wish away the problem or withdraw support from them, particularly when climatic aberrations are threatening to wreak havoc as they have across central India in the recent past. Millions of tonnes of standing grain crops, perishables, oilseed are gutted in the retreating monsoonal heavy rains. The three laws won’t be of any succour. Beleaguered farmers would now cry for a direct financial support. India’s Green Revolution was fuelled by a simple formula: quality inputs, remunerative price and guaranteed timely procurement. It helped the agriculture sector for decades until we began dismantling those foundational pillars and an unprecedented agrarian distress enveloped our countryside. A new deal has eluded the farm sector since then. For three decades, India has been clueless about what to do with farmers and farming — extend support or open it up completely for private players. In his tenure, see how even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shifted his goalposts. In April 2014, he promised a minimum support price recommended by the National Commission for Farmers popularly known as the Swaminathan commission — 50 per cent over production cost. He buried that promise. And now his government is threatening to end the support price regime itself. Then, from the ramparts of the Red Fort, he spoke of doubling their income by 2022. With the second carrot, the peasantry forgot the first one. The prime minister moved on. Post demonetization, he told farmers to bear with him for a few days and that he would set everything right. Farmers bore the losses for a decision he himself does not talk about now. Today, he’s telling them, reduce dependence on agricultural produce market committees — sell anywhere to anyone, as if a farmer was desperate for this miracle cure to begin selling his produce from tomorrow for hefty profits. The market is one thing, remunerative price quite the other. The former is no guarantee for the latter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Opinion||The stakes are high||Crises represent danger, inflict losses that can be universal and yet disparate, and involve expenditures. They divert attention from other issues and priorities, often uncovering new or neglected issues, bringing them upfront by realigning priorities. Governments, societies or individuals thus seek opportunities and benefits in a crisis. For example, the global financial crisis of 2008, which elicited the first-ever multilateral coordination response that remains unparalleled, exposed lax financial regulations. This led to their subsequent tightening and strengthening for future shocks. Much before that, the East Asian crisis (1997) exposed banking and financial system fragilities and unsustainable exchange rate policies in these countries. This prompted consequent efforts to make them sound and resilient as well as a shift from pegged to flexible exchange rate regimes for future safeguard and response. Such patterns abound in history. The Covid-19 crisis is no different. This, too, has caused signal shifts and rearranged priorities all over the world. Specific to the pandemic are the catapulting of climate change and environment concerns to the global forefront. Strengthening public health infrastructure and systems has become another priority. Covid-19 has created remarkable opportunities for sectors, businesses and investments related to technology, digital, e-commerce, online, environment and so on that benefit from shutdowns and social distancing. It has accelerated technology adoptions and other fundamental transformations to indicate that post-pandemic economic structures may be significantly different. Because Covid-19 impacts lives and livelihoods together, colossal expenditures have raised global public debt to monumental levels. The recession it brings in its wake has, in turn, triggered changes that may be permanent to existing global production patterns and supply chains. In addition, a race-to-the-bottom for growth has entrenched de-globalization more firmly. These may not be all as the Covid-19 crisis is not over yet. In India, the advocacy to convert the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity has been at its zenith through the pandemic. Commentary has pointed to the 1991 balance-of-payments crisis, in response to which sweeping structural reforms galvanized the economic environment and lit up investments, foreign and domestic. In comparison, the Covid-19 crisis is not only a potent health-economy cocktail but, in India’s case, is also layered upon an existing growth crisis described by a three-year-long slowdown culminating in GDP growth slipping to 4.2 per cent by March 2020. That has worsened matters and increased the pressure for reviving growth and investments. The government has not sat back. It has signalled some policy shifts and executed spectacular structural reforms last month in a bid to provide economic recovery and boost future prospects. The policy shift is an odd, inward-looking and export-seeking mix: one arm of the Covid-19 package series sharpens the protectionist trend since 2018-19 through steady increase in import tariffs. Now called ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, this promotes self-reliance with tariff-driven endeavours to replace specific and cheap imports, encourages domestic production for home consumption and for export, and designates some products for a lead role. Other instruments range from preferential or reserved local-sourcing by changing public procurement rules to specific import bans, indigenization and expanded local content in defence, amongst other measures. Trade retaliation against China has added more force. This is coupled with a refurbished, reinforced impetus for domestic manufacturing and export. Notable measures here are the production-linked fiscal incentive of 4-6 per cent to eligible domestic and foreign manufacturers in targeted sectors, proactive courting of foreign firms to relocate and manufacture in India, and fresh efforts to integrate MSMEs in new and existing global supply chains. The second arm of ‘crisis-to-opportunity’ action is structural reforms in agriculture and labour markets. The government has opened up farm trade and marketing, formalized contract farming, and diluted its own restricting capability except in emergencies. Labour law revisions increase employers’ flexibility, simplify compliance procedures, and broaden coverage to different types of workers with changes to social security, industrial relations and so on. Intended to advance future growth prospects and create new investment opportunities, such reforms have been long sought as part of the second-round reforms following product market liberalizations of the early 1990s. These will bear fruit only a few more years from now — in the medium-to-long run. The Covid-19 crisis has also uncovered critical deficiencies and fragilities that have severely constrained the effective combating of the pandemic and the ensuing economic fallout. Two outstanding drawbacks are India’s weak fiscal and public health. The country’s underfunded, neglected public health infrastructure and its poor resource capacities have challenged quick and effective containment of infections. Extreme paucity of budgetary firepower continues to limit government spending to support the severest growth slide in India’s history and emergence therefrom. The International Monetary Fund, which presented its global output forecasts last week, re-emphasized that India’s direct fiscal stimulus, at less than 2 per cent of GDP, obstructs its emergence out of the forecasted -10.3 per cent contraction this year. The public health deficiencies, including raising health expenditures, are expected to be addressed by the Fifteenth Finance Commission whose report is due at the end of this month. That leaves fiscal fragility and using the Covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to reform public balances as was done in 1991. The aim should be similar: a structural overhaul of the public balance sheet to fortify it over the medium-term for stability and for future shocks. Public spending choices have so dangerously tilted towards current expenditures due to rising permanent claims of profligate subsidies that productive capital expenditures have been squeezed out. Public revenues have not risen at a matching pace, causing wider deficits and debt accumulation that now cripple government spending amidst the country’s worst humanitarian crisis. Current expenditures sorely need pruning and rationalization; the public spending mix needs rebalancing. A reputable medium-term plan spelling out how current deficit expansions will be cut back and debt sustainability achieved once post-pandemic growth has stabilized has a dual advantage at this point. One, a planned path to restore fiscal health and build solid fundamentals for future resilience imparts enormous confidence; it adds to the reassurance from above for structural reforms, especially in agriculture that has a direct bearing upon government finances. Two, it may even allow the government to increase current spending now on the strength of promised future betterment from a structural revamp and permanent space creation. The importance of structural fiscal reform can be better understood by the IMF’s assessment, which upholds that India is among the worst performing economies post pandemic because of the difference in the nature and size of the fiscal stimulus across countries. Another way of looking at this is that medium-to-long-term growth goal prospects, including structural reform gains in farm and labour markets, are weakened if recovery now is too slow and stretched — firms will hire even less, retrench more, while bankruptcy risks will rise, increasing the damage. It shouldn’t be forgotten that the financial resilience of households and firms was eroding for three years in succession even before the Covid-19 crisis. The stakes are high. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||WhatsApp helplines to curb crime||Jharkhand’s director-general of police M.V. Rao has announced that WhatsApp-based helplines to report cases will be rolled out for the public in all 24 districts on Wednesday to help curb crimes against women and children in the state. Following a review of the law and order in the districts, Rao said: “I have directed all the superintendents of police to set up WhatsApp helplines from tomorrow specifically for any sort of crime against women and children. Once the numbers are made public, people can report their problems. Dedicated personnel will be assigned to man the helplines and coordinate with the officials concerned.” He appealed to people, especially girls and women, to come forward and report all kinds of harassment for timely action. “In many cases, people approach the police a long time after the incident, leading to delays in action. We will assure protection to victims/complainants in sensitive cases if need be,” said Rao. He stressed on the role of effective parenting for a civilised society. “The role of parents assumes importance for any civilised society, more so in today’s fast-paced world. We will soon also roll out both online and mass campaigns to sensitise people on ways to prevent crime.” The efficiency of the police has been questioned by many in recent months due to the incidents of rape, murder, harassment and other crimes being reported daily from across the state. Moreover, the police have been under pressure following the twin cases of gang-rape and muder of two minor girls in Dumka and Sahibganj in the Santhal Parganas within a span of just a week. The incidents sparked uproar in the state. On Sunday, a 40-year-old woman was gunned down by Maoists in Chatra’s Pathalgada area. The rebels branded her a police informer. The violence, coming after a gap of several years, has triggered a sense of insecurity among local residents. Again on Tuesday night, a youth was shot dead allegedly by Maoists in the Mayurhund police station area in Chatra district. The Opposition BJP, on the other hand, has been running campaigns against the state government and the police both on social media and on the ground claiming total lawlessness. Last week, a delegation of the BJP also met governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her intervention. The delegation cited how in the 10 months since the Hemant Soren government came to power, over 1,200 cases of rape and murder have taken place. DGP Rao, however, claimed that the police were working to the best of their capabilities without any prejudice and denied any major law-and-order problems in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dumka gangrape and murder: One arrested and sent to judicial remand||A 21-year-old man named Paulus Hembrom was arrested and forwarded to judicial remand in connection with the gangrape and murder of a tribal girl last week, Dumka police informed on Tuesday. An 11-year-old girl from Bhalsumar village, under Ramgarh police station, was gangraped and killed by unidentified criminals when she was returning home from tuition last Friday. Her body was found from an abandoned location on the Bhalsumar-Dharampur road, triggering a series of protests in poll-bound Dumka district. Talking to reporters on Tuesday evening, Dumka SP Ambar Lakra confirmed the arrest but didn’t divulge any information about other detainees and suspects. “We have sent one suspect to judicial remand. He was arrested based on substantial evidence collected so far during the probe. A few more are being interrogated and a formal announcement will be made once we crack the case,” Lakra said during a press meet convened regarding an arms haul. The incident was the second of such nature in a week in the Santhal Parganas. On October 10, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-aped and killed in the Barhait police station area in Sahebganj district. Police exhumed her body three days later to begin a probe. Four people have been arrested and jailed in the case. About the arms haul, Lakra said 50 pieces of electric detonators, 79 pieces of Neo Gel, 10 cartridges and a rifle were recovered from a forest under Masalia police station area. “The arms were buried in the forest by naxals with an intention to create disruptions ahead of the bypoll in Dumka on November 3. Combing operations are on to sanitize the region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Durga Puja traffic plan for Jamshedpur announced||The East Singhbhum district administration came out with a traffic management plan for the pujas on Tuesday. The plan aims to ensure smooth movement of heavy commercial and private vehicles from October 22 till immersion on October 26. The plan, drawn up jointly by the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior SP M Tamil Vanan and deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Shrivendra, focuses on maintaining social distancing and streamlining vehicular movement during the puja period. Movement of heavy vehicles will remain restricted in the steel city from 11 am to 4 am from October 22  till October 25.  On October 26, day of immersion, the movement of heavy vehicles will remain restricted from 6 am and 11.30 pm. From 4 am till 11 am, there will be no restrictions on heavy vehicles entering and leaving the city. During the restriction period, heavy vehicles seeking to enter the steel city need to be parked in the Transport Nagar in Mango.  Buses have been exempted from the restrictions and will operate as usual.  No heavy vehicles can be parked along the Marine Drive during the restricted period and if any truck or trailer is found parked there, the owner or the driver will be heavily penalised. "We have given seven hour relaxations for the movement of heavy vehicles because by doing so industrial activities in and around the steel city will remain unaffected," Shrivendra told The Telegraph Online. Pillion riding will remain strictly banned, thus movement of two-wheelers on the road will decrease considerably. "Double-riding will remain banned and those riding two-wheelers will have to wear masks.  Even those who wish to move around in a car or on foot also will have to wear masks compulsorily.  We have decided this in view of maintaining Covid norms," Shrivendra added. He also said that the administration expects very few people to be on the streets this year. Nevertheless, parking zones have been set up across the city, and several important roads will become one-way. "Parking zones have been earmarked at the Ganesh Puja maidan in Kadma, near the Ravindra Bhavan in Sakchi and near the JNAC office in Sakchi.  The roads which have been made one-way include Kalimati Road and Bistupur-Sonari Road," the DSP (Traffic) informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 2,000 tribals march across Ranchi for Sarna code||For the second time in less than a week, around 2,000 tribal under the aegis of Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP) took out protest marches and held demonstrations across Ranchi district on Tuesday to press for their demand of a Sarna code ahead of the 2021 census. The protests led to traffic bottlenecks in the capital at several places at different points of time despite the district administration’s ban on protests and dharnas in the wake of ongoing covid-19 pandemic. With shoppers too out on the streets ahead of Durga Puja, the protests led to disruption of traffic at Main Road, Piska More, Ratu Road, among a few other places as rallyists, comprising men and women, marched with banners and posters. Senior Congress leader and former minister Geetashree Oraon, who is the president of ABAVP, said they wanted the state government to pass a resolution in favour of their demands in the Assembly and forward it to the Centre prior to the upcoming winter session.  “Tribals want Sarna code and we won’t sit calmly till we get this before the next census in 2021. Sarna code is key to our distinct identity and recognition. Tribals are neither Hindus nor Christians or Muslims but have a separate identity,” she said, adding that they planned to further intensify their protests in coming days until the state government agreed to their demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s Circuit House Area gives Puja a miss this year||No pandal, no idols, no Puja this year at the posh Circuit House Area of Jamshedpur. The Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee, that decided to skip this year's festivities because of the pandemic, issued a brief notice on Tuesday. Signed by president Amitava Bakshi and secretary Biswanath Roy, the notice informed residents that the executive committee had come the conclusion about not celebrating Durga Puja this year in consultation with its members. Umesh Dubey, joint secretary of the committee, said: "We decided to skip this year's Puja as we want people to stay safe. Pandal hoppers, especially all VIPs make it a point to visit our Puja. Apprehending a rush, we decided to skip this year's Puja. This is for the first time in the last 73 years that we decided to skip the annual festival." He, however, said that  Puja rituals would be organised in a simple manner at Sakchi Durgabari on Chenab Road, about 2km from the Circuit House Area ground. The community puja at the Circuit House Area ground organised by Northern Town and Circuit House Area Durga Puja Committee started way back in 1947.  It is one of the oldest pujas of steel city. Apart from bhog, a beautifully decked up pandal and gorgeous idols, the Puja is known for cultural events like plays, musical evenings, magic shows and the traditional dhunuchi naach of members. "Sitting at the pandal, chatting with friends and listening to Bengali songs and bands create a perfect Puja ambience at the Circuit House Area. But this year, we will miss all of this,” rued Anamika Singh, a tacher who lives in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi to roll out mobile vans for Covid testing at pandals  ||The Ranchi district administration will roll out mobile vans for Covid-19 testing at major pandals, among the major initiatives it is working on to limit the spread of the virus and detect super-spreaders during the four days of Pujas starting with Mahasaptamai on Friday. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, who held a meeting with district health department and other stakeholders on Monday, said, “We are planning to roll out mobile vans for Covid-19 testing outside major puja venues to scan vendors and visitors as a part of an early detection plan to prevent the spread of the virus. I have asked officials to identify potential hotspots.” To encourage compliance of Covid safety guidelines, the district administration has also announced awards puja pandals. “Puja committees will be graded and awarded on the basis of Covid safety compliance parameters and how innovatively they follow them,” he said, adding that all pandals/puja samitis will also have to give the administration an undertaking that they would indeed adhere to all norms. The district administration has also launched a crackdown at markets and sweet shops with the twin purpose of enforcing Covid norms and checking food adulteration. The administration slapped showcause notices to five eateries and shops in Lalpur on Monday for violation of social distancing norms. They are Rahul Bakery, VK Vending, Hotel Sher-e-Punjab, Sardar Food Plaza and Roman Famous Chinese Food. Ranjan said that checks on markets would continue till the end of Puja. “This is the time when we need to be more vigilant to ensure that the festival doesn’t turn into a reason for worry,” he said. The daily count of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand has shown a downward trend for the last few days but Ranchi continues to register triple digit spikes with a total of 440 cases reported on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Garba on WhatsApp for Gujratis of Dhanbad||Members of the Coal Field Gujrati Samaj are organizing garba at their respective homes, and posting photos and videos on WhatsApp groups to foster the collective nature of this celebration. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Yamesh Trivedi, former president of  the Samaj, said, “We are not organizing a group or collective garba this year at any of the designated places because of the pandemic. To maintain tradition, we are celebrating at our respective homes with our family members.” “The garba began at my place on August 18, with a young girl from our family (Devanshi Trivedi) taking the from the temple as per the tradition, followed by women and children of the family performing the garba,'' Trivedi said. They posted videos and photos in the WhatsApp group of their society (Coalfield Gujrati Samaj), kickstarting garba celebrations at other homes. “The chain continued in Jharia, Katras, and Dhanbad where a large number of Gujratis are settled,” Trivedi informed. Deepak Udani, another member of the Samaj, said “We are organizing garba at our homes observing social distancing norms. We have a 100-year-old tradition of holding group performances at different places like Satyanarayan Mandir in Jharia, Gujrati School Campus at Shastri Nagar in Bank More, and Garbi Chowk of Bhagat Muhalla of Katras with 500-1000 participating every year.” “For this year, we have appointed two women coordinators for each of the three places who were leading garba performers and posting photos and videos of the same on WhatsApp groups,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi pujas in a fix as govt refuses to revise guidelines||Distribution of face masks and hand sanitisers outside pandals will be prohibited during Durga Puja in Ranchi, the government said in a press communique on Tuesday, further stating that all restrictions specified in earlier guidelines will have to be followed strictly during the festival in the state capital. The government’s move of sticking to the guidelines comes at a time when several puja committees, as well the ruling JMM, had sought revisions in the guidelines. As per the guidelines issued by the Hemant Soren-led government on October 1, not more than seven persons should be allowed inside a pandal at a time. Besides, pandals cannot have loudspeakers, play devotional songs and organize theme-based pujas, the guidelines stated. Distribution of bhog has also been prohibited. However, there are several pujas in Ranchi that do not seem to be adhering to the guidelines, especially the ones that had made elaborate arrangements. Most puja committees in Ranchi have installed speakers to play mantras and devotional songs, and made idols taller than eight feet, organisers admitted  on Tuesday. The president of Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), Ashok Purohit, said it was practically impossible to make 4-feet-tall idols, and therefore, most puja committees had resorted to idols that were roughly 8-feet-tall. According to Purohit, loudspeakers were installed in pandals only to play devotional songs and mantras during the holy rituals. “How do you expect us to fit Ma Durga, Ganesh ji, Kartik Ji, Mahisasur and Ma’s lion in a four feet tall structure? It is impossible. We have installed speakers too, so the people living in the vicinity of the pandals can listen to the mantras and devotional songs,” said Purohit, who is also a member of the Rajasthan Mitra Mandal Puja Samiti that has opted for a 8-feet idol and is also using loudspeakers in the pandal. The Station Road Durga Puja Samiti has given loudspeakers a miss in adherence to the government orders. However, the idol in this puja pandal too is close to eight feet. “Technically, the height of Ma Durga’s idol is four feet. But she is standing on the buffalo in our pandal, which makes the idol taller than eight feet,” said Munchun Rai, president of the samiti. The Bakri Bazar Puja Samiti, one of the oldest Durga Puja committees in Ranchi, will not be distributing bhog this year. However, the idol of Ma Durga, in this pandal too, is close to eight feet, said puja committee member Ashok Choudhary. The Ranchi district committee members had submitted a memorandum to the chief minister’s office in the first week of October seeking revisions in the guidelines issued to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. Many committees here were hopeful of minor changes, but now they are disappointed. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya wrote to the chief minister on Monday requesting him to allow at least 25 people in a puja pandal at a time and provide permission for installing loudspeakers. He was not available for comment on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||UN rights official asks govt to defend rights of activists, NGOs  ||UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet has appealed to the Union government to safeguard the rights of human rights defenders and NGOs, and their ability to carry out their work on behalf of the many groups they represent, with specific reference to the arrest of 83-year-old Ranchi priest Stan Swamy. In her statement, issued on Tuesday and released to the media by Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a collective rights organisations, Bachelet said that activists and human rights defenders had come under mounting pressure in recent months, particularly because of their engagement in mass protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act that took place across the country earlier this year. More than 1,500 people had reportedly been arrested in relation to the protests, with many charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act - a law which has also been widely criticized for its lack of conformity with international human rights standards, she said. Charges have also been filed under this law against a number of individuals in connection with demonstrations that date back to 2018. “Most recently, the 83-year-old Catholic priest Stan Swamy, a long-standing activist engaged in defending the rights of marginalized groups, was charged and reportedly remains in detention, despite his poor health,” she noted. “I urge the Government to ensure that no one else is detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly – and to do its utmost, in law and policy, to protect India’s robust civil society,” the High Commissioner said, adding that she also appeals the authorities to carefully review the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) for its compliance with international human rights standards and to release people charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for simply exercising basic human rights that India is obligated to protect.     Swamy was arrested from Ranchi on October 8 by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection to 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence in Pune, Maharashtra. Bachelet also expressed regret at the tightening of space for human rights NGOs in particular, including by the application of vaguely worded laws that constrain NGOs’ activities and restrict foreign funding. “India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of groundbreaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally. But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices,” she said. Bachelet also expressed worry over the use of FCRA, which a number of UN human rights bodies have also expressed concern. The Act prohibits the receipt of foreign funds “for any activities prejudicial to the public interest.” “The Act, which was adopted in 2010 and was amended last month, has had a detrimental impact on the right to freedom of association and expression of human rights NGOs, and as a result on their ability to serve as effective advocates to protect and promote human rights in India,” she said citing that most recently, Amnesty International was compelled to close its offices in India after its bank accounts were frozen over alleged violation of the FCRA. “The FCRA has been invoked over the years to justify an array of highly intrusive  measures, ranging from official raids on NGO offices and freezing of bank accounts, to suspension or cancellation of registration, including of civil society organizations that have engaged with UN human rights bodies,” Bachelet said. In Jharkhand, the home state of Swamy, rights groups continued protests to demand the release of the priest and activist. After a series of protests in Ranchi, by activists and members of the Church over the last week, a daylong protest was held in Chaibasa (West Singbhum) on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries close to 90,000 in Jharkhand||The total count of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand drew close to 90,000 on Monday after as many as 769 more patients overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. While the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand is close to 1 lakh, the state has achieved a Covid recovery rate of 92.70 per cent, which is better than the national average of 88.30 per cent. As many as 490 fresh cases of infection also surfaced across the state on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 96,842. However, the number of active cases in Jharkhand dropped to 6,220, government data stated. At least 152 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Ranchi on Monday against 338 recoveries. Despite recoveries outnumbering fresh cases in the district, Ranchi still had over 2000 active cases, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 2,166 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Monday night. There were 1319 active Covid cases in East Singhbhum, while all the remaining 22 districts had less than 1000 active cases, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Ranchi and East Singhbhum accounted for more than 50 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand also jumped to 842 on Monday after three more patients died during treatment. Bokaro, Deoghar and East Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each on the day. As per government records, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum alone reached 324 on Monday, which is close to 40 per cent of the total Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far. Less than 500 Covid cases surfaced in Jharkhand for the second consecutive day on Monday despite close to 30,000 people being tested. The government tested swab samples of as many as 28,908 people on the day and 28,418 of them tested negative for Covid-19 virus. On Sunday, less than 400 people were found infected, but only 17,000-odd tests were conducted. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 28.97 lakh people and tested 28.82 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.57 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.79 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in Jharkhand was 120.2 days against the national average of 92.7 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||DMK adds voice to Swamy release plea||Support continues to pour in from Opposition MPs along with social outfits and tribal activists for the release of octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, arrested by the NIA earlier this month near Ranchi for alleged Maoist link and involvement in the Bhima Koregaon case. DMK MP and former Union minister Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, who attended a meeting organised by Christian Rights Movement at Santhome High School in Chennai on Sunday, condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy, who was born in Tamil Nadu. “Father Stan Swamy has been imprisoned on false accusation. The Jesuit priest has been agitating for the rights and welfare of the Adivasis of Jharkhand state and also demanding the withdrawal of the cases registered against them. He should be released,” Kanimozhi tweeted on Sunday night. Another Tamil Nadu MP, Karti Chidambaram of the Congress, in a tweet on Monday morning expressed concern over the 83-year-old Fr Swamy’s arrest. “The arrest of Father Stan Swamy is a cause for grave concern. I condemn the arrest and support the demand for his immediate release. Fr Stan Swamy has spent most of his life as a fierce defender of the rights of Adivasis and their land, labour and resources. The NIA appears to have given no consideration to any of this, or to his advanced age and multiple health complications, including Parkinson’s Disease. The arrest is a reminder of the grave dangers of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, whose capacity to centralise and override is eroding federal independence and personal liberty,” said Sivaganga MP Karti. Earlier on Sunday evening, Congress MLA from Mandar in Jharkhand, Bandhu Tirkey, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union home minister Amit Shah condemning the arrest of Fr Swamy and sought his immediate release. “Father Stan Swamy has vehemently opposed the allegation that he had a hand in the violence in Bhima Koregaon, a place he claims never to have even visited. The series of arrests around the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case have targeted activists and intellectuals who have raised voices for tribals and marginalised them. Through the UAPA they are being treated as terrorists. We hope that immediate steps would be taken to stop such acts against the basic values of our democracy and release Father Swamy,” wrote Tirkey.Rights advocate Mihir Desai, the legal counsel for Fr Swamy, told The Telegraph on Monday that his bail petition would be heard by the special court in Mumbai on Tuesday. “It is an interim bail petition by Stan Swamy on medical grounds and would be taken up for hearing tomorrow,” Desai said. Sources said the bail plea referred to the guidelines given by the Maharashtra government’s high-powered committee appointed on the directions of the Supreme Court recommending decongestion of jails during the pandemic and also states Fr Swamy’s susceptibility to the virus given his age and other health conditions. Fr Swamy, who was arrested on October 8 from his residence in Namkum in Ranchi and taken by the NIA to Mumbai, is currently under quarantine in judicial custody at Taloja Central Jail in the Maharashtra capital till October 23. Senior Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan are amongst the few prominent leaders who have condemned the arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
20-10-2020||Jharkhand||Three killed and two injured in car chase at Chakulia||Three people, including two women, were killed, and two others injured as bikes they were riding on were hit by a speeding car at Chakulia in Ghatshila sub-division of the East Singhbhum district (about 90 kms from Jamshedpur) late on Monday afternoon. The car, carrying illicit country-made liquor, was being chased by a raiding party jeep of the Excise department. The victims were riding two motorcycles coming from opposite directions when they were hit by the car. Soon after, local residents set up a blockade on a connecting road to NH-33, demanding the arrest of the illicit liquor trader.  The blockade was lifted after the Chakulia OC Ranjit Oraon convinced protestors that the police would take up the matter with the Excise department. So far, only one of the victims have been identified. Sunita Gope, wife of Jagat Gope, was a resident of Malkundi village in Chakulia.  The police are trying to identify the two other bodies. It was learnt that Jagat Gope was riding a bike with his wife Sunita and granddaughter as pillion riders from their home at Malkundi to a relative's house in Kolbadhia village at about 4.30 pm.  Jagat and his granddaughter escaped miraculously with minor injuries whereas Sunita was killed on the spot. "Preliminary investigation has revealed that a liquor-laden car started speeding after seeing an Excise department vehicle.  Spotting the car, department officials also started chasing it for some distance, but in the process, the car hit two motorcycles, causing three people to die and two more, including a minor girl, to sustain injuries," Oraon told The Telegraph Online. The OC said the driver of the car, identified as Nageswar Singh, abandoned the vehicle at Dighi village and fled the scene on a bike.  The car which was seized later and was filled with jars containing country-made liquor. Excise assistant commissioner, East Singhbhum, Arun Mishra confirmed that a raiding party from his department had gone to Chakulia, but returned empty handed. "Suspecting that a car was involved in transporting illicit liquor, the raiding team chased it, unfortunately causing accidents.  I have been apprised of the deaths of three people and am trying to find out details," Mishra informed The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-261
