21-10-2020||Calcutta||Portal relaunched for virtual puja pandal tour||A group of young professionals have relaunched a portal that will allow people to hop pandals from the comfort of their homes. The portal can be accessed on any device with Net connectivity. It offers a 360-degree view of 50 major Durga Puja pandals in the city. Sreebhumi Sporting Club, Chetla Agrani, Shibmandir and Badamtala Ashar Sangha are some of the pandals that can be viewed on the app. The portal offers Virtual Reality (VR) compatible visuals, which have been shot in high definition. One can access the web-based application by typing in www.thepujaapp.com on any browser. Once the page opens those logging in can click on whichever puja they want to tour virtually. From the grand facade of lavish pandals to the most intricate detailing, everything can be viewed. The portal can be accessed free of cost. It is the brainchild of Avishek Chakraborty, an engineer, Soumyo Mukherjee, a media professional, and Arpan Chatterjee, an animator. Mukherjee said the group had first launched the portal in 2013 with a couple of pujas. “We had started mainly to cater to people from Bengal living elsewhere. This year, we expect many people to log into the portal as they would prefer to hop pandals from the safety of their homes,” Mukherjee said. Durga Puja is the biggest festival in Bengal. The celebrations are now India’s official nomination for a pride of place on the “Intangible Cultural Heritage” (ICH) list for 2020, recognised by UNESCO. Visitors will not be allowed inside pandals, Calcutta High Court had ruled on Monday, while laying down a series to steps to be taken in and around pandals to prevent overcrowding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
21-10-2020||Calcutta||3 from each Puja club for idol immersion||Every Durga Puja committee can have only three people at an immersion ghat and committees will have to tell police the day and the ghat they want to use for immersion, the CMC has said. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation took the decision at a meeting on Tuesday. Knowing how many idols will be immersed at a particular ghat and on which day will help the civic body make proper arrangements, Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators, said. “That way no puja committee has to wait for long at the ghats.” It is still not clear, though, if there is any bar on the number of people who can accompany the idol till the immersion ghat. Several city police officers said there was no such guideline but long immersion processions would not be allowed. The police hoped a few people would be interested in going to immersion ghats because of the bar on processions, an officer said. Immersions will be allowed between October 26 and 29, Kumar said. “We will not allow more than three people at the ghat. We will install LED screens in some of the ghats for people to watch the immersion proceedings. Immersions will be allowed between 10am and 6am the next day at 15 ghats along the Hooghly. But Kumar, too, was not sure how many people could accompany an idol till the ghat. “It is up to the police to ensure not too many people get together in a lorry and head to a ghat.” An organiser asked if the civic body would ensure the area outside a ghat was not crowded. “Installing LED screens can lead to crowding,” he said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on September 24 said that the government would not organise the immersion carnival on Red Road this year because of the pandemic. She had urged puja committees to avoid large immersion processions. The officers in charge of police stations will have to coordinate and fix immersion dates in such a way that ghats do not get crowded, she had said. In previous years, too, puja committees had to tell the police their immersion dates. This time, apart from the date, they have to tell the police which ghat they will use, Kumar said. The other regular features like a separate zone to throw flowers and other puja items will be there this year, too. Idols will be picked up immediately after immersion to prevent the river from getting polluted, a CMC official said. They will then be taken to the Dhapa landfill site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Dussehra rituals on Net to avoid Covid spread||The pandemic will not stop the ritual of felling Ravana on Dussehra — only it will be online without spectators. Effigies (20ft each) of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakarna will be set on fire at the Central Park in Salt Lake but all gates will be locked to prevent people from entering the park. The Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, which organises Dussehra festivities every year, has not printed any invitation card this year. A few organising committee members and experts who handle the fireworks every year will be inside the park, along with a camera crew. The proceedings will be streamed live on Facebook. In 2019, more than 25,000 people had gathered at the Central Park where 60ft-tall effigies had been set on fire. Artists from various states, including Rajasthan had been brought for song and dance shows. The fireworks had continued for more than 45 minutes. And there was food for everyone present on the ground. Apart from Facebook, the organisers will make videos on YouTube. There is a dedicated website for people to log in and watch the proceedings free of cost, an organising committee member said. Sanjay Agarwal, the secretary of the Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad, said the group did not want to take any chance and put people at risk of getting infected with the coronavirus. “So, we have decided to hold the festivities online. We will not allow more than a dozen people inside the park. Most of them will be those who set the effigies on fire,” Agarwal said. Celebrated on the last day of Durga Puja, Dussehra is held on Vijaya Dashami to mark the triumph of good over evil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s alumni Puja gift for 800 families||Eight-hundred families in the interiors of South 24-Parganas, for whom the upcoming festivities are a distant dream, got new clothes on Monday. The distribution camp was organised at Kharimutha and two adjacent villages, less than 10km from Kakdwip. Most villagers are still reeling from the twin blows of Covid-19 and Cyclone Amphan. The St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association organised the drive. New saris, dhotis and masks were among the clothes distributed on Monday. A set of mosquito nets, too, were distributed, keeping in mind the threat from vector-borne diseases, an association member said. The recipients were residents of Kharimutha and two nearby villages, Mollar Chowk and Pukurberia. “Many residents have had their homes ravaged by the cyclone. In the absence of regular income, they are still struggling to make ends meet,” another member said. Fishing and betel leaf farming used to be the two main occupations of the villagers. Cyclone Amphan, which made landfall near Kakdwip on May 20, flooded water bodies and farmlands with saltwater and left them unusable. Items that were distributed on Monday were collected from alumni members and college staff for the past week. On Monday, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, flagged off the drive on the Park Street campus. “We, in St Xavier’s, believe festival is for all — may it be for the poorest of the poor and the joy of festivity increases by sharing with such unfortunates. So, by sending these festival special relief materials, we want to show our love and affection to them. The college and its former students have organised a series of drives to help the poor and downtrodden for the past seven months. It includes distributing food, essential commodities and medical help in several villages close to its Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas. Towards the end of June, a group of Jesuit priests led by Savio had visited Kharimutha village to distribute food and other relief material to villagers. “Father Savio has promised to adopt a village near Kakdwip to uplift the socio-economic condition of villagers as well as provide students living there with contemporary education,” an alumni association member said. “The formalities are going to happen soon after police complete the identification process by the end of this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake water leaks plugged||The underground pipeline network in Salt Lake’s IA Block that had sprung leaks in at least five places and triggered a water crisis in a few blocks was repaired early on Tuesday. A team of engineers and labourers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation started to repair the pipeline network late on Monday and completed the work around 6am on Tuesday. The Telegraph had reported that the leaks had left several blocks with erratic water supply. The pipes that are at least 3m below the road surface had sprung leaks in at least a dozen places, an engineer of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. “A main joint where all the pipelines meet had ruptured. Water had spread all around, which led the road above to slightly cave in… huge craters, too, had formed,” the engineer said. The workers dug up the area to reach the pipeline before replacing a mechanical joint at the junction, the engineer said. The mechanical joint employs steel gaskets and bolts to withstand high water pressure. All the pipes with leaks have been repaired or replaced, the engineer said. Bricks and sand have been laid but the road has not been topped off with a coating of asphalt. “We want to give it time to settle down before resurfacing the road,” the engineer said. Water supply was restored to near-normal levels in all blocks where the pipeline carries water from the Tank No. 13, including IA, IB, IC, JC, JD, KB, KC, LA, LB, and a few other blocks in Sector III on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid test rule changed for fliers from London||Passengers on Air India’s flight from London to Calcutta will no longer have to show a Covid negative certificate before boarding the aircraft but they will have to undergo a test and wait for about six hours after arriving here. The Calcutta airport authorities have created a waiting facility for such passengers at the old domestic terminal building that is lying unused. The facility has been created after the state government issued a revised SOP for passengers arriving from London. Passengers of the direct Air India flight from London not carrying a Covid-19 negative report “will be required to get an RT-PCR test conducted on payment basis from the state authorised designated testing facility at the airport,” the new SOP stated. “Since the estimated time for test results is around 6 hours, the airport director, Kolkata airport will designate a suitable waiting area/lounge in the airport premises for the passengers waiting for the results. During this period their passports will be collected by the state government representative.” According to the new SOP, passengers who test positive in the RT-PCR test will have to follow the state government’s instruction and visit hospital. “We have set up a waiting area for these passengers at the old domestic building. It can accommodate 150 passengers,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Tuesday. “Passengers of the Air India flight arriving on Thursday can wait here for the test results. The airline will let us know on Wednesday after 8pm how many passengers have boarded the flight without a Covid-19 negative certificate.” Washrooms have been cleaned and the air-conditioning system has been made operational in the facility where the passengers will wait till they get their reports. Counters have been set up for them to buy snacks and beverages. A separate paid lounge has been set up. The state government had in June converted the facility into a quarantine unit for passengers arriving on evacuation flights from other countries. The unit has since been disbanded. The old terminal, which the airport authorities have planned to pull down to facilitate the extension of the new integrated terminal, is also used for Haj pilgrims returning from Saudi Arabia. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had a few days ago urged the Centre to make the direct London-Calcutta flight regular and permanent. Later, Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to the civil aviation ministry on the issue. Air India is operating a direct Calcutta-London flight twice a week under the air transport bubble arrangement. Air transport bubble is an arrangement between two countries to temporarily operate commercial flights because regular flights are suspended as a precaution against Covid. Mamata also said she had received reports that the passenger count on the Air India flight was lower than expected because delays in getting Covid-19 reports in the UK were preventing many from boarding the flight. The relaxation of the rule requiring passengers to show a Covid negative certificate before boarding the aircraft has been extended only to passengers of the London flight. Passengers from other countries will have to produce a Covid-19 negative certificate before boarding a flight for Calcutta. The state government had stopped international evacuation flights after several passengers, including medical students, arriving from several countries went home, instead of going to quarantine facilities. Later, the government relaxed norms and allowed international flights to arrive provided passengers had Covid-19 negative certificates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit Puja takes a virtual leap||“Santragachhi Kalpataru Sporting, we can’t hear you. Please leave the meeting and enter again.” “Realme5, please rename your Zoom ID.” “Kamar-danga Sishu Sangha, accept your breakout room invite.” Around 10am on Tuesday, as the 18th CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja went underway, the event managers handling the judgment process were in a tizzy. But unlike in the 17 earlier editions, their job was not to send off the judges in cars headed for different pandals across Calcutta and Howrah on time. The challenges this year were technological. The reason was, in order to ensure safety in a pandemic-hit period, CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, had taken a virtual leap. The move is as path-breaking as the launch of the TSP movement itself was, when in 2003 it made puja organisers focus on factors beyond aesthetics — safety and social responsibility. A website has been launched, truespiritpuja.com, to handle the entire process, from registration to judgment. “When any of the 200-plus participants registered, its name went into a randomiser which automatically put them in groups of eight. Since the visits would be virtual, there was no need to group clubs according to geographical location. Even the judges were assigned randomly,” said an event coordinator. A puja organiser was to give a virtual walk-through of the pandal to the judges over video conference, answering queries along the way. “We had 128 clubs to visit on Day 1. Our apprehension was a sizeable drop-out given the challenges of this medium. But just a handful had problems and would be accommodated on Wednesday’s roster,” said an official. The TSP team had coached the pujas in advance. “Some were unaware of the features of smartphones, like flipping the camera to selfie mode, but were keen to learn,” he added. Judges and puja organisers were both a satisfied lot at the end of Day 1. “Had I been asked to physically visit the pandals, I would have had second thoughts. This was as safe as possible,” said Neville Reay, a teacher at Don Bosco School, Liluah, a preliminary round judge. “After months of online teaching, handling a video conference was easy for me,” he smiled. Even the scoring was done online. Most organisers handled the walk-through confidently. “This is a wonderful initiative and the wisest under the circumstances,” said Mintu Patra, secretary of Aurobinda Setu Sarbojanin in Ultadanga who sailed though the 15-minute showcase challenge. “I am used to video calls with friends when I go on vacation. That helped,” he smiled. The preliminary rounds will continue on Wednesday, with the finals slated for Thursday when celebrity judges would log in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Clubs seek review of Puja court order||A forum of Durga Puja organisers moved a writ petition before a high court division bench headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday seeking modifications to its Monday order banning entry of visitors into pandals and in their immediate surroundings. Three other clubs — Samajsebi on Lake Road, Hindusthan Club on Hindustan Road and Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore — have also filed similar petitions before the court. “The order passed by this court yesterday has put our clubs in a lot of problem, Since the court passed the order without hearing the clubs, we want some modifications to it,” senior counsel and Trinamul Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee submitted in the court while moving the petition for the forum. Justice Banerjee said the bench would hear the clubs on Wednesday along with the petitions moved by the three puja committees. Lawyer Banerjee refused to say what modifications they want. “Since we have not yet told the court about the modifications, it would not be wise for me to make it public,” he said. According to Monday’s order, areas within 10 metres of a big pandal and 5 metres of a small pandal will be barricaded as “no-entry zones”. The idol can be viewed from 10 metres “beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal” on any side at big pujas, and from 5 metres at smaller pujas. Depending on the scale of the puja, only 15 to 25 organisers, including the priests and dhak players, will be allowed within the no-entry zone. And that list has to be the same on all puja days. Puja organisers have complained about several aspects of the order, including how they will put up a barricade at 10 metres from the pandal without blocking roads and how they will choose 25 persons who will be allowed inside the pandals. The court wanted to decongest pandals and felt prohibiting entry into pandals would discourage many revellers from stepping out amid the Covid pandemic. “The virus refuses to go away…. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention than to allow the festivities to go on without any checks and repent later that adequate resources may not be available to provide for the massive cure that may become necessary,” the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee had said in its order. Monday’s order came on a PIL filed by advocate Saurav Chatterjee. The petitioner expressed the fear that festivities might lead to a spurt in Covid cases. Counsel Banerjee said on Tuesday: “The clubs were parties to the case on which the court issued the order. So I prayed to the court on behalf of the clubs to give my clients the opportunity to submit their views.” An organiser of a central Calcutta puja said they wanted at least the people of the neighbourhood to be allowed inside the pandal. “The committee has more than 100 members. How can we say no to members?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja organisers fear revenue loss after Calcutta High Court order||Several puja organisers across Calcutta said they would lose financially if the high court’s Monday order resulted in a drop in footfall. The loss will largely be from the revenue that comes from advertisements in the form of banners, hoardings and displays at prime locations on the gates leading to a pandal. For several others, a large chunk of their revenue comes from stalls set up around the pandals. The larger the turnout at a puja, the higher the number of advertisers who would pitch for their products there. The rate is usually fixed on the basis of the location of an advertisement. “Footfall for us is like the TRP for television channels,” said Debasish Bhattacharya of Kumartuli Sarbojonin Durgostav committee. “Then comes the location of the ads. Between the first gate and the last, the difference is roughly of around Rs 40,000. If the footfall is really low, why would someone like to pay for the ads?” Badamtala Asharh Sangha in south Calcutta has decided to put up five gates. The advertisement at the first gate, which attracts the maximum number of eyeballs, has fetched them Rs 60,000. “If the sponsors start withdrawing one by one, what will we be left with?” asked Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha. It is just the opposite for banners and hoardings. The closer a spot is to the pandal, the more expensive it is. At a big puja, the ones closest to the pandal fetch the organisers around Rs 3,000 each, while those put up at a distance bring around Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 each. The stalls, which sell beverages, soft drinks, fast food, junk jewellery, ice creams and sundry other items, have their rates fixed depending on their locations. Organisers of several pujas said the stalls at prime locations around pandals fetched them between Rs 50,000 and Rs 60,000 each. The ones far away from the pandal would fetch around Rs 20,000 each. “Two agencies called up on Tuesday morning and said they would not put up stalls at our puja this year. During the pandemic most puja committees have limited sources of revenue. Even those have started drying up,” said Partha Ghosh of Shibmandir puja committee in south Calcutta. Across Calcutta, puja committees got calls for cancellations on Tuesday, some for stalls and others for advertisements. “Several stall owners, including a catering agency and Mitra Cafe, have informed us about their decision to withdraw. Others said they would shortly,” said Avishek Bhattacharya of Talla Barowari puja committee in north Calcutta. “We had hoped to collect around Rs 10 lakh from the stalls. So you can imagine our condition.” In south Calcutta, several puja organisers had conceived of their “open pandals” with stalls placed at a distance of six feet from each other. Almost all of them had reduced the number of stalls by over 50 per cent compared with last year in keeping with the directives of the state government. As calls for cancellations started pouring in, most of them have started revisiting their budgets. “The contracts are usually done in a way so that the payment comes to us after the Puja is over. It applies to gates, banners, hoardings and stalls,” said Saswata Basu, the secretary of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav committee. “The passion for organising a puja is so overwhelming that most organisers in Calcutta usually pay from their pockets and then wait for the money from the advertisers. That is how the budget has been drawn up for most pujas. Now, we are in a fix.” Some puja committees that had taken advance payments from stall owners went into a huddle during the day to decide how to refund the money. Many said they didn’t have the money to return immediately. At many pujas, the organisers failed to pay their decorators on Tuesday (Chaturthi). Most decorators pay their labourers on Chaturthi and Panchami (Wednesday). With uncertainty about payments from stalls and advertisements, most puja committees have held back payments. “The 20-odd labourers I have hired are demanding money. Most of them are from the Amphan-hit parts of South 24-Parganas… Sunderbans, Diamond Harbour and Joynagar,” said Suvro Bhattacharjee of SB Decorators in north Calcutta. “We don’t know what to do because the four puja committees I have been working for have held back payments.” Several FMCG companies spoke to their agents on Tuesday to re-evaluate their Puja investments. “Four brands have asked me not to go ahead with their Puja branding till further notice,” said an agency owner. “I don’t know what to tell my boys who were hired to set up banners and hoardings. They don't want to lose out just before the Puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal hurdles on Day 1 of implementing 10-metre order||Several puja committees across Calcutta appeared to be awaiting the outcome of the review petition in the high court before erecting barricades in front of pandals. Some committees that tried to draw the line beyond which visitors cannot proceed ran into a problem. If the prescribed rule (10 metres beyond the furthest extremities of the pandal for big pandals and 5 metres for small pandals) is implemented on the ground, the visitors may have to stand on the road, blocking the movement of others, to view the idol. At many places, organisers were consulting  police on how to go about barricading the pandals. The following are some of the pandals where the demarcated area may spill over into the road. The Singhi Park puja pandal in Gariahat, which has been built in a way to ensure drive-through viewing. Organisers said putting up a barricade at 10 metre from the pandal would mean stopping the flow of vehicles. They were yet to decide how to go about implementing the order The Nalin Sarkar Street puja, in north Calcutta. The organisers have set up a barricade at 10 metre from the idol. Visitors can walk into the pandal through a narrow street but cannot proceed beyond the barricade At Brindaban Matri Mandir, off Amherst Street, the organisers have set up a barricade at the entrance to a small lane, which is 10 metres from the idol Visitors take photographs at the entrance to the Ekdalia Evergreen puja pandal. Barricades have been put up at 10 metre from the idol, at the entry to the pandal Barricades placed at the entrance to the Tridhara Sammilani puja pandal on Tuesday Visitors at the Suruchi Sangha pandal in New Alipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-264
21-10-2020||Business||Vedanta Resources rating heat||Moody’s Investors Service on Tuesday placed Vedanta Resources Limited’s rating under review for downgrade following its failure to delist the Indian listed subsidiary. Moody’s placed the London-based firm’s B1 corporate family rating (CFR) under review for downgrade. The same action was also initiated for the B3 ratings on the senior unsecured bonds issued by Vedanta and those by its wholly-owned subsidiary Vedanta Resources Finance II Plc, and guaranteed by Vedanta, affecting $4.2 billion in outstanding debt. “The ratings outlook was changed to ratings under review from negative,” Moody’s said in a statement. The review, it said, follows an increase in refinancing risk and significant funding needs at the holding company level following Vedanta Resources’ failure to acquire the balance shareholding in key subsidiary Vedanta Ltd that would have improved access to group cash. On October 10, the company announced that its voluntary delisting offer had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by Vedanta Ltd’s public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for successful delisting. “Moody’s had viewed the proposed delisting as a credit positive and a step forward in simplifying the group’s complex shareholding structure, that would have allowed for better access to consolidated cash while avoiding leakage during dividend distributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Gas pricing at arm’s length||The government has banned natural gas and coal-bed methane (CBM) producers from buying their own produce in the newly notified gas marketing freedom guidelines. The government on October 15 notified the natural gas marketing reforms that give producers the freedom to discover the market price of gas through a standard e-bidding process. The notification, which follows the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approving gas reforms, also gives them the liberty to market or sell the gas produced to anyone, including affiliates. However, the producer or any member of its gas field consortium cannot bid and buy the fuel, the notified guidelines said. “Sale to affiliates will be allowed if affiliates participate in the open competitive process,” it said. “However, the contractor or its constituents shall not be eligible to participate in the bidding process.”  “Seller and buyer will not be the same entity,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Coal mine auction runs into hurdles||The allocation of coal blocks for commercial mining will be delayed as the nominated authority to conduct the auction has sought additional information and clarification on the technical bids submitted by bidders. The nominated authority has sought “supplemental information” and “additional clarification” on the technical bids submitted by the bidders, causing a delay, according to the auction website. The government received bids for 23 of the 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. A total of 42 domestic companies submitted bids. The technical bids were submitted on September 29 and are being examined by the authority. It was supposed to evaluate the financial bids from October 19 and a technical evaluation committee will make final offers to the qualified bidders by  November 9. Global giants had stayed away from the bidding and there were no bids for 15 of 38 coal mines on offer. Gautam Adani-controlled conglomerate Adani Enterprises placed the highest number of seven bids, while group company Adani Power Resources placed a bid for one mine. Vedanta, JSPL, Hindalco Industries, JSW Steel and Nalco were among others that have submitted bids for 23 coal blocks. The government has  put up for auction 38 coal blocks for commercial mining. The highest number of bids (seven) were submitted by Adani Enterprises; followed by Hindalco Industries and JMS Mining (five each); and The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure and EMIL Mines and Minerals Resources submitted four bids each. Of the total 76 bids, the highest bids were made for Gotitoria (East) and Gotitoria (West) and Gare Palma IV/7 coal blocks (eight bids for each), followed by six bids each for Brahmadiha and Urma Paharitola mines. In May, the cabinet had allowed coal blocks for commercial mining ending the monopoly of state-run Coal India in the commercial production of the dry fuel. Coal mines will be put for auction on the basis of revenue share instead of the regime of fixed rupee/tonne, the Coal Ministry had said. There shall be no restriction on the sale and/or utilisation of coal from the coal mine, the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
21-10-2020||Business||Debt leeway for Air India bidders||In a bid to revive Air India’s privatisation, the government is planning to give flexibility to potential investors to decide on the humongous debt of the national carrier, a top official has said. The flexibility to decide on the quantum of debt they want to absorb will replace the current condition of the buyer taking over more than a third of the debt and transferring the rest to a special purpose vehicle, Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) , said. The potential investors have said that because of the uncertainty created by Covid-19 in the aviation sector, the debt should not be fixed at the expression of interest (EoI) stage, he said. According to the Air India EoI floated by DIPAM in January, of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.50 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. The government is seeking to sell 100 per cent of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100 per cent shareholding in AI Express and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. “On Air India, we would try and sort out the investor issues with respect to debt... We will see whether we can give flexibility at least at the EoI stage and let the debt be determined through the market rather than freezing it upfront. This is what we are examining,” Pandey said. He said a decision on this would be taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) and if there is a change in the Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM), the potential investors would be given time to raise queries. “There is a lot of uncertainty in the aviation sector because of Covid and accordingly we should structure the transaction. We should not fix everything at the EoI stage. That’s the feedback we are getting. The point is what debt is sustainable. There is a point of view that it can be decided by the market rather than deciding upfront,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Queue before Equitas Small Finance Bank ||Equitas Small Finance Bank has raised Rs 139.68 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial public offer. The Chennai-based bank on Tuesday said that 35 anchor investors, including mutual funds and insurance companies, have participated in the pre IPO allocation of 4.23 crore equity shares at an upper band of Rs 33 per share. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, ITPL-Invesco India Contra Fund, SBI Life Insurance, Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund, Mirae Asset Large Cap Fund and IIFL Special Opportunities Fund are among the lead investors, picking up a 8.95 per cent stake each. HDFC Life Insurance, Nippon India and Sundaram Mutual Fund are among the other investors. The bank plans to raise a little over Rs 500 crore from the public offer that closes on October 22. The offer includes a fresh issue of Rs 280 crore and an offer of sale up to 7.2 crore equity shares by Equitas Holdings Limited, its parent company. The holding company of the bank is looking to marginally dilute its stake to around 82 per cent from 95.49 per cent. But the bank would have to bring it down to 40 per cent to comply with the Reserve Bank of India’s licensing requirement. It is exploring options such as acquisition and bulk sale for compliance. Bangalore-based Jana Small Finance Bank on Tuesday said that it has opened its 500th branch at Bangalore. The microfinance-turned-small-finance-bank is planning to expand to 600 branches by March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Hindustan Zinc dividend largesse||The board of Hindustan Zinc on Tuesday declared an interim dividend of Rs 21.30 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore, the bulk of which will go to debt-laden Vedanta Limited which holds 64.92 per cent in the company. The payout has brought the focus again on Vedanta Ltd which was in the news for its botched delisting attempt that led to speculation that the Anil Agarwal-led company may also come out with a high dividend payout. Vedanta Resources Ltd (VRL), the group holding company, had raised $1.4 billion (around Rs 10,500 crore) through bonds, to primarily fund the de-listing of Vedanta Ltd. Prior to the bond offer, it had taken a three-month term loan, taking the total amount of debt to $3.15 billion. On Tuesday, the board of Hindustan Zinc approved an interim dividend of Rs 21.30 per share — 1065 per cent on face value of Rs 2 per share. This means that Vedanta will get close to Rs 5,840 crore because of its 65 per cent stake, though 23 per cent of this is pledged. Hindustan Zinc reported a 7 per cent fall in net profit for the quarter ended September 3  to Rs 1,940 crore compared with Rs 2,081 crore in the same period of the previous year. Sales, however, showed a growth of 25 per cent to Rs 5,660 crore against Rs 4,511 crore in the year ago period. “On the back of streamlined operations, we continue to deliver record volumes despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. We are setting up Hindustan Zinc for its next phase of growth and are confident to deliver superior value to our stakeholders in a sustainable manner,” CEO Arun Misra said while commenting on the results. During the quarter, total expenses of the company increased to Rs 3,428 crore from Rs 3,014 crore in the year-ago period. The company''s CFO Swayam Saurabh said HZL’s operational discipline and focused cost optimisation programmes leveraging technology and digitalisation are driving down its cost. Shares of HZL closed with gains of nearly one per cent, while the Vedanta Ltd scrip rose almost 2.53 per cent to settle at Rs 99.20. Brokerage CLSA had flagged off concerns over the high leverage of Vedanta Resources following the failed delisting of Vedanta. Vedanta could either declare a high dividend payout, an increase its inter-company loans to VRL which would be negative for the minority shareholders of Vedanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Mercedes Benz India reaps localisation gains||Mercedes Benz India will soon reduce the prices of its performance cars under the sub-brand AMG as it starts assembling these vehicles locally. The first AMG car to roll out from its flexi assembly line in Pune will be the AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupe, which is due for launch next month. The price of such assembled vehicles will drop 20 per cent, said sources. AMG is Mercedes-Benz’s sub-brand having a wide portfolio of performance limousines, performance SUVs, SUV Coupés, and sports cars. The AMG brand has a dedicated retail presence through the AMG Performance Centres located across Indian metros. These imported cars attract a duty of 110 per cent. Now with localisation, the duty is expected to come down between 16 and 60 per cent, said sources. The company is going to pass on the tax benefit to the customer. Commenting on this move, Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO of Mercedes-Benz India, said: “The AMG brand over the years has become synonymous with performance motoring in India and remains highly aspirational.” “The decision to locally produce AMG in India underlines Mercedes-Benz’s clear roadmap for the Indian market and our long-term commitment to our customers here. We want AMG to be more accessible and play a bigger role in the overall portfolio we offer in India. This decision is an important milestone towards strengthening our AMG ambitions in India further,” Schwenk said. The AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupé is one of the highest selling AMG models in India. Commenting on the localisation decision of the AMG, Piyush Arora, executive director (operations) of Mercedes-Benz India, said: “Our production facility is a global benchmark in quality and technological advancement in manufacturing, and remains the backbone of our growth story in India. “We are highly excited to commence the local manufacturing of AMG in India as it will add a new production milestone in our India journey.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Final act of Amazon, Future row||A one-man arbitration panel heard the plea of Amazon and Future Group last week and a verdict is expected in a few days, according to sources. A hearing of the arbitration took place at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre on October 16. US-based Amazon had slapped a legal notice on Future Group, alleging that the retailer’s Rs 24,713 crore asset sale to Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) violated an agreement with the e-commerce giant. According to sources familiar with the matter, V.K. Rajah — the sole arbitrator in the Amazon vs Future vs Reliance arbitration matter — heard the case on October 16. Rajah, former attorney-general of Singapore, is expected to deliver his judgment in the next few days, the sources said. Amazon has declined to comment on the development. “We cannot offer any comments as the matter is sub-judice,” said an Amazon spokesperson. Future Group and Reliance did not respond to emails sent to them. An outcome in this matter would decide the fate of the Future-Reliance deal announced on August 29, 2020 in which Future Group had announced the sale of its retail, wholesale and logistics division to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (“RRVL”), the retail arm of RIL. In the hearing, Future Retail was represented by advocate Harish Salve, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||Business||Hindustan Unilever posts 8% rise in profit||Hindustan Unilever Limited rode on the resilience of the rural markets during the pandemic to post an 8.25 per cent growth in consolidated net profits for the second quarter ended September 30. Net profit of the FMCG giant stood at Rs 1,967 crore compared with Rs 1,817 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Sales during the quarter jumped 16 per cent to Rs 11,510 crore against Rs 9,931 crore in the year-ago period. Domestic volume grew 1 per cent against a contraction in the preceding three months. “In the context of a challenging economic environment, our growth has been competitive and profitable. Our operations and service levels are now back to pre-Covid levels and we have accelerated the pace of digitising under the ‘Re-imagine HUL’ agenda,” Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of the company,  said. The steps taken by the Centre and the RBI has improved the economic outlook. The rural markets have been resilient but the demand in urban India especially in the metropolitan cities have been muted, Mehta said. “We believe that the worst is behind us and we are cautiously optimistic on demand recovery.” HUL said growth in the quarter was “competitive and profitable” and that the strength of its portfolio was evident from the fact that 70 per cent of its business is gaining penetration. According to the company, health, hygiene and nutrition, forming close to 80 per cent of its portfolio, grew in double digit. Home care sales fell 1 per cent, with the laundry category affected by confined living. Fabric wash made inroads with the company passing on the benefits of lower commodity costs to consumers. The liquids and fabric sensations segments grew strongly because of  the focus on driving market development. Beauty & personal care saw flat sales growth though skin cleansing grew in double digits while hand sanitisers and hand wash segments continued to gain penetration. Oral care and hair care grew in double digits. While the essential part of skin care saw pickup in demand, the “winter portfolio sell-in” was impacted because of muted trade sentiment. Foods and refreshment sustained the high growth momentum and grew in double digits. The company said its  consumer-focused activations and innovations are leveraging the “in-home consumption” trend. Shares of HUL on Tuesday ended marginally lower at Rs 2,172.10 as the markets were not enthused by the results. “About 80 per cent of the company’s portfolio (including hygiene and nutritional) products registered double digit growth while discretionary categories continue to post a decline in the revenues,” Kaustubh Pawaskar, AVP — research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said. He said higher input prices would continue to put pressure on margins. Recovery in the rural markets and strong traction to new launches coupled with improving penetration of nutritional portfolio would help HUL to sustained revenue and net profit growth in the near to medium term,’’ he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-258
21-10-2020||India||Row over NCW chief’s ‘love-jihad’ comment||NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has stirred a controversy with her comment that there was a “rise in love-jihad cases” in Maharashtra, drawing the ire of netizens, politicians and activists who demanded her resignation for giving credence to such a term.  Sharma had on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to discuss women’s safety-related issues in the state, including the alleged “rising cases of love jihad” in the state. Her comments drew flak people who termed it "unbecoming of her position".  No immediate response was available from Sharma but people close to her said she raised with the governor the case of one inter-religion marriage in Maharashtra which was facing issues and had even clarified to him that she was not against inter-faith marriages.  Soon after her comments on love-jihad, netizens dug out her old tweets in which she allegedly made controversial remarks against women and politicians. Sharma, however, claimed that her Twitter account was hacked. The tweets are dated before she became the NCW chairperson.  Following the public outrage, she deleted her tweets and locked her Twitter account. "I have protected my tweets since last evening after receiving a message from Twitter that suspicious activity was detected on my account. My profile was also blocked for a while by Twitter," Sharma tweeted.  "...I have reached out to the platform to investigate some unauthorized tweets made from my account. The investigations are on and I hope some resolution can be found," she said in another tweet.  The government had told Parliament that the term "love jihad" was not defined under existing laws and no case had been reported by any central agency. The term is often used by right wing groups for defining inter-faith marriages.  She was criticised by netizens, women rights activists and political parties who termed her tweets "foul, contemptible and cheap".  Addressing reporters, AAP spokesperson Atishi said the party seeks immediate removal of Sharma from her post at the National Commission for Women. "How can a woman with a foul, contemptible and anti-feminist mindset preside over an institution established to protect the rights of women? We demand the removal of Rekha Sharma from the post of chairman of NCW with immediate effect," Atishi said.  Ragini Nayak, a Congress spokesperson, tweeted, "Every second this vile, sexist, venom spewing @sharmarekha spends as chairperson of @NCWIndia is a fresh assault on the integrity and dignity of women in this country. Only Modi ji could have entrusted such a misogynist with protection of women's rights #SackRekhaSharma".  "Why hide your cheap and misogynistic tweets now @sharmarekha? The BJP government should hang its head in shame. The rapists supporting govt also endorses a misogynist as the head of the @NCWIndia. Under BJP, India truly has become no country for women. #SackRekhaSharma," the Indian Youth Congress tweeted.  Kavita Krishnan, women rights activist and All India Progressive Women's Association Secretary, claimed that Sharma brings shame to NCW.  "Hey @sharmarekha - what on earth is a "love jehad" case? Any case in which a Muslim man and Hindu woman are in love? How dare you remain in your chair as @NCWIndia chief & use a term that a) treats women as property of communities b) hates Muslims? You bring shame to NCW," Krishnan tweeted.  Renowned lawyer Karuna Nundy said this shows that the government does not care about women rights. "Having installed a deeply misogynist, bigoted and downright sleazy NCW chief, the Modi government clearly doesn't care two hoots about women's rights. #sackrekhasharma," Nundy tweeted.  Netizens on Twitter demanded the resignation of Sharma, using the hashtag #sackrekhasharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Rajnath on BJP-JD(U) alliance: like Sachin-Sehwag pair||Calling the BJP-JD(U) partnership as "superhit" as the opening pair of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag in cricket, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said one can debate on the quantum of development done by the alliance government in Bihar, but no one can point a finger at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on corruption. Attacking the opposition RJD, Singh said the people had witnessed its 15-year tenure and can see the difference between its "misrule" and the good governance of the Nitish Kumar-led alliance government. Addressing a rally here in Bhagalpur district ahead of the Assembly polls beginning October 28, Singh said, "The alliance of the BJP and the JD(U) is as superhit as the opening pair of Sachin and Sehwag of Indian cricket team." He said the alliance government has provided basic facilities of electricity, road and water, which Bihar lacked for decades. "People have seen the 15-year rule of 'lalten' (RJD's poll symbol lantern) and they have also seen the development of Bihar during the BJP-JD(U) alliance government. The performance of these two governments cannot be compared. The state transformed under the NDA government," Singh said. Praising Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his deputy and BJP leader Sushil Modi, Singh said there are no charges of corruption against them. "I am not making this claim that Nitish Kumar has done everything for Bihar. It could be debated whether he has done enough work or less work or more was required to be done, but there can be no debate on their integrity," Singh said. Singh said no one can point a finger at Kumar on the issue of corruption. Taking potshots at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Singh, speaking in local Bhojpuri language, said 'lalten' has cracked and its oil has leaked and nothing will work now. He also spoke at length about various welfare schemes of the Modi government such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Singh said welfare schemes of the Modi government not only empowered the poor and the downtrodden but also raised their standard of living. Speaking about the soldiers of the Bihar Regiment who sacrificed their lives during a violent standoff with Chinese soldiers at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Singh said he is thankful to the people of the state for their bravery. "You all know what happened at Galwan Valley, it was Bihar Regiment soldiers who saved the pride of our motherland. They sacrificed their lives and I thank all of you for their sacrifice," Singh said. Polls for the 243-member Bihar assembly will be held in three phases -- October 28, November 3 and November 7 -- and the counting of votes will take place on November 10. The BJP-JD(U) combine is pitted against the grand alliance of the RJD, the Congress and Left parties. Some other smaller parties are also in the fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Police forces being modernised to tackle new challenges, says Amit Shah||The government is undertaking a comprehensive modernisation programme to prepare the police and paramilitary forces of the country for newer challenges of terrorism, cyber crime and border security, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Wednesday. Shah made the remarks while addressing a joint column of police and Central Armed Police Forces jawans and officers at the National Police Memorial in Chanakyapuri here on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The day is observed to pay homage to 10 policemen (of the CRPF) killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Spring area. Armies of both the countries are currently locked in a military standoff in the Ladakh area. "The work of police is witnessing new challenges and new dimensions in the areas of terrorism, fake currency, narcotics control, cyber crime, arms smuggling, human trafficking. It is a challenge to prepare the police forces for the new dimensions that have emerged in the last 2-3 decades," Shah said. "We have prepared a comprehensive modernisation programme for the police and I am hopeful that in the coming days the Modi government will prepare them to meet these challenges," he said. He said the government is bringing in technology to make the country's borders "impregnable" and detailed preparations are being made. The technology and promptness of troops will go hand-in-hand and "we will be able to better secure our borders", he said. Shah also said that the government was "going to do many things" so that the deficiency in availability of police personnel per one lakh population is addressed. He lauded the police personnel for ensuring internal and border security in the country with their vigilance. He said a total of 35,398 police and CAPF personnel have laid down their lives in the line of duty till now with 264 making the supreme sacrifice in the past year. Shah also remembered the 343 personnel who were killed due to COVID-19 and said these personnel continued on duty to help people, donate blood and plasma. He added "many changes" will soon be visible in the context of Police housing satisfaction ratio and training and that his ministry was working on these issues. A ceremonial guard of honour by a joint squad of the CAPFs was presented during the event that was attended by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of the Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar and chiefs of various CAPFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Aw! China bullies Best-Boy Modi||China, the land of proverbs, must be familiar with the sage advice for the garrulous as well as the practitioners of statecraft although its source is disputed: “Don’t speak unless you can improve the silence.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the proverb to heart, suppressing the flames of fury that neighbours like Pakistan ignite in him and deploying the cerebral skills of statesmanship and high diplomacy ever since China squatted on Indian territory from May. Look what that sagacious strategy has reduced China to: a bully that picks on the best-behaved boy in class for no reason whatsoever. On Tuesday, Beijing declared: “The Indian side should earnestly abide by the one-China principle and handle the Taiwan question prudently and properly.” China was responding to a question about a report that said “support is growing within India’s government to formally start talks on a trade deal with Taiwan as both democracies see relations with China deteriorate”. The Bloomberg report attributed the information to an unnamed Indian official who was quoted as saying “the hawks in India who want to start trade talks are getting the upper hand”. The official added that it’s unclear when a final decision would be made on whether to start talks. The report said neither the Indian commerce ministry spokesperson nor Taiwan’s top trade negotiator responded immediately to requests seeking comment. Yet, asked about the report on Tuesday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular media conference in Beijing: “There is only one China, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. The one-China principle is the common consensus of the international community, including India, and also serves as the political foundation for China to develop relations with any other country.” Zhao said: “China is firmly opposed to any official exchanges of any form and the signing of any agreement of official nature between Taiwan and any country having diplomatic relations with China.” Zhao then told India to “handle the Taiwan question prudently and properly”. Like a jealous lover, China is usually prickly about even a whisper or a wink at Taiwan. But Bloomberg had merely reported a wish of the Indian hawks who are apparently gaining the upper hand. If China seeks to respond to the full wish-list of what the so-called hawks in India want to do to the neighbour, it will have no time to do anything else. Moreover, it is a big mystery in India where these hawks are fluttering about. Not many hawks audacious enough to directly name China as the transgressor on the border have been spotted in public till now. On Tuesday, China could have easily replied that it does not respond to speculation — which is what it does with a straight face when asked about its casualties in the Galwan Valley. India does not have diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Both governments have representatives in each other’s capitals to facilitate cultural and business relations. So far, New Delhi has approached the issue with great sensitivity towards China’s concerns. As for the Prime Minister, he has treated China with extreme courtesy and decorum, going to the extent of declaring a few days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley that no one had intruded into Indian territory. Earlier this month, the Modi government studiously avoided greeting Taiwan on its National Day even though there was a domestic clamour for doing so to get back at China in the face of Chinese aggression. Modi’s best behaviour continued on Tuesday, too, in the face of the insolent statement by the Chinese and extreme provocation by Rahul Gandhi who asked the Prime Minister to reveal during his 6pm address “the date by which Chinese soldiers are going to be kicked out of India”. Refusing to be swayed by such distractions, Modi struck to the business at hand, warning the country to keep up the Covid guard. The Prime Minister quoted Kabir and Tulsidas, not Confucius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Blow to Kashmir daily||The Jammu and Kashmir government has sealed the Srinagar office of the Kashmir Times, the leading English newspaper that swam against the tide to speak out after the abrogation of Article 370 and challenged in the Supreme Court a communication blockade. The estates department of the administration sealed the office at Srinagar’s Press Enclave on Monday. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is now administered by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. The newspaper, the oldest English daily in Jammu and Kashmir, is headquartered in Jammu but ran an edition from Srinagar. The print edition from Srinagar was suspended recently because of a financial crunch but the online edition was being published from the office. The office operated from government space allotted to the newspaper in 1993, along with some other newspapers and journalists. Anuradha Bhasin, the owner and executive editor of the Kashmir Times, said no due process was followed. “They came yesterday around 5, the office was working and they asked the staff to come out. There was an argument and my staff asked where the order was but they told them to talk to the higher-ups. They put a lock outside and all our infrastructure is inside,” Bhasin told The Telegraph. “No eviction order was served on us. They were first supposed to give a cancellation order, then publicise it, ensure the occupant receives it and give time to file objections…. No such thing was followed.” A government official said they had not taken possession of the office of the Kashmir Times but that of the building allotted to Ved Bhasin, the founding editor of the newspaper and Anuradha Bhasin’s father, who died some years ago. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, claimed the space was being used for residential purposes and another quarter nearby was being used as an office. Anuradha Bhasin said rumours started floating about the eviction some six weeks ago, after which they approached the estates department. “They were not giving a clear picture. It was all bizarre. We approached the court of the deputy commissioner. The hearings happened. The judgment was reserved. The order (of eviction) is out now but it has not been served,” she said. “It is vendetta…. They did it because we went to the Supreme Court and also for constantly talking about lack of civil liberties, lack of democratic space in Kashmir. We were critical of a lot of government policies and actions,” Bhasin added. The newspaper had borne the brunt of alleged government reprisal for filing the case in the Supreme Court against the blockade. Since November, the daily has received no government advertisements — a major source of revenue for the region’s dailies. The sealing of the Srinagar office was condemned by politicians and several individuals but major associations of journalists took their time to react. The Kashmir Editors Guild said in a statement on Tuesday night: “The Guild sees the sealing as the continuation of an abnormality being enforced on Kashmir media for a long time, especially since 2010. In the last 10 years, the successive regimes have created a very unpleasant history as far as operations of the media in Kashmir are concerned. “Preventing circulation of newspapers, blacklisting the newspapers from getting government advertisements in Srinagar and Delhi, and interrupting negatively in the routine operations have adversely impacted the media. These are in addition to the issues that reporters face on a daily basis while gathering information.” Bhasin had hit out at other publications for their coverage of the events after Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and statehood were revoked. Most of these publications are accused of turning into government mouthpieces as they feared reprisals or a squeeze in advertisement revenues. “The Valley’s leading newspapers have chosen to keep their publications alive by killing news stories and burying all morals of journalism,” Bhasin had written last month. On Tuesday, Bhasin said she received expressions of solidarity from individuals. “There is overwhelming solidarity. I had not expected this much. People I don’t know, not just journalists, but strangers who are sending me messages offering their houses to be used as the office till I get the space,” she said. The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a media watchdog, condemned the sealing and asked authorities to “stop trying to silence independent and critical voices” and “respect press freedom”. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah mocked other publications for turning into government mouthpieces. “This (action against the Kashmir Times) explains why some of our ‘esteemed’ publications have decided to become government mouthpieces, printing only government press handouts. The price of independent reportage is to be evicted without due process,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Punjab farm bill challenge ||The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday passed three bills to negate the farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government and adopted a resolution against them, demonstrating its resolve to fight a political and legal battle with the Centre on an issue that has brought farmers out on the streets and railway tracks. The bills, adopted unanimously by the 117-member Assembly where the two BJP MLAs were not present, create a safety net for the farmers by making trading below the minimum support price (MSP) punishable by law. Any corporate house or trader who violates the MSP will have to pay a fine and face imprisonment up to three years. Traders are barred from operating in Punjab without a licence issued by the state government, and the power to fix foodgrain stock limits is vested in the state rather than the Centre. Chief minister Amarinder Singh, accompanied by MLAs of all parties except the BJP, met governor V.P. Singh Badnore to request him to give his assent to the bills. Anticipating that the governor would refer the bills to the President, Amarinder said he has sought time from Ram Nath Kovind between November 2 and 5 when all the MLAs will go to meet him to press the state’s case. The chief minister declared he was ready to sacrifice his government but would not bow to the Centre’s “injustice”. “I fail to understand what they are thinking, why are they hell bent on destroying farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh who gave their blood and toil to make India self-reliant in food?” he said. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been at the forefront of countrywide protests against the Centre’s three laws, which the Modi government claims will reform agriculture but which the Opposition contends will enslave farmers and threaten food security. Farmers have been blocking roads and rail tracks in Punjab since the bills were forced through Parliament last month. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi joined the protests for three days in Punjab earlier this month before going to Haryana. While the final battle could be fought in the Supreme Court if both the governor and the President refuse assent, Tuesday’s move sets the stage for a political confrontation because the BJP has so far not given any hint of withdrawal. The party has instead launched a massive campaign to hail the Prime Minister for the farm sector “reform”, and BJP-ruled Haryana has dealt with the protesting farmers with an iron hand. The Congress will earn goodwill among farmers by stepping up to take on the Centre. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said: “States like Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Telangana have consulted us and sought the draft bill. Punjab holds very little land but produces 38 per cent of foodgrain in India. On agriculture, other states look up to Punjab.” Congress spokesperson and top lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who drafted the model legislation to override the central laws, hinted that states like Maharashtra and Bengal could also follow suit. Amarinder warned the Centre against playing with fire as Punjab is a border state and social unrest here would encourage anti-India forces to become active. The chief minister also requested the farmer unions to lift their blockade as the rail-roko agitation was bleeding Punjab. Foodgrain stocks lying in godowns can be cleared only if train services resume, he said. Industry has already lost Rs 40,000 crore because of the ongoing agitation, Amarinder added. Asked about the legal validity of the laws passed by Punjab as they are in conflict with the central laws, Singhvi said: “The Centre should thank Punjab for providing them another opportunity to reverse their great blunder. If the President doesn’t give assent to a law ensuring the basic demand of our food providers, they will compound the felony.” The Opposition parties had petitioned the President not to sign the bills steamrollered by the Modi government through Parliament, but he still went ahead. Singhvi said: “The Centre passed the laws in hubris. They murdered the federal principle as agriculture is on the state list. They misused a listing about inter-state trade and commerce. We will fight it in court. What was the problem in making the MSP the benchmark?” Badal added: “States were given constitutional guarantee on GST and that is not being honoured. How can we trust verbal assurances (on MSP)?” A bill was also passed in the Assembly on Tuesday to bar farmland less than 2.5 acres from attachment proceedings in Punjab. The finance minister said: “We really don’t understand why Modiji is doing this except for the reason that the Centre does not have money to subsidise the operations of the Food Corporation of India. But if you tinker with food safety, money can’t save you in times of crisis.” Badal quoted an Urdu couplet to reflect the mood in Punjab: “Falak ko zid hai jahan bijliyan girane ki/Hamen bhi zid hai wahin aashiyan banane ki.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
21-10-2020||India||Official hints at plasma therapy rollback||India is likely to remove convalescent plasma therapy from its standard treatment guidelines for the coronavirus disease, the head of the country’s apex health research agency signalled on Tuesday, citing its study that found no benefits from plasma. Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, cited the council’s study on 464 patients in 39 hospitals across the country earlier this year that had suggested that plasma did not reduce mortality or severe illness in Covid-19 patients. “We’ve had discussions in the national task force and we are discussing this further… this may be deleted from the national guidelines,” Bhargava said at a briefing by the Union health ministry. “This is the ongoing discussion and, more or less, we’re reaching towards that.” Bhargava’s statement is the first official hint that the government is rethinking the presence of plasma as a therapeutic option for Covid-19. Ever since the council posted the study’s findings on a research archive on September 9, there has been speculation in medical circles whether the national task force and an expert medical panel that recommend the treatment guidelines would take into account its negative findings. Although the health ministry had cautioned that plasma is experimental and needs to be used with caution, many doctors have been concerned about unjustified enthusiasm and the sale of plasma in the black market at exorbitant prices across the country. Anecdotal accounts suggest that members of the public across India have even sought plasma donations for Covid-19 patients through social media platforms. Convalescent plasma, which is extracted from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Clinical trials worldwide have aimed at assessing the efficacy of plasma in preventing deaths and severe disease. In August, the US Food and Drug Administration had issued an emergency use authorisation for plasma therapy in the treatment of hospitalised patients. However, the FDA had also cautioned that “adequate and well-controlled randomised trials remain necessary for a definitive demonstration” of the plasma’s efficacy in Covid-19 patients. Bhargava said India’s trial on 464 patients is the largest in the world. The study describing the findings, he said, has been accepted for publication in The British Medical Journal. Bhargava also said the expert medical panel is also examining the findings of the World Health Organisation study that has suggested that remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine do not prevent deaths in Covid-19 patients. “We’ll take into cognisance and issue advisories accordingly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Oxygen guard  up, cases ebb||India’s near-steady decline in new coronavirus disease cases for over four weeks has reduced medical oxygen consumption in hospitals, but the Centre has initiated a process to import oxygen to address any surge in Covid-19 cases. The number of Covid-19 patients on medical oxygen — through oxygen-supported beds, intensive care unit beds, or ventilators — rose from around 43,000 on September 1 to a peak of 75,000 on September 25. It fell to 57,000 patients on October 19. A top Union health ministry official released data on Tuesday showing that India has never been short of medical oxygen. Although hospital requirement of medical oxygen peaked to 2,791 metric tonnes per day during the September 9-15 week, end-of-week stocks have always exceeded 13,000MT. However, the Centre has now initiated a process to import 100,000MT of liquid medical oxygen to ensure adequate stock and address any surge in Covid-19 cases that might occur in the post-festival weeks and the winter months. A senior government official explained to The Telegraph that an import was considered as prudent because the epidemic’s trajectory remains uncertain and the country’s demand for industrial oxygen is expected to rise. “In normal pre-Covid time, industry used to consume about 4,500MT oxygen per day. This declined drastically from March to September and is now picking up and may eventually cross pre-Covid-19 levels. In such scenarios, there will be no surplus left,” the official said. India’s daily additions of new coronavirus disease cases fell below 50,000 for the first time in 84 days on Tuesday. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded 46,790 fresh Covid-19 cases, the first time this number is below 50,000 since July 29 when India had recorded 52,123 cases. Despite the nationwide fall in numbers, new cases continue to rise in some states, including Bengal. Bengal’s seven-day average of daily new cases, for instance, has increased from 3,225 on October 2 to 3,806 on October 19. In Kerala, the seven-day average climbed from 7,509 on October 2 to 8,601 on October 12. It fell to 7,393 on October 19. The number of active patients nationwide has declined from a peak of over one million cases in mid-September to around 748,000 on Monday. But “we’re not in a position to sit back and relax,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary said. “We have to do more of what we have been doing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Modi caution but silence on rallies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to follow Covid-related precautions during the festive season and not let their guard down, warning of a resurgence at a time his own party leaders have flagrantly violated precautionary measures on the campaign trail. Modi sounded the caution in a 15-minute address to the nation at 6pm during which he hailed his government’s achievements in stabilising the pandemic crisis. Through the day, however, “Boycott Modi Bhashan” trended on Twitter with users highlighting his government’s failures and accusing him of making false promises. “In this festival season, brightness is returning to the markets. But we should remember that the lockdown may be over but the virus has not gone yet,” the Prime Minister said. “This is not the time to be careless. Don’t think the danger is over and corona is gone,” Modi added, citing the examples of developed countries and those badly hit by the pandemic and highlighting how India had fared better than them. The Prime Minister warned against actions that could cause a deterioration. He said the Covid recovery rate had improved and the markets were returning to normal owing to the festive season. He warned people against any laxity before a vaccine is found. Cautioning people who have stopped taking precautions of late, Modi said, according to a translation of his speech uploaded on his official website: “If you are negligent and are going out without a mask, you are exposing yourself, your family, your children, the elderly to the same amount of risk.” “Festivals are a time for joy and celebrations. At the same time we are coming out of a tough time and carelessness could render our fight useless,” the Prime Minister added. He, however, did not mention the political campaigns of BJP leaders where pandemic precautions are being violated at will. On Monday, leaders jostled outside Bagdogra airport to welcome BJP president J.P. Nadda. Many of them were not even wearing masks. In poll-bound Bihar, BJP leaders, as also leaders of other parties, have been addressing public rallies where masks are being shunned and physical-distancing norms flouted. In the latest unlock guidelines, the government has not specified any attendance limits for public gatherings in the open, with many viewing this as being aimed at the Bihar elections. During his address, Modi did refer to some recent videos where “we have seen that people are not careful anymore. This isn’t right.” Modi is scheduled to campaign extensively in Bihar, addressing a dozen rallies beginning Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Medha Patkar alleges Hathras plot||Social activist Medha Patkar has alleged that supporters of the four men arrested for the Hathras gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen have resolved to sell their land to pay for the legal expenses of the accused and ensure that the victim’s family is driven out of the village. “We came to know earlier today that the supporters of the gang-rape accused have decided to sell four bighas of land to fight the case of the four accused youths and also drag the victim’s family out of the village soon,” Patkar told an online media conference at Nandurbar in Maharashtra on Tuesday. She also released the report of a fact-finding team from the National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM) that visited Hathras. The report refers to the girl as Dasya, or slave. The father of the victim later told reporters in his village that caste brethren of the accused persons — Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar Singh, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar Singh — had declared that they would also spend the money raised to force the Dalit girl’s family out of the area. “I have heard they have said they will throw us out of the village when the police security is withdrawn by the government. We know they will do whatever they have been saying. We have requested the central and Uttar Pradesh governments to make arrangements for us in Delhi so that we can live safely there,” the father said. Ramu’s father Rakesh Singh said his son was not involved in the September 14 crime. “My son was at home when the incident took place. His name has been dragged into the case unnecessarily. We will try for the release of our children. However, the allegation of the girl’s family that we want to force them out of the village is baseless,” Rakesh said. The report by the fact-finding team, titled “Brutal gang rape, assault, and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl by upper caste Thakur men”, describes what has happened since the crime on September 14. Besides Patkar, the eight other members of the fact-finding team that visited Hathras on October 9 and met the victim’s family and relatives, are Mani Mala, activist and writer; Sandeep Pandey, leader of the Socialist Party (India); Ehtesham Hashmi, a Supreme Court advocate; Faisal Khan, an NAPM activist; Joe Athialy and Amit Kumar of the Delhi Solidarity Group; Hansraj of the Narmada Bachao Andolan, and Anand Athialy, a student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||‘Fit’ Amit Shah sets up Bihar date ||A “fully fit” Amit Shah has announced that he will campaign for the Bihar Assembly elections, preparing to make his first major public appearance at a time there has been speculation about his health. Home minister Shah, who had tested positive for the coronavirus in August and was hospitalised twice, had earlier been scheduled to visit Bengal ahead of the Pujas and “sound the poll bugle” but the trip was cancelled. “I will go to Bihar after October 25,” Shah told Zee News on Monday. “I’m fully fit now,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Stay home for festivals: Naveen Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday urged people not to venture out during Durga Puja and Diwali and celebrate the festive season within the confines of their homes. He requested the people not to be even slightly negligent in observing Covid-19 guidelines while celebrating the festivals. He cited the example of Kerala, where cases have gone up three-fold after Onam. “Even a little complacency will make the situation worse.” “It has been a tough seven months for us, but our sacrifices have borne fruits,” he added. The chief minister also referred to the second wave of Covid-19 in European countries like the United Kingdom, France and Spain. “Daily cases in the UK on September 1 were 1,200-plus but the number jumped to more than 17,000 on October 8. Similarly, the number of cases in France have jumped from 3,000 to 26,000 between August 31 and October 10,” he said. He also asserted that Odisha was fighting well against Covid-19 and the number of positive cases had come down significantly in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Ventilator charge gains voice||A doctor has corroborated a claim attributed to a nurse that negligence had led to the death of a Covid-19 patient at a medical college hospital in Kerala. Dr Najma Saleem, who works at the Government Medical College Hospital in Ernakulam, on Tuesday said an on-duty doctor had told her what had happened before the death of the Covid patient named Harris on July 20. In a leaked audio message on Monday, nursing officer Jalaja Devi is purportedly heard warning other nurses against any lapses and citing how a poorly fitted ventilator tube had cost Harris his life on July 20. The speaker in the audio message, originally circulated in a WhatsApp group of nurses, had claimed that superiors had hushed up the matter to protect the on-duty nurses. The health department has suspended Jalaja pending an inquiry led by the director of health education. On Tuesday, doctor Najma told reporters that she was not on duty when Harris died but was told about the incident by a duty doctor. “The duty doctor had told me that the patient died in bed. Although he had an oxygen mask, the tube was not connected to the ventilator. She (the duty doctor) had informed the superiors, who took no action,” Najma said. While insisting there was negligence on the part of the duty nurses who were supposed to keep an eye on every patient, Najma cited two possibilities that might have led to the death of Harris. “He had the mask on but the tube was not connected. Or the tube got disconnected when the patient moved in the bed,” the doctor said. “Whatever the case maybe, the nurse on duty should have attended to him,” Najma said, adding that there had been other instances that were rectified immediately. While the speaker in the audio clip had said that Harris was ready to be discharged, a claim supported by his family, Najma had a different take on his health. “His condition was such that he would have needed oxygen support even if he were to be discharged and sent home. Even after a month and a half of hospitalisation, we could not wean him off oxygen. Apart from being Covid positive, he was obese and had related issues,” she said. The doctor also backed the audio message’s claim about similar incidents at the hospital. “During my duty I once heard a Covid patient named Jameela breathing rapidly. When I rushed in, I saw she had the oxygen mask on but the ventilator was on standby mode. The patient recovered quickly when I switched on the ventilator,” Najma said. On another occasion the ventilator aiding a Covid patient had stopped working. “When I saw this I told a sister to bring a new ventilator. But there was no response even after two minutes. Then I asked a nursing intern who came into the room. When I went to the nursing station and checked I found none of them had even moved from there,” recalled the doctor. “I shouted at them and managed to get a new ventilator and helped the patient,” Najma said, adding that things have improved of late. “I believe things have definitely improved since then. Now, each set of nurses and doctors works in four-hour shifts (in medical ICUs). I am not generalising the deficiencies since lots of doctors and nurses work really hard in these hospitals,” she said. Dr Joseph Chacko, president of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association, told a news channel that finding the reason for lapses was important. “We need to plug any loopholes and not end the matter with suspending someone,” he suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||CBI takes up TRP probe||The CBI has registered an FIR in connection with alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP) on the Uttar Pradesh government’s recommendation, officials said on Tuesday. The state government handed over to the CBI a case initially registered at Lucknow’s Hazratganj police station on a complaint from an ad agency, the officials said. The CBI FIR is against unknown persons. The development comes at a time Mumbai police is already investigating a TRP manipulation case, in which it has summoned officials of Republic TV and two Marathi channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. Republic TV, which did not get protection from arrest for its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from Bombay High Court on Monday, has been demanding that the case be transferred to the CBI. The TRP case appears to be following the pattern of the Sushant Singh Rajput case where too Mumbai police had begun a probe, but later Patna police filed an FIR and then the Bihar government recommended the case be transferred to the CBI. The Centre backed the Bihar government’s recommendation and the CBI took over the case. The agency has not reached any conclusion on the death of Sushant, it had said recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||India||Sikkim status cry after China threat||An article in China’s state-run Global Times on Sunday threatening to support “separatist forces in Northeast” and “the resurrection of Sikkim” has prompted proponents of the Himalayan state’s special status under Article 371F of the Constitution to urge the Centre to resolve some of the pending political issues at the earliest to keep Beijing at bay. Following growing bonhomie between India and Taiwan, which China claims as its territory, an article in the Global Times on Sunday warned: “If India plays the Taiwan card, it should be aware that China can also play the Indian separatist card… China has every reason to support separatist forces in Northeast Indian states such as Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur, Assam and Nagaland. China could even support the resurrection of Sikkim.’ Sikkim merged with India in 1975 but this was acknowledged by Beijing only in 2003. Against this backdrop, IAM371F Campaign, an organisation that espouses the cause of special constitutional status enjoyed by Sikkim, has urged the Centre to resolve the political issues of Sikkim. Passang Sherpa, coordinator, IAM371F Campaign, said fundamental to resolving the issues was to uphold the sanctity of both the May 8, 1973, agreement, which had been signed before the erstwhile kingdom’s merger with India on May 16, 1975, and Article 371F, which provides special status to Sikkim. “The promises made under 8th May Agreement and Article 371F of the Constitution of India were misused and manipulated by New Delhi time and again,” said Sherpa. According to him, there may be no takers in Sikkim for China’s separatist card, but the continued denial of the Sikkimese people’s political security by successive governments at the Centre was unfortunate as it gave Beijing the chance to raise the issue. “Such insensitive approach of the Indian governments towards the Sikkimese people for the past 45 years could be the reason for emboldening foreign powers like China to rethink their strategy on Sikkim,” said Sherpa. Under Article 371F, protection is provided to Sikkim to continue with old laws of the state before its merger with India and some of them have allegedly been diluted by the Centre over the years. Sherpa listed some of the many alleged acts of omission and commission. They include the removal of the political rights of the majority Nepali-speaking Sikkimese people, the extension of Income Tax Act in Sikkim, the failure to grant Assembly quota for Limboos and Tamangs, who were declared Schedule Tribes in 2003. Until 1979, there were equal seat reservations of 15 seats each for Bhutia Lepcha (BL) and Nepali community. However, following subsequent amendments, there are no specific reservation for the Nepali community. The Campaign proponents are also against implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act and one nation, one ration card scheme in Sikkim. China is known to raise the Sikkim bogey every time there is tension with India. Both during the Doklam standoff in 2017 and the ongoing border tension, Global Times played to the non-existent secessionist sentiments in Sikkim. Sherpa said in light of China’s sinister designs, New Delhi should be serious in resolving the various political issues of the past 45 years to enable the Sikkimese people to contribute towards national security, integrity and development. “Since the state government of Sikkim has become a mere stooge of the Central government, the ball now is in New Delhi’s court to resolve the issues.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-604
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows 45 people in pandals at a time||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday partly modified its order on community Durga Pujas, allowing drummers to perform within the no-entry zones and raising the number of people who can be present inside the marquees at a time for big pujas from 25 to 45. Hearing an appeal submitted by Forum for Durgotsab, a division bench of the high court comprising Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee, retained its earlier order declaring all Durga Puja marquees no-entry zones and erecting barricades in front of the pandals to prevent visitors from entering inside in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Counsel for the forum submitted before the court that Durga Puja is the biggest festival of the Bengalis and a lot of emotions are attached to it. They appealed that the number of people who can enter the marquees be increased for offering "anjali" and also during "sandhi puja". The bench ordered that the number of people who can stay inside the marquees be increased from 25 to 45 for big Pujas but retained it at 15 for the small ones. The 'dhakis' (drummers), an integral part of the celebrations, were allowed to stay within the no-entry zones of the marquees but they will have to maintain all safety and hygiene protocols. A list of 60 people who can stay inside the pandals for big pujas will have to be put up daily, the court said. The court also said a maximum of 45 people can be present inside the marquees at a time. For small Pujas, the maximum number of people who can stay inside the pandals at a time is 15, the court said. The court had on Monday declared all pandals across Bengal as no-entry zones to prevent the surge of Covid-19 cases in the state. The division bench had also ordered that no visitors would be allowed to enter the marquees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Gautam Deb hops pandals to win support||State tourism minister Gautam Deb will visit 250-odd Durga Puja pandals in Dabgram-Fulbari area — his Assembly constituency — during the festive days. On Tuesday, Deb said he had started his pandal visits that would go on for the next few days, a move political observers deemed a strategy to reach out to his voter base before the crucial election. “There are 248 Durga Puja pandals in my Assembly area. I have already started paying them visits and will go to each of these puja pandals,” Deb, who was recently in the news for recording a Rabindrasangeet album, said. Along with the decision to visit the pandals, the state minister has also taken the initiative to secure permission from the administration for over 130 pujas. Once they get permission, their organisers will be eligible for the state government’s assistance of Rs 50,000 each, the tourism minister said. All these pujas, mostly small-scale ones, were being held for years now, but organisers could not obtain necessary permission till last year. Among these, around 70-odd pujas are in his constituency while the rest are in Siliguri subdivision. “All these pujas will get the required permission this year. Then, they can also get the state assistance of Rs 50,000,” Deb said. The minister’s plan — visit each Durga Puja of his Assembly area and help organisers in getting permission and state’s assistance —  indicates that he intends to explore the opportunity of reviving Trinamul’s support base in his seat, opined political analysts. It may be mentioned that in 2011 and in 2016, Deb had won from Dabgram-Fulbari, a constituency that is spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four panchayats of Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri district. In 2016, he had won the seat with a decent margin of around 24,000 votes. However, the tables turned against his party at the 2019 Parliament elections like most other Assembly seats of north Bengal. In the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly segment, which is under Jalpaiguri Parliament seat, the BJP could manage to secure a lead of over 86,000 votes in last years Lok Sabha polls. “It is evident that the minister and his party colleagues will have to toil hard to bring back support in the Assembly elections. Also, civic elections are due in Siliguri and as there are 14 (of 47) wards of SMC are under his seat. This is an additional pressure on him because if the civic polls are held ahead of Assembly polls, he has to prove he has managed to revive Trinamul’s support  by ensuring the party’s win in maximum number of wards,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Cash cheer for workers of closed Bengal tea gardens||The disbursement of financial aid for three months and an additional ex-gratia for permanent workers of 13 closed tea gardens by the state labour department has brought cheers for these jobless workers ahead of the festivities. In Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts, 4,537 permanent workers of 13 tea estates have received the money from the state, sources in the labour department said. In closed tea estates, the state government pays a monthly assistance of Rs 1,500 to the permanent workers under the FAWLOI (Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries) scheme. Added to it, the state has paid an ex-gratia of Rs 1,500 for the Durga Puja to each of these workers. “In Jalpaiguri district, we have paid three months’ assistance, that is, Rs 4,500 rupees, and the Rs 1,500 ex-gratia among workers of Redbank, Surendranagar, Dharanipur, Manabari and Raipur. In all, each worker of these gardens has received Rs 6,000 ahead of Durga Puja,” said Rajat Pal, the deputy labour commissioner of Jalpaiguri. However, the disbursement of cash assistance among workers evoked a mixed reaction among trade union leaders. While on one hand they appreciated the state government’s gesture, they also simultaneously demanded that steps be taken to reopen these gardens. “It is good that workers of closed gardens have been paid assistance and ex-gratia. But a number of tea gardens are lying closed for years now and no initiative has been taken by the state or the Centre to re-open them,” said Mani Kumar Darnal, a central leader of Intuc-backed National Union of Plantation Workers. Tarun Roy, the district general secretary of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh in Jalpaiguri, spoke on similar lines. “This cash can provide interim relief to workers but monthly assistance can never solve the problem permanently. The state should focus on reopening the tea estates,” he said. The dole extended by the state to the jobless workers is yet another attempt by Trinamul to woo the tea population, political observers said. “A considerable section of the tea population voted the BJP in 2019. Trinamul is desperate to try and win back their support,” said an observer. District Trinamul leaders, however, pointed out that the state government had been doing a lot for tea workers, “unlike the Centre”. K.K. Kalyani, the Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president, alleged that the Prime Minister and other BJP leaders had made certain promises to the tea workers but eventually had not delivered on them.  “Our chief minister and the state government, however, are putting every effort to stand by the tea workers,” Kalyani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid bars dhakis from drumming up a storm in Bengal||The drop in the number of Durga Pujas in and outside Bengal amid the novel coronavirus outbreak has taken the rhythm out of the lives of many dhakis (traditional drummers) who look forward to this festive season as their main source of earnings in the year. For thousands of dhakis from the state it was a ritual to get calls from Durga Puja organisers outside Bengal to perform at their pandals. But the Covid-19 outbreak put the world on pause. In the new normal, most Durga Puja committees in states outside Bengal have decided not to organise the festival this year, a decision that has left the dhakis staring at a loss of income in an already tough year. Sources said thousands of dhakis from Bengal districts like East Burdwan, Birbhum, Purulia, Bankura and Hooghly would in other years travel to states such as Assam, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh to perform at Durga Puja pandals and get higher pay than what they would have got in their home state. As most of these dhakis work as farm workers through the year, this extra money was most welcome. “If puja organisers in Bengal pay us Rs 5,000 for our performance during Durga Puja, we get between Rs 25,000 and Rs 30,000 from organisers outside the state,” said a dhaki preferring anonymity. He added that till last year he used to perform at a Mumbai pandal. He did not get a call from Mumbai this year because the organisers cancelled the community puja in the wake of the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. Bablu Das, a seasonal dhaki from East Burdwan’s Kalna, would go to Mumbai during Durga Puja every year for the past 11 years. The rest of the year, he ekes out a living as a farm worker. The extra income during Durga Puja — Bablu earned a handsome Rs 25,000 last year — helped him fund his children’s education. Bablu will miss this money, he said, as that particular community Durga Puja in Mumbai is not happening this year. “Organisers would give me a fee of Rs 25,000, pay for my travel, food and stay in Mumbai,” Bablu recalled wistfully. “The fact that all this won’t happen now is another blow for me in the lockdown year.” Every year, a group of 30 dhakis from East Burdwan’s Kalna got called to perform in Mumbai. This year only one among them has been invited. The lucky man, Prasenjit Das, boarded his flight to Mumbai on Monday. “I was in distress till I received the call from organisers late last month. The money I earn during Durga Puja helps my family survive for at least four months. This year, cash is important because all of us could not earn much throughout the year,” Prasenjit said. Some dhakis said that though they could not travel outside Bengal, they were still lucky if they got calls from Bengal puja organisers. When budgets are low, organisers play recorded beats of the dhaki in pandals. However, several organisers in Bengal have decided to go ahead with dhakis to add the traditional fervour to festivities with the state government offering a dole of Rs 50,000 to each puja committee. Malay Das, a dhaki from Kalna, said he did not get a call from Assam, where he habitually went, for Durga Puja this year. But he is lucky enough to beat the festive drums for a community puja in Kalna itself, he added. “I will at least earn Rs 5,000,” Malay said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Gurung camp irked with Centre over statehood and ST tag||Leaders of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have openly started speaking against the BJP’s “lack of will” to solve Darjeeling issues, the trend prompting some observers to suggest that the relationship between the allies is getting strained and there is a likelihood of the hill party charting its own course. Gurung has been supporting the BJP since 2009, helping the saffron party win three consecutive Lok Sabha polls from Darjeeling. During last year’s Darjeeling Assembly byelection, Gurung had supported GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba who had contested on a BJP ticket. However, local leaders of the Gurung faction started speaking against the BJP and many believe they would not “dare” making public statements against the saffron camp without direction from top leaders, most of whom are on the run. Suman Rai, the president of the Mirik subdivisional committee of the Gurung faction, said the BJP was only making promises. “They (BJP) are only making promises but we have now started to feel that they do not have will (to solve the hill problems). We now feel they (BJP) will not do anything for us,” said Rai, adding that there was “still time for them (BJP) to act.” The Mirik Morcha leader said the hill people were “not vote casting machines” and the BJP had “not done anything for the Gorkhas” despite electing three MPs. The local leaders of the Gurung camp have even come out with a list of the BJP’s failures. They highlighted Bengal BJP leaders’ statement that the permanent political solution was not Gorkhaland. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance on granting tribal status to 11 communities but the Centre’s failure to deliver on it and the BJP’s silence during the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 are also being highlighted by the Gurung camp. “When the BJP had no MPs in Bengal, Bimal Gurung helped them win a seat in the state. Now, the BJP has 18 MPs and its Bengal leaders are talking differently,” said Rai. Modi’s failure to deliver on the promise of granting tribal status to hill communities is discussed regularly by Morcha leaders.Rai has also been asking about the fate of hundreds of Morcha activists who are on the run, including Gurung and Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha. “They (BJP) talked about helping them return (home), nothing has been done,” said Rai. Gurung has a number of criminal cases against him in connection with the violent 2017 statehood agitation and unless he gets legal reprieve, his return to the hills would be difficult. “A close analysis of statements by second-rung Morcha leaders and their activities —the Gurung faction is slowly mobilising with leaders coming out in public — suggest Gurung is having a re-look at the alliance with the BJP,” said a political analyst. Gurung, the analyst feels, can influence results in six to seven Assembly seats in north Bengal. “If he goes alone and manages to win three hill Assembly seats and influence other constituencies, he will be in a win-win situation with the government that comes to power in Bengal... He may be keeping his options open,” said the analyst. Morcha leader Rai was, however, soft on Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and said he was doing “more than what he can in his capacity” by raising issues in Parliament. The Mirik Morcha leader said Bimal Gurung’s support base in the hills was intact and that “they would stand by whatever decision our party president (Gurung) takes”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Fresh mask-up drive in Bengal||The Bengal government has launched a fresh drive across the state to make people aware of the necessity of wearing masks. Sources said police had been asked to send people back home if they stepped out without wearing masks but no fine or punishment would be imposed. “It was decided during a videoconference between chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and district magistrates on Monday that the state should ensure wearing of masks during the festive season,” said an official. A couple of district magistrates from south Bengal said they had deployed more than 100 teams in each district for the campaign. “The police have been given the go-ahead to ensure that people don’t come out of their homes without wearing masks. During the initial days of the lockdown, the police had played the role proactively. We have to strengthen the measure to prevent rapid spread of the virus,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government waits for Calcutta HC call on review plea||Bengal government has decided to wait till Wednesday before sending out necessary instructions to district authorities as well as civic officials and puja organisers on how to implement the Calcutta High Court order of making pandals no-entry zones. “The government has already issued required instructions on issues related to handling of Covid-19 during the festive season. But we have to wait till Wednesday before asking the authorities to implement the high court order. This is because a review petition was filed in the high court and it is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the government has to take a series of measures to implement the high court order. First, it has to ensure that all puja pandals are barricaded following the guidelines laid out by the high court. “It is a Herculean task. The state has about 37,000 community or Sarbojonin pujas. Barricading all the pandals is easier said than done,” said a source. Second, the pandals have to be divided into two groups — small and big ones — before putting up barricades. This is also an arduous task as officers need to assess the pujas by visiting the sites and they may face resistance from the organisers, sources said. “If the order stays, the government has to work on war footing to convert the pandals into no-entry zones and police might have to put up barricades at majority of the pandals as some organisers have already refused to cooperate,” said an official. The sources said given the grievances among the puja organisers, the state government had no option but to wait for the judgement on the review petition. “It might be tough for us to implement the order at the last moment.... But we have to wait for the order on the review petition as putting up barricades around the pandals right at this moment may invite law-and-order problems,” said another bureaucrat. While the government would wait for the hearing of the review petition, it has already announced plans to introduce more than 2,000 beds at dedicated Covid hospitals within a month as part of preparations to tackle more cases after the festival period. Of the extra beds, 535 beds are ICU beds and remaining 1,639 would be general beds, said a source, adding 37 per cent of the existing 12,751 Covid beds were occupied as of Monday. “We are not in the midst of a crisis given that the bed occupancy ratio is still below 50 per cent. But we can’t be complacent as the spread of the novel coronavirus is still not under control. That is why we are laying stress on upgrading our infrastructure,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Sanitise bus terminals and markets, orders Bengal government||A spike in Covid-19 cases ahead of Durga Puja prompted the Bengal government to ask all districts to launch a special sanitisation drive in crowded zones, especially marketplaces and bus terminals. District sources said the government top brass asked district magistrates to start the sanitisation drive urgently as Covid infections in Bengal had increased in October. According to state health department data, between October 1 and 19, the number of people in Bengal who contracted the infection is 64,324, far more than 53,145 between August 1 and 19 and 56,239 between September 1 and 19. A Birbhum official said the spurt came ever since people hit the streets for Durga Puja shopping since last month. “Data shows the rise (in Covid cases) is related to people stepping out in large numbers for festive shopping in Calcutta and the districts. If we can’t ensure people obey Covid protocol there will be an explosion in infections after Durga Puja,” said a health official. The sanitisation directive prompted Birbhum, Purulia, Bankura and East Burdwan to start the drive in their respective markets and bus stops. “We have been asked to sanitise crowded places like markets and bus terminals immediately. We started it on Tuesday and will continue it,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu. To prevent crowding, Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee of Calcutta High Court on Monday issued an order banning entry of visitors inside pandals citing the pandemic situation. The court also directed that the areas within 10 metres of a big puja pandal and five metres of a small pandal be barricaded as no-entry zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 4,029 new cases and 3,382 recoveries||Bengal on Tuesday reported a spike in Covid-19 cases by over 4,000, which took the total number of active patients past 35,000, both for the first time. The state logged 3,382 recoveries, also the highest in a 24-hour span, and 61 deaths. Bengal is now in the fifth position on the list of states with most active cases. The first seven states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh on the list now have over 68 per cent of the active cases in the country. Bengal alone had 4.71 per cent of India’s active cases as of Tuesday. The state reported 4,029 new cases on Tuesday, resetting the highest 24-hour rise for the 17th time in October. “If the Covid-19 safety protocol is adhered to by the majority of Puja revellers, we might just escape with a daily rise of 5,000 or so. If there is carelessness and disregard, daily cases of 8,000-10,000 are not out of the question. The healthcare infrastructure might not be equipped to handle the additional load from that kind of explosive surge,” said a source in the state government. The total of novel coronavirus cases in the state went past 3.29 lakh, which include 2.87 lakh recoveries and 6,180 deaths. “Things worsened drastically over the past month, with 1.04 lakh new infections, which pushed the total of active cases from 24,000-odd to 35,170 (on Tuesday),” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate, which had reached a high of 87.98 on October 6, dropped to 87.43 per cent. The national rate is 88.68. “We had been in the top five on the list of states with the highest recovery rates for months. Now, we are in the 22nd place,” said the minister. He has said the five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly are now part of the Centre’s high priority districts, nationally, for intensive Covid-19 management measures. “These five districts added over 42,000 cases in 20 days of October alone,” he added. Of the total 6,180 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 2,019, with 17 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,397 deaths, 13 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 5,223 deaths (84.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.87 now, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. “We were out of the top 10, in the list of states with the highest mortality rates, for so long. Now, we are fourth,” said the minister. With 43,762 tests, the total tests went past 40.78 lakh, at 45,318 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.07 per cent now. The state reported 37.85 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals on Tuesday, besides 3.55 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||10 hurt in clash over gold dues in Bengal||Two shops were ransacked and at least 10 persons were injured when two groups clashed over payment of gold ornaments in South Dinajpur district’s Balurghat on Monday night. Balurghat police rushed to the spot at the bus stand Chingishpur and bring the situation under control. A police picket was raised in the area to avoid further breach of peace. Among the injured, seven are under treatment at the super-specialty hospital in Balurghat. Sources said trouble started brewing when Mintu Prasad of Prasadpara in Chingishpur placed an order to Dalim Sarkar, who runs a jewellery shop near the bus stand, to make some gold ornaments for him. On Monday, Prasad and Sarkar got into an altercation over payment of dues for the ornaments. Soon, the altercation led to a clash as both called up their close associates and family members and attacked each other. During the clash, Sarkar’s shop was ransacked and another nearby shop that sells plastic pipes was ransacked and torched. Both groups attacked each other with bricks, stones and iron rods, which left 10 persons injured. Most were hit on the head and taken to the hospital in Balurghat. The violence continued for about an hour and the situation came under control only as police reached the spot. Amit Prasad, Mintu’s brother, said Mintu had been to Sarkar’s shop to know details as to how much money he owed to the jeweller. “The jeweller attacked him without provocation. My brother informed me (about the attack), and I went to the spot with him and some others. Suddenly, the jeweller and his brothers attacked us with iron rods. We were caught by surprise, most of us got injured. We have filed a complaint with the police.” Jeweller Sarkar’s family members, on the other hand, said the jeweller was attacked the moment he asked Mintu to clear the dues. “The shop was also ransacked,” said a family member. Senior police officers said they had received complaints about the incident. “Our men have been posted in the area. Investigations have started,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||West Bengal||Meet the Bengal rural NEET champs ||Three youths from poor families and remote villages in Malda and Cooch Behar districts have re-written their destinies by cracking this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The to-be doctors are Mohammad Rishad Sheikh of Bangitola village and Asmaul Haque of Uttar Laxmipur village in Malda, and Alobaidul Haque, who is from Patchara – a village around 22km away from Cooch Behar town. Rishad and Asmaul of Malda have secured ranks of 3,723 and 5,523 respectively, while Alobaidul of Cooch Behar is ranked 33,822. While Rishad is the son of a small poultry farm owner, Asmaul’s father is a daily wage worker at a carpentry unit and mother at a bidi factory. Alobaidul’s father is a farmer. These boys have all known financial struggle at home but they did not let these constraints come in the way of their medical dream, their  proud kin say. Mohammad Helaluddin, Rishad’s father, admitted he did not have the financial wherewithal to get his son special coaching to crack the medical entrance. “But his performance in Madhyamik paved the way for him to get coaching from a private institution against a nominal cost. Now, he has proved his mettle,” the proud father said. Asmaul’s father Nijamuddin recounted how he and his wife Kabira Bibi lost their home to river erosion and had to shift their family to another village. Those were hard times but his son stayed glued to his textbooks, the father recalled. “It took us time to build a hutment in the new place. But despite the tension and the financial constraints, our son was always focussed on his studies and could finally succeed in his aim. It will be our  dream come true the day he becomes a doctor,” said Nijamuddin. But Asmaul is a worried youngster. This was not the first time that he cleared NEET. Last year, he had managed to secure a rank that gave him the chance to enroll at a dental college in Calcutta. “This year, my rank is much better and I hope to get admission in Calcutta Medical College & Hopsital or in NRS Medical College & Hospital,” the youngster said. “But I have to pay Rs 1.10 lakh to the dental college to get my release so that I can enroll for the MBBS course. I am exploring options to arrange the money.” Alobaidul’s father Ajijul Islam has two reasons to be proud. Alobaidul, his son, has made him proud by clearing NEET and intends to be a dental surgeon in future. Along with Alobaidul, his sister Afruja Parveen surprised everyone by securing 94 per cent marks in her higher secondary exams this year and cleared the entrance test for the nursing course. But the farmer is not free of worries. He just hopes his son gets a berth in a government college so that his studies are affordable. “My son did not have the option to take coaching from any private institution as I do not have the financial capacity to bear those expenses. He prepared for the exams on his own. It is nice to see that my son cleared the first step to be a doctor. We hope he will find a berth in a government college,” Ajijul said. Alobaidul’s sister Afruja said she was fortunate that she would be able to take admission in a government-run nursing college. “My father cannot bear the expenses of a private institution,” she said, adding she was very happy for her brother’s success in NEET.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-336
21-10-2020||North East||Assam death penalty for lynching doctor||A Jorhat court on Tuesday handed death penalty to an accused and life terms to 24 others convicted in the Dr Deben Dutta lynching case of 2019. Delivering his verdict in the “brutal and barbaric” act in a packed court room around 2pm, Jorhat district and sessions judge Robin Phukan handed the death penalty to Sanjay Rajowar, 21. On October 12, the district and sessions court had convicted 25 of the 36 accused in the case. There were a total of 60 witnesses but only 56 were examined during the trial. An accused died during the trial. Dutta, 73, senior medical officer of Teok Tea Estate dispensary in Jorhat district was lynched by a mob on August 31, 2019, for allegedly delaying the treatment of worker Somra Majhi. Dutta died while being rushed by police personnel to Jorhat Medical College and Hospital. The mob had allegedly attacked him with sharp weapons during the assault. The accused were booked under Sections 302, 341, 342, 353, 427, 506, 143, 144, 147, 148, 149, 186 and 109 of the IPC and Section 4 of The Assam Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence & Damage to Property) Act, 2011. Some of the IPC sections deal with murder (302), wrongful confinement (340), rioting (147), assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty (353) and unlawful assembly of people with common objective (149). Special public prosecutor Durga Prasad Jaiswal said he was satisfied with the ruling because it was rare to secure conviction in a lynching case. The probe into the case “stood out” for two reasons — the police’s promptness in filing a “foolproof” chargesheet in 22 days and the steps taken for “protection” of witnesses, a first in the country. The four-member special investigation team headed by Siva Prasad, deputy inspector-general, Eastern Range, comprised V.C. Nimbalkar, Prakash Sonowal and Dipankar Gogoi. The lynching sparked off a series of street protests and the Indian Medical Association threatening to withdraw doctors from garden hospitals if prompt action was not taken to punish the guilty. Family members of the victim said the verdict will serve as a deterrent. “We wanted a death penalty. We thank everyone who helped us get justice and stand by the truth. I will light 111 diyas today,” Kristina Duttta, the victim’s daughter, said. The IMA hailed the verdict because it will create a deterrent for miscreants targeting healthcare institutions and professionals on simple pretexts. IMA officials Satyajit Borah and Hemanga Baishya thanked the state government, the investigating team and the legal team. The IMA was also grateful to the court for having “read” out the state medicare service persons and service institutions act while pronouncing the judgment. The convicted have the option of challenging the verdict in Gauhati High Court. The defence lawyer said had the investigating team taken some more time, the ruling would have been different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
21-10-2020||Opinion||Death of conscience||It is that time of the year again when Durga, the mother goddess, returns home. This year, Durga, the manifestation of strength (shakti), peace (shanti) and wisdom (buddhi), returns to take the place of a young Dalit girl — nineteen — perhaps a few years younger than her. The girl had gone to the fields in the Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh to cut grass which she would use to feed cattle, whose milk would be sold by her family to make ends meet. She was attacked, grievously wounded, denied immediate medical treatment and died two weeks later. In death, as in life, she was denied dignity, being cremated hurriedly in the middle of the night without most of her family around. Four upper-caste boys were arrested for her gang rape and murder. Shakti in Hathras isn't the strength of character that Durga represents, but the strength of one's caste. In the aftermath of the incident, sordid stories of caste divisions have emerged from Boolgarhi village where the incident took place. According to ground reports, Dalit elders in Boolgarhi still customarily stand up when upper castes pass; Dalit children in school are expected to clean the premises as well because of which many of them do not go to school at all; shopkeepers frequently tell Dalit customers to stand apart; cremation grounds are separate; temple entry, despite the solemn promises of the Constitution, is often prohibited for Dalits. To be Dalit is to be deprived of strength — to read books, to buy groceries at the local store, to pray to god in a temple, to be human. Shanti, in Hathras, is premised on this unequal social compact — of caste lines that cannot be crossed, hierarchies that must remain unchanged, and order that must be maintained, by violence if necessary. For the Uttar Pradesh government, this compact is maintained by the barrel of a policeman's gun. This is a time-tested script that privileges the need for order, retribution and security over dignity, empathy and humaneness. The threat to seize the property of anti-CAA protesters for voicing their dissent to a law, the 'encounter' killing of the gangster, Vikas Dubey, casting aside any illusion of the rule of law, and obstructing media persons and Opposition leaders from visiting the victim's family are telltale signs of a government that believes in the possibility of peace only by brute force. The Uttar Pradesh government is a particularly egregious example of a government that seems indifferent to the rule of law, choosing instead to do 'whatever it takes' to preserve the social compact. But it would be myopic to think that it is the only one. Such examples abound across the political spectrum in various states. The underlying factor, that makes such methods commonplace, is a design choice in the Constitution itself. The Constitution, as Sandipto Dasgupta has observed, may be usefully seen as a document drafted from the perspective of facilitating the management of conflicts by an administrative State. Consequently, an overriding concern of the drafters of the Constitution, discernible through many of their debates and reports, was the need to ensure law and order. This is why a chapter on fundamental rights of individuals has a detailed provision authorizing preventive detention of individuals; why widely-worded emergency provisions from the colonial-era Government of India Act, 1935 continue to find place in the Constitution while the document is conspicuously silent on trammeling wide powers of the police to search, seize and arrest individuals. The UP government may often defy the protections the Constitution has for citizens, but it is, like governments before and after it, the child of a Constitution that has special reverence for a strong State that ensures law and order. In Hathras, as in Hyderabad last year, and in Delhi in the aftermath of the rape and murder in 2012, it is the institutions of constitutional modernity — a free media and an impartial judiciary — that have often come up short. These institutions, which manifest the buddhi of India's constitutional vision, were the checks and balances that were supposed to tether lawless governments to the rule of law. But today, lengthy judicial processes appear anachronistic in an age of instant judgment. The tardiness of the regular criminal processes  — the Allahabad High Court under whose jurisdiction Hathras falls has 1,89,649 criminal appeals pending (and increasing every day) — means that in high-profile cases, the court can rarely do its own job of determining guilt expeditiously, let alone pull up shoddy investigation by a recalcitrant police. Even the most thorough investigation and expedited court process as seen in the Delhi gang rape case took over six years to be completed. In the Hathras case too, it is unlikely that the judicial process will be completed any quicker. This is simply not good enough today. At the same time, the challenges for the judiciary are not restricted to mitigating delays alone. No matter how quickly a criminal trial can be completed, it will never be quick enough to satiate public angst. What is needed instead is judicial decisiveness, demonstrating to the country that justice is being done. For a judicial system traditionally shy of publicity and used to operating in the opacity offered by legalese, this is an existential challenge. Particularly in cases with wide public interest, courts will have to think of writing judgments in simple language, translating judgments into vernacular languages, issuing official media summaries, and demonstrating a firm commitment to judicial rectitude through hearings. These are only indicative suggestions that it cannot remain business-as-usual. Courts will have to think long and hard on how to speak truth to State power under difficult circumstances. Such introspection is also the need of the hour for the media. With social media privileging hate and sensationalism over balance and nuance, mainstream media has largely taken the cue to become shriller and louder. In the Hathras case too, social media was rife with conspiracy theories on how the victim was in a covert relationship with one of the accused; several mainstream media channels alleged their own political conspiracies all of which have made the victim a political football to be kicked about for petty partisan gain. In this environment, no news appears to be an objective assessment of the facts any more. This leads to a further sealing of echo chambers that make truth-telling itself appear like a motivated enterprise. The rule of law is founded on the rule of facts. But when every fact the media puts out appears partisan, when courts are too slow and often timid, and when governments think of the death of a girl first and foremost as a political issue, the rule of law is dead. We might as well give it a dignified cremation, which would be more than what the victim received. I had ended my column last month with a question: "would Abhagi, a Duley , (from Saratchandra’s "Abhagir Swarga") have been able to fulfil her simple last wish of a cremation with dignity in our modern constitutional republic?" I had hedged my response saying there wasn't an easy answer. Only a month later, it's become crystal clear that I was wrong. Durga is Abhagi today. Let us bow our heads this year, not in reverence, but in shame. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Revising legal age of marriage of girls||On Independence Day, the prime minister had announced that his government might raise the legal age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21. A high-level panel looking into the average age of motherhood, efforts to lower maternal mortality rates, and the health and nutritional status of young women had been appointed, and its report would help the government fix the ‘right’ age of marriage for women. The prime minister repeated the promise last Friday. The panel’s job is certainly important. Raising women’s age of marriage would do away with gender discrimination since men can marry legally only at 21, allow girls to continue studying and enhance women’s participation in the workforce. Why does minor marriage continue in India in spite of laws against it? The report, Young Voices: National Working Group, based on consultation with 2,500 young people, says that the causes of minor marriage lie in poverty, traditional ideas about marriage and the desire to control female sexuality in a male dominated system. These cannot be addressed by a change in legal age of marriage. Instead, poor families afraid of dowry — another outlawed evil — would tend to get their girls married quickly, while elopements with bleak consequences, including honour killings, would rise. The remoteness of law from lived experience can be seen in the spurt of child marriages during the pandemic when economic stress increased. The prime minister has proudly cited the fact that the gross enrolment ratio of girls has overtaken that of boys for the first time as an argument in favour of raising girls’ age of marriage. Yet a recent report shows that in the 15-29 age group — education becomes optional after 14 — only a little above 25 per cent of girls are engaged in learning activities. In January, a report from the Right to Education Forum showed that 40 per cent of girls aged 15-18 are not attending school and 30 per cent have not seen a classroom. The lowering of the school education budget from 4.14 per cent in 2014-15 to 3.40 per cent in 2019-20 seems peculiar given the government’s declared objectives. Social workers’ reports claim that it is the absence of facilities for secondary education that often lead to early marriage, not the other way round. But the prime minister will know what is best.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Grave danger: Covid spread during festivities ||Sir — The article, “Testing times” (Oct 15), by Swapan Dasgupta has rightly highlighted the pitfalls of ignoring Covid-19-appropriate behaviour during festive times. Durga Puja is no doubt the biggest festival for Bengalis but this year, given the untamed virulence of the coronavirus, there is utmost need for caution. Festivals come and go, but one should not forget that human life is more important — going to crowded markets unless there is an urgent need is ill-advised. The pandemic is still here, and there is every possibility that the virus will spread further on account of lack of precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance. At the end of seven months, a lockdown fatigue seems to have set in, leading to an open defiance of preventive measures by people across states. In light of this, the dubious claim of the Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, that the virus will be put under lockdown during Durga Puja appears to be meant only to ingratiate herself with the masses. In these extraordinary times, a chief minister should lead from the front and make sure that people adopt proper precautions. Next month, another festival, Diwali, will be upon us, and in all probability there will be crowds in the markets again. One should be open to change according to changing circumstances. One needs to be patient, at least for this year, because once the vaccine arrives, everyone will again be able to participate in festivities with gay abandon. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — One agrees with Swapan Dasgupta when he points out that without maintaining strict protocol the Covid-19 situation in Bengal will only worsen. Given how flocks of people were out on the streets since Dwitiya, a grave crisis seemed to be looming over the state. As such, the Calcutta High Court’s directive to not allow people inside pandals is welcome. But one wonders if this will be of any practical help. People will still crowd the streets around pandals. Perhaps nothing can be done unless people begin to understand the risk they are taking with themselves as well as with their fellow citizens. Some people use the plight of those whose livelihoods depend on Puja celebrations as an excuse to go out and enjoy themselves. Would not donating money directly help the needy more? Jashita Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — Swapan Dasgupta’s article provides a thorough analysis of how the festive season could exacerbate the devastation already caused by Covid-19. However, one would like to believe that state administrations have learnt a lesson from the missteps in Kerala, where the celebration of Onam worsened the situation. A well-planned execution of government regulations and public awareness can prevent the spread of the virus during the festive season to a considerable extent. For instance, pandals in Silchar, Assam, are not to allow entry to more than 30 people at a time. Some Puja committees in Calcutta have decided to introduce ‘drive-in’ darshans, where pandal-hoppers can get a glimpse of the idols without having to alight from their cars. In spite of all their hardships, the people are expected to be aware of the norms and prioritize human lives. Pratyush Nath,Jorhat, Assam Fresh start Sir — It is heartening that the floating market in Patuli that was ravaged by Cyclone Amphan earlier this year was reopened on Saturday. After its inauguration in 2018, with 100-odd boats and around 200 hawkers, the floating market became one of Calcutta’s most talked-about projects. But it gradually lost its sheen. The cyclone caused further damage to it. The floating market, a new concept in India, can become immensely popular if it is maintained and regulated well. Lessons learnt from the past should be used to make the project a grand success this time. Khokan Das,Calcutta Twisted logic Sir — Political leaders in India seldom fail to amuse. Recently, a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party began protesting against feeding beef to tigers in the Guwahati zoo. When asked for an alternative, the leader suggested that sambar deer from the same zoo be used for the purpose. These animals, however, are listed as ‘vulnerable’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. It appears that the BJP has taken its food politics to a different level. Ecological balance seems to matter little before its zest for cow protection. Rajashree Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Voice of reason: Calcutta HC bans pandal entry||The judiciary can always be relied upon to be cool and reasonable even in this age of unreason. The Calcutta High Court’s directive disallowing visitors from entering pandals during Durga Puja this year is a perfect example of the courts’ ability to blend pragmatism with a humane vision. The judgment, in fact, underscores the seriousness of the health challenge that confronts Bengal and India in the form of Covid-19. The ruling came close on the heels of the World Health Organization warning against any institutional complacency in the battle against the virus. The strictures passed by the Calcutta High Court — a limited number of organizers and the priest will be allowed inside the premises while pandal-hoppers will be kept at bay — would send a strong reminder not only to the administration but also callous citizens to not to let their guard down. This order, along with the earlier judicial pronouncement that mandates Puja organizers to spend the lion’s share of the government grant on hand sanitizers and other protective equipment, shows that the courts have, time and again, been at the forefront among institutions committed to bear the mantle of public welfare. The Calcutta High Court must also be complimented on its magnanimity. It has stated unequivocally that its intervention should not be viewed as a tacit acknowledgment of the ineffectiveness of the measures that have been implemented by the state government to contain the epidemic thus far. This objectivity is especially important given the partisan nature of the political atmosphere in the state. What the judiciary seems to be suggesting is that the battle against Covid-19 is a collective responsibility and every stakeholder — the government, administration, people and even the political Opposition — has a duty to do its own bit to mitigate the crisis. There is some concern that the order has come a bit too late in the day and that smaller Pujas may find it difficult to implement the rules. These reservations should not deflect attention from the far bigger responsibility of doing as much as possible to ensure that Bengal does not go the Kerala way: the laxity during Onam has led to a significant spike in the southern state’s Covid-19 load. The court has done what is necessary. Honouring its noble objective is a shared responsibility. Neither citizens nor the government of the day should forget that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
21-10-2020||Opinion||Prepare for turbulence with global warming||If we want to stay within 1.5 degrees Celsius of global warming, there are just about three decades left for ‘Energy Transition 4.0’ to culminate in ‘net zero’ emissions. Transition from wood to coal took over a century, from coal to refined oil products took about three decades, and from refined oil to increased reliance on natural gas has taken another four decades. All previous transitions were driven by economic considerations but ET 4.0 needs to balance energy security and access, decarbonization and economic development. Decarbonization of power-generation, which accounts for about 40 per cent of the total energy CO2 emissions, might occur sooner than later due to favourable levelized cost of electricity using solar photovoltaic, pace of deployment, and political support for the transition. For instance, NextEra Energy, which owns NextEra Energy Resources, the world’s largest operator of wind and solar energy projects, has surpassed ExxonMobil in market capitalization. In India, LCOE of solar is now 14 per cent cheaper than coal-fired power. Riding on several policy initiatives like the waiver of Inter State Transmission System charges, solar power capacity in India now is 30 GW. India is also planning to replace retiring coal-fired power plants with renewable generation. Most parts of the country receive between 4 and 7 kWh per sq. m per day of solar radiation. India’s solar energy potential is estimated to be about 748 GW if only three per cent of wasteland area is covered by Solar PV modules. Private investors are shying away from bidding for coal mines; 15 of the 38 coal mines on offer in India did not receive bids. This might seem like a setback, but from a climate perspective this is good news since it reflects market sentiments and concerns regarding low margins and, possibly, the environmental consequences of coal mining and use of coal. Herein lies the challenge to ET 4.0, particularly in terms of energy security and access. To comprehend the challenge, let’s travel back in time to 1815. On April 5, Mount Tambora on Sumbawa island of eastern Indonesia erupted. After a lull in activity, a second eruption began on the evening of April 10 that lasted for a few days. Clive Oppenheimer in Eruptions that Shook the World mentions that “Tambora established a giant, stratospheric umbrella cloud covering an area of up to one million square kilometres.” About 30 megatonnes of sulphur were injected into the stratosphere by the eruption. The following summer, this caused such darkness during the day in Europe that Lord Byron composed the poem, “Darkness”, in July 1816. In northern Europe and northeast America, 1816 was the year without a summer, reporting unseasonal frost, snow and rain. It was one of the coldest summers in six centuries. The summers of 1817 and 1818 were also anomalously cold, and Europe and North America witnessed the worst famine in over a century during these years. The International Energy Agency estimates that renewable sources will overtake coal-fired electricity by 2025 and solar will be the new king of electricity markets. What if a Tambora-sized volcano were to erupt in an increasingly decarbonized Solar PV-dependent world? Is such an event likely? Cities are particularly at risk because of their population density and their dependence on power and water utilities, communications, transportation and public health facilities. If these are powered down due to low or negligible Solar PV power-generation, millions would be affected within a few days. Although no one knows when a volcano will erupt, there are means for forecasting eruptions and large-scale climatic events due to eruptions can take months to manifest. There are opportunities for preparedness for volcanic eruption-induced solar power-generation disruptions. Preparedness could be addressed through a Preparedness Market mechanism along the lines of electricity Capacity Market. The Capacity Market is a mechanism introduced by governments to ensure continued electricity supply despite more volatile and unpredictable renewable generation plants coming on stream. Under the mechanism, lack of generation by renewable generation plants does not compromise load-management capacity of the system. Participants are paid a per MW rate for the capacity they offer to the market and this capacity needs to be available when the grid manager makes the demand at any time during the contracted period. This encourages sufficient investment in reliable capacity to secure future supplies of electricity. For the Preparedness Market, this capacity could be fossil-fuel based coupled with mechanical or nature-based carbon capture methods for ‘net zero’ emissions. By offering fixed monthly payments to generators, it would provide valuable assured revenue for investors in new generation plants and achieve long-term security of supply. The Covid-19 outbreak is extracting a heavy social and economic cost due to the lack of preparedness. In case of volcanic eruption-induced solar power-generation disruptions in a decarbonized world, the cost will be far more severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-130
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 25,000 in Ranchi||The Covid-19 tally in Ranchi drew close to 25,000 on Wednesday after as many as 647 people, including 163 in Ranchi alone, tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department stated. However, despite reporting the highest number of fresh cases among all districts in Jharkhand during the day, the number of active cases in Ranchi dropped close to 2,000, as the district also reported 225 recoveries, a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per government records, as many as 24,657 people in Ranchi have been infected by the coronavirus so far, and at least 2,023 of them were still battling the disease on Wednesday night. Ranchi also reported one casualty during the day, which took the toll in the district to 163, government data stated. Jharkhand on Wednesday reported two Covid-19 deaths. The second casualty occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for 326 of the 851 Covid-19 fatalities reported across the state so far. The mortality rate of Jharkhand, as on Wednesday night, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The number of active cases of infection shot up in East Singhbhum after the district reported 97 fresh cases against 46 recoveries on Wednesday. As per government data, there were 1,339 active cases of Covid-19 infection in this district. As many as 619 Covid patients recovered from the infection in Jharkhand during the day. However, Jharkhand’s recovery rate was still higher than the national average of 88.80 per cent. The recovery rate in Jharkhand was 92.80 per cent on Wednesday. The government has so far collected swab samples of around 29.88 lakh people and tested 29.75 lakh of them. Of the 29.75 lakh people tested, 98,061 were found to be positive. At least 91,004 Covid patients have defeated the virus in the state, while 6,206 people were still infected, figures compiled by the NHM highlighted. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 56,226 people and 55,579 of them tested negative for the virus. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.64 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid infections in Jharkhand was 126.43 days against the national average of 108.65 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Congress files complaint with EC against Raghubar Das||The Jharkhand State Congress Committee has lodged a complaint against BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das for using foul language against leaders of the JMM-Congress alliance during the Bermo by-election campaign. They have also produced a video clip that went viral, and shows Das using unparliamentary language. A team of Congress leaders, headed state co-working president, Rajesh Thakur submitted a complaint letter to election officer cum SDO, Bermo, Anant Kumar. The letter requests to register a case of violation of model code of conduct against Das. “Congress leaders have complained against Raghubar Das for using foul language during the campaign. I have initiated an inquiry in which the video footage of the function will be examined. We will take appropriate action in this connection once the report comes,” the SDO told The Telegraph Online. The complaint letter mentions a ‘Women Chaupal’ organised by BJP in Tiro village under Jaridih block of Bokaro on Saturday, October 17. Das, while addressing voters, said “It’s because you keep quiet these chottas (petty thieves­) are ruling.” Thakur said BJP has now started using abusive words as they are in panic fearing defeat. “The way Raghuvar Das has used abusive words during election campaigns organised exclusively for women is disgraceful,” he remarked. Congress spokesperson Amulya Neeraj Khalko said Das is trying to humiliate the elected coalition government by making statements that are irrelevant. Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said, “Das does not have the proper language to speak. He uses foul words indiscriminately. When he was CM, he used foul words against bureaucrats and officials. During his tenure, many IAS and IPS officers have been disrespected. I strongly condemned his statements.” In retaliation, Das said that he can’t help if his words pinch someone. He alleged that JMM-Congress leaders have been calling PM Modi ‘chor’ (thief) in their campaigns. “If the word ‘chor’ is parliamentary, what’s the problem with ‘chotta’?” he remarked. “I have been vocal about rising corruption and lawlessness in the state, may it be the illegal mining of coal and sand, transfer postings done in exchange of money, or the numerous incident of rapes and violence against women. And they are trying to get me investigated,” Das exclaimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||‘Padman of Jharkhand’ to contest Bihar polls||A 33-year-old hotel management graduate turned social activist, who won the “Padman of Jharkhand” title for distributing sanitary pads among impoverished rural women and spreading awareness about menstrual hygiene in suburban Ranchi, is set to contest the upcoming Bihar Assembly polls from the Harlakhi constituency. Mangesh Jha, whose independent efforts have led to the acceptance of sanitary pads in more than 600 rural households on the outskirts of Ranchi, has got a ticket from the Plurals Party in Bihar and is banking on the support of socially aware youths and women in his maiden shot at politics. After working with top hotels in the country, Mangesh quit his job in 2014 with the intent to serve and uplift the rural society, especially women and children. “I know that only distribution of sanitary pads cannot serve the larger purpose of making it a habit in rural areas. But we have to start somewhere,” Mangesh told this correspondent in 2018 during a visit to Rasabera village in Ranchi, where he distributed sanitary pads for over a year. In 2020, Mangesh aims at making menstrual hygiene a priority not only for activists but also for the government. Influenced by the ideologies of Swami Vivekananda and the teachings of Ramakrishna Paramhansa, this youth with no political history strongly believes in Vivekananda’s famous quote: “Arise, awake and stop not until the goal is achieved.” Menstruation, he said, was still a taboo in Bihar. Hygiene and health of women needs to be a priority for the government, he added. His poll agenda, however, is not only restricted to issues related to women, but also covers other aspects of the society. “So many migrants have returned to Bihar during the lockdown and are practically struggling to meet ends now. Unemployment is a major issue here,” he said. “There has been no real development in Bihar in the past several decades. And I strongly believe that we will see development only when we overcome our prejudices based on caste, community, colour and sex,” added Mangesh. The poor state of affairs in Bihar encouraged him to enter active politics. “Be it Bihar or Jharkhand, our issues are more or less similar. Challenges in the health, infrastructure and education sectors continue to hold us back,” Mangesh said over phone after filing his nomination for the elections. Winning and losing, he said, was a part and parcel of life, and the election results will not deter him from achieving his goals. “I obviously want to win. But even if I don’t, I will continue working for my people in whatever way I can. This is the time to change. We need more participation of youths in active politics in order to bring positive changes,” he added. Originally from Bihar, Mangesh calls Ranchi his second home. He has spent more than seven years in the city and keeps frequenting the Jharkhand capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Financial help for struggling former international cyclist||Two ex-Loyolians have extended financial assistance to Swaran Singh, a former cyclist who represented India at the 1970 Asian Games. Siblings Jaswinder Singh and Baldev, who live in Canada, were kind enough to help the 70-year-old Singh who works as a security guard at Vijay Homes and lives in a dingy room at the Baridih locality of Jamshedpur. Both are sons of Amar Singh, an Arjuna awardee and an ex-manager of the Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur. Amar Singh, on his apart, had also helped out his cycling mate Singh by generating an amount of  Rs 1 lakh through contributions from ex-Haryana cyclist Pyara Singh and Amarjit Singh earlier this year. Amar Singh, who was in the city for some months, has left for New Delhi to join the national cycling camp as co-ordinator of the National Cycling Academy. “I am extremely thankful to Jaswinder and Baldev for helping me out in a crisis. I am also thankful to the sports fraternity who had earlier come forward to provide me financial assistance,” Singh, who worked as a senior sports assistant at Tata Steel’s welfare department before opting for voluntary retirement said. After taking voluntary retirement, Singh started a transport business but incurred losses and had to sell shares of his ancestral house in Birsanagar to sustain his family, including his wife, two daughters and a son. Singh earns a salary of Rs 10,000 out of which Rs 2,500 is paid as rent. Cyclists from Jamshedpur had also helped the struggling Singh by pooling in Rs 55,000 which was handed over to him in May. Moreover, Randhir Singh, an ex-national cyclist who lives in Baridih-based Vijaya Homes also generated around Rs 20,000 through his friends and well-wishers before handing over the amount to Singh. Satbir Singh Sahota, a former international cyclist and ex-secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association who also worked hard to generate financial help for Singh, said the sports fraternity has done a noble job by helping Singh who was a top-class pedal star in his time. “I am sure more cyclists will come forward to lend much-needed help to Singh,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||3 special trains to Bihar for Chhath from Ranchi, Jamshedpur ||South Eastern Railway will run three superfast specials on the Ranchi-Patna, Ranchi-Jaynagar (in Bihar) and Tatanagar-Patna routes in an attempt to clear the rush of passengers for the Chhath festival on November 21 and 22. According to the office of the chief passenger traffic manager (CPTM) of SER based in Calcutta, the 02849 Ranchi-Patna Special will leave Ranchi at 11.45pm on November 18. The train will reach Patna at 8am, the next day. While returning, the 02850 Patna-Ranchi Special will leave Patna at 9am on November 19. It will arrive in Ranchi at 5.25pm on the same day. The special train will have one AC 2-tier, four AC 3-tier and 15 sleeper class coaches. The train will stop at N S C Bose Gomoh, Koderma, Gaya and Jahanabad between Ranchi and Patna. The second train, 02870/02869 Ranchi-Jaynagar Superfast Festival Special, will leave Ranchi at 4.10 pm on November 18. It will reach Jaynagar at 5 pm the next day. While returning, the 02869 Jaynagar-Ranchi Special will leave Jaynagar at 9am on November 19. It will arrive at Ranchi railway station at 11.40 pm the same day. The special train will have one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, and 10 sleeper class coaches. The train will stop at Dhanbad, Chittaranjan, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Barauni, Samastipur and Darbhanga between Ranchi and Jaynagar. The third train, 02860/02859 Tatanagar-Patna Superfast Festival Special, will leave Tatanagar at 4am on November 18. It will reach Patna at 2.05pm on the same day. While returning, the 02859 Patna-Tatanagar Special will leave Patna at 11.55pm on November 18 and arrive at Tatanagar at 9.20 am, the next day. The special train will have one AC chair car and 11 second class chair car coaches. This train will stop at Asansol, Chittaranjan, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Mokama and Bakhtiyarpur between Tatanagar and Patna railway junction. SER chief public relations officer Sanjay Ghosh said "Passengers are requested to strictly observe Covid-19 protocols while undertaking the journey." The Chhotanagpur Passenger Association and several other passenger welfare outfits welcomed the railway's decision to announce special trains to ease the Chhath rush.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC add Aussie firepower with Nicholas John Fitzgerald||Jamshedpur FC on Wednesday signed up proven Australian player Nicholas John Fitzgerald, fondly known as Nick, for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season. With this signing, JFC fulfilled the league’s criteria for an AFC Asian player among foreigners in the squad. The 28-year-old is a winger and is the club’s seventh foreign signing for the season. The club has also completed its team formation Nick comes with a trophy-laden career, having won the A- league twice, first in 2011-12 with Brisbane Roar, and again in 2012-13 with Central Coast Mariners. He has also won the FFA Cup with Melbourne City in 2016. Upon signing the dotted line, Nick was pumped up to play for the club. He said: “I am really glad to start this new adventure with Jamshedpur FC. I promise to give my best to the club and play my heart out for fans. I am looking forward to play under the tutelage of a coach like Owen Coyle’s calibre,  something every player dreams of. We will give our best shot to get the team to win the ISL trophy.” The Aussie has a tallied a total of 218 appearances and 23 goals in 10 years across all competitions in Australia. He began his career as an under-21 player for Central Coast Mariners in 2010 where he also made his senior team debut. Later, he broke into the senior team of A-League club Brisbane Roar in 2011 and went on to represent A-League clubs like Central Coast Mariners, again, Melbourne City, Western Sydney and NewCastle United Jets. The winger has also played in the coveted AFC Champions League during his time in Australia. Head coach Owen Coyle was ecstatic about the Aussie winger;'s inclusion in JFC. “Fitzgerald adds a new dimension to our attack with his versatility. He is a quality player and has a proven track record in Australia’s A-League. He can make quality runs down the  flank and can be a great provider to the strike force. We are confident about his attacking prowess and abilities and I am really looking forward to work with him.” Nick will don jersey No. 22 in ISL 2020-21 and is expected join the squad in Goa soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||New clothes for coal picker children||New clothes were given to 18 children of coal pickers in Dhanbad, to brighten Durga Puja at a time when Covid has dulled festive charm. Chanda Kumari (11), resident of the Khilan Dhaura area of Katras was overjoyed when BCCL officer Dev Kumar Verma, who is also the founder of her school, Pathshala, at Bhaga Basti area of Katras, arrived at her home along with other students in an SUV, to take them out shopping. Verma bought the children their clothes from Ladli Dress, a clothing shop in Nawagarh. Eight-year-old Chandan Kumar, son of a construction site daily wager from Bhaga Basti, picked a t-shirt and a pair of jeans for himself. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Verma, the BCCL Barora area manager said that all the children were quite happy after receiving the new clothes of their choice. Verma runs three schools in Katras including one at Katras Bazar, and others two at Matari and Bhaga Basti area of Katras, which impart free-of-cost education to children of the financially weaker sections of society, especially the children of coal pickers. “A sum of around Rs 10,000  was provided to us by Tapas Sethi, a manager of Western Coalfields Limited in memory of his brother Varun Vishwa Bhushan who died in an accident a few years ago and whose birthday was on October20,” said Verma. Verma’s team also contributed some funds from their own resources while the shop owner also provided them rebate and provided the clothing on an almost no-profit no-loss basis. “We have plans to provide similar clothing to around 10 other students,” said Verma and added that though all his three schools have been closed since the imposition of lockdown, they are running online classes for these children and conducted half-yearly exams recently. “Nothing can be more joyous than bringing happiness to the faces of these children, who are often compelled to work with their parents to eke out of a living,” said Verma, son a retired group D employees of BCCL, Rajendra Sonar who did his MBA from NIT-Durgapur and then joined BCCL in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||It’s official, southwest monsoon withdraws from Jharkhand||The southwest monsoon withdrew from Jharkhand on Wednesday after overstaying for 11 days, according to a Ranchi Met Centre special bulletin issued in the afternoon. The bulletin said the southwest monsoon had withdrawn from the northern parts of the state and conditions were favourable for it to pull out further from the remaining parts of Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. "The southwest monsoon has started withdrawing from Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar. The withdrawal process got delayed due to formation of two back-to-back low-pressure systems," said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Patna Meteorological Centre too confirmed the withdrawal of monsoon. "Monsoon has retreated from Jharkhand. IMD Delhi, officially, declared it today (Wednesday)," said a senior weatherman at the Patna Met Centre. Normally, the monsoon is meant to withdraw from Jharkhand on October 10. Last year (2019), the monsoon retreated from the state on October 14. In 2018 the monsoon withdrew from the state on October 3 (see chart). This year, the monsoon season _ June to September _ ended with a 14 per cent rain deficit in Jharkhand. Against a normal of 1,054.7 mm, the state recorded rainfall of 901.9 mm, a shortfall of 14 per cent, which as per Met parlance is as good as normal. Last year, the monsoon had ended with an 18 per cent deficit. But even though the season of rains is over, weathermen forecast rain on October 22-23 due to the impact of a depression. Wednesday’s satellite pictures indicated that the low-pressure area over the central Bay of Bengal was very likely to move north-west during the next 24 hours. It is likely to concentrate into a depression by Thursday and further into a deep depression during the subsequent 24 hours. “The south-westerly wind flow is expected to change to north-westerly over Jharkhand around later this month. Mornings and evenings will become pleasant and soon there will be a nip in the air,” said a senior Met analyst in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant asks Opposition parties to unite against Centre’s ‘Hitlershahi’ ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday called upon Opposition parties across India to unite against the “fascist” approach and “oppressive” policies of the NDA-led government in the Centre, citing the arrest of Father Stan Swamy from Ranchi as an example of “Hitlershahi (Hitler-like regime)” in the country. Addressing an event of the Peoples Union For Civil Liberties (PUCL) via video conferencing, Hemant demanded immediate release of Swamy, an 83-year-old Catholic priest known for his contribution towards the uplift of tribals and the oppressed in Jharkhand. “A person who worked as a guiding light for the oppressed and deprived people of Jharkhand is now being tortured by the Centre. At a time when there is absolute anarchy in the country and the Centre is targeting people with a vicious and vindictive approach, Opposition parties should not be afraid of uniting against this tyranny,” said Hemant. Stan Swamy was picked up by National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 in connection with the 2018 Koregaon-Bhima case. NIA has alleged that the priest had connections with the CPI (Maoist), a banned Left wing extremist group. Since his arrest, several Catholic organisations and social activists across the country have taken to the street to protest against the government’s action and demand Swamy’s immediate release. "The NIA is after me. I'm being pressured to go to Bombay. The NIA questioned me for 15 hours... I'm being called to the Mumbai office of the NIA. I refuse to go there. I am 83 and have health issues. I don't want to expose myself to the coronavirus. I have never been to Bhima Koregaon," Stan Swamy had said in a video on October 6. Hemant also expressed concern on how the Centre would react if the protests intensified. “They will not think twice before shooting the protestors,” the chief minister said. Hemant also slammed the Centre over deduction of funds from the state’s exchequer and accused it of harassment. The BJP, he said, was deliberately harassing states where they could not form a government. “Today, it is Jharkhand. Tomorrow, it could be your state too. The Centre has deducted huge sums from our coffers in the middle of a pandemic without even consulting us. This amounts to harassment,” said Hemant, adding that Jharkhand will continue its fight against the wrongdoings of the Centre. Among the others who spoke at the PUCL event were CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury as well as the DMK's Kanimozhi an senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. Yechury and Kanimozhi also urged civil society groups and the public to break their silence over the "government's attacks on the rights of the people," PTI reported from New Delhi. "Today we have to make a decision as political parties, as the whole society whether to accept what is happening in silence or say this is enough and fight them together. If we accept this, then in a few years we will not see a democratic India that we know. Every law that this government has passed has chipped away the rights of the people. It's time to break the silence," Kanimozhi said in the video conference. As many as 16 people have been arrested under the UAPA in the case, which include three cultural activists of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM), Ramesh Gaichor, Sagar Ghogre and Jyoti Jagtap, as well as thinker, writers and academics Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Shoma Sen, Hany Baby, lawyers, Sudha Bharadwaj, Surendra Gadling, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira, who are all also trade unionists, and activists. Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut and Rona Wilson are also in prison. "The UAPA has been grossly misused, like POTA, this law has to be removed from our statute book. However, this is not the issue of just one law. All these draconian laws are being used to silence all dissent against the government. These arrests are not isolated cases; these are part of an agenda to establish a rabidly theocratic Hindutva Rashtriya which was their plan from the beginning. This cannot be accepted. We must break this silence. For evil to succeed, the good only requires to be silent. People need to restore the secular democracy," Yechury alleged. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said Swamy deserves "respect and support", not jail term. He said he was convinced that "no Jesuit will indulge in any violence or entice anyone towards violence". "This must stop. I appeal to the government to be fair and at least grant him bail. We stand in solidarity with Stan Swamy," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
21-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 542 new Covid cases, seven deaths in 24 hours||At least seven more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Tuesday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll close to 850 in the state, figures released by the health department highlighted. As many as two of the seven Covid casualties occurred in Ranchi, taking the total count of fatalities caused by Covid-19 infection in the district to 162. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Khunti and Saraikela reported one Covid death each in 24 hours. As per government data, at least 325 of the 849 Covid casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, while 162 occurred in Ranchi. None of the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand have reported more than 100 Covid casualties. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent, highlights government data. Meanwhile, as many as 542 people were found Covid positive across the state on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 tally to 97,414. However, recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases once again on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 92.78 per cent. As many as 605 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Tuesday. As per figures compiled by NHM, as many as 90,385 people have defeated the dreaded virus in Jharkhand so far, and 6180 were still fighting it. The number of active cases of infection dropped to 2,087 in Ranchi on Tuesday after the district reported 196 cases against 275 recoveries. Dhanbad reported 69 cases, the second highest among all the districts in Jharkhand on the day. The government has so far collected swab samples of 29.28 lakh people and tested 29.13 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 25,307 people and 24,765 of them tested negative for Covid-19. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.55 per cent in the past one week against the national average of 0.77 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 122.16 days against the national average of 94.8 days, stated government data. As per NHM figures, of the 849 Covid casualties reported in the state so far, at least 637 victims were older than 50 years. As many as 168 Covid victims were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 37 victims were younger than 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-260
