22-10-2020||Calcutta||Crowds spread the virus, National Covid-19 Task Force warns||Crowds allow the novel coronavirus a passage to spread, a public health specialist who is a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management said at a webinar on Wednesday. K. Srinath Reddy, who is also president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), urged people not to engage in boisterous celebrations. If work from home is possible, why not pray from home, he asked. Reddy also cautioned people against taking off masks while visiting friends and relatives and suggested that individuals sit far from each other during such visits. Swami Satyeshananda, assistant general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said that as free citizens people have a responsibility towards themselves and society. “Swami Vivekananda had said that to be good and to do good to everyone is the essence of religion,” he said. “By not mixing... people will help themselves and the community at large.” The webinar titled “Covid-19 and Festivals — Say NO to Relaxations” was organised by the Covid Care Network, a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury, also mentor of the network, said people should not indulge in irresponsible celebrations and urged all to take protective measures while going out. Among other speakers was economist and activist Jean Dreze, who spoke from Muzaffarabad in Bihar. “Piety does not require boisterous celebrations. If we have done work from home, why not pray from home? By allowing crowds, you will be allowing the virus a passage,” said Reddy. The problem with crowds is that one infected person can go on to infect many. “If two or three people are infected in a crowd of 100 people, they can go on to infect a large number of people in that crowd. That is how superspreader events are happening,” he said. Reddy urged people to be patient till a vaccine comes or the virus loses its virulence through evolution. “Wear a mask, sit far apart from each other, ensure good ventilation in the room and keep the doors and windows open. If possible, wear glasses and face shields,” he later told The Telegraph over the phone. Dreze drew parallels between forthcoming elections and festivals, and how both would lead to crowding. The Assembly polls in Bihar are scheduled from October 28. “Both forthcoming elections and festivals will draw crowds and crowds can lead to health hazards,” said Dreze, who was speaking from Muzaffarabad in Bihar. He also raised the issue of missing public health measures like door-to-door surveillance to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. He later advised that people visiting relatives and friends at their home should also put their masks on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain alert on Saptami, Ashtami in Calcutta||A rainy and windy spell is likely in Calcutta over the next three days, the Met office has said. Heavy rain is forecast in the city between Friday and Saturday (Saptami and Ashtami), which is likely to keep many people home. “A low-pressure area that formed over the central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday has intensified into a well-marked low-pressure area over the west-central Bay of Bengal. The system is likely to further intensify into a depression over the next 24 hours and a deep depression over the next 48 hours,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “It will move in a northwest direction and then take a north-northeast turn towards the Bengal-Bangladesh coast.” Under the influence of the system, the districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas are likely to get heavy rain on Thursday and very heavy rain on Friday. Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia, are likely to get heavy rain between Friday and Saturday. The system is likely to cross the coast near the Sunderbans between Friday afternoon and Saturday morning, said a Met official. Calcutta is expected to see winds blowing at 50kmph, the Met office said. On Wednesday, the first half in the city was bright and sunny but clouds covered the sky in the evening. The clouds were accompanied by a breezy spell. “Overcast conditions have set in. Calcutta is likely to get some rain on Thursday as well. The intensity of the showers will go up from Friday. A spell of heavy rain is expected between Friday and Saturday morning,” said the Met official. The Met office has issued an alert for fishermen, asking them no to venture into the sea between Thursday and Saturday. “All tourist activities in the beaches of east Midnapore and South 24 Parganas should be suspended. The ferry services in the Sunderbans should also be suspended,” said Bandyopadhyay. The system on Bay of Bengal was initially tipped to head towards the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh coast, said a weather scientist. “It will turn into a deep depression but lose some steam before landfall,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Pujas rush to reduce, from bhog to fruits||Several puja committees have decided to scale down their preparations for the rituals so that fewer committee members will be required to be present inside the No-Entry zone. Many committees have decided that the bhog will be prepared in smaller quantities compared with previous years. Other offerings, including fruits, too, will be scaled down so fewer people are required for washing and peeling. Only those who are thorough with the puja rituals will be allowed inside the No-Entry zone to aid the priests. “Till last year around 450-500 people would get community bhog every day,” said Sudipta Kumar of Deshapriya Park puja committee. “This year we have brought it down to the bare minimum. A very small amount of bhog will be prepared for the deity. The handful of people who will be involved in the rituals have been tested for Covid-19.” Throughout Wednesday afternoon and evening, many committees met to discuss the revised high court order before deciding on how to go about the basic puja rituals. A day before Sashthi, a division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee of the high court passed an order allowing big pujas (of pandal size 300 square metre or more, excluding the dais for the idol) to draw up a list of 60 people, including dhakis, who will be allowed inside the No-Entry zone. However, only 45 persons will be allowed inside the zone at a time. “We will have around 15-20 of our members and they will participate in the basic rituals,” said Joydeep Saha of Belgachhia Sadharan Durgotsav at Tallah Park in north Calcutta. “We used to prepare around 50kg of bhog every day. This year it will be the bare minimum for the Goddess.” “We have decided that women who know the puja rituals and have helped the priests perform them will be present inside the No-Entry zone,” said Rahul Shaw of Ajeya Sanghati of Haridevpur. Organisers of many big pujas said their daily offerings to the Goddess in previous years would include at least 5 to 7kg of several varieties of fruits. At least 12 people would be engaged to handle the offerings. “Since a large number of our senior members would probably want to stay away, the offerings this year would be less. Just a handful of members will be enough to handle that volume,” said Saswata Basu of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgotsav Committee. “From fruits to bhog, everything will be on a much lower scale.” Many puja committees discussed whether the preparation of the bhog and other offerings could be done at a place away from the puja premises. That will minimise the number of people who need to be present in the pandal. “With this arrangement, we can have a full strength at work but far away from the No-Entry zone,” said Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Ashar Sangha. “We are trying to find a way so that just three of our 150-odd members can be inside the pandal to help the two priests.” Some puja committees who don’t have this option have decided to draw up rosters with men and women who are aware of the details of puja rituals. “We are telling our members to let the women take over. We will wait outside,” said Sanjay Majumder of State Bank Park in Thakurpukur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||True Spirit pujas extend a helping hand||Members of Aurobinda Setu Sarbajanin in Ultadanga have been visiting senior citizens in the neighbourhood with requests not to step out even for anjali. The club has put up loudspeakers across the neighbourhood for the mantra to be heard by all residents from home. A group of villagers in East and West Midnapore who lost their livelihood because of Cyclone Amphan did up two pandals in the city, one in Shyambazar and the other in the Girish Park area. An LED screen outside the 41 Pally Club pandal in Haridevpur will enable the passerby to view the decoration inside and the idol while abiding by the high court order. Though organisers were unsure till recently what the scale of the festival would be or if they would be able to allow visitors, many of them went ahead with the preparations adhering to the True Spirit Puja guidelines, that this year is also mandating adherence to Covid-safety protocol. Judges at the CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, had to wear the additional Covid lens even as they evaluated over 200 pujas across Calcutta and Howrah virtually from the confines of their homes. A modest pandal, Shyambazar Pally Sangha, was decorated with sea shells, but what caught the attention of the judges was their social commitment, a key TSP parameter, pandemic or no pandemic. “When we visited a village in East Midnapore after Cyclone Amphan with relief, we saw that they had suffered huge losses. We employed the same people to make the pandal for us,” said secretary Subrata Bhattacharya. Salkia Chhatra Byayam Samiti, which portrays a village Durga dalan complete with a tulsi mancha, had put up flexes with pictures of their visits to deliver relief to Amphan-hit villages. Chorebagan Sarbojanin Durgotsab Samity in the Girish Park area also scored by generating jobs for around 80 artisans during the pandemic who came from a village in West Midnapore. They would have gone without work otherwise, said the general secretary of the club, Jayanta Banerjee. Tarun Sangha (Baghajatin) has put up microphones in the entire neighbourhood so that the people in the locality do not miss out on the rituals. “If they cannot come to the pandal we have to reach out to them and hence we have put microphones in the entire para, which will enable the 1,000 families to listen to the rituals and the anjali mantra from their homes during the pandemic,” said secretary Dibyendu Sekhar Bhowmick. Several puja committees have laid stress on sanitisation.  At Thakurpukur SB Park, last year’s Model Puja, 14 sanitising stands had been set up alongside the bamboo barricade with social distancing circles marked on the ground. There is even a robot equipped with sensors that dispenses sanitiser once a visitor places his hand in front of it. “It can also be made to dispense masks,” club member Sanjay Majumdar said, demonstrating the robot’s action on his mobile phone as someone approached it and sanitised his hand. Puja organisers are not sticking to sanitisation inside the pandal only. For example, Badamtala Ashar Sangha has hired an agency to sanitise the area outside the pandal everyday. “We have to keep the area sanitised also so that people walking or driving past feel safe even while maintaining the legitimate distance from the pandal,” said club member Subhradip Pal. The puja that has recreated Satyajit Ray’s Pather Panchali offers drive-in darshan. Which means one can drive by and see the idol without getting off the car. Initially, the organisers had created two lanes, one for pandal-hoppers and the other for those on foot. “Now we can keep only one lane to maintain the distance from the lane and we will allow small cars and pedestrians through it. We have over 25 volunteers managing the crowd,” said Pal. Many of the pujas have stocked up on sanitisers and a few like Behala Friends Club have also kept an oxygen cylinder. At Rajdanga Naboday Sangha, in Kasba, one can sanitise one’s hands and also phones. Kankurgachhi Yubak Brinda have been sanitising the interior of their pandal also. Judges saw a volunteer accosting a worker who was entering the pandal without a mask. In August, the club had organised a blood donation camp to meet the crisis during the pandemic. Salkia Chhatra Byayam Samiti had set up a sanitising tunnel and also a Covid counter stocked with fog machine, thermal gun, pulse oxymeter and sanitiser bottles. At Shibmandir, the sanitising process was on when the judges connected with the organisers on video conference. The Machuabazar Sarvajanik Durga Puja Committee provided devices and data recharge to children in the locality to attend online classes, many of whom could not make ends meet during the lockdown. In several of the pandals like Yubadal in the Bowbazar area, the underlying theme was fighting the pandemic or Amphan through drawings that showed how the doctors, policemen are helping fight Covid-19. Lalabagan Sarbojanin in Maniktala, which had designed its pandal such that the idol can be seen from the road, also saluted Covid workers through motifs on their pandal walls. The plea of each of them perhaps is enshrined in the message put up atop the entry of Telengabagan Sarbojanin Durgotsab Committee  — Kichhhu chai na Ma go, Corona mukti chhara (We want nothing, O Mother, except freedom from Corona). The pandal — open on three sides, as prescribed by the government — has put up a giant screen to allow visitors to watch the idol from afar. The club is in an area which was a containment zone in the past and has looked after its affected neighbours. So did members of neighbouring Aurobinda Setu Sarbajanin. “There was a family of three which got infected. We reached them provisions for 13 days,” said club secretary Mintu Patra. Helping each other out in distress, even when there is no Puja around the corner, is what True Spirit is all about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||54 lorikeets rescued along India-Bangladesh border||Fifty-four lorikeets — brightly-coloured parrots that are found in parts of South East Asia, Australia and New Guinea — headed to the city from Bangladesh were rescued early on Wednesday, the BSF has said. The BSF, posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, rescued the birds. Forest department officials identified the birds by seeing their pictures, a BSF officer said. Lorikeets live in large flocks in the wild and are medium-sized parrots, a forest official said. They are preferred as pets because they can mimic and learn to talk easily. Officers of a BSF patrol team at the Tentulberia border outpost spotted a few men moving suspiciously with two large objects covered in clothes. When they asked the men to stop, they apparently dropped the objects and ran into a nearby bamboo thicket. “On inspection our men found the birds crammed in two cages that were each covered with a piece of cloth,” the BSF officer said. The BSF contacted the wildlife crime control bureau and the forest department, whose officials identified the birds and advised the officers to feed them some fruits, the officer said. At least six varieties of lorikeets, including 11 chattering lorikeets, 13 red and blue lorikeets, eight black-capped lorikeets, eight black lorikeets, six brown lorikeets and eight violet-necked lorikeets have been rescued. All the birds have been handed over to the hospital at Alipore zoo. A zoo official said the birds appeared “extremely traumatised” as they had been crammed in cages. “We have given them oral rehydration salts as well as some fruits.” The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days. The Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, bans trading in wildlife but wildlife trafficking has emerged as a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals as well as products from India. And Calcutta is the favourite corridor for smugglers, a forest official said. “Consignments change hands multiple times before reaching their final destinations,” the forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||State child rights commission to promote food sharing||The state child rights commission, in association with puja committees, will spread awareness in the city on sharing food this festive season. The campaign, “Share Your Food”, is a joint initiative of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights in association with Unicef. Posters in Bengali and English will be put up outside puja pandals to draw the attention of parents and children and to make them aware of the need to share their food with others, especially those who cannot afford. The campaign, endorsed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was launched on social media in July to “inspire children to develop a habit of sharing food with others, especially with the underprivileged”. Sharing is considered to be one of the best practices that should be learnt from childhood, according to the commission. The commission felt the message needed to be reiterated during Durga Puja, which is a time for sharing. The campaign is part of the commission’s various initiatives to spread awareness on child rights and child safety. “There are many who order more than they can eat and there are others who have nothing to eat. The campaign is to make children realise they should not waste food… and what better time to spread this message because puja is a time for sharing,” Yashabanti Sreemany, a commission member coordinating the campaign, said. “We approached some puja committees and they accepted our proposal.” Posters will be fixed outside at least 16 puja pandals in the city. The posters have messages such as “Food for everyone, lot more fun”; “Helping a friend makes me feel real grown up,”; “I care, I share”; and “Doing my little bit to feed the hungry”, which has a picture of a boy preparing food packets. Subrata Mukherjee, the president of Ekdalia Evergreen, said the posters would help spread awareness among people. “Sharing is a social concept and it should be encouraged. We will put up the posters in such a way that they are visible to people passing by as well.” Anjan Ukil, the general secretary of Ballygunge Cultural Association, said the posters would be outside the pandal. “That way one need not enter the pandal to see them. It will be visible even to those who are driving past or walking by the area.” Several puja committees felt the pandemic had made it imperative for puja committees to spread a social message. “The pandemic has had an impact on everyone, especially the underprivileged. Others need to reach out to them… teach children the need to reach out,” Debasis Kumar, the general secretary of Tridhara Akalbodhan, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Calcutta||Purulia kids get new clothes||A group of young men and women criss-crossed Gariahat on Tuesday evening to shop: not for themselves, but for 400 children in Purulia. Parents of these children cannot think of buying anything for them during the festive season because of financial constraints. Kids like Budhimuni and Samir, who live in the Arsha block of Purulia, received new clothes on the morning of Panchami, Wednesday, thanks to the group — all theatre activists. The activists took to crowdfunding from early October to raise money to buy clothes at Gariahat. Once they were through with the shopping, they took a bus to Purulia from Esplanade. “We took a vehicle to reach Bhimjara village and adjoining villages in the Arsha block to give the kids new clothes. This is how we wanted to spend Puja this year,” Subha Biswas, a member of Theatre Cafe, which is behind the initiative, said. The members of Theatre Cafe who are spread across various districts raised Rs 20,000 through crowdfunding and donated to the cause, too. “Initially, we had decided to help the kids with just the money… later we decided to scale up and launched the fund raising drive on Facebook,” Saikat Suman, a group member, said. A survey by the group revealed NGOs had been giving clothes to underprivileged children living on footpaths in Calcutta, a member said. “But kids in far-off places like Purulia were left out. We got to know of these children though our network.” Their parents are migrant workers and the pandemic has hit them hard. “The price of one set of clothes people like us buy can make up for many sets for such kids in the festive season,” Subha Biswas, a member who is part of “Gobordanga Rupantar” theatre group, said. Theatre Cafe that was launched three years ago to spread the message about new productions on digital platforms had started an initiative to help distressed theatre workers during the pandemic. They delivered essential items to people in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. The success of that initiative made them think of raising money for such children during the festive season, another group member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
22-10-2020||Business||Cabinet to consider wide-ranging reforms of PSUs||The cabinet is set to consider wide-ranging reforms of PSUs, while the government is looking to extend the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to 7-8 more sectors, department of economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said on Wednesday. In May, the government had promised sweeping PSU reforms but these have not made much headway. The plan envisages the government defining strategic sectors in the economy where there will be a minimum of one PSU and a maximum of four state-owned entities, apart from private players. State entities in the non-strategic sectors will be privatised. “The other important thing which is slightly delayed... and it is testing the patience of all of you and ours too. It is the policy that we have to come up with for the privatisation of our public sector units,” Bajaj told a CII seminar. “Though it is an open secret, but till it gets the stamp of the cabinet we are not satisfied about it. It should happen very soon. So that is a major step in the making.” He said the government was expanding the PLI scheme in response to the positive feedback from industry. The government recently announced the PLI scheme for mobiles, pharma products and medical equipment sectors. “I have a lot of confidence and hope on the PLI scheme that we have brought out for mobile phones and others. In the offing are about 7-8 sectors where the PLI scheme would be extended,” Bajaj said. The PLI scheme, unlike other schemes, is an outcome- and output-oriented programme where manufacturers get cash incentives in over 5-7 years for production. “So, the kind of response that we received on the mobile phones scheme where we have finalised the contours gives me a lot of confidence that there is demand in the world now, to have a diversification of supply chains, and we can take advantage,” he said. He said the government was working on another round of stimulus measures amidst positive signs of a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases. The government has received suggestions from various ministries and sectors on the necessary measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
22-10-2020||Business||RBI governor stresses on post-Covid fiscal roadmap||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said India was at the “doorstep of revival” even as he maintained that the government will have to spell out its fiscal road map post the Covid-19 pandemic. Das made these comments while speaking at the virtual launch of the book, Potraits of Power, written by N.K. Singh, the chairman of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. He said while India is at the cusp of a recovery, it is also important that banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have adequate capital to support growth and ensure credit flow when the economy revives. While India’s economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal, Das had projected a “three-speed recovery”, with individual sectors showing varying paces of growth. According to the monetary policy committee (MPC), the recovery in the rural economy will be faster than in the urban areas even as the contact-intensive services sector will take time to regain the pre-Covid levels. The interest rate setting body has projected real GDP growth in 2020-21 to contract 9.5 per cent, with risks tilted towards the downside. Though Das did not throw much light on the economic recovery, he said once the pandemic is contained, the government will have to spell out the fiscal roadmap and adhere to the debt-to-GDP target that the N.K. Singh panel had recommended. The RBI on Wednesday announced an “on-tap” targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) scheme of up to Rs 1 lakh crore to enable banks to provide liquidity support to a host of sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Bajaj Finance reports 36% drop in net profit||Bajaj Finance on Wednesday reported a 36 per cent drop in consolidated net profit at Rs 965 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The non-banking finance company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,506 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Total consolidated income grew 3 per cent to Rs 6,523 crore against Rs 6,323 crore a year ago. Net interest income was up 4 per cent at Rs 4,165 crore against Rs 4,000 crore a year ago. New loans booked in the second quarter dropped 44 per cent to 36.2 lakh from 64.7 lakh a year ago. UltraTech Cement on Wednesday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,235.11 crore in the September quarter, mainly on account of operational efficiencies. Aditya Birla group firm had posted a net profit of Rs 578.55 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 10,354.21 crore, up 7.68 per cent from Rs 9,615.12 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Central govt employees  get bonus||In a move to boost spending during the festive season, the government has decided to give a Rs 3,737 crore bonus to the 30.67 lakh central government employees. The bonus will benefit over 30 lakh non-gazetted employees, including those in autonomous central organisations. The decision to give a productivity-linked bonus and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-20 was taken at a cabinet meeting, said Prakash Javadekar, minister of information and broadcasting. The bonus will be disbursed in a week’s time. “Payment of bonus to non-gazetted employees for their performance in the preceding year is usually made before Durga Puja/Dussehra season. The government is announcing the productivity linked bonus and ad hoc bonus for its non-gazetted employees to be disbursed immediately,” a release said. The productivity linked bonus for 2019-2020 will benefit 16.97 lakh non-gazetted employees of establishments such as railways, posts, defence, EPFO and ESIC. The ad-hoc bonus, which is given to non-gazetted central government staff, will benefit 13.70 lakh staff. Meanwhile, the government has relaxed import norms till December 15 to facilitate shipments of onions to boost domestic supply and check its retail prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||SBI rate relief  on home loans||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday announced a concession of up to 25 basis points on its home loan rates in another festive offer to lure borrowers. The country’s largest lender said customers will get this interest concession  on loans above Rs 75 lakh based on their Cibil score and only if they are applying through the digital lending platform YONO. In an extension of its festive offers announced recently, SBI will provide a credit score based concessions of up to 20 basis points, up from 10 basis points earlier, for a home loan of above Rs 30 lakh to Rs 2 crore across the country . This concession will also be applicable for a loan amount of up to Rs 3 crore in eight metro cities. An additional 5 basis points concession is there for all home loans if applied through YONO. SBI now offers interest rates starting as low as 6.90 per cent for a home loan of up to Rs 30 lakh and 7 per cent for above Rs 30 lakh. “With SBI’s lowest interest on home loans, we believe this move will facilitate and encourage home buyers to plan their dream house. With the nation all geared up to the post-Covid era, we are witnessing increased customer demands and we at SBI will continue to offer lucrative benefits for our customers, managing director (retail and digital banking)” C.S. Setty said. Last month, the bank rolled out a slew of festive offers for its retail borrowers, including a 100 per cent waiver on processing fee for all customers applying for a car, gold, and personal loans through YONO. Several banks have in the recent weeks announced various festival offers as they look to ramp up retail lending amid indications of economic recovery from the lows seen earlier because of the pandemic. Recently, Kotak Mahindra Bank had reduced its interest rate on home loans to 7 per cent. It also announced other offers, including loan processing fees waivers and faster online approvals on retail and agricultural loan products as part of the festive offers christened as ‘Khushi Ka Season’. The lender has said that home loans will start at 7 per cent per annum and that savings of up to Rs 20 lakh can accrue on balance transfer cases. Similarly, Axis Bank announced home loans at an interest rate of 6.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Nissan rolls out compact SUV Magnite||Nissan India is all set to join the compact SUV bandwagon with the Magnite, which it plans to sell in India in the second half of 2020-21. The Japanese auto major, with limited launches in India, has promised eight models over a period of four years in Africa, West Asia and India. Magnite, unveiled on Wednesday, is one of them. Reiterating Nissan’s commitment to the Indian market, Nissan Motor India president Sinan Ozkak said: “India is a key market. The company will prioritise operations in business areas which will give profitable growth. It will reduce fixed costs to ensure steady performance. The Magnite plays a vital role in our strategy and we expect it to be the first product that will enable sustainable growth.” The Magnite will be competing in a very crowded segment comprising the Hyundai Venue, Maruti Vitara Brezza, Toyota Urban Cruiser and Kia Sonet. “The Magnite is the ideal  upgrade for hatchback customers who are looking to own a world-class SUV,” said Rakesh Srivastava, managing director, Nissan Motor India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||Sebi chief proposes diversification of funds route||Entities should not just rely on banks for funding. There is an urgent need to diversify funding sources such as capital raising from the primary markets, Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), said. The Sebi chief also brought out certain “positive aspects of market recovery” from the panic that was seen in March following the declaration of the pandemic. According to Tyagi, the recovery in the market has been broad-based with not only the large cap but also the mid- and small-cap indices participating in the turnaround. His remarks come at a time many experts feel there was a disconnect between the economy and the markets and that abundant liquidity and low interest rates were the only factors responsible for the rally. Tyagi was speaking at the 11th Financial Markets Summit organised by the CII. According to Tyagi, “Some investments are best funded through the capital markets. For instance, it would be a challenging task to achieve the government’s target of having Rs 100 lakh crore investments in infrastructure by 2024-25 unless the bond market is adequately developed.” The development of the corporate bond market needs “deeper structural and regulatory changes”, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||Business||DLF signs deal with Standard Chartered GBS||DLF on Wednesday said it has signed an anchor deal with Standard Chartered GBS for its office building in Chennai. Standard Chartered GBS will take on lease 7.7 lakh square feet in one of the largest commercial office space deals in the country in recent times. Though the real estate firm did not disclose the financial details, sources put the construction cost at Rs 450 crore for the upcoming commercial tower in Chennai. A statement by DLF said Standard Chartered GBS will set up its largest office at this address. DLF Cyber City Developers Ltd (DCCDL), which is a joint venture between DLF and Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC, has leased out the space in its commercial project ‘DLF Downtown’ at Taramani in Chennai, which is being developed at a total investment of Rs 5,000 crore. The Standard Chartered GBS office will be its largest campus globally. “This strategic partnership is a testament to the success of our vision of new-age workplaces. “DLF Downtown, spanning over 27 acres, is being planned as a multi-block campus with inter-connected office blocks at the podium level and a host of retail amenities for a perfect work-life integration,’’ said Amit Grover, executive director of DLF Offices. While the announcement came after market hours, shares of DLF on Wednesday ended with gains of almost 3 per cent. On the BSE, the scrip closed at Rs 172.15 — a rise of 2.81 per cent over its last close. The construction of the prime office tower is expected to start in January 2021 and will be completed in 36 months. The DLF Downtown project is spread over 27 acres and has a total leasable area of 68 lakh sq ft, largely office space with some retail portion. Around 25 lakh sq ft built-up area is under construction in this project. In December 2017, DLF had formed a joint venture with GIC (Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund) after its promoters sold their entire 40 per cent stake in DLF Cyber-City Developers Ltd (DCCDL) for nearly Rs 12,000 crore. t present, the DCCDL has 33 million sq ft of office and retail portfolio, generating a total rental income of Rs 3,500 crore annually During the first quarter ended June 30, DLF posted a consolidated net loss of Rs 70.65 crore as construction and sales activities were badly hit due to coronavirus pandemic. It had posted a net profit of Rs 414.73 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-257
22-10-2020||India||Govt restores all existing visas barring electronic, tourist and medical categories||The government on Thursday decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical categories, almost eight months after their suspension following the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent imposition of a nationwide lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also announced giving permission to all Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders and all other foreign nationals to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa. The move will enable foreign nationals to come to India for various purposes such as business, conferences, employment, studies and research. The ministry said in a statement that in view of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government had taken a series of steps to curtail the inward and outward movement of international passengers since February, 2020. The government has now decided to make a graded relaxation in visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals and Indian nationals who wish to enter or leave India. Under this graded relaxation, the government has decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas, except electronic visa, tourist visa and medical visa, the statement said. If the validity of such visas has expired, fresh visas of appropriate categories can be obtained from Indian mission or post concerned. Foreign nationals intending to visit India for medical treatment can apply afresh for a medical visa, including for their medical attendants. The government has also decided to permit all OCI and PIO card holders and all other foreign nationals intending to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa, to enter by air or water routes through authorised airports and seaport immigration check posts. This includes flights operated under 'Vande Bharat' mission, air transport bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. All such travellers will, however, have to strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regarding quarantine and other health/COVID-19 matters. While the restrictions on visas were imposed following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in February, commercial flight operations were suspended when the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25. However, the government has been allowing limited operations of Air India flights under the 'Vande Bharat' mission for certain categories of OCI and PIO card holders and those Indians who were stuck due to COVID-19 outbreak since June. The number of coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as India's caseload went past 77 lakh, while recoveries have crossed 68 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below eight lakh for the sixth consecutive day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
22-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh moving towards becoming unemployment-free||The Chhattisgarh government has shown that way by creating several employment opportunities for the young and old in the time of a pandemic. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s government says it has been able to reduce the unemployment rate to 2 per cent in Chhattisgarh. “This has been possible due to a record rise in employment opportunities due to visionary decisions of the government,” a state government communique said. Baghel, said officials, believed in the motto of “service-care-empathy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Modi invokes Durga to reaffirm commitment to women's empowerment||Invoking Goddess Durga, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reaffirmed his government's irrevocable commitment to women's empowerment and safety. Reaching out to the people of Bengal during the state's biggest festival Durga Puja, the prime minister said though it was being celebrated on a limited scale due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the "enthusiasm is still unlimited". Noting that Goddess Durga was worshipped as a symbol of 'Shakti' (strength), Modi said his government was consistently working for the empowerment of women. "From opening Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women, giving soft loans to them under the Mudra Yojana, to launching Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao initiative, granting permanent commission to women in the armed forces and extending maternity leave from 12 to 26 weeks, we have taken a number of steps for their empowerment," he told a gathering at Durga Puja celebration organised by the BJP. He also said anti-rape laws were made more stringent to include death penalty. "We are alert towards the security of women. We have strengthened laws against rape. Now, there is even provision for death penalty to the perpetrators," he said in his virtual address to the people of the state. In Bengal, Goddess Durga was also worshipped as a daughter, he said, adding women must be treated with respect. The prime minister's remark came in the backdrop of a string of incidents of rape and murder of women, including the Hathras incident that shocked the nation and triggered outrage against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. The prime minister recalled the contributions of reformers from Bengal like Ram Mohun Roy and Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, spiritual leaders Ramkrishna Paramhans and Swami Vivekananda, cultural giant Rabindranath Tagore, and revolutionaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Khudiram Bose in shaping India's national identity. Durga Puja, he said, was the epitome of pluralism and reflected the collective strength of India. "I feel blessed to be a part of Durga puja celebration on Mahashashti...This time we are all celebrating Durga Puja amid the coronavirus crisis. Devotees of Maa Durga, organisers of pandals, all have shown amazing restraint. The numbers may have been affected, but the grandeur is the same, the divinity is the same," Modi said. Beginning his address in Bengali, PM Modi shared his puja greetings and appealed to the people to adhere to social distancing norms (do gaz ki duri) and wear face masks while taking part in the festivities. "There is so much power in the devotion to Goddess Durga here that it seems I am not in Delhi but amongst you in Bengal", Modi said. Speaking about the development schemes of his government for the people of the state, Modi said under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana pucca dwellings were built for about 30 lakh poor families. "About 90 lakh poor women have been given free gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme. Bank accounts of about four crore poor of Bengal have been opened through Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission Scheme, clean piped water will be delivered to about 4 lakh households," he said. Listing out various developmental projects for the state, Modi said, Rs 8,500 crore has been approved for Kolkatas East-West Metro project. Noting that the union government has adopted the mantra of Purvodaya for the development of eastern India, the prime minister said Bengal has to play an important role in its success and reach the objective of Sonar Bangla (Bengal made of gold). "Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat is a key component of the government's growth plans", he said. "For Bengal's infrastructure, continuous work is being done to improve connectivity. The Centre has adopted the mantra of Purvodaya- the rise of east. We have been taking decisions for the development of eastern India. "Bengal has to play an important role in Mission Purvodaya. I am confident that the state will soon become the the hub of this mission," he said. We have to move forward with the mantra of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Viswas, the prime minister asserted. The BJP had made elaborate arrangements for live viewing of the prime minister's virtual address from the national capital. Apart from the event venue in Salt Lake, where the Bengal BJP has organised Durga puja for the first time, his speech was streamed live across 10 selected pandals spread across districts. The event was televised live at over 78,000 polling booths across the state's 294 assembly constituencies. Assembly polls are likely in Bengal around April-May next year. After decades of its limited presence in the politically polarised state, BJP emerged as the main rival to the ruling Trinamool Congress winning 18 of the state's 42 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP's political clout growing manifold in the last few years in the state, where it has never been in power, its leaders have expressed confidence that the saffron party will end Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||New Covid cases below 60,000 for fourth consecutive day||The number of coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as India's caseload went past 77 lakh, while recoveries have crossed 68 lakh, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry. The COVID-19 caseload mounted to 77,06,946 with 55,839 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,16,616 with 702 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 68,74,518 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 89.20 per cent, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.51 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below eight lakh for the sixth consecutive day. There are 7,15,812 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which accounts for 9.29 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 9,86,70,363 samples have been tested up to October 21, of which 14,69,984 were tested on Wednesday. The 702 new fatalities include 180 from Maharashtra, 88 from Karnataka, 64 from West Bengal, 47 from Delhi, 44 from Chhattisgarh, 41 from Uttar Pradesh, and 39 from Tamil Nadu. Total 1,16,616 deaths reported so far in the country include 42,633 from Maharashtra, followed by 10,780 from Tamil Nadu, 10,696 from Karnataka, 6,755 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,508 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,244 from West Bengal, 6,128 from Delhi, 4,060 from Punjab, and 3,660 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Blow to wish to topple Uddhav govt||Senior Maharashtra leader Eknath Khadse on Wednesday quit the BJP, dealing a blow to the party’s efforts to destabilise the Uddhav Thackeray government. Khadse, a prominent OBC leader and widely acknowledged to have made significant contribution to the BJP’s growth in Maharashtra, is all set to formally join the Sharad Pawar-led NCP on Friday. Khadse hit out at former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and held him responsible for his exit from the BJP. Fadnavis, a Brahmin and the leader of the Opposition, was promoted by the BJP in the Maratha-dominated politics of the state. “Devendra Fadnavis destroyed my life. I spent four years in mental tension... I feel sad about quitting the BJP, but I had no choice,” Khadse told reporters after quitting the party. Khadse, 68, was a senior minister in the earlier Fadnavis government and was made to resign in 2016 on charges of corruption. Many had then felt that Khadse had been framed in a bid to sideline him. He was denied a ticket to contest in the 2019 Assembly polls. His daughter was fielded in his place, but she lost and since then he had been sulking. “Eknath Khadse will join the NCP at 2pm on Friday. This will strengthen the NCP,” state NCP chief Jayant Patil told reporters. The development came at a time Fadnavis is busy in Bihar after gaining prominence as the state election in-charge. He was given the post to reap political benefits out of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death that was blown out of proportion with an eye on the polls. The issue, however, is seen to have lost steam. Fadnavis and the BJP had been using the actor’s death to launch an all-out attack on the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra led by Uddhav. A CBI probe was instituted in the actor’s death, seeking to target the state government, but so far the agency is learnt to have found no proof of foul play. Khadse’s resignation will deal a blow to the BJP’s effort to gun for the Uddhav government and instead boost the morale of the ruling alliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||HD eyes Yedi tie-up with quit-BJP rider||JDS leader H.D. Kumaraswamy is said to be in touch with BJP veteran and his successor as chief minister, B.S. Yediyurappa, for a possible alliance if the incumbent is replaced, but on the condition that he quit the BJP and side with “secular politics”. Just over a year after Yediyurappa led a coup by weaning away 17 lawmakers from the Congress-Janata Dal Secular (JDS) coalition, the two leaders, who have had a tumultuous past together, are said to have been in talks for about a month now. “Definitely. Kumaraswamy will support Yediyurappa if he can walk out of the BJP with his supporters,” a senior JDS leader and close associate of Kumaraswamy told The Telegraph on Wednesday, referring to reports of a power struggle within the Karnataka BJP and alleged efforts to upstage Yediyurappa. The optimism belied the fact that the previous Kumaraswamy-Yediyurappa courtship, with the JDS leader as chief minister, ended in disarray in 2007. Kumaraswamy had refused to hand over the chief minister’s post to Yediyurappa after reaching the halfway mark of the government’s tenure, as had been agreed upon as part of a power-sharing deal, leading to the government’s collapse. The JDS leader who declined to be named insisted on Wednesday that Kumaraswamy and Yediyurappa had been in touch for sometime. “The only condition is that Yediyurappa will have to exit the BJP and return to secular politics with his group of MLAs. In that case, Kumaraswamy will extend support to him to form an alternative government,” the JDS leader, a former minister, said. The JDS is believed to be counting on Yediyurappa’s past since he had quit the BJP in 2012 and proved too much of a headache for his former party by forming the Karnataka Janata Paksha. While he didn’t gain much, Yediyurappa cut into the BJP’s vote bank in the 2013 state polls, facilitating an easy win for the Congress. A BJP lawmaker’s outburst against the Karnataka chief minister has indicated the full extent of the intra-party chasms over power politics in the state. Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who belongs to Yediyurappa's Lingayat community, had on Monday warned the chief minister of a leadership change, at a time Yediyurappa is already said to be facing discontent within the party ever since he formed the government last year. While this is not the first time that there have been the stirrings of a rebellion in the Karnataka BJP — many old-timers are said to be unhappy after being passed over for ministerial assignments, especially in favour of Congress-JDS turncoats — it is certainly unusual for a party leader to speak out so openly and literally telling Yediyurappa that his time is up. A minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet, Yatnal had complained that he was not receiving funds for developing his constituency. A Hindutva hardliner, Yatnal also happens to be among the Lingayat leaders who have for long been trying to find their way up in the party ladder. Asked if Yediyurappa still enjoyed the kind of support required to pull off another coup, the JDS leader who spoke to this newspaper replied in the affirmative. “He has enough numbers since most of the BJP MLAs won thanks to Yediyurappa’s political clout and the caste factor. So I don’t think there is any issue there,” he said. The JDS has 34 seats in the House of 223 with bypolls set for two vacant seats on November 3. To form a government with the JDS’s support, Yediyurappa will need a minimum of 80 of the 117 BJP lawmakers to back him. The BJP has sprung a tight defence around Yediyurappa and downplayed Yatnal’s utterances. Newly appointed national general secretary of the BJP, C.T. Ravi, has warned those who speak out against the chief minister. “The central leadership will take action against anyone making such statements,” he told reporters in Hubli. “Whatever maybe the reason for Yatnal’s statements, I can say Yediyurappa is our leader chosen by the party,” Ravi added. A senior Congress office-bearer said it wouldn’t be possible for Yediyurappa to stay in power without the BJP. “Can he chip away 80 MLAs? It’s impossible. Going by our current stand, we will not support a corrupt leader like him,” said the Congress leader, who declined to be named. But the Congress is ready to face mid-term polls. “We are ready to seek the people’s mandate anytime as the BJP governments have been a total failure in the states and at the Centre,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||India frees China soldier||India on Wednesday released the Chinese soldier who had strayed across the Line of Actual Control in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh two days ago, before military commanders of the two countries meet for the eighth round of talks to discuss disengagement from multiple friction points. Sources in the Indian Army said the Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldier was handed over at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after the completion of all formalities as per established protocols. The soldier, a corporal, had inadvertently crossed over on Monday morning while helping local herdsmen search for a missing yak, Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili of the People’s Liberation Army, West Theatre Command, had said that night. “The soldier was provided medical assistance, including oxygen, as well as food and warm clothes, to protect him from the effects of the extreme altitude and the harsh climate. During questioning, the army could not find any espionage angle,” said an Indian Army official. He, however, declined to comment when asked whether the yak had been found. The Chinese tabloid Global Times, which functions under the Chinese Communist Party’s People’s Daily newspaper, on Wednesday confirmed the release of the Chinese soldier “who went missing while helping herdsmen find a yak near China-India border”. “The Indian Army’s decision to return the Chinese soldier is viewed as a positive sign ahead of the eighth round of China-India commander-level talks this week. However, many believe that India should show more sincerity in the upcoming talks and less provocative moves,” the Global Times said. The seventh round of military talks between the two armies on October 10 had failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone akin to Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the LAC. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Bhushan tweets about CJI Bobde’s visit to Kanha park by MP govt chopper||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday tweeted that Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had travelled by a chopper provided by the Madhya Pradesh government to visit the Kanha National Park and his hometown at a time the judge was hearing a case on which the fate of the BJP government in the state hinged. “The CJI avails a special chopper provided by the MP Govt (authorised by the CM) for a visit to Kanha National Park & then to his home town in Nagpur, while an important case of disqualification of defecting MLAs of MP is pending before him. Survival of MP govt depends on this case,” Bhushan tweeted. Justice Bobde reached Kanha, known for its tigers, on Sunday (a holiday for the court) and left on Tuesday. The court had closed for Dussehra holidays from Monday and will reopen next week. A source familiar with the Chief Justice said no undue step was taken. The source said the Chief Justice was “entitled to a chopper, a car, an aircraft and other special facilities in view of his constitutional status”. The source added that Bhushan’s tweet was mala fide and motivated to denigrate the highest judiciary as part of an orchestrated campaign. Earlier this year, Bhushan was convicted of criminal contempt of court for tweets against the judiciary, including one about Justice Bobde on a Harley-Davidson bike. A bench headed by CJI Bobde is hearing a case filed by a Congress MLA against the Madhya Pradesh pro-tem Speaker’s decision to dismiss a disqualification petition he had moved against 22 lawmakers from the party. The Congress MLAs had defected to the BJP to bring down the Kamal Nath government and prop up that of Shivraj Singh Chouhan. On October 6, a Supreme Court bench headed by CJI Bobde and including Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian had agreed to examine Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Vinay Saxena’s appeal challenging the pro-tem Speaker’s decision to dismiss the disqualification application moved by him against the 22 Congress legislators. According to official sources, Chief Justices of India enjoy a unique constitutional status and have access to such privileges. It’s up to the incumbent to decide on using the facilities. “Moreover, the CJI has Z-plus security, and for security reasons he has a right to such facilities. Supposing he travels in a state government car, will it also be questioned?” a source asked. “If the CJI can travel by government car, then why not a chopper for security reasons?” The source added: “I don’t see what’s wrong with it. MP (Madhya Pradesh) is also infested with Maoists and the CJI has a threat perception. Every state, Union Territory and the Centre is a litigant in the Supreme Court. By that yardstick, neither the CJI nor any of the judges can utilise any government facilities.” The government of the state that the CJI is visiting has the responsibility of making travel and logistical arrangements. The sources said “appropriate action would be considered against Bhushan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Court to Republic TV: #ArrestRhea, is that news?||Bombay High Court on Wednesday demanded to know from Republic TV if asking viewers who all should be arrested in a case that is being investigated and infringing upon a person’s rights qualified as “investigative journalism”. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was referring to the channel “#ArrestRhea” campaign and its reports on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The court also asked the channel’s lawyer, Malvika Trivedi, why Republic TV broadcast photos of Sushant’s body and speculated on whether the actor’s death was a case of suicide or homicide. “The grievance is regarding #ArrestRhea. Why is this part of your channel news?” the bench said. “When a case is under investigation and the issue is whether it’s a homicide or a suicide and a channel is saying it is murder, is all this investigative journalism?” it asked. “We are referring to the basic journalism norms, where a basic etiquette has to be maintained for suicide reporting. No sensational headlines, no constant repeating. You did not even leave the deceased... forget the witnesses,” the bench said. “You have depicted a lady in such a way that infringes on her rights. This is our prima facie view,” it added. Sections of the media have been running independent India’s most vitriolic and longest-continuing smear campaign against an individual — actress and Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty — in an apparent attempt to divert attention from the pandemic and the economic mess and also to aid the BJP’s political agenda against its rivals. The bench was on Wednesday hearing the final arguments on a bunch of PILs seeking that the media be restrained in the reporting on Sushant’s death. The pleas had also sought that TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial. The bench had asked all parties to clarify if a statutory mechanism was required to regulate the content broadcast by the news channels. During the hearing on Wednesday, additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the government, said the Centre was in favour of a self-regulatory mechanism for the print and TV media. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued an order withdrawing consent accorded to the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment to exercise the powers and jurisdiction under an act in the state. According to sources, the move implies that the CBI will not have general consent, accorded by the Maharashtra government by an order on February 22, 1989, to exercise its powers and jurisdiction in the state and will have to get the state government’s permission to probe any matter. Earlier, the CBI had taken over the Sushant probe from Mumbai police on a recommendation from the Bihar government. Now, the Uttar Pradesh government has advised a CBI investigation into a case of TRP manipulation, another issue Mumbai police are looking into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Birthday ‘gift’: grilling by ED ||Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday faced Enforcement Directorate grilling for the second time in three days, and this time coinciding with his 84th birthday, prompting his party to ask if the Centre was “comfortable being seen as a bully by the nation”. Farooq’s questioning comes days after he led an initiative to form an alliance to press for the restoration of Article 370, which granted a special status to Jammu and Kashmir but was scrapped on August 5 last year. Political parties here termed the ED action a “vendetta”. The former chief minister, National Conference president and Srinagar MP is being questioned in connection with a purported scam in 2012 at the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association, which he then headed. “This on a day when my father turns 84!” son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. Farooq was in jail on his previous birthday, arrested on August 4 last year — on the eve of the revocation of Article 370 — amid a crackdown on politicians and activists to pre-empt protests. He was released in March this year. Omar, who too was arrested that day, turned 50 in jail in March. Farooq’s younger brother Mustafa Kamal accused the government of playing with the veteran politician’s health. “He was not served even lunch (during questioning despite the government) knowing full well that he is diabetic. They want to break his resolve and vilify him, but they won’t be able to do so,” Kamal told The Telegraph. “Even my elder sister (Khalida Shah), who is 86, was incarcerated (put under house arrest) for months last year.” Asserting that the ED had grilled Farooq for six hours on Monday, National Conference spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar questioned the need to summon him again. “What is it that the ED forgot to ask during the six hours?” Dar said. Farooq was questioned for five hours on Wednesday and drove off from the ED office without talking to reporters. “The government and its agencies have no consideration for a law-abiding citizen who is severely immuno-compromised and diabetic,” Dar said. “(Farooq) being treated like this is proof that the BJP is not even interested in a face-saving act and is completely comfortable with being seen as a bully by the nation.” Dar added: “How many times will the BJP use the CBI, ED, anti-corruption bureau and its other agencies to browbeat Opposition (politicians)? The plot has become predictable. Anyone who speaks against the government or musters courage against its divisive politics will be hounded and summoned.” Dar said the only way to get a clean chit these days was to surrender one’s ideology and join the BJP. “We’ve seen this story play out from Assam to Karnataka, from Bengal to Andhra Pradesh, but Dr Abdullah is not going to surrender to the BJP, come what may,” he said. BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta denied the ED had done anything wrong, and insisted that the agency was an autonomous body. He said Farooq was involved in the cricket association scam and had “used both hands to gather the money”. “The case was going on. The timing -- when they want to investigate or question --- is decided by the agency. They are not BJP agencies; they are agencies of the Indian government. They are autonomous bodies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Odisha engineer held over Rs 6.5-crore properties||Vigilance officials on Wednesday arrested an assistant executive engineer for allegedly acquiring properties worth Rs 6.53 crore in what is being described as the biggest seizure of ill-gotten wealth from a public servant. The engineer, Rabindra Nath Pradhan, is currently working in the General Health Public Division–II in Bhubaneswar. He has allegedly been found to be in possession of three-storey buildings, houses and market complexes in Bhubaneswar and other parts of the state. “He and his family members have 48 one-bedroom flats worth Rs.4.04 crore at Balianta on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar,” the vigilance department said. He also owns eight plots of land in Bhubaneswar and different areas of Ganjam district. Superintendent of police (vigilance cell), M. Radhakrishna said, “This is the highest ever seizure of property amassed by a public servant by the vigilance department. The investigation is on and the value of the properties might go up further.” Pradhan’s son is a builder. Vigilance sources said Pradhan was putting all his illegally earned money in the projects of his builder son. There are three companies registered in the name of his son. Two of them deal in real estate while the third one is engaged in food processing and preservation business. Pradhan’s son is also a partner in a firm dealing in agricultural products. His company has constructed the 48 flats that belong to the family. “How can an assistant executive engineer with a salary of just Rs 60,000 accumulate such vast property? We had some complaints about his illegal activities and raided his house and that of his relatives after watching his activities for some time. The amount of his wealth has surprised us. We will check all the income tax returns as well,” a senior official said. Vigilance sleuths are also conducting a raid against another engineer in connection with a disproportionate assets case. Significantly, most government servants landing in the vigilance net have either made money by acting as a land broker or through the construction business. On Monday, vigilance officials had arrested a lecturer in Gajapati district for accumulating properties worth more than Rs 2 crore. G. Nageswar Rao, a lecturer of education at Minaketan Degree College at Gurundi, has buildings in his native village and several other places in Odisha. Vigilance sleuths also recovered Rs 31 lakh in cash from his possession. He had amassed the wealth through land-brokerage business. On October 15, vigilance officials had nabbed a schoolteacher who had accumulated properties worth over Rs 1.5 crore “The teacher used to skip classes and spend time dealing in land,” said vigilance superintendent of police (Berhampur), Anil Kumar Patra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-602
22-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Congress promises loan waivers in 'Badlav Patra'||The Congress on Wednesday released its manifesto for the Bihar Assembly elections promising loan waivers and wide ranging sops to farmers. The party also vowed to check the implementation of the three “anti-farm laws” brought in by the Centre. The manifesto, referred as “Badlav Patra” (document of change), mentioned development schemes for almost every sector in the state, an unemployment allowance of Rs 1,500 per month and inclusion of Maithili language in the school syllabus. It also promised a 50 per cent rebate to all domestic power consumers for the first 100 units. The manifesto was released at party’s state headquarters at Sadaquat Ashram in the presence of national general secretaries Randeep Singh Surjewala and Tariq Anwar and AICC Bihar incharge Shakti Singh Gohil, actor-turned-politician Raj Babbar, former Kerala governor Nikhil Kumar and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. “Our government will waive loans of all the farmers with small and medium land holdings if we come to power. We will provide financial help under Rajiv Gandhi Krishi Nyaya Yojana on the lines of Chhattisgarh to farmers having less than two acres, and provide 50 per cent discount on the electricity bills of all farmers,” Gohil said. “We will also bring legislation to check the implementation of the ‘three black farm laws’ in the state just like we have done in Punjab,” he said. Chhattisgarh and Punjab have Congress-led governments. Bihar is primarily an agrarian state, with over 75 per cent of its population engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Over 98 per cent farmers have marginal, small and medium landholdings ranging between zero and 10 hectares. The manifesto promises free education to girl children from kindergarten to the postgraduate, filling up 2.42 lakh vacancies of teachers in schools within 18 months of coming to power, similar pay for similar work for contractual teachers, and scooters for girls who score 90 per cent in Class XII board examinations. “We will include Maithili once again as a compulsory subject in the school syllabus. Though it figures in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, it is not taught in the schools. This has led to erosion in its higher studies. Students become unable to take the UPSC exam in the language due to this,” Mishra said. For a state that has lagged behind in sports for decades since the separation of Jharkhand, the manifesto promises government jobs to sportspersons who win medals at international levels. It also talks about encouraging regular sports competitions. Since employment is a major issue in the state in this poll season, the Congress echoed the promises made by ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of giving 10 lakh jobs, including filling up 4.5 lakh vacancies within 18 months. “The four-time chief minister (read Nitish Kumar) has cheated the youths in the state and made a new record of not giving jobs. Our party will ensure that area-specific surveys are conducted and employment is made available accordingly. We will also provide Rs 1,500 per month unemployment allowance,” Babbar said while releasing the manifesto. Surjewala said the Congress would bring the “right to health” and “right to water” in the state. He said the party would focus on creating employment opportunities in the rural areas. Surjewala came down heavily on prohibition in Bihar. He said the liquor ban  was “limited only to paper and a parallel economy is running with the nexus of the mafia, police and the state government”. “Around 3.5 lakh people have been arrested in liquor-related cases and their families have been ruined. The liquor mafia is being patronised by Nitish. A parallel liquor industry is flourishing and the JDU and the BJP are making money from it,” Surjewala said. The Congress is contesting 70 out of the 243 Assembly seats in alliance with the RJD, and three Left parties. The RJD will contest 144 seats, the CPI-ML 19, the CPI six and the CPM four. Bihar will go to polls on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be out on November 10. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) also released its manifesto on Wednesday, called as “Bihar first, Bihari first vision document”. Party chief Chirag Paswan said that his father Ram Vilas got it prepared while in hospital. It promises a separate department for migrant workers, a large number of medical and engineering colleges to ensure that the youth do not have to go to other states for studies, and better health facilities. Chirag used the occasion to attack Nitish and said: “Bihar will lose if Nitish wins. He calls the schemes of the central government as his own. He first opposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but now stands with him. He talks about development but encourages casteism in the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Women’s panel chief sparks ‘love jihad’ furore||National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma has been roasted online after the NCW announced that she had discussed a “rise in love jihad cases” with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday. The Narendra Modi government had earlier this year told Parliament that the term “love jihad” is not defined under extant laws, but its propagators have had a free run, the latest example being the furore over a jewellery brand ad on a Hindu girl married into what appears to be a Muslim household. Tanishq, a brand associated with the Tatas, had to withdraw the ad in the face of vicious trolling. Trouble began for Sharma after the NCW posted on social media a synopsis of her meeting with Koshiyari: “Our Chairperson @sharmarekha met with Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari, His Excellency, Governor of Maharashtra, & discussed issues related to #womensafety in the state including defunct One Stop Centres, molestation & rape of women patients at #COVID centres & rise in love jihad cases.” Sharma’s host, Koshiyari, himself had recently got into a tangle after asking Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray if he had turned “secular” and also appeared to taunt his “Hindutva” credentials while demanding the reopening of places of worship. While many on Twitter called Sharma out for using her office to legitimise a political slogan of the ruling party, others trawled her account to dig out previous posts to show that she was not suitable for her job. Armed with the reply given by the Union home ministry in the Lok Sabha in February, Twitterati took Sharma to task for giving credence to a term that the Modi government itself has not found valid enough to define in law. Others dug out some of her old tweets that many said bordered on misogynyand even invited rape on a family to avenge their participation in a khap panchayat. The critics questioned Sharma’s credentials to head the statutory body set up to address women’s issues and demanded that she be sacked. As the clamour for her removal intensified, Sharma claimed that her Twitter account had been compromised and turned it into “protected” mode, stopping others from viewing or commenting on her posts without her permission. Pratik Sinha of the fact-finding website AltNews, however, pointed out that many tweets had also been removed in the process. The Telegraph tried to reach Sharma but she did not respond. NCW officials pointed to her tweet in which she said: “I have protected my tweets since last evening after receiving a message from Twitter that suspicious activity was detected on my account. My profile was also blocked for a while by Twitter.” Using screenshots from before and after her handle was protected, Sinha flagged the drop in the number of tweets from Sharma’s account. “From 16,937 tweets before she protected her account, the NCW Chairperson is down to 16,727 tweets. At least 210 tweets deleted by @NCWIndia chairperson @sharmarekha.“The chairperson or someone on her behalf is busy doing a cleanup of her Twitter account for hours now. 338 tweets deleted since she protected her account. From 16,937 down to 16,599,” Sinha tweeted again, with links to Sharma’s archived tweets. Given her association with the BJP — Sharma had been the party’s district secretary and media in-charge in Haryana before being appointed to the helm of the NCW in 2015 — the discussion on “love jihad” became the subject of a political slugfest. The AAP, Congress and the CPI(ML) demanded her removal. Demanding her immediate removal for her “derogatory and shameful tweets against women”, AAP leader Aatishi Marlena said: “If the chairperson of the NCW uses such cheap language against women, then how can a woman expect justice from the central institution headed by her? ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ was not a slogan for any positive campaign but a caution to the nation to protect the girls from the grip of BJP leaders.” Posting screenshots of some of the objectionable tweets that were posted from Sharma’s handle between 2012 and 2014, Congress spokesperson Ragini Nayak said: “Every second this vile, sexist, venom spewing @sharmarekha spends as chairperson of @NCWIndia is a fresh assault on the integrity and dignity of women in this country. Only Modiji could have entrusted such a misogynist with protection of women’s rights #SackRekhaSharma.” CPI(ML) politburo member Kavita Krishnan tweeted: “Hey @sharmarekha — what on earth is a ‘love jihad’ case? Any case in which a Muslim man and a Hindu woman are in love? How dare you remain in your chair as @NCWIndia chief & use a term that (a) treats women as property of communities (b) hates Muslims? You bring shame to NCW.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Election Commission talks tough on Covid rule flout at election rallies||The Election Commission on Wednesday took a serious view of “utter violation” of social distancing norms during poll campaigning and leaders addressing public meetings without wearing masks in complete disregard of its guidelines. In an advisory issued to presidents and general secretaries of all recognised national and state parties, the poll panel said chief electoral officers and the district machinery would be expected to invoke appropriate and relevant penal provisions against candidates concerned as well as organisers responsible for such violations. Separate instructions for strict compliance of guidelines are being issued to chief electoral officers and governments of poll-bound states, it said. “It has come to the notice of the commission instances of such public meetings where large crowds assembled in utter violation of social distancing, and the political leaders and campaigners addressing the gatherings without wearing masks in complete disregard of the guidelines and instructions issued by the Election Commission,” the poll panel said. By not following the norms, the political parties and candidates are not only flouting its guidelines “with impunity but exposing themselves as well as the public attending the rallies or meetings to the danger of infection during the pandemic”, the poll panel said. As the most important stakeholders in the electoral process, the parties are duty-bound to observe the norms determined by the commission for electioneering, it noted. Non-compliance of instructions during the period of public interface will attract actions as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides invocation of the provisions of the IPC and other legal provisions, the EC warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||India||Office grab in Delhi University power tussle||A Delhi University professor marched into campus with a letter “appointing” him acting registrar hours before the executive council was to approve the official pick for regular registrar, triggering an embarrassing power struggle that many teachers said was bringing the “institution of eminence” into disrepute. P.C. Jha, who had come and occupied the registrar’s chamber at 9am, was still there at 10.30pm despite an afternoon resolution by the executive council terming his appointment illegal and asking him to leave. Members of the council, whose meeting too was continuing, unanimously blamed the “mess” on vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi who has been absent from the campus for more than a month now, apparently because of illness. The appointment letter, issued by joint registrar (non-teaching) C.P. Raghav, claimed the approval of the “competent authority”. It appointed Jha as acting registrar as well as acting director of the South Campus. According to the Delhi University (DU) Act, the executive council alone can appoint either official: the vice-chancellor, who heads council, cannot do so by himself. Executive council member J.L. Gupta termed Tyagi’s actions arbitrary and unconstitutional. “What he has done has brought disrepute to the prestigious university,” Gupta said. Rajib Ray, president of the university teachers’ association, said: “Professor Yogesh Tyagi should take responsibility or else allow the university to be governed by other officials as mandated by the DU Act. The university cannot be pushed into further mess.” In Tyagi’s absence, acting pro-vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi has been doubling as acting vice-chancellor, and Suman Kundu as acting registrar and acting director of the South Campus. Joshi had begun the process of appointing a regular registrar and a regular finance officer. The selections were over and Wednesday’s executive council meeting, scheduled from 11am, was to discuss and approve the two successful candidates. But Tyagi and Jha pre-empted the council. “The council resolved that Prof Suman Kundu, department of biochemistry, will act as director, South Campus, and will also act as acting registrar till the permanent/ new(ly) appointed registrar joins the duty,” a resolution passed by the council said. Around 10pm, the council approved the new selections —Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as regular finance officer. A formal order will be issued soon, two council members said. Delhi University has been granted the status of “institution of eminence” (IoE) by the education ministry on the strength of the quality of its teaching and research. Inder Mohan Kapahi, a retired DU professor and till recently a member of the University Grants Commission, said he had never seen such “degradation in the moral fabric of the university” and demanded government intervention. “The occupation of the high office of registrar, when the EC (executive council) was to approve the recommendation of the selection committee for registrar, reminds (one) of illegal occupation of land by professional goons,” he wrote on Facebook. “One sincerely hopes the DU, a university with IoE tag, shall be spared such dishonour. The education minister of India and the Visitor (President of India) should take immediate remedial action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-603
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Stay home, stay blessed||The world’s largest community-driven event got off to its quietest start in living memory on Panchami after Calcutta High Court stuck to its resolve to give primacy to public health in the middle of a pandemic. The high court on Wednesday allowed more organisers to enter community puja pandals but did not modify its earlier order that kept visitors out. The division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee permitted big pujas to name each day 60 people who can be granted access to the pandal and its immediate vicinity. In the earlier order issued on Monday, that number was 25-30. Although 60 people can now be named on the list, no more than 45, including the priest, can be allowed inside at any point of time. For smaller pujas, the list can be of 20 people but no more than 15 will be allowed inside. The court defined a big puja as one that occupies 300sqm, leaving out the dais where the idol is placed. The court allowed the dhak players in the space between the pandal and the barricade demarcating the no-entry zone. By dusk, the impact of the court order was visible on the ground with few visitors seen around pandals. If the Panchami response is an indication, it appeared that prospective revellers were so far paying heed to the public-health concern that compelled the court to put in place the restrictions. At Singhee Park in Gariahat, a barricade had been put up at least 50 metres from the pandal. A group who said they wanted to go to one of the shops in the stretch in between was told by a policeman: “I can’t do anything…. Go to the police station if you have a complaint.” A woodwork artist who had set up a roadside stall at Hindusthan Park said he had not had a single buyer all evening. Eight applications had been filed before the high court seeking relaxations on its earlier order. The petitioners wanted staggered anjali during Saptami, Ashtami, Navami and Sandhi Puja, held in the cusp of Ashtami and Navami. They also wanted Sindur Khela, in which women smear vermilion on each other after offering it to the Goddess. The final order only makes a concession on the number of organisers allowed inside and the dhak players. The court rejected a bid by a group of doctors to ask for more restrictions. “An attempt has been made by a body of doctors to intervene. Considering that today is Panchami, the first day of the six-day celebrations, no submission for further possible restrictions has been allowed at this stage,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Staff at Covid hospital strike in Jalpaiguri||Over 50 casual employees of the Covid-19 hospital in Jalpaiguri struck work and held a dharna on the premises on Wednesday demanding immediate payment of their due salaries. Some ancillary services at the hospital were affected because of the strike which was lifted in the evening after a senior official of the Jalpaiguri district health department had assured the casual staff of necessary intervention to solve the issue. The Covid hospital was opened at Biswabangla Krirangan, a sports complex, six months ago. After the facility was opened, 57 casual employees were engaged by a private agency as security guards, ward boys and housekeeping staff. In September, the district health department engaged another private agency for providing casual workers, but the earlier staff were not removed as they were experienced. “The new agency asked us to continue our work as we gained experience. However, the old agency did not pay us our salaries for September. The festivities are ahead and we are sitting here high and dry. That is why we have resorted to cease-work and want our salaries to be disbursed immediately,” said Manoj Singh, one of the casual workers. Rakhi Rajbanshi, another casual employee, said none from the new agency had contacted them so far. “It is fine that we have not been removed from our jobs but none from the new agency has spoken to us. Many of us do not have any idea of the new agency. On the other hand, those in the old agency are dilly dallying in paying our salaries. We are in a fix now,” she said. As the demonstration continued, an official in charge of the hospital spoke to the agitators and assured them of necessary steps. Later, Gayaram Naskar, the superintendent of the Jalpaiguri district hospital, said the authorities were looking into the issue. “We have spoken to the private agencies concerned and hope the issue will be resolved soon. It is good that the casual employees have withdrawn their protests and joined their work,” Naskar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||No to CBI probe, yes to fresh autopsy: Calcutta High Court||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday ruled out a CBI probe into the death of Raiganj BJP activist Anup Kumar Roy but directed the state government to conduct a fresh post-mortem of the body at RG Kar Medical College in Calcutta. Anup, 23, had allegedly died in police custody on September 2, a few hours after his arrest in a case related to snatching. Anup’s name had cropped up during police interrogation of some youths in an August 28 snatching case. The cops had claimed that during interrogation, they had come to know that Anup, a resident Nandangram of Itahar, had been the “mastermind” in that snatching case. After Anup’s death within some hours of his arrest, Biswajit Lahiri, president of BJP North Dinajpur district committee, had alleged: “He was beaten to death in custody.” Anup’s mother Geeta Roy had lodged a complaint at Itahar police station against five policemen — Nihar Ranjan Das, Md Murtaza, Prabir Ghosh, Sandip Chakraborty and Uttam Modak — of Raiganj. After the first post-mortem that was “hurriedly done”, Geeta had appealed to the Raiganj district court in early September for a fresh video-recorded autopsy of her son’s body in the presence of a magistrate. On the basis of her appeal, the court had ordered a repeat of the post-mortem. Following Wednesday’s high court’s order, a third post-mortem would have to be conducted on Anup’s body, the state panel lawyer said. The high court also directed the state government to start a fresh magisterial inquiry into Anup’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Blast hits health centre in Birbhum||An explosion ripped through a one-storey homeopathic clinic run by the Hetampur gram panchayat in Birbhum district early on Wednesday. Residents of Champanagari village in Dubrajpur block alleged that crude bombs stocked at the two-room building by criminals had exploded. Police, however, suspect the explosion was triggered by a leak from an LPG cylinder kept in one of the rooms of the free health centre. The room was used by the villagers to store utensils and gas cylinders for public events. Two concrete walls of the building collapsed in the blast. “Criminals had stacked the room with crude bombs that went off. It was a close shave for villagers as it had happened in the early hours,” said a villager. Sources said the Hetampur gram panchayat had constructed the clinic on land donated by a few villagers. “The explosion happened in the room attached to the free health centre. The police are investigating the matter and will take action according to law,” said Mohammed Jasimuddin, the chief of the  panchayat. The intensity of the explosion was such that a heavy iron door got detached. Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh visited the site of the blast. “Primarily, it seems LPG cylinders stored there triggered the explosion. However, we have asked a forensic team to ascertain whether explosives had been stocked there,” said Singh. Several clashes between factions of the Trinamul Congress had been reported from various corners of Dubrajpur and its adjoining areas in the past few months. In most  clashes, crude bombs were used. A section of Trinamul insiders said the tradition to store crude bombs at government buildings was not new in Bubrajpur. In 2016, an ICDS centre was rocked in a powerful explosion. Even then, it was suspected that crude bombs stacked at the centre had led to the explosion. “Crude bombs have become an integral part of the political clash. We have seized thousands of bombs in several police station areas of the district. However, the practice remains unchanged,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Tour ban in West Sikkim, Lachen lifted||Entire West Sikkim was thrown open to tourists from Wednesday with the lifting of the ban on the entry of visitors imposed by a few local bodies of the district because of Covid-19 fears. The dzomsa (traditional local body) of Lachen in North Sikim also lifted the bar on tourists on Wednesday. However, the ban remains in force at Lachung, the other tourist hotspot  in the north district. The dzomsas of the two hotspots were the first to bar the entry of tourists into their areas in early March. In West Sikkim, the panchayats of Yuksom, Bermiok-Berthang and Thingling-Kheciperi lifted the ban on the entry of tourists at the intervention of the Sikkim government. “All of them (panchayats) have lifted the ban. There is no place in the district where any sort of restriction on the entry of tourists is in place,” said Karma R. Bonpo, the district collector of West Sikkim. With the lifting of the ban by the Yuksom panchayat, tourists can now go on a trek along the picturesque Dzongri-Goeche La route. Even though the Sikkim forest department had lifted the ban on access to the popular trekking trail last week, there was uncertainty over its reopening because of the ban imposed by the local panchayat. After a gap of eight months, a three-member team of tourists from Khardah in north Calcutta embarked on a trek from Uttarey, which also is West Sikkim, on Wednesday. The trio took the Chewabhanjyang trekking trail which will end on the fringes of Singalila National Park in neighbouring Darjeeling district. “This was the first trek involving tourists in eight months. We have received over 20 bookings so far. If everything goes well, we should be hosting tourists till December,” said S.B. Subba, who runs a trek and tour agency at Uttarey. Earlier on Wednesday, the district collector of North Sikkim, Tenzing T Kaleon, had said: “I am given to understand that the dzomsas of both Lachen and Lachung have told the local MLA that they will lift the ban on the entry of tourists, but nothing has reached me in writing.” Efforts to reach the office-bearers of the Lachung dzomsa and local MLA Samdup Lepcha, who is also Sikkim’s roads and bridges minister, proved futile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja organisers go big on virtual darshan in Siliguri ||A number of clubs organising Durga Puja in Siliguri have planned to offer residents virtual options to watch the puja from the safety of home amid the pandemic. These options include virtual streaming of the puja on Facebook accounts, YouTube channels and web portals of the organisers. Amid apprehensions of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengal in the crowded festivities, Calcutta High Court on Monday ordered that Durga Puja pandals would become no-entry zones for visitors and upheld the order on Wednesday with a few relaxations. While some puja organisers had made these plans earlier, others came up with the decisions following the pandal no-entry directives of the Calcutta High Court. Prominent Durga Puja organisers of Siliguri like Central Colony, Haiderpara Sporting Club, Collegepara Durga Puja committee, Subrata Sangha and Dadabhai Sporting Club are working on plans to reach out to people online. “The idea is to deter people from coming out in large numbers and swarming near the pandals, which will violate social distance and create a health risk. We will be live on various social media platforms to give a virtual experience of the pandal happenings to people as they sit back at homes during the puja. There are plans to introduce a web portal and use our official Facebook page for live streaming,” said Kanchan Roy, club member of Central Colony in New Jalpaiguri. Nirmal Kumar Paul, the joint secretary of Haiderpara Sporting Club, another popular destination for pandal-hoppers in the northern part of the city, said: “Every ritual of the puja will be streamed live on our official Facebook page. This would enable people, particularly senior citizens and children more vulnerable to the pandemic, to have a real puja experience without risk.” Clubs are floating webpages, opening YouTube channels and even introducing apps to reach out to people on festive days. Some, like Collegepara Durga Puja Committee, have also introduced an option for devotees to donate online. “We have created a QR code and have circulated it among people through leaflets and social media. Anybody interested in donating any sum can scan the code and pay online,” said Somnath Moulik, the secretary of the puja committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung severs ties with BJP, supports Mamata ||Bimal Gurung, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader on the run since 2017, resurfaced in Calcutta on Wednesday after three years, announced his decision to sever ties with the BJP and expressed his desire to see Mamata Banerjee continue as Bengal’s next chief minister. Gurung’s dramatic appearance and his comments at a hurriedly convened news conference indicated that the equations in hill politics — and north Bengal — were all set to change in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls. North Bengal has at least seven Assembly seats where the Gorkha community’s votes are decisive. “We have supported a party (the BJP) for the past 12 years but that party has not met the commitments made to us. These include a permanent political solution for the hills, which I believe can only be Gorkhaland, while the other demand was the conferment of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. That is why we have decided to separate ourselves from the NDA,” Gurung said. Gurung’s reference to Gorkhaland was probably directed at his hill constituency. The Trinamul Congress is against the statehood demand. After announcing the decision to part ways with the BJP, Gurung, who had earlier been critical of Mamata, went on to praise her and express a desire to see her continuing as Bengal chief minister. “While I was sitting back for the past three years, I saw Mamata Banerjee meet whatever commitments she had made to the people. We have decided that in the Assembly elections of 2021, we will stand with her and Trinamul. She is an idol and we want to see her again in her post (of chief minister),” Gurung said. The hill leader, who was last seen in public during the Independence Day celebrations at Ging tea garden in 2017, however, kept his option open for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. He said he would support whichever party accepts the hills’ demand (for statehood). The Telegraph had on Wednesday reported that Gurung was peeved with the BJP for lacking the “will” to solve the hills’ issues and was looking to chart a new political course. Through the day there were whispers in the hills that Morcha (Bimal camp) leaders had held a meeting with some Trinamul politicians in Calcutta but there was no official confirmation till late in the evening. Gurung was first spotted around 4.30pm in front of the Gorkha Bhawan in Salt Lake, seated in an SUV bearing a Jharkhand registration number. Drama unfolded as the Bhawan – which comes under the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, currently headed by Gurung’s rival Anit Thapa – refused to open its gate. About an hour earlier, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Bimal faction, had told journalists that Gurung would be addressing a media conference at the Bhawan. The venue was eventually shifted to a city hotel. The hills were avid with speculation about Gurung’s possible return to the hills. “If he can resurface in Calcutta, why not in Darjeeling? It is just a matter of time,” said a Gurung supporter. Gurung, asked about the cases registered by the state government against him, said: “I’m not a criminal or an anti-national. These are political cases and I intend to resolve those politically. Whatever I have done was for my land and my people. Even then, if I’m arrested, I’m ready with a smile.” The Morcha leader said he had been in Delhi in 2017 and that he had been staying in Jharkhand for the past two months. The BJP, probably stung by the developments in Calcutta, raised the issue. “How can Gurung, against whom several FIRs including charges under the (anti-terror law) UAPA are pending, roam around in Calcutta with the police not arresting him? This is because Mamata Banerjee is trying to be in power by hook or crook,” said Dilip Ghosh, state BJP president. It needs to be seen how Mamata handles Gurung and the rival Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp. “A law-and-order problem in the hills between these two factions would not be in Trinamul’s interest,” said an observer. Trinamul welcomed Gurung’s commitment to peace and his decision to withdraw support to the NDA and repose faith in Mamata’s leadership. “The BJP’s attempt to use the Gorkhaland issue for petty politics and their untrustworthy nature now lay (sic) fully exposed before people of Bengal,” Trinamul tweeted. On how the other Morcha faction might react to the latest development, Trinamul’s official response was balanced. “We are confident that all the key stakeholders in the hills, including political parties and the GTA, along with civil society, will work together and join hands with us for the peace and prosperity of our motherland,” the party said. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson for the Binay Tamang camp, said the developments had shown that Gurung was the “bigger” betrayer -- a tag the Bimal camp had given to the Tamang faction for joining hands with Trinamul in 2017. “Gurung’s biggest challenge will be to convince the Gorkha population that he remains in the vanguard of the Gorkhaland demand despite joining hands with Trinamul,” an observer said. BJP leader Ghosh slammed Mamata and Trinamul while attempting damage control on the subject of statehood. “The BJP had never supported the (demand for a) Gorkhaland state. Is Mamata Banerjee giving in to Bimal Gurung’s demands? Why is he suddenly all praise for her Thousands of Gorkha men have been out of Darjeeling for the past three years and so was Bimal Gurung because of the Trinamul government. What will happen now?” Ghosh said. He conveniently overlooked how his party’s central leadership had repeatedly, though obliquely, mentioned the statehood issue in its manifestos ahead of parliamentary elections in recent years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Durga Puja no-crowd drive picks up pace||The Bengal government started a slew of measures to implement the Calcutta High Court order declaring puja pandals no-entry zones to contain the spread of Covid-19 as soon as the high court on Wednesday upheld its previous order with minor changes. From public announcements on the court order to barricades around pandals and vehicle curbs within a 2-3km radius, districts are trying to ensure festive crowding is kept to the minimum amid the pandemic. A senior state government official said they wanted to ensure no crowding. “District authorities have been given a go-ahead to implement the high court order and make puja pandals no-entry zones. As steps could vary from one pandal to another, districts have been asked to decide on the required measures to ensure that visitors are kept away from pandals,” the official said. In several districts, authorities have deployed teams making public announcements of the key features of the Calcutta High Court order, and explaining why it was prudent to stay indoors. “The massive campaign is being carried out mainly in district towns where thousands flock to puja pandals. Major Durga Pujas, including some family ones outside the district towns that draw huge crowds every year, are also under the scanner,” said a district magistrate. He said the mass awareness campaign would continue for the next few days. “We will also make people aware that wearing masks is a necessity if they come out of home during this festive season. We are also explaining why they should not visit puja pandals this year,” said another district magistrate. Most district authorities have decided to create a buffer zone around major pandals in the districts. Authorities have already restricted the movement of passenger vehicles, including rickshaws and e-rickshaws, within a radius of 2-3km of major pandals. “This will help us manage the crowd efficiently. If we can restrict the movement of people by creating a buffer zone ahead of barricades surrounding puja pandals, it would be much easier for the police to prevent people from approaching pandals,” said a police officer in a south Bengal district. District authorities have also asked organisers of major pujas to put up barricades surrounding their pandals. “We don’t want to force anybody (to put up barricades) and we seek cooperation from puja organisers. This is why puja organisers have been asked to barricade their pandals to help the administration. As most puja organisers received financial support from the state government, it may not be a tough task,” said a district official. A Nabanna official said district officials were in talks with major puja organisers in districts to find out if live streaming of puja on Facebook for a certain period of time on festive days could be arranged. “This (puja streaming) will help us manage the crowd. If people can see puja pandals by sitting at home, it is expected that lesser number of people could come out on streets,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs highest daily cases and deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 4,069 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths and 3,596 recoveries, all the three figures the highest for a 24-hour period. This is the 18th time in October that the maximum daily tally of the novel coronavirus patients was reset. The state had logged the highest daily death toll of 64 three times before. The total cases in the state now are over 3.33 lakh, which include 2.91 lakh recoveries and 6,244 deaths. Since the number of cured patients were also high, Bengal saw a slight rise in the recovery rate for the first time in a couple of weeks, from 87.43 on Tuesday to 87.45 per cent on Wednesday. On October 6, the rate had reached the state’s highest of 87.98, after which it took a tumble. The national rate, which had been far behind the state rate for months, is now 88.82. “Given how masses showed utter disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols over the past week or so, in the run-up to the Puja, things could have been worse. So, a daily rise of 4,000-odd is still not a cause of big worry,” said a Bengal minister. “There has not been a corresponding surge in deaths and the recoveries have been rising, which are heartening indicators,” he added. “October, so far, has been the most difficult month for us in the pandemic.” In the three weeks of October, the state has had over 76,000 new cases and 1,286 deaths, besides around 65,000 recoveries. The total of active cases spiked from 26,000-odd to nearly 36,000. Bengal alone now has around 4.8 per cent of the active cases in the country. The five high-incidence districts of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — now part of the Centre’s high priority districts for intensive Covid-19 management measures — collectively reported a rise of nearly 45,000 patients in the three weeks. “In those five districts, the total of active cases was 12,574 exactly a month ago. On Wednesday, it is 20,251,” said the minister. Of the total 6,244 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 2,038, with 19 till 9am. North 24-Parganas logged a total of 1,416 deaths, 19 of them on Wednesday. The state government reported 5,276 deaths (84.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.87, behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. With the examination of 43,592 swab samples reported on Wednesday, the total tests went past 41 lakh mark, to reach 41.22 lakh, at 45,318 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.08 per cent now. The state reported 37.31 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals on Wednesday. Besides, 3.59 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic have been made till date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid caution for hotels at seaside towns in Bengal||Authorities have issued a set of directives for hotel owners at seaside resort towns in East Midnapore district to ensure that social distancing and other novel coronavirus-related health norms are strictly followed during the festive season. The directives were issued on Sunday at a meeting between officials of the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority and hoteliers of Digha, Mandarmani, Tajpur and Sankarpur. District administration and police officials were also present. “A number of tourists are coming to the beaches without proper precautions. There is a high risk of contamination. That is why the hotel owners have been cautioned,” said Akhil Giri, the vice-chairman of the DSDA. “Boarders at hotels and lodges will have to maintain social distance. The norms are to be maintained on roads and beaches as well. If people are found without masks, police will take necessary steps. Rooms will have to be sanitised twice a day,” he added. A large section of the visitors flouts social distance norms and doesn’t wear masks on streets and beaches. The police are making regular announcements on the beaches, requesting people to keep distance amongst themselves even during bathing, but in vain. The Digha police had already detained 100 tourists for flouting distancing norms or not wearing masks. They were later released. “After the high court banned entry of visitors to puja pandals, there has been a spike in the number of bookings at Digha. The directives from the administration will help us rein in tourists violating Covid protocol,” a hotel owner said. He added that the hoteliers were asked at the meeting to ensure that all visitors underwent thermal screening while they checked in. “With special trains between Digha and Howrah running since October 16, the number of tourists increased. It is only natural that the number will go up during Puja,” the hotelier said. “I have asked all hotel owners in Digha to ensure tourists abide by social distancing and other health norms. It is their job to ensure that tourists follow rules,” said Bipradas Chakraborty, the joint secretary of the Digha Sankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. “Our safety is our responsibility. Only if we all remain cautious, we can keep the coronavirus at bay,” he added. Ten officials of the Digha police station, including the officer in-charge, three assistant sub-inspectors, two constables and a civic volunteer have already tested positive for coronavirus. Till Tuesday, East Midnapore district recorded 13,430 Covid positive cases and 171 deaths. According to Chakraborty, there are around 600 hotels and lodges in Digha. Krishnendu Pradhan, the officer in-charge of Digha police station, has been quarantined after testing positive for coronavirus. While speaking to The Telegraph over the phone, he sounded concerned. “Tourists have been flouting the rules and not listening to us. We have taken ill while being on duty. If hoteliers look into the matter strictly, there will be some improvement in the situation,” Pradhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid test hubs dot highways in Bengal||Around 100 temporary rapid Covid testing centres have come up on national and state highways in Bengal to check if drivers and passengers entering the state are carriers of the pathogen. Sources said the initiative was taken after chief minister Mamata Banerjee, at an administrative meeting in West Midnapore’s Jhargram on October 7, flagged this concern. “A large number of trucks from Jharkhand, Chennai and other states entered (Bengal) via Jhargram. The virus is being carried by those trucks and it is the reason behind hike in Covid cases here…. As cases are rising in Jhargram, take precautions before Puja,” Mamata had asked officials. Though Mamata referred only to Jhargram, the health department asked all districts to set up test centres at strategic entry points. Most highway testing centres are in districts that share borders with Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. “Hundreds of trucks from Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and Odisha can’t enter Calcutta during Durga Puja days because of traffic curbs. Trucks wait at roadside dhabas or hotels. All districts have been asked to set up testing centres near popular dhabas or hotels,” a state health department official said. A health department official said reports were handed over in under 90 minutes. Sources said a few districts like Birbhum and Purulia had started the testing centres and some such as East Burdwan would start them from Thursday. In Birbhum, 12 roadside testing centres have been opened and six are working. In Purulia, that shares a long border with Jharkhand, 11 testing units have come up. Officials said most trucks from Jharkhand or other states reach Calcutta via the Durgapur Experessway. Hence, six rapid testing centres would run on the stretch from Thursday. Pranab Roy, chief medical officer in East Burdwan, also said testing centres would run from Thursday and those found positive would be sent to safe homes. In Birbhum’s Bolpur, two Durga Puja pandals have been selected for rapid antigen tests as many visitors from outside the state visit them. “We have selected a club where rapid antigen tests would be carried out for those coming to see the puja of Baro Bari in Surul village. Another testing unit has opened at Sonajhuri where many from Calcutta come to see the puja. The testing will start from Friday,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-335
22-10-2020||North East||Assam Rifles jawan killed in Arunachal militant encounter||An Assam Rifles jawan was killed in an encounter with militants in Tirap district of Arunachal Pradesh on Wednesday morning. An army statement issued in the evening said the soldier was killed in an encounter with a group of insurgents. “Based on specific input, the security forces had launched a joint operation with police to aggressively dominate, locate and neutralize the insurgent group reported to be present. During the operation, a contact was established with the insurgents in the early hours. In the ensuing firefight, a soldier sustained grievous injuries and made supreme sacrifice fighting the insurgents. The operation is under progress and security forces are committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity in the area,” the statement said, without naming the insurgent group. The police was also a part of the joint operation. The attack on the 6 Assam Rifles patrolling team took place around 8am near Sanliam village on Khonsa Lazu Road of Tirap district, which shares border with Myanmar, police sources said. “The name of the deceased jawan is Babu Rao. The patrolling team were on foot when the attack took place according to our information. Sanliam is around 25km from the district headquarters Khonsa,” one of them said. So far no organisation has claimed responsibility for Wednesday’s attack. This is the second attack carried out against the paramilitary force this month. On October 4, a warrant officer of 19 Assam Rifles was killed and another injured in an ambush carried out jointly by the NSCN (Khaplang), Ulfa (Independent) and Peoples Liberation Army (PLA), the armed wing of the Revolutionary Peoples Front (RPF), in Changlang district. Tirap, Longding and Changlang, which border Myanmar, are districts where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act is in force. Tirap falls between Changlang and Longding districts. Assam Rifles personnel guard the 1,643km Indo-Myanmar border. Four northeastern states — Arunachal Pradesh (520km), Nagaland (215km), Mizoram (510km) and Manipur (398km) — share border with Myanmar from where several insurgent outfits from the region operate. Rebels have been targeting Assam Rifles in both Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, more so after six militants of the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) were killed during an encounter with the force in Longding district. On July 29, three jawans of 4 Assam Rifles were killed and six injured in an ambush “carried” out by cadres of the RPF, Ulfa and Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF) in Chandel district of neighbouring Manipur after the troopers were returning to their base following an area domination patrol. On October 16, NSCN (I-M) had flayed the Assam Rifles for their “total disregard of the agreed ceasefire ground rules”. It had cited three incidents that took place this month where the outfit’s members were assaulted/arrested, including the “unwarranted arrest” by the 19 Assam Rifles on October 14 at Jairampur, Changlang district, “without any provocation except for being a member of NSCN”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Logistics park to come up in Assam||The country’s first multi-modal logistics park coming up at Jogighopa in lower Assam’s Bongaigaon district will provide employment to 20 lakh people, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has said. The park, whose foundation stone was laid by Gadkari through videoconference on Tuesday afternoon, is the first among 35 such projects identified for implementation across the country and the only one that will be funded completely by the Centre. These parks are a key policy initiative of the Centre to improve the logistics sector by lowering overall freight and warehousing costs, besides checking vehicular pollution and congestion. A state of the art facility, the Rs 1,171 crore Jogighopa park will provide direct air, road, rail and waterways connectivity, envisioned to drive economic growth and trade competitiveness through a truly integrated, seamless, efficient, reliable and cost-effective logistics network to facilitate domestic and export-import trade in the region. The park is being developed by the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL), a fully owned company of the ministry of road transport and highways, on 317 acres of land along the Brahmaputra. Gadkari said the project would generate direct and indirect employment for around 20 lakh people. The multi-modal logistics park, to be completed in two phases within 2023, will have facilities like warehouse, railway siding, cold storage, custom clearance house, yard facility, workshops, petrol pumps, truck parking, administrative building, boarding and lodging, eating joints and water treatment plant, among others. Explaining the importance of such a facility, an official said logistics is the backbone of any economy. “Assam has tea, spices, vegetables, coal, hydro-carbon products, etc. It is with connectivity and logistics that we can reach the world with these products. “The logistics park will provide the requisite support for growth of our industry and business. Lack of a proper logistics facility has hindered the growth of export and import of products from Assam over the years. The facility will change this,” the official said. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed for the project between the NHIDCL, Ashoka Paper Mills and the Assam government on Tuesday. The state government has transferred 200 acres belonging to the paper mill which closed down in March 1983. Appreciating the role of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal for realisation of the project, Gadkari urged him to review its implementation every month for maintaining quality and timely completion. Gadkari said his ministry also has plans for national highway projects worth Rs 80,000 crore in Assam. “Work (on the logistics park) will begin next month. The 154km distance between Jogighopa and Guwahati will be covered by making a four-lane road on this stretch, while a 3km rail line will connect Jogighopa station to the park and another 3km rail link will connect it to the inland water transport. “The road to the newly developed Rupsi airport will be upgraded to four lanes for easier connectivity,” Gadkari said. Project work worth Rs 280 crore has already been awarded, including Rs 171 crore for road construction, Rs 87 crore for erecting the structure and Rs 23 crore for rail lines. DoNER minister Jitendra Singh highlighted the efforts of Gadkari in clearing developmental projects in the Northeast. He said the logistics park is a novel idea and will be replicated by other states soon. Thanking the Centre for the project, Sonowal said the people of lower Assam always felt neglected as during all these years after Independence no significant industrial development took place in the region. However, with the MMLP coming up, people of the region will be filled with new hope, he said. Sonowal said the park would revive trade links of the erstwhile river port of Dhubri by connecting it to Chittagong port in Bangladesh and significantly boost domestic and international trade. It will offer a golden opportunity for the economic development of the people of lower Assam, the chief minister added. State industries and commerce minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said Jogighopa will be a “game changer” for Assam’s economy. Patowary appealed to Gadkari to sanction a similar logistics park at Silchar to uniformly develop both the Barak and Brahmaputra valleys. Gadkari, on his part, urged Dispur to set up an industrial park at or near the Jogighopa facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Kaziranga National Park reopens for tourist season||The Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Assam was thrown open to domestic and international tourists on Wednesday. However, visitors below 10 years or above 65 years are not allowed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kaziranga is the second park to reopen in the state after the Manas National Park on October 2, two of the most sought-after places by tourists visiting Assam. There are five national parks in the state. Orang National Park and Tiger Reserve will reopen on November 1. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal formally reopened Kaziranga, famed for its rhinos, for tourists, hoping the move would help revive Assam’s tourism sector hit hard by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. This has been the longest shutdown for Kaziranga since the lockdown in March, a huge financial loss for the facility and locals, many of whom are dependent on the park for their livelihood. According to a senior forest department official, the annual Kaziranga revenue is around Rs 6 crore, raised through entry fees, safari fees and tariffs for accommodation in forest guesthouses. But the park has taken a huge financial hit, first because of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in December last year followed by the lockdown. The park usually remains closed between June and September because of the annual floods and reopens in November. This year Kaziranga witnessed one of its worst floods since 1988. The park authorities are hoping the advance reopening will help them encash on the Durga Puja holidays. Visitors will, however, have to adhere to strict regulations to check the spread of Covid-19, which has infected over 2 lakh people and led to 850 deaths in Assam since March 31. Even the jeep safari will run at half capacity while the elephant safari will start from November 1, an official said. Referring to the one-time financial assistance provided to those engaged in jeep safari to alleviate their economic stress, Sonowal said the state government would take more such initiatives in future for providing succour to the people engaged in the tourism sector. He also called on the people of the five districts covered by Kaziranga and those residing in the surrounding areas of the park to extend full hospitality to the visitors so that the “best picture of the state could be presented to the world”. Urging everyone to follow Covid protocols, Sonowal also urged the media to spread the good news about Kaziranga’s reopening so that tourists from across the country and abroad can come and enjoy the natural beauty of the park and contribute to the revival of the state’s tourism industry. In 2018-19, over 47,10,971 domestic tourists and 25,739 foreign tourists visited the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Mizoram agrees to withdraw forces from Assam after border flare-up||Mizoram decided to pull out its forces from Assam’s territory following the intervention of Satyendra Garg, joint secretary (Northeast) in the home affairs ministry, at a meeting with officials of both the states in Silchar on Wednesday evening to restore normalcy along the border. Silchar is in Cachar district of Assam. This is the second time since Monday that the MHA has intervened. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had on Monday held a videoconference with the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram — Kumar Sanjay Krishna and Lalnunmawia Chuaungo — and directed both the states to “quickly calm down” the situation along the border. The Assam government in a statement on Wednesday evening evening said Mizoram home secretary Pi Lalbiaksangi announced the decision to withdraw forces after meeting Garg, who said the Centre and the two states had fruitful discussions and resolved to settle all “issues amicably across the negotiation table”. In the morning, The tripartite meeting held with Garg followed a bipartite meeting in the morning a meeting was held between Lalbiaksangi and her Assam counterpart G.D. Tripathi to restore peace and normalcy in the disturbed border areas resume the movement of stranded trucks carrying essential commodities stranded on the Assam side of the border. to Mizoram border following the flare-up on Saturday night in Lailapur in Cachar district, the Assam government said. At least 20 deserted huts and stalls were set on fire along the NH-306 allegedly by a crowd from Variengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district in response to a clash involving people from Lailapur earlier in the day in the area. The people from Lailapur had allegedly pelted stones at an auto stand in the Vairengte area over border-related issues. At least seven people were hurt. Variengte check gate is the officially recognised border between the two states. The arson took place about 3km inside the Assam territory, officials from Assam claimed, triggering tension in the area and disrupting movement of trucks to Mizoram. The meeting between the two senior home department officials was held at an army camp close to Lailapur on Wednesday morning. Lailapur is about 45km from Silchar, which is 330km from Guwahati. As part of confidence-building measures, both sides would have interaction and coordination once in a month at the level of deputy commissioners, SPs and DFOs to hammer out any issues. During the meeting at Lailapur, Tripathi, commissioner & secretary (home & border), had asked his Mizoram counterpart to withdraw forces from Assam’s territory at the earliest and to maintain status quo because the presence of Mizoram policemen have triggered “a fear psychosis in the minds of truckers, the government statement said. Lalbiaksangi said she would communicate the request to the higher authorities while urging Tripathi to first ensure the movement of stranded trucks as soon as possible. It was also decided in the meeting that both the states would provide security to the people living on both sides of the border. Apart from seeking the withdrawal of forces, Tripathi also asked his counterpart to book the miscreants involved in the arson on the Assam side of the border on Saturday night and ensure there was no encroachment of reserved forest areas. Tripathi, on his part, assured that the Assam government and the Cachar district administration would persuade the truckers to resume movement so that people in Mizoram did not face hardship. “We are for people-to-people contact and keeping every mode of communication open so that the camaraderie and bonhomie that exist between the people of the neighbouring states prevail,” he said. A statement from Mizoram government said the home secretary-level meeting in the morning dwelt on four major issues and both of them agreed that no steps would be taken in the disputed areas without mutual consultations, consent and agreements of both governments. The meeting had also agreed that withdrawal of police forces would be taken up once vehicular traffic and the current situation return back to normal. On Tripathi’s suggestion to withdraw police forces from the area, Lalbiaksangi had said they would remain deployed for the safety of Mizoram residents till the situation returned to normal. She pointed out there were no reports at all of any incident targeting non-Mizo drivers within Mizoram. In fact, drivers stranded due to the blockade were helped by the Young Mizo Association, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||Opinion||Govern with care: Bhagat Singh Koshyari's 'secular' concern||Sir — Law-abiding citizens of the country are unable to understand how a governor, the holder of a constitutional post, can question a chief minister’s administrative decisions by accusing him of being overtly “secular” (“Governor’s letter to Uddhav”, Oct 14). The governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, appealed to the Hindutva credentials of Uddhav Thackeray while seeking the reopening of places of worship in the state. The chief minister aptly replied by reminding the governor that secularism is an inalienable facet of the Constitution. One wonders what might be the reason behind Koshyari urging Thackeray to open places of worship in Maharashtra when the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, had recently asked citizens to abstain from congregating in large numbers and to worship from the safety of their homes. It is highly unseemly for a governor to interfere or question the administrative decisions of the chief minister. In our school and college days, governors were never in the news. These days, however, several governors like Jagdeep Dhankhar and Kiran Bedi, among others, have been known to interfere with the working of the elected government. They have not only failed to fulfil their constitutional duties but their overt political stances have also raised questions about whether they have become mere stooges of the Centre, trying to undermine elected governments especially in states where the Bharatiya Janata Party is not in power. It is time that governors respect their constitutional position and retain the dignity of their office. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Even though Uddhav Thackeray’s decision to open bars, malls and restaurants, while keeping places of worship closed is questionable, the letter sent by Bhagat Singh Koshyari, was uncalled for. In India, the post of the governor is purely ornamental and he or she is expected to work in cooperation with the chief minister of the state, no matter which political party he or she belonged to before occupying the post. The accusations of turning “secular” are not unexpected. The Shiv Sena’s politics stands on catering to the demands of the Hindu majority. With its newly formed alliance with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, the Sena has become far more muted in its Hindutva ideals. Whether this commitment to secularism is a result of an ideological compromise that the chief minister has been compelled to reach in order to retain his position within the alliance remains to be seen. Nevertheless, it must be admitted that considering the rapid spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, the Thackeray is right to keep places of worship closed longer. Leaders must continue to prioritize the safety of the people and not succumb to pressures. N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Sir — It is worrying how in his letter to Uddhav Thackeray, Bhagat Singh Koshyari has laid bare his preference for the word “Hindutva” over “secularism”. Shockingly, the governor accused Thackeray of having “suddenly turned secular”. It seems that Koshyari is wearing two hats at the same time — one of a governor and the other of a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh pracharak. These are mutually incompatible. This is a blatant disrespect of the constitutional role of the governor. Thackeray rightly reminded him that secularism is the bedrock of the Indian democracy. Furthermore, in his rush to appease the Hindu majority, Koshyari seems to have forgotten that Maharashtra has one of the highest infection rates in India. It is typical of the BJP to misconstrue the Maharashtra government’s decision to defer the reopening of temples for reasons of safety as an assault on Hindutva. This overrides the directive of the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to worship from the safety of one’s home. All places of worship where devotees can congregate in large numbers pose the risk of spreading the contagion. It is time we prioritize public safety over religion. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — As with most institutions these days, the office of the governor, too, has been abused beyond the comprehension of the founding fathers of our nation. The letter sent by Bhagat Singh Koshyari to Uddhav Thackeray can rightfully be seen as an attempt to communalize the handling of the pandemic. Anita Mehra,Mumbai Race against time Sir — As the Arctic circle continues to warm at two or three times the global rate — summer ice may disappear by 2042 — emission reductions or renewable energy programs are no longer enough. The idea of alternative geo-engineering projects — this includes underwater sea walls and rewilding the tundra — have gained traction. But the fight against climate change must be a global endeavour — the Donald Trump administration alone has reversed almost a hundred environmental rules. Unless everyone understands the urgency of the situation, no amount of innovative methods will help. Alaka Sharma,Gwalior||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||Dark water: Lessons from Hyderabad floods||The waters are turning deeper, but are crucial lessons being learnt from their depths? This is an important question to ask in the wake of the floods in Hyderabad, which have claimed over 70 lives and caused significant losses to property. It is telling that the deluge coincided with a study by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction that found that India is the second-worst flood-affected nation in Asia which, in turn, accounted for 41 per cent of floods around the world. The changing climate is aggravating the risk; 79 per cent of disasters between 1970 and 2019 were related to water and weather hazards caused by climate change. The vagaries of climate cannot be controlled; neither does the solution lie in only strengthening existing disaster response systems. The focus must be widened to modernize urban planning. This is especially important in the case of India where more people are likely to inhabit cities than rural areas by 2050. Unsurprisingly, Indian cities — Hyderabad is one example — suffer from flaws in urban design and drainage irrespective of their topographical diversity. This is because urban planning and management have a long history of myopia and lackadaisical administrative attitudes. The consequences of this apathy are telling. Mumbai, Chennai and Srinagar, as well as cities in Kerala and Uttarakhand, have been wrecked by floods in recent years. Chaotic urban development, primitive drainage facilities, creaking infrastructure, population pressure and unabated encroachments upon natural drainage systems — Calcutta’s disappearing wetlands are an example — have exacerbated the problems. There is irrefutable evidence of negligence. In the case of Hyderabad, several reports and recommendations filed since the devastating floods in 2000 are lying unimplemented; a city development plan for Srinagar in 2017 chose to ignore the lessons from the floods only three years prior to that. This wilful disregard for public safety can only be attributed to a culture of impunity for the administration. The cost of the absence of accountability is being borne by cities and the people who inhabit them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||Twin problem: Enough food but severe hunger||India ranks 94 out of 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index 2020. At a cosmetic level, this ranking seems to be an improvement as India’s score on the index, which stood at 32.2 in 2010, is at 27.2 this year. The truth, however, is that the country has, year after year, been dealing with a “serious” level of hunger that has often put it behind its neighbours such as Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan. This year has not been an exception either. It is clear from India’s consistently poor showing that severe hunger and undernutrition persist in the country, reflecting the misery of millions of citizens, especially those who live on the margins of the consciousness of the powers that be. This is not to suggest that there have not been efforts to bolster access to food; the National Food Security Act as well as special nutritional schemes for women and children — the ambitious mid-day meal programme is one example — are in place. But India cannot yet rest assured that it is a food-secure nation. The problem has some peculiar, but revealing, dimensions. India grows enough food and the days of grain import are behind it. Yet, vast segments of the population grapple with the lack of food. An astonishing 14 per cent of India’s population is undernourished while child wasting — a measure of children under 5 who are underweight for their height — has risen to 17.3 per cent. Hunger deaths, a shameful phenomenon that the authorities try to explain away as deaths from physiological causes, are thus common even though the nation’s granaries remain well-stocked. The unequal access to food must then be attributed to the perennial problems of corruption and leakages in the vast but also porous public distribution system. The challenge has ironically been compounded further by inefficient mass digitization initiatives to reduce such lapses: several studies claim that Jharkhand’s initiative to link Aadhaar with the PDS network ended up amplifying the exclusion of the most vulnerable. But scarcity is only one aspect of the problem. What makes India’s situation challenging is that hunger and malnutrition coexist with poor dietary habits, especially in food-surplus urban India. Adult obesity, consequently, is on the rise; the number of obese Indians increased exponentially from 25.2 million in 2012 to 34.3 million in 2016. To deal with this double-edged problem, the focus must shift to not only plugging the gaps in the food distribution system to bolster public access but also to educating citizens about consuming healthy — local, traditional? — food. This is crucial at a time when climate change — higher temperatures, drought, increasing levels of carbon dioxide and a rise in sea level — is expected to adversely affect food security, jeopardizing both the quantity and the quality of food supplies. In the absence of decisive policy interventions, malnutrition combined with unhealthy consumption could wreck India’s public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||A battle between divinities: Ram and Parashuram ||Politics in Indian democracy has been transformed into the politics of memory. Political mobilization of the public in a democracy like ours can be perceived as  a sustained effort of mobilizing the collective memories of social groups by creating linkages with symbols, icons and social metaphors. This reinvention of memory facilitates the mobilization of communities bound by such memorial ties. In this war of memory, historical memories, caste heroes and religious icons become the bones of contention among political groups. Collective memories, generated by mytho-histories or epics or both, forge bonds with communities. The myths also function as a reservoir of collective memory as they are told, retold, invented and reinvented across generations. The history of Indian politics would reveal that the 1990s ignited a bitter war of popular memories around religious symbols, caste heroes and community icons, especially in North India. Hindutva politics birthed the Ram Janmabhoomi movement that was based on mobilizing the memory of a mythical hero. This collective memory of Rama has been produced, over the years, through various productions based on the Ramayana and its myriad versions. Around the same time, in order to counter Hindutva’s reproduction of memory through religious symbols and myths, Kanshi Ram, who was then building the Bahujan Samaj Party — a Dalit-Bahujan political nexus — explored caste memories associated with Dalit heroes from folk sources. He not only identified with these caste icons but also reinvented them for mobilizing Dalit-Bahujan communities in favour of his politics. Most members in the Dalit iconography — Jhalkaribai, Uda Devi, Mahaviri Bhangin, Bijli Pasi — were reinvented by the Kanshi Ram-led Dalit Bahujan politics. He also reshaped minor characters — Shambuka and Eklavya in the Ramayana and the Mahabharata — to confront Hindutva meta-narratives. Kanshi Ram adopted oral, aural, visual and ritual strategies to disseminate memories attached to these icons, thereby producing narratives against caste dominance and religious inequalities apart from developing rituals of worship of Dalit heroes. These strategies contributed to making Dalit-Bahujan politics a formidable force in the 1990s. However, gradually, many of these symbols were appropriated by the forces of Hindutva by locating them within the frame of Hindutva. In so doing, they adopted similar strategies of appropriation of the memories associated with these icons. The BSP under Mayawati could not do much to reclaim their icons from this predatory appropriation by Hindutva. The politics in North India, especially in Uttar Pradesh, continues to proceed along similar lines. The only difference being now there is no visionary leader like Kanshi Ram who had a deep understanding of culture and collective memory as well as the ability to transform these into political resources. When the bhoomi pujan took place in Ayodhya, Rama was projected as an inclusive symbol and an icon of social justice. No political party is in a position to effectively counter the Hindutva narrative. But that does not mean that they want to leave the field barren and concede defeat. So Parashuram has been resurrected to contest the hegemonic influence of Rama. Parashuram is remembered as an epical Hindu character who preceded Rama. He is venerated among Brahmins as well as Dalits — Pasis in Uttar Pradesh are an example — as a warrior-rishi. But Parashuram is overwhelmingly revered by the Brahmins these days. To win their support, both Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and Mayawati have announced that they would instal a huge statue to consecrate the memory of Parashuram if they are returned to power. In the epic, Parashuram and Rama represent a continuum; they are not in conflict. But in UP’s politics, Parashuram would have to take on Rama to win the support of Brahmins who constitute around 13 per cent of the population and are said to be annoyed with the Yogi Adityanath government. It is difficult to predict whether Parashuram can brighten the electoral prospects of Opposition parties in UP. But a new war pitting a caste icon — Parashuram — against a religious icon — Rama — could well break out in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Opinion||In memoriam||The perfectly normal process of getting to know another person is something each one of us has done hundreds, if not thousands, of times in our life, and a lot of it has to do with trying to discover if there are things about the other human being that we can relate to, or identify with, or enjoy, in short, trying to figure out who that other person is. Much of this process is, so to speak, midwifed by memory, which is also something we tend to fall back upon when trying to let someone else know who we are. The English philosopher, John Locke (1632-1704), put it rather neatly in An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1689): “to find wherein personal identity consists, we must consider what person stands for;- which, I think, is a thinking intelligent being, that has reason and reflection, and can consider itself as itself, the same thinking thing, in different times and places; which it does only by that consciousness which is inseparable from thinking, and, as it seems to me, essential to it: it being impossible for any one to perceive without perceiving that he does perceive... For, since consciousness always accompanies thinking, and it is that which makes every one to be what he calls self... in this alone consists personal identity, i.e. the sameness of a rational being: and as far as this consciousness can be extended backwards to any past action or thought, so far reaches the identity of that person; it is the same self now it was then; and it is by the same self with this present one that now reflects on it, that that action was done.” This “extend[ing] backwards to any past action” in order to create, or confirm, or justify identity is something that is as true for the collective as it is for the individual human being. Yet, identity — as we know — is never simple, never something that can be “formulated, sprawling on a pin”, as T.S. Eliot put it; it is shifting, capricious, and needs to be constantly renewed if it is to be of any use. Important historical events, which have shaped the identity of a nation, or a people, or a community, need this constant interplay between what that nation/people/community is now and what it was then, when the event occurred. The consciousness of the collective is crucially dependent on how far back it can reach, how much it can remember, for, in a very real and fundamental sense, we are what we remember — but remembering is never an easy thing to do. These reflections were triggered when I recently had the opportunity to visit the site-specific installation/exhibition, Ways of Remembering: Jallianwala Bagh and Rabindranath Tagore’s Response to the Massacre, at the Portrait Gallery of the Victoria Memorial Hall, which had been inaugurated on March 2, 2020, but shut down shortly thereafter as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic. Conceptualized, researched, and curated by Sarmistha Dutta Gupta, and given palpable form by the show’s artistic director, Sanchayan Ghosh, Ways of Remembering gives one an immersive experience of the massacre before, during, and after Acting Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer ordered his troops to open fire on an unarmed crowd of children, women and men at the Bagh on April 13, 1919, killing at least 379, and injuring some 1,200 others. Using an eclectic array of techniques and incorporating documents, recordings (both audio and video), light, sound, shapes, forms and objects, the installation/exhibition invites the visitor to see for himself/herself not just what Jallianwala Bagh was then, and what it came to mean for the later history of the struggle to throw off the colonial yoke, but also to reflect on how an oppressive State justifies the murder of citizens in the name of maintaining law and order. In an act of profound, almost poetic, subversion, Ways of Remembering was designed such that none of the original exhibits of the Portrait Gallery — including paintings and larger-than-life sculptures of British nobility on raised plinths — had to be removed or shifted; instead, they were made part of the free-flowing, interactive process of the installation/exhibition itself. Showing “one of the worst atrocities in the global history of empire” in a grandiose edifice “originally designed by Lord Curzon to be a museum that could showcase the ‘achievements of the empire’”, as Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial Hall, puts it in his note to the catalogue of the exhibition took courage, not least because Ways of Remembering makes pointed reference to subsequent incidents of brutal State oppression of peaceful dissent. To try and describe Ways of Remembering in words is doomed to failure because the installation/exhibition quite literally envelops the visitor, from the huge blood-streaked map of undivided Punjab underfoot, to the vast flickering images projected on the wall, to the sounds that play on strategically placed speakers, to the charpoy with quotations from diverse sources woven into it (on which visitors can sit if they so desire), to the huge tapestry with the names of the massacre victims embroidered on it hanging above the entrance to the Portrait Gallery, to the monitors playing videos made specifically for the occasion (comprising interviews with scholars, the tour-guide of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial, members from the families of those who did or did not survive the massacre, and so on), to much else that I could not take in even though I spent several hours savouring the cornucopia of riches that make up the installation/exhibition. Rabindranath Tagore looms large, of course, and not only because of his letter of May 31, 1919, to Lord Chelmsford, the viceroy of India, renouncing his knighthood, where he had declared his “wish to stand, shorn of all special distinctions, by the side of those of my countrymen, who, for their so-called insignificance, are liable to suffer degradation not fit for human beings”. Visitors are also shown how Rabindranath had actively campaigned when visiting London the year after the massacre to keep alive the memory of the horror of Jallianwala Bagh among the ordinary public and members of the British Parliament. Perhaps more pertinently, the installation/exhibition reminds visitors that Rabindranath had not been in favour of erecting a memorial at the Bagh, as had been proposed by Gandhiji and the Congress in early 1920. As Dutta Gupta puts it, Rabindranath “disagreed with the idea of monumentalising memory and not with the idea of remembering per se”, something which inspired her to put together an installation/exhibition that would become “a facilitator for dialogues and exchanges that... stimulate reflections on the politics of memory”. The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has deprived us, both as individuals as well as members of larger collectives, of much that is valuable, and I mourn the fact that this remarkable display will have been dismantled by the time you read this. However, efforts are on to try and preserve at least a part of Ways of Remembering in digital form, and one hopes that such a virtual afterlife will stimulate the kind of reflection and dialogue that its creators had hoped to stimulate, given especially that other Baghs are now crowding into our collective consciousness. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Enjoying Durga Puja with eye on Covid guidelines||The district administration on Thursday met organisers of Durga Pujas in Bokaro to ensure a safe and peaceful festival amid the pandemic. It was decided that the festival would be celebrated while strictly observing Covid-19 guidelines. Although the number of coronavirus cases has declined, there are still 373 active cases in the district. Data shows that 4,877 people in the district have been infected with the coronavirus since the pandemic started. Of them, 4,462 have recovered while 42 died. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said organisers would take the necessary steps to ensure there is no crowding during the festival. No more than seven people will be allowed in a pandal at a time. Singh said social distancing, the use of masks and sanitisation were mandatory. Legal action will be taken against those organisers found defaulting. “A case will be filed against the chairman and secretary of the Durga Puja pandal concerned under Sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections,” said Singh. The puja should be organised in small pandals, the rules say. The construction of the pandal will not be based on any theme. Any type of decorative lighting is forbidden. The construction of a welcome gate or archway will not be allowed, the rules add. According to the rules, the entire area of the puja pandal will have to be ventilated, except for the idol. The idol of Durga will be 4 feet or less. No fair will be organised during the festival. Food stalls near pandals are prohibited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||NGO approaches chief secretary for guidelines for Chhath Puja||A local NGO has shot a letter to Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh calling for guidelines for Chhath Puja amid the coronavirus pandemic. The NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM), has sought the guidelines in advance because rules for Durga Puja were issued at the last moment, causing problems for organisers. “As Chhath is one of the main festivals in Jharkhand, I have requested Singh to issue the guidelines concerning the festival as early as possible so that devotees are not inconvenienced like the organisers of Durga Puja due to the delayed issuance of rules by the state government,” the NGO’s president, Om Prakash, told The Telegraph Online. Prakash, who is also a senior lawyer, pointed out that it was needless to mention that Chhath Puja is performed mainly on the river ghats and other water bodies, including ponds and lakes. “While performing the rituals, thousands gather at the river ghats and along other water bodies.  In Jamshedpur and the adjoining Adityapur township in Seraikela-Kharsawan, the devotees have to visit the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers for performing the rituals. As there is little space at the river ghats, the devotees have to perform the rituals while standing close to each other, which is not safe during the ongoing pandemic. The situation may add to the spread of the coronavirus,” Prakash said. He said it would be fruitless if the guidelines are issued late. Prakash said Chhath Puja is on November 20 and 21, almost a month away from now. He pointed out that if the state government declares that devotees cannot gather along the river ghat in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the devotees can make alternative arrangements like digging a small pond at their homes. “In any case, the state government has to issue guidelines in this regard. If it is to issue the guidelines, then why not now? Issuing the guidelines on time would help the devotees,” Prakash said. He said the NGO was forced to approach the chief secretary as it had not got a response from Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner Iqbal Ansari, whom it approached first. In Jamshedpur, over 2.5 lakh people perform Chhath at the ghats along the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers every year. Of late, some devotees have started performing the Puja at their homes or localities. The guidelines for Durga Puja were issued on October 1, just 21 days before the festival. As a result of the delay, most organisers could not get the Durga idol in time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||14-day home quarantine rule for visitors scrapped  ||The Jharkhand government has discontinued the 14-day mandatory home quarantine rule for those coming into the state with immediate effect and announced reopening of bars and gymnasiums from November 1. Interstate movement of buses will, however, begin from November 8 while schools have been allowed to call students with the consent of their parents solely for the purpose of registration for board examinations, said an order issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Thursday night. The order also increased the cap on gatherings in closed auditoriums to 200 people at a time from the existing 50. The order read, “In a closed auditorium, congregation of 50 per cent of its capacity with a maximum ceiling of 200 is allowed from November 1. In open spaces, 200 people will be allowed keeping in view the size of the ground.” Multiplexes, parks, sporting activities and educational institutions will, however, continue to remain closed till further orders, according to the notification. The state government had on Wednesday also announced relaxations in Durga Puja guidelines, allowing use of public address systems and the increasing limit of people at pandals to 15 from seven. “Consider it as a puja gift,” remarked an official in the state disaster management department about the latest relaxations announced in view of a decreasing trend of new Covid-19 cases. “Cases are substantially down and the positivity rate is also low. Hence, a decision was taken to offer more relaxations in the interest of stabilising public life and economic activities,” he said. Ramesh Ghosh, a telecom executive who arrived in Jamshedpur from Delhi on Wednesday for Durga Puja after a year, heaved a sigh of relief. “I learnt about the 14-day mandatory home quarantine only after landing at Ranchi airport. It would have meant that all my Puja plans, meeting friends and relatives, would have gone for a toss. Also, I would have had to extend my stay in Jharkhand which wasn’t possible. In the end, I am happy (that the quarantine rule has been done away with),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Ranchi celebrate Durga Puja||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC head coach eyes elusive playoff spot ||Owen Coyle wants his men to be competitive and challenge for the elusive playoff spot when Jamshedpur FC begins their Indian Super League (ISL) campaign in Goa next month. The Tata Steel-owned club has pinned their hopes on the 54-year-old head coach who knows what it takes to make champions. But is Owen the man to end JFC’s ISL play-off voodoo? Jamshedpur has not made it to the play-off in the three seasons since their inception in 2017. In each of the seasons, Jamshedpur have seen themselves miss out narrowly on the top-four. A lot of it is down to a combination of factors, including a medley of coaches, none of whom have stayed at the club for more than a season. Now, the mantle has been passed to Owen who has a huge responsibility in breaking the playoff jinx. Owen is ready, having worked out his priorities for the high-octane encounters ahead. “We are looking forward to the league getting underway considering the new circumstances. We aim to be competitive and challenge for the elusive playoff spot that our fantastic club hasn’t achieved yet. We are happy with the squad we have built and the more time we have to work together on the training field, the stronger we will become,” Owen said from Goa. The highly-experienced mentor, who propelled Chennaiyin FC to a runners-um finish last season after taking charge of the campaign midway, added that JFC wants to play a big part in the ISL to be able to challenge for honours and continue the development of young Indian players. “I think this will be the best season to date. Considering the quality of the team, both foreign and domestic, there is no doubt that the ISL is a league on an upward trajectory and we at Jamshedpur want to play a big part in it,” Owen, who is Scottish by birth and Irish by descent, added. With a solid mix of Indian and foreign recruits under his wing, Owen is keen to let lose his cannons in the form of goal machine Nerijus Valskis, Peter Hartley, Stephen Eze and Jackichand Singh, to name a few, once the Men of Steel take to the field. Owen will take charge of the pre-seasons after two or three days at the Sangolda football ground near Panjim. The head coach is looking at all areas, the most important factor being to score goals. He has the right combination and players and a proven track record to do the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto on life support at MGM in Chennai||Jharkhand minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was flown to Chennai on October 19 for better medical attention after developing complications in his respiratory system as a result of Covid-19, has been put on life support system at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital, doctors treating him there said on Thursday. The Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device, Dr Suresh Rao, said that the education minister’s condition was “slightly better” than what it was in Ranchi. Dr Rao explained that through an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) system blood is pumped outside of a patient’s body to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to tissues in the body. “In ECMO, the gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is given back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body,” said Dr Rao. “ECMO is a bridge therapy. We cannot keep a patient on ECMO for long, but it allows the lungs time to recover,” he added. Some Covid patients recovered after being on ECMO for a month, and some did not, said Rao. A patient, who did not respond to ECOM, underwent a lung transplant at the hospital and was doing well now, he recalled. Dr Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at MGM, told The Telegraph Online that Mahto was stable and in his senses on Thursday. The 54-year-old state minister was also responding to treatment, Jindal added. “He is quite stable now. We have put him on ECMO, and we are giving him time to heal and respond to the treatment. We are not trying to force his lungs to start functioning at an optimum level of efficiency,” said Dr Jindal. “His blood pressure is fine. His heart rate is also normal. And we are not dealing with any infection as of now,” he added. Dr Jindal admitted that Mahto’s lungs were badly affected due to the viral infection, but there was a possibility that his lungs may recover with time if he gets proper rest and the required medical attention. Jindal said that the doctors at MGM will give at least a couple of weeks to Mahto to respond to the treatment and allow his lungs to heal on their own. “We cannot abruptly decide to go for a lung transplant. There are possibilities of him recovering without surgical intervention,” Jindal said. Jagarnath Mahto, a JMM legislator from Dumri, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28. He was shifted from the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi on October 1, where he was put on non-invasive ventilation. However, the minister’s condition did not improve during 20 days of treatment in ICU and he had to be shifted to Chennai. Dr Jindal, who had visited Ranchi to examine Mahto earlier this week, said there was no need to retest him for Covid-19. “There are a lot of misconceptions regarding Covid-19. A patient can be healthy and still test positive in the test. The infectivity usually becomes very low after 10 to 14 days, so repeated retesting is not required,” he said. As many as five ministers in the Jharkhand cabinet have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. State minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest a day after testing Covid-negative at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi. Health minister Banna Gupta, drinking water and sanitation minister Mithilesh Thakur and agriculture minister Badal Patralekh also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. All three of them recovered without any medical complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Quiet start to Puja in steel city, stay-at-home the mantra||This year's Durga Puja -2020 will be like no other. The festival got off to a quiet start on Thursday, Shasthi, with organisers appealing to all to stay at home and be safe. Most of the 320-odd Pujas of the steel city, except for Adityapur's Jairam Youth Sporting Club whose patron is former Ichagarh MLA Arvind Singh, have decided to go simple with ordinary pandals and idols of 4 feet as per government guidelines. Some Pujas, like the one in Northern Town and Circuit House Area and Beldih Kalibari, have done away with idols and pandals to avoid a rush. Like every year, Jairam Youth Sporting Club hired artisans from Bengal for the beautifully decked up pandal and idol of Goddess Durga. "Masks are mandatory for people visiting our pandal. We have also procured around 5,000 face masks for distribution among visitors. Moreover, we have also installed automatic sensor-based sanitizers at all gates of the pandal," said Praveen Singh, a senior executive member of Jairam Youth Sporting Club. Of the major crowd pullers, both Beldih Kalibari and Circuit House Area Pujas, have decided to give it a miss this year because of the pandemic. While Beldih Kalibari will organise Kalash Sthapana and other rituals in a simple manner on its premises, the posh Circuit House Area Puja has shifted rituals to the Sakchi-based Durgabari to prevent a rush. Steel city residents will also miss Kumari Puja, one of the major attractions of Navami, at the Beldih Kalibari. Thakur Pyara Singh Thurandhar Singh Club in Kashidih, which used to make splendid pandals, spending several lakhs, opted for a simple pandal and idol this year as per government specifications. "We decided to make it a simple affair because of the pandemic. We will carry out all necessary Puja rituals. We are also appealing to people to stay at home. Next year, we will opt for a grand Puja celebration," said patron Abhay Singh. Cinema Maidan at Sidhgora, known for pandals that depict the year’s most memorable event, has also decided on a no-frills Puja this year. The committee has erected a simple open pandal and is using small idols. Likewise, pandals in other areas of the steel city, like Telco, Sakchi, Baridih, Golmuri, Sonari and Kadma, have also embraced simplicity. Several puja committees have planned live streaming of Pushpanjali over Facebook. “For several years our Puja has been among the top five crowd-pullers of the steel city. Our attempt every year has been to be Number One in terms of visitors. But this year, nothing is happening because of the pandemic,” said a member of Sonari Central Durga Puja Committee. With the state government issuing fresh guidelines on Wednesday, priests can now be heard chanting mantras over loudspeakers. However, no pre-recorded music is being allowed. But residents felt that the state government should have allowed pre-recorded dhak to be played. “Nothing will feel like Puja this year. At least residents could have shut their eyes and enjoyed the rhythms of the dhak,” pointed out Kajal Das, a resident of Telco Colony. Till last year, thousands would enjoy a heart lunch of bhog at pujas. This year, however, bhog has been disallowed by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bison born in Betla National Park, birth kept secret so as not to invite ill-luck||A bison gave birth to a healthy female calf at the Betla National Park of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), an event that was kept secret from local scribes for 20 days so as not to jinx the newborn. PTR deputy director north division Kumar Ashish on Thursday confirmed that the bison was born near Bairya Nullah. Forest guard Mukesh Oraon was the first to see the newborn calf on October 2 around 5am. Thereafter, sources said PTR officials decided to keep the birth a secret. “Three bison had died in the Betla National Park in the months of April and May this year. It was a terrible loss. We were in great shock,” said Ashish. “These deaths had made us shaky and scared for their health and longevity. When this female bison calf was born, we tried to keep this news secret. We did not want any prying eyes,” he said, adding that this was done out of their love and concern for the newborn calf. “Despite being on leave during Druga Puja, I am keeping myself updated about the calf. I am told she is doing fine. She is learning to live a life of her own with her mother,” said Ashish. Asked if the calf had any problem from other adult bison, Ashish said the mother provides the calf with a Y-type security cover. “There are three more bison here who have befriended the mother and calf, and act as a protective shield for the calf,” he said. Ashish has also employed 4 trackers to shadow the mother and her calf day and night. There are around 50 to 60 bison in the park, who drink water from troughs located within the park. “In 1990, there were 400 bison in the PTR. Now, the number has depleted to 50 or 60, with the population restricted to the Betla National Park,” said Ashish. Environmentalist DS Srivastava said the park is the only abode for bison in Jharkhand. “Thus, all efforts are being made to increase its progeny, as they are a priceless gem among the wildlife of our state,” said Ashish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hyena shot dead, fierce honey badger caught in Jharkhand||Forest officials found the body of a hyena bearing a bullet wound on the Simaria-Tandwa main road on Wednesday evening, in an incident that seemed to be the work of hunters. This is the first time that a hyena was found shot dead in a district where a large number of deer found are killed for meat. The forest team reached the spot and sent the body of the dead animal for a post-mortem, after which the animal was buried in the forest area. Local villagers said they had long spotted the hyena roaming in the forests. They said it had never disturbed them, and why hunters would have killed it was beyond their imagination. However, a retired forest official said the manner of the bullet wound suggested that someone had killed the hyena for fun. “It’s the work of someone of this very area, who knew about the movement of the hyena and killed it after getting the opportunity,” he added. Range officer Umesh Prasad who led the team said hyenas do not usually frequent the area, adding that poaching and killing animals is a serious crime. “The number of hyenas has already decreased and poaching will come as a curse on their existing numbers here. We keep an eye on poachers but also urge villagers to inform us if spot any hunters in their area,” said Prasad. In an incident in Hazaribagh’s Chauparan, villagers caught a fierce little mammal honey badger, or a bijju, and handed it to forest department.  The badger was entering the house of one Mohammad Ashfaq in Chaikala village, when he raised the alarm. Local villagers caught the omnivore, which is also known to dig caves and eat the buried human bodies.  Forest official Pankaj Kumar said that he would set the animal free in the forest, but was surprised about how the small and dangerous animal entered into human settlement. Before being caught by villagers, the animal damaged household items at Ashfaq’s house. Forest officials said honey badgers feed on various things, including birds, reptiles, rodents, berries, roots and fruits. Their keen sense of smell helps them sniff out food hidden underground, while their long, strong claws help them dig for or catch that food, then rip their meal to pieces. Honey badgers are named after their presumed fondness for honey. However, these animals are actually interested in the bee larvae found in honeycombs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||State govt make changes to puja guidelines after widespread demand||Jharkhand government on Wednesday night issued two amendments to its earlier Durga puja guidelines, giving in to the demands for relaxation from several quarters including from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) — the lead ruling alliance party. Public address system has now been allowed at puja venues between 7am to 9pm only for live chanting of mantras/paath/arti and restriction of people inside the marquees has been increased to 15. Earlier, the use of public address system was banned and only seven people were allowed inside the marquees at any given point in time. Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh notifying the amendments said, “Use of public address system will only be allowed from 7am to 9pm for arti, chanting of mantra or paath. The sound limit should be within the prescribed limit of 55 decible. However, use of loudspeakers will remain banned within 100 m around vicinity of hospitals and courts. This apart, 15 people instead of seven will be allowed in the marquees. All other earlier clauses of the puja guidelines will remain unchanged. The amendments will be in force with immediate effect.” Puja organizers across the state were opposed to several clauses of the state guidelines issued earlier in the first week of October which was mainly aimed at keeping puja as low-key as possible to curb any chances of crowding. JMM and opposition BJP too later backed some of the demands by puja organizers by separately writing letters to the state government seeking amendments so that the rituals and traditions related to the puja can be complied with. Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Committee (RZDPC), an apex body of over 100 puja samities of Ranchi however gave a mixed response to the recent amendments adding that they will continue to adhere all the prescribed norms. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ashok Purhoit, president of RZDPC said, “We are happy about the amendments, but another key demand of ours, to allow the distribution of bhog, is unfulfilled. However, with no time left anymore, we shall go ahead with whatever rules exist in place.” He added that all puja samities are trying their best to keep their premises crowd free but the district administration should step up its vigil on the streets and other hot-spots to ensure people don’t crowd unnecessarily. Purhoit said, “We can only appeal people to not crowd but there could still be chances of many rogue groups and elements violating the rules. The administration should also equally take the onus to curb it and not put all the blame on puja committees later on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
22-10-2020||Jharkhand||Protest against shifting of RSP College, Jharia||A joint team of the district administration, Binod Bihari Koylanchal University, Bharat Coking Coal Limited and RSP College, Jharia visited Rope Way division of BCCL in Digwadih area on Wednesday to survey around 15 acres of land identified for permanent shifting of the RSP college. The team, comprising Jharia Circle Officer Rajesh Kumar, CCDC of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University Dilip Giri; principal of RSP College Jharia Jay Narayan Singh and general manager of Lodna area Gopal Das Nigam, was met with a protest by local residents who face displacement. Suhashini Devi, one of the protestors, said, “We have been living here in Rope Way for more than 50 years. The  BCCL and district administration is trying to displace us, we will not allow it.” Another protestor, Mritunjay verma said, “There is enough vacant land elsewhere where the college can easily be shifted to, but the administration is bent on the land of our colony.” RSP College Jharia, founded in 1951, is one of oldest degree colleges  and was housed in the palatial building at Bhagatdih, provided by former king of Jharia state Raja Shiv Prasad Singh. The college was later shifted to Belgharia in Baliapur block in September 2017 due to an underground fire and subsidence threat to the college at Bhagatdi. Students of the college have complained against the move, since the temporary college building is situated at an isolated place, where regular public transport is not available. The college administration was also facing issues with the continuation of its B Ed course as the National Council for Teachers Education affiliation requires the institution to be on owned land, and the Belgharia property belongs to BCCL. In a recent meeting of the district administration, the university and BCCL administration it was decided to temporarily start an extension office at the BCCL GM office building in Digwadih area of Jharia assembly constituency. It was also decided to explore the possibility of shifting the college in the vicinity of GM office. Jharia Circle officer Rajesh Kumar said, “We have carried out a survey of  the land identified at Rope Way division for shifting of RSP College, but a final decision will be made after taking into account different factors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-259
