23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja contest: What did they say?||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: Khichudi bhog from star hotels in Calcutta||Residents of several housing complexes and neighbourhoods this Ashtami will be served the traditional khichudi-labda by star hotels, no less. With community lunch on puja days off the table, at least a couple of luxury hospitality addresses, whose business has taken a hit in this pandemic season, have sensed an opportunity and stepped into what is uncharted territory for them. “We have a tradition of serving community lunch for the neighbourhood on Ashtami and Navami, which had to be cancelled. When we received a proposal from Novotel of serving packed lunch we were initially hesitant, thinking star hotel rates would be beyond us. But later we realised that only a five star property can ensure hygiene that is so vital now,” said Sumanta Roy, the general secretary of Jodhpur Park Saradiya Utsav Committee. The puja has placed khichudi bhog lunch order with the hotel for Ashtami. “They are providing disposable cutlery in sealed lunch boxes,” Roy added. In Golf Green, the goddess will be offered bhog cooked in the sanitised environment of the New Town hotel’s kitchen. “We could not trust local caterers this time,” said Sudip Bose, secretary, Golf Green Sharadotsav Committee. Novotel, he said, would deliver packed bhog at the pandal which the priest would offer during the ritual. Residents will later collect their packets from one of six delivery counters. “This way, we are assured of almost contactless bhog delivery,” Bose said. The general manager of Novotel Kolkata Hotel & Residences, Sandeep Johri, explained to Metro how outdoor catering has emerged as a new vertical in this season. “People are not venturing out. So footfall is low. We were exploring various options, like having a bakery van parked in front of housing complexes every morning. Months ago, we had realised that this year, pankti bhoj will not happen. So we thought of taking the home delivery vertical further and doing large scale delivery.” Peerless Inn is also delivering to four prominent housing complexes off the Bypass in south Calcutta. “We have launched a home delivery segment under our QSR (quick service restaurant) outlet brand Aaheli Express, for which we have our own delivery channel. People prefer to eat Bengali cuisine during Puja, which is why they are approaching us. The cooking will happen at our base kitchen at the hotel and packing done on the spot maintaining hygiene norms,” Debasree Roy Sarkar, president, corporate development, Peerless Hotels. At Urbana, when community lunch was cancelled the organisers thought up alternatives. “Not having to shop for vegetables and step into the kitchen is part of enjoying Puja,” said Sujit Bhattacharya, president of Urbana Welfare Association. For Saptami, they decided to hand over packed lunchbox catering to Aaheli Express.  “They will deliver the boxes in each tower’s reception from where residents will collect them,” he added. This new-found business vertical, predict the hoteliers, will be there to stay even after the pandemic blows over.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Flights from Calcutta to Bangladesh start on October 28||Flight services between Calcutta and Bangladesh will resume on October 28 and many airlines have already planned their schedules, airport officials said on Thursday. Airlines are planning to resume flight operations from Calcutta to Dhaka and Chittagong in the first week of November, according to officials of several airlines. One of the most popular international routes from Calcutta, commercial flights to Dhaka had been stalled because of the pandemic. Only a few evacuation flights had operated a few months ago. “An air travel bubble will be established between India and Bangladesh with effect from October 28 and will remain valid till January 31 next year or till the resumption of scheduled international flights, whichever is earlier,” the Centre has said in a letter to the directorate general of civil aviation. “Designated carriers of both countries will be permitted to operate services between India and Bangladesh under the bubble.” An air bubble is an arrangement between two countries to operate commercial passenger flights as regular services have been stalled because of the pandemic. SpiceJet, IndiGo, Air India, GoAir and Vistara are the Indian carriers allowed to operate flights to Dhaka and Chittagong from Calcutta, Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai as part of the agreement. They can operate up to 28 flights in a week from these cities. Biman Bangladesh, US Bangla Airlines and NovoAir are the Bangladesh carriers, which can operate a similar number of flights, according to the letter. On Thursday, US Bangla Airlines officials told tour operators in Calcutta that they would start daily flight services between Calcutta and Dhaka soon. Biman Bangladesh plans to start services from November 1, an official of the airline said. “We have been given the rights to operate daily flights but we’ll start with three flights a week and can add more depending on the demand.” SpiceJet will start operating on the Calcutta-Dhaka route from the first week of November, an official of the airline said. “Bangladesh is a very big sector for Calcutta. Medical tourism, trade, small and medium-scale hotels and restaurants heavily depend on people from Bangladesh,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India, said. “We had requested both the state and the Centre to allow flight operations. We are happy with the resumption of services.” Metro had earlier written how small and medium-scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores suffered huge losses because people from Bangladesh were unable to visit India. A few patients from Bangladesh have been coming by road to the country with medical visas. Airlines expect more patients to reach Calcutta from Bangladesh with the resumption of flights, according to operators.umption of services," said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. Metro had earlier written how small and medium scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores were suffering huge losses because the Bangladeshi nationals were unable to come. Few patients from Bangladesh have started coming with medical visas by road. Airline operators said they were expecting more patients to come to calcutta from Bangladesh now that flights would resume.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers adopt new normal to fight Covid||Live streaming of puja rituals, a last-minute alternative route so visitors can see the idol without entering the pandal, automated thermal guns to check the body temperature of those allowed in — organisers in the city remained true to the spirit of the Puja even in a Covid-hit world. On Sashthi morning, puja organisers who made it to the top 12 briefed virtually the judges of the CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja (TSP) 2020, in association with David & Goliath, with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner. The judges did not have to criss-cross the city in a convoy of cars but hopped from one pandal to another within a few seconds and the organisers briefed them about what they had done for a safe celebration. For most puja organisers, Covid safety measures, social commitment during the lockdown and extending a helping hand to those hit by Cyclone Amphan were on top of their checklist. For Vivekananda Park Athletic Club in Haridevpur, which was adjudged Four Star Puja, the priority was not spending the budget on puja paraphernalia but utilising it to buy an ambulance that will be given to the health department. “We have kept the puja budget to a bare minimum and 80 per cent of the money that we raised have been spent to buy an ambulance. We thought it was more important to stand by the people during this pandemic,” said member Raja Chakraborty. Tala Park Prattoy, a Three Star Puja, altered their entry route so that visitors can catch a glimpse of the idol and do not have to return disheartened. “The police have demarcated the point up to which we can allow visitors. We are abiding by the rules. But we have also made an alternative route which was not there in the original plan. We incorporated it so that visitors can see the idol from a distance of more than 10 metres,” said an organiser while briefing the judges. Another TSP veteran, Ajeya Sanghati in Haridevpur, adjudged Four Star Puja, impressed the judges with the use of automated thermal gun and a Covid waste bin to dispose of masks. They also stuck floor mats on the ground to demarcate the positions to maintain physical distancing. “We didn’t make circles because it could get wiped off or washed away. We wanted to keep the demarcations prominent throughout the puja,” said the official while explaining to the judges. With a cap on the visitors in pandals, puja committees like Mudiali Club, another Four Star Puja, are live streaming rituals on social media platforms. Beliaghata 33 No. Palli Bashi Brinda, also Four Star, has made a new arrangement for anjali. “We have not more than 27 houses in the neighbourhood. We have placed megaphones and asked them to offer anjali from their homes. We will collect the flowers during visarjan,” said an organiser of the puja. Both Beliaghata 33 No. Palli Bashi Brinda and Dum Dum Tarun Dal have put up LCD screens for the crowd to see the idol from outside. Kakurgachi Yubak Brinda, another TSP veteran, will put up the screens for viewing. It was adjudged a Three Star Puja. Dum Dum Tarun Dal, a Two Star Puja, scored not just for moving with the times and providing visitors a glimpse of the pandal or idol on the screen, but also because they stood by two pujas in Amphan-hit Hingalganj, in North-24 Parganas. The Dum Dum Park club organised three pujas, one in the city and two in North 24- Parganas, where villagers, who are mostly dependant on pisciculture, lost their livelihood to Amphan and have no money to organise a puja. Making it to the top 12 pujas this year was Tangra Gholpara Sarbojanin Durgotsav, where the pandal depicted a phoenix and a prayer to rise like one from the pandemic. It was adjud-ged a Three Star Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: True Spirit crown moves west across river ||Organising Durga Puja responsibly in a city afflicted by a pandemic is itself a heroic feat. To do so with an eye on Covid protocol and also compassion and care at heart, deserves a salute. That is why in its 18th edition, the Model Puja title of CESC The Telegraph True Spirit Puja, held in association with David & Goliath, and with Friends 91.9 FM as radio partner and ABP Ananda as television news partner, has gone west across the Hooghly to Salkia Alapani, that not only ticked every box on the evaluation sheet but achieved more. Over 200 pujas across Calcutta and Howrah had signed up to be measured on an even tougher True Spirit scale of merit this year and 12 pujas made the final cut. At the end of a three-hour virtual tour on Sashthi over video conference, the judges — Raima Sen, Nusrat Jahan, Yash Dasgupta, Gaurav Chakrabarty, Richa Sharma, Joyneel Mukherjee and Arijit Basu — came up with their pick of the top four. From the idol to the priest to visitors, care and compassion are evident in every respect at Salkia Alapani. “We heard of migrant zari workers in neighbouring Uluberia sitting at home without work and sent the Kumartuli-made idol to them to decorate. We have taken out a health insurance policy for Covid-19 for our priest and dhaki. To reduce risk of infection, we are sanitising the puja flowers daily,” said Sayantan Chakrabarty, a committee member. An isolation room has been set up, complete with PPE kit, pulse oxymeter and nebuliser in case a visitor is detected with fever on the automatic thermal reading meter that detects body temperature as one passes by. A doctor is also at hand to deal with such eventualities. Not content with sanitising hands of visitors, the club has set up a wash basin at the exit. The club has barred in-person anjali, asking residents to follow the ritual at home through live streaming on social media. Chetla Agrani Club, a Five Star awardee, has a pandal open on three sides to allow ventilation and keep the virus at bay. A gigantic bird with its wings spread sits at the entrance. “We want to fly free but in this situation we are trapped,” said a volunteer. The inspiration is Rabindranath Tagore’s poem Duhsamay, a title that captures this star-crossed time. The idol can be seen from the road while driving by, reducing footfall outside. The rituals will all be webcast live on the club’s website chetlaagraniclub.com. Suruchi Sangha, another Five Star Puja, is consistent in word and deed in naming its theme “Ebar utsab noy, hok manusher puja (Not celebration this time, let it be worship of people)”. They have spent 60 per cent of their budget on gifting clothes to 10,155 children and another 10 per cent on paying wages to the decorator’s men and the illuminators who had to sit idle during the lockdown. “Every year, they would start work on our pandal by July. What you see is the work of just a month. We did not want them to miss out on the earnings,” said the club’s cultural secretary Soumya Sarkar. To ensure that residents do not miss out on offering anjali, it has worked out a way to adhere to the high court order and yet ensure that sentiments are not hurt. “We have put up about 80 loudspeakers across the neighbourhood. The ritual will be webcast on our social media pages. A request can be sent to a dedicated WhatsApp number to get flowers offered by residents to the goddess picked up from respective homes and offered at Durga’s feet. We will even send them a picture as proof,” said Sarkar. They recycled their pandal structure from last year to minimise environmental impact and used an open-style plan. Hatibagan Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee, the third to be adjudged Five Star Puja, has left its pandal “incomplete”. Wires are dangling, the tea kettle is hanging, hammers and nails lie askance. This is to freeze time at a moment labourers abruptly left and the lockdown ground life to a halt. The club made sure life went on for the locality. “We delivered masks to every family and to all buyers and sellers at the Hatibagan market in the early days of the lockdown. And neighbours who tested Covid positive were helped in seeking admission to hospitals or safe homes. Those who stayed home were supplied with necessities,” said Subham Roy Gupta, the assistant secretary. Thakurpukur State Bank Park Sarbojanin was inducted to the Hall of Fame this year. Behala Nutan Dal got the David & Goliath Puja That Cares while Manicktalla Chaltabagan Lohapatty Durga Puja Committee was named the Voiceworx Truly Managed Puja. Additional reporting by Anannya Sarkar, Shrestha Saha, Malancha Dasgupta, Jhinuk Mazumdar and Pramita Ghosh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Jayantibhai Thakorlal Mehta: Trusted, and loyal to city||A trader dealing in precious stones saw a business opportunity soon after India’s Independence. The princely states were being merged into the republic of India and the zamindari system was being abolished. Suddenly many of them were in market to sell a part of family jewels, for ostensible reasons. Simultaneously, a new class of rich was on the rise — businessmen mostly belonging to the Marwari community. Jayantibhai Thakorlal Mehta was at the right time and at the right place in history. With his deep knowledge in stones and affable nature, he soon earned a nationwide reputation as an estate jeweller, buying from princely states and zamindars and selling it to the new moneyed class. Mehta, who passed away in Calcutta earlier this week at the age of 103, moved to this city at an early age when his father Thakorlal settled down here. Jayantibhai’s uncle then ran a small diamond trading shop at Chorbagan. Being close to Rangoon also made sense as a part of the extended Mehta family was exporting rubies and emeralds from Burma to India. When a part of that same extended family moved to Antwerp, the diamond capital of the world, Mehta’s trade and business received a further fillip as it straddled India, Burma and Belgium. Hailing from Palanpur in Gujarat — the ancestral home to many of India’s top diamantaires — Mehta and his two brothers also saw an opportunity to up the game. There were not many jewellers dealing in diamonds apart from Hamilton & Co in Calcutta. Mehta saw a void which can be filled in the years after Independence. The showroom at Stephen House in Dalhousie, set up in 1930, grew to become one of the top names in diamond post-Independence. “I would say the way he handled the client, at a deeply personal level, and the trust he earned were behind the success of Thakorlal Hiralal,” Pranay Mehta, grandson of Jayantibhai and the force behind the TH brand today, said from Mumbai. Jayantibhai, who used to love classical music and playing cards, stayed back in the city even after the business moved to Mumbai. After operating for 50 years, the Dalhousie showroom closed down in 1980 in the aftermath of a massive tax raid. The business was confined to a workshop and office on Elgin Road-SP Mukherjee Road crossing. The office was shut down in 2010 when his son Satishbhai died and grandson Pranay decided to focus on Mumbai, the financial capital of the country, which is also close to Surat, the diamond cutting capital of the world. “Even though he spent at least six months with us in Mumbai, after one or two months he would miss Calcutta and want to go back,” Pranay said from the Horniman Circle showroom at Fort, South Mumbai. Pankaj Parekh, former vice-chairman of the Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council, recalled the splendour of the showroom at Stephen House. “In those times, trust was the biggest currency when one buys diamonds as there was no standardisation like today. When you bought diamond — and diamonds were usually bought by the HNIs and the ultra rich in those days — they had implicit trust in Jayantibhai and TH,” Parkeh, 76, said. The rise of TH also in a way mirrored the rise of India as the destination for cutting and polishing diamonds. The Jews, who controlled the diamond trade, were not interested in dealing in small-sized stones as they thought it was not worth the effort, price wise. Indians, especially Palanpuri Gujaratis, saw an opportunity in cutting and polishing those stones, which were otherwise destined to be crushed and used to lay airport runway tarmac. Several top industry families were loyal clients of TH and many of them continue to be today. Travelling abroad was not as frequent as it used to be today. “A wealthy patron may be often walking into Cartier, Tiffany or Harry Winston now but it was not that frequent in the 50s or 60s. For them, it used to be TH,” Raja Shah, whose father Viharilal Shah, was a friend of Jayantibhai, said. “TH was a well known brand out of Calcutta. Jayantibhai was a respected figure in the business. We, at Satramdas Dhalamal, used to compete with them but also did business together at times,” recalled couture jeweller Raj Mahtani. Although a diamantiere by passion, Jayantibhai worked closely with Laxmi Niwas Jhunjhunwala of Bhilwara Group and set up HEG Ltd and Rajasthan Spinning & Weaving Mills. “My grandfather never left the city which gave him everything. Calcutta was very much a part of him,” Pranay signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Log in to catch neighbours on song||While most blocks are forgoing cultural programmes this year, some are arranging for online screenings of live or pre-recorded performances. The shows will be screened on Puja evenings but can be watched later too. Music, dance and recitation by residents are the most popular items. So stay home and log in to the following — Special attraction: On Navami would be the children’s play Bhalo jar sesh bhalo' Vijaya Dashami (November 1) will be screened on- Special attraction: On Saptami a SaReGaMa artiste will perform modern Bengali songs at the community hall. But visitors can watch only online. Special attraction: On Ashtami, sisters Amritaa and Ayushi Dutta will display and talk about a miniature Durga puja pandal that they have erected at home. Special attraction: On Saptami, children will stage a comedy Corona Palayon, written by resident Onkar Banerjee. Special attraction: A virtual art exhibition will be up with residents’ paintings on Durga puja and  Navratri at https:// m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=1547983398720230&id=444819142370000&sfnsn=wiwspmo||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||To go out or not...||Step out in fun or stay home in fear during the Pujas? Even on Saptami morning, this is a lingering question. On one hand is the lure of the festival that comes as a break after months of restrain at home. On the other is the ever-rising Covid count that threatens to spike if people roam about freely during the Pujas. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to residents and found that while many have sworn not to set foot outside their homes these few days, majority plans to head out — whether to visit the pandals from outside or to meet friends. When a feverish Isha Dasgupta headed to get herself tested for Covid recently, she prayed. But she also counted. “My daughter and I were counting days to see if we would be out of isolation in time for the pujas,” sighs the Sraboni Abasan resident longingly. Mother and daughter tested positive and their isolation period lifted on Sashthi. “We love the pujas and would walk all night from pandal to pandal. This year we’ll wear new clothes and watch pandals on TV,” says Isha. “Even though I suffered badly, I cannot imagine October without the pujas. I feel people deserve the festival to uplift their spirits, even if that means setting up Covid testing units at pandals.” Incidentally Isha’s 91-year-old grandmother has also been pleading with the family to let her go offer anjali at the pandal. On the other hand are people like Debalay Gonchowdhury, who in other years scout for VIP passes, hire cars to go pandal-hopping and wear new clothes every day of the pujas but who have shut it all out this year. “This time no one even knows the puja dates for sure,” sighs the GD Block resident. “I was crossing New Market the other day and saw the place teeming with shoppers. As for masks, not even the policemen were wearing any. I’m not going to any pandal this year. It’s a recipe for disaster.” More respondents in the under-40 age group said they would be going out during the Pujas and parents of some students said their children were being coaxed into going out by their friends. “How can I not visit the pandals at all? The Pujas have come after a whole year,” reasons Suparna Mukherjee, a 20-something resident of P&T quarters in CC Block. “Even if my friends decline, I’ll surely go out with my parents. It’s a family ritual. We’ll follow safety protocols, of course.” Protip Chakraborty is in town for  the festival after two years and being an avid photographer, is itching to go clicking. “I’m also feeling sorry for puja organisers as they worked so hard and then the court ruled against visitors. I shall appreciate pandals from a distance this year but won’t miss them,” says the resident of Sunrise Symphony. The IT sector employee plans to avoid Pujas in narrow lanes in favour of those in big parks. “Salt Lake would have featured high on my list but I believe most of them are very simple this time. I shall follow the news on the first few days of the Pujas to assess the crowds at these pandals so I can decide where to go on Saptami and Ashtami.” The Chakrabortys usually drive down to Baisakhi or Karunamoyee and park their car there. They then hire an auto by the hour to show them around. “It saves the trouble of finding parking everywhere. But this year we are avoiding public transport,” Chakraborty says. Then there are social workers who will go out for the greater good of others. “I have cancelled pandal-hopping and restaurant plans but shall be visiting a senior citizens’ home in Narendrapur and Amphan victims in Subarbans during the pujas. I’ll also be meeting children of slums and an ashrams,” says Sormistha Mukherjee of DB Block. “I do these every year and cannot avoid these.” Some like Kakon Ghosh of BF Block cancelled their plans after the high court ruling on Monday. “My family and I were so excited,” says the student of mass communication, with a long face. “But if we cannot enter the pandals, it’s pointless going over. The news ruined my mood, and my friends and I also cancelled our plans to meet at the mall on Chaturthi afterwards.” Making it worse is how Kakon’s New Town college has decided to stay open through the festival to compensate for lost days during the lockdown. “They reason that since we won’t be going out for the Pujas we might as well study! The highlight this Puja will be the visit to my block pandal and clicking selfies with masks matching my outfit,” she grumbles. Jyoti Bansal of EC Block had thought of visiting some Salt Lake pandals too but her heart skipped a beat seeing photos and videos of shopping sprees pre-puja. “This when my son in London says people there are not even allowed to meet their families residing separately! I have now decided not to visit pandals or have friends come over. I’ll only order lunch from my favourite restaurant Amber once,” she says. Many residents plan to drive around town admiring what little of the pandals and idols is visible from cars. “What choice do we have?” asks Abir Chatterjee of FD Block. “In other years we stay out six or seven nights filming the pujas and this year visitors had started streaming in the day before the FD Block pandal was even inaugurated! We shall only do a car tour this year, that too after consulting with doctor friends.” Till last year a group called New Town Runners would either run, cycle or plog (walk and pick litter) around pandals in Salt Lake but this year they are yet to finalise plans. “We had thought of driving down to Salt Lake and running 4 or 5km in small groups to the pandals there on Panchami morning. We put the plan on hold after the high court order and are still deciding whether to go ahead with it,” says Chao Lengdon, founder of the group and a resident of Hiland Willows. Debolina Roy is dead against pandal-hopping this year. “I suffered major breathing trouble a while back and had to be hospitalised, even though I tested negative for Covid. It’s too risky to be out on the streets now and I shall only visit the idol at our own community hall once at dawn or midnight when it’s deserted,” says the resident of Eastern Grove. The 20-something plans to dress up in saris and stay home, clicking snaps and eating home-made delicacies. “I’ll enjoy with myself.” Samita Dutta, a Covid survivor, plans to visit the BE (West) idol once and then hang up her boots. “There’s no way I’m going any further after the kind of pictures being circulated from crowded pandals like Sreebhumi. There won’t be community lunch this year and the domestic helps will be on leave so I’ll have enough to do at home during the Pujas, thanks!” “If I survive this year, there will be many more Pujas to witness,” sums up Ashu Patodia, an FE Block resident in her 30s. “My family and I are not stepping out.” Shyamadas De has decided against visiting his HA Block puja as even his next door neighbour has tested positive. “The joke doing the rounds is that anyone who sees 100 pandals between Saptami and Dashami will get a free ride to Mt Kailash along with Durga. It’s a joke that we need to take seriously,” he says. Debraj Sengupta lost his father in December and so cannot offer anjali this year in mourning. “Nonetheless I had wanted to visit pandals extensively but I cannot do so now and risk the health of my elderly mother,” says the FE Block resident. CF Block’s Barin Sarkar is reluctant to visit his own block puja as he knows social distancing will not be possible. “We have been involved with this puja for decades. There was a time when I went door to door seeking actors and singers for our dramas  so I know everyone personally. When such thick friends meet after seven months, they will not just chat but embrace and I won’t have the heart to stop them,” says the senior citizen. “It is a painful decision but I cannot afford to go to the puja.” Gopal Das of DL Block anticipates the same problem. “People are sensitive and I will be hurting my neighbours’ feelings if I ask them to move away from me,” he says sadly. Das too will not step out. Rita Das thanks her lucky stars that her daughter and Keralite son-in-law visited them last October. “We showed them around thoroughly and my son-in-law loved it so much he said he would henceforth spend every puja in Calcutta. Alas!” The 65-year-old lady with co-morbidities will stay home and perform anjali listening to mantras over the loudspeaker. Sanjukta Saha’s family has a gas dealership and has been working overtime since the lockdown. “This is the only time in the year that we’ll get three days off. Otherwise we don’t even get leaves on Sundays. We shall use the pandemic as an excuse and not step out,” says the lady who has a lovely alternative to keeping busy this year. “We have a new Siberian Husky puppy in the family and will devote ourselves to him.” Several respondents said they would order meals from restaurants  instead of going over and majority of those heading out would be meeting friends. “I haven’t met my school  friends since we sat for our ISC exams in February so we are having a pyjama party on Saptami,” says an excited Tushnee Chakraborty of BL Block. “I won’t go pandal-hopping this year but time out with friends is a must.” Debalay agrees. “I plan to party with friends, but only with those who live within Salt Lake. It would minimise risk,” he says. “A Chelo Kebab during the Pujas would taste just as good as one after it and so I’m not venturing into restaurants either. We’ll either cook at home or order food over.” How are you spending Durga puja this year? Email to The Telegraph Salt Lake at saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Youngsters in charge at Millennium Tower puja||Most of the puja committee members at Millennium Tower this year are school and college students. With Covid making it risky for senior citizens to do the legwork, youths have been asked to chip in. The group that has taken over includes students as young as 14. “My friend told me of a meeting for children in the complex and I went along without knowing anything more,” says ninth grader Parmee Priyam Nath, who walked out of that meeting having signed up as a puja committee member. “When I got home and told my family this, they couldn’t believe it,” laughs the girl who got slotted in the rituals department. The rest of the list has similar profiles — school and college students and a couple of pass-outs. The only exceptions are the puja president — a senior citizen — and the secretary, who is 45. “I have always been active in the complex but my work entails a lot of travel. Since this year travelling is out of the question, the residents’ association asked me to head this young team and I took it up happily,” says Shouvik Roy, an entrepreneur, who is the puja secretary. The youths have been doing everything from choosing the theme to raising sponsorship for the puja with a Rs 3.5 lakh  budget. “The managers of the companies we visited would be confused at seeing such young members coming for meetings and many would even say so on our faces,” says Mukta Mitra, who’s pursuing sociology from a Delhi college. “But they were very co-operative and we raised a decent amount.” Mukta’s elder sister, Jhinook, 23, was leading this team and says it felt quite empowering. “Not only were we a young team but we were all women who drove down ourselves for the meetings. Initially we wondered if we would be taken seriously by the corporates but they were very supportive,” says the girl who has just completed her Masters in zoology. “Even we got to learn business communication hands-on.” Economics student Ananda Mondal is treasurer of the puja and led a team to raise subscriptions across the complex. “We got a mixed bag,” he says. “While some households cheerfully handed us cheques with chocolates, others drove us in circles without clearing the payment. I had to consult the previous committee members for advice on dealing with such residents. Apparently such people pay up after the Pujas.” For sociology student Riteeka Chakraborty, Puja 2020 came as a breath of fresh air after lockdown-induced stress. “The work was challenging but the distraction helped me concentrate better on my studies,” said the student who visualised their pandal. “We built a village hut with tribal and Madhubani motifs and verses from famous poems but we consulted a former committee member, Natraj Das, for advice whenever we needed.” At a time when most pujas have cancelled their themes, these students are proud to have pulled one off. Nandita Das, a medical student who has always performed dance and plays in the complex, has taken charge of the cultural committee. “It was an extension of the effort I put in every year but with the additional responsibility of ensuring that others deliver,” says the girl. The complex is going ahead with solo and duet stage performances. “This year, we have fewer performances as artistes are scared of Covid. Also, even though many outstation students are in town, their colleges are not affiliated to Bengal and so have not declared holidays for the Pujas. Their exams are on,” Nandita says. Parmee, for instance, waited with bated breath for her English exam to conclude on Panchami morning so she could run down and work on the puja’s inauguration later in the day. “If it wasn’t for Covid, I would have invited my school friends to come over,” says the teenager. “This year, the puja is more fun as I’m organising it myself.” Besides the fun element, Ananda felt the exercise has been a valuable experience in public interaction and teamwork. “I loved the responsibility but don’t see how I’ll be able to continue on the committee post-Corona. My college would keep me away from 9am to 7pm,” says the student of Jadavpur University. Mukta felt the youth have injected a splash of innovation in the procedures. “It seems previously the committee only had a rate card to present to potential advertisers. The new team has prepared a full-fledged sponsorship proposal,” says the girl who is the public relations and sponsorship head of her college film society. Shouvik, the secretary, felt any lack of experience in the students was more than made up by their passion. “They did such a good job that next year I would want to step down and have one of them serve as secretary,” he smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
23-10-2020||Calcutta||Bringing the deity home with precautions aplenty||Even though the Durga pujas celebrated at home do not have to bother about the high court’s decision on crowd management at pandals, the spectre of coronavirus still hangs heavy on them. Each of the families The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to is at their wits end on how to keep the virus at bay and still ensure a blemish-free puja. In these pandemic times, one can ill afford to say, “more the merrier”, an intrinsic feature of any celebration. For most of them the celebrations will be muted, having fewer family members and friends. The Das Chowdhurys of CJ Block are sad for not having the main driving force of the puja, Probodh Chandra Das Chowdhury, join them this year. The octogenarian family patriarch, settled in Sheffield, Yorkshire, is not travelling as at his age he is vulnerable to catch the virus. The family puja was started by his forefathers in Sylhet, now Bangladesh, at least four or five generations ago. Pratima Chowdhury, younger cousin of Probodh Das Chowdhury, has taken over the reins of the event along with the other ladies in the family. They plan to live stream the puja for all those members who will miss out. Talking about it, Pratima Chowdhury said: “My brother is unfortunately not coming over. One of the specialities of our festivities is that for us, Kumari Puja takes place on Navami, instead of Ashtami. We also offer 108 varieties of dishes (bhog) to the mother goddess on the day.” About precautions, another family member, homemaker Debjani Das Chowdhury said: “We are bringing home a much smaller idol, so that the men at home can carry it by themselves. Anjali will be performed in batches of three or four people at a time.” Amit Chakravarty, a molecular geneticist, and his wife Sudipa have been organising Durga puja at their CB Block home since 2002 and the Covid scare has meant that they stocked all necessary items needed for a safer event. From surface disinfectants, hand and vegetable sanitisers to infra-red thermal gun, they had them all in abundance even before they brought the idol home. “After the single-frame idol was brought home, we sanitised it. On Navami, we will hand out bhog boxes, instead of the sit-in feast. For our priest and his two companions, who come from Midnapore, we have arranged for a private car to transport them,” said Sudipa. For the Sikders of AE Block, this year will be a low-key puja too. Started by the late Pravash Chandra Sikder in 1977, his son Partha and his brother organise it now.  “We usually have 500-700 people partaking the bhog on Ashtami. This year, we will deliver the bhog to them. We will keep a wash basin at the entrance for the visitors and will sanitise the house every day,” said Partha, who runs his own business. The rising positive cases in the state after Mahalaya has forced the Roy Chowdhurys of GD Block to give their much-awaited family event a miss. “Due to rapid spread of the virus after Mahalaya, we could not firm up to hold the puja this year,” said Kaushik Roy Chowdhury, who stays in a joint family of 15 members. The puja was started by Kaushik's great grandfather at Dubolhati sub-division in Rajshahi, now Bangladesh. “My forefathers were the zamindars there,” said Kaushik. “All our family members, including children are disheartened. Even our immediate neighbours are crestfallen. We will place the holy urn (ghot) on the dais, where the idol is kept, and offer symbolic prayers,” said Kaushik. Homemaker Nandita Banerjee, who performs Laxmi, Jagaddhatri and Kali puja at home is scared at the sudden spike in the Covid graph in the state. The senior citizen is planning to bring home smaller idols, apart from restricting visitors to her place. “Even relatives are not welcome,” said Banerjee, a resident of BH Block. All the families are pinning their hopes on hosting a bigger and better event next year. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-263
23-10-2020||Business||Vedanta board to meet this week||Mining conglomerate Vedanta on Thursday announced that its board will meet this week to consider and approve the first interim dividend for the current financial year. “The board of directors of the company on Saturday, October 24, 2020, will consider and approve the first interim dividend on equity shares, if any, for financial year 2020-21. The record date for the purpose of determining the entitlement of the equity shareholders for the said dividend, if declared, is being fixed as Saturday, October 31, 2020,”  the Anil Agarwal group firm said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. The announcement led to the shares of Vedanta ending higher on the bourses. On the BSE, the scrip settled at Rs 104.50, a rise of 3.21 per cent over its previous close. Market circles have been expecting a high dividend payout from Vedanta after its delisting effort failed earlier this month. Expectations rose earlier this week when group firm Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) declared its highest interim dividend in 12 years at Rs 21.3 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. The record date for paying the dividend is October 28. Hindustan Zinc had paid a higher dividend of Rs 30 per share in July 2008. Vedanta Ltd holds a 64.92 per cent in Hindustan Zinc. This dividend payout came as Hindustan Zinc reported a 7 per cent fall in net profits for the quarter ended September 30. Net profits declined to Rs 1,940 crore from Rs 2,081 crore in the same period of the previous year. Sales, however, showed a growth of 25 per cent to Rs 5,660 crore against Rs 4,511 crore in the year-ago period. On October 10, Vedanta Ltd announced that its voluntary delisting offer — to acquire the balance public shareholding and then delisting it from the stock exchange — had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by Vedanta Ltd’s public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for a successful delisting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Burger King India files draft papers with Sebi o raise Rs 542 crore||Burger King India Ltd, a quick service restaurant chain, has filed draft papers with market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 542 crore through fresh issuance of shares in the IPO. According to the addendum to the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) filed with Sebi on Wednesday, Burger King’s IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares aggregating up to Rs 542 crore and an offer for sale of up to 6 crore equity shares by QSR Asia, the promoter. Net proceeds from the fresh issue are proposed to be utilised for funding the rollout of the new company-owned Burger King Restaurants and for general corporate purposes. The initial share-sale is being managed by Kotak Mahindra Capital Company, CLSA India, Edelweiss Financial Services and JM Financial. The company’s shares are proposed to be listed on the BSE and the NSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Liberty Group starts Adhunik Metaliks unit||Liberty Group has restarted the operations of Adhunik Metaliks Ltd seven months after it acquired the steel company from a bankruptcy court, marking London-based steel magnet Sanjeev Gupta’s first foray into India. The unit, located near Rourkela in Odisha, is capable of producing half a million tonnes of steel when fully functional. The new management, led by managing director Uday Gupta, is targeting a turnover of Rs 2,000 crore. India-born Sanjeev Gupta-led Liberty, part of GFG Alliance, has so far spent Rs 75 crore to bring the unit to production. The unit, which also has a 34MW power plant, has pressed 1,500 people to work. Gupta, who is executive chairman of GFG Alliance, described the restart as a “proud moment” for him on Thursday as the plant became fully operational. In an interview with this newspaper in August this year, Gupta had expressed hope that India would be a hub for Liberty as he planned to weave “a string of pearls” — mid-sized acquisitions — to eventually reach a 5-million-tonne steel capacity in this country. A successful turnaround of Adhunik would give Gupta and the Indian lenders more confidence in Liberty’s ability to expand business in India, not just in steel but in other sectors too. “We expect to clock a turnover of Rs 1,400-1,600 crore in the next fiscal. However, I believe Adhunik could be a Rs 2,000-crore business in the subsequent period,” Adhunik MD Uday Gupta said. The upscaling will happen when Adhunik manages to sell more value-added ferro alloy products for the automotive, engineering, energy, oil and gas sectors. “More we convert the billets and sponge iron into value-added items, the better will be the price realisation,” Gupta said. While the initial focus will be on running the plant profitably without hiccups, Calcutta-bred Uday is not going to lose sight of aligning Adhunik with Liberty’s global plan to reach carbon neutrality by 2030 with Greensteel initiative. Adhunik would first try to convert the coal-fired power plant into a renewable source-based unit and then recycle steel scrap to produce steel. It may also introduce hydrogen technology to cut carbon emission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Royal Enfield to set up assembly plants in Brazil, Columbia and Thailand ||Royal Enfield plans to set up assembly plants in Brazil, Columbia and Thailand over the next one year after having set up a plant in Argentina as the company majorly expands its overseas business. The company’s exports had dipped 11 per cent in September this year to 4,131 units against 4,642 units a year ago. However, company chief operating officer Lalit Malik said: “The dip is because of the pandemic. We sold 36,000 bikes in our international operations in 2019 and we should be going back to such numbers or more after the pandemic.” The company exports the RE Himalaya and the 650 Twins to North and South America, Europe, Japan and Thailand. It, however, does not have a presence in Africa or China. While the company is witnessing a resurgence of demand in domestic sales, particularly in the festive season, it does not hope to record any growth in 2020-21. “The first two months were a complete wipe out, we cannot recover that. I will be happy to reach the 2019 sales of about 7 lakh,” said Malik. “All the pent up demand has been met. Now what we are seeing is a sustainable growth. But like every year, just after festive season comes a period of lean sales. That will happen this year too,” he added. Maruti Suzuki on Thursday said its Hansalpur plant in Gujarat has rolled out 1 million units over a span of three years and nine months. Of all three Maruti Suzuki plants in India, the Gujarat plant becomes the fastest to achieve this feat. The Hansalpur plant  began production in February 2017. The Gujarat plant is specifically involved in the production of the Baleno and the Swift.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||SBI Cards reports higher NPA||SBI Cards has recorded a sharp deterioration in asset quality as the Covid-19 pandemic hit the repayment capacity of some of its customers. The SBI subsidiary saw its gross non-performing assets (NPAs) shoot up to 4.29 per cent of gross advances as on September 30, 2020 against 2.33 per cent as on September 30, 2019 and 1.4 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal. During the period, net profit declined to Rs 206 crore compared with Rs 381 crore in the year-ago period. SBI Cards said the pandemic has led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets, which may persist even after restrictions related to the outbreak are lifted. While there have been some improvements in economic activities in the current quarter, the continued slowdown has impacted new credit card originations, use of credit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Bajaj Auto profit falls 21%||Bajaj Auto on Thursday said its consolidated net profit declined 21.62 per cent to Rs 1,193.97 crore for the September quarter . The two-wheeler major had posted a net profit of Rs 1,523.31 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. The company’s revenue from operations declined to Rs 7,155.86 crore during the period under review compared with Rs 7,707.32 crore in the year-ago period, Bajaj Auto said in a regulatory filing. State-run Indian Bank on Thursday reported a standalone profit after tax of Rs 412 crore in the quarter ended September, helped mainly by fee income, treasury profits and lower bad loans. The bank amalgamated Allahabad Bank with itself with effect from April 1, 2020. In the year-ago quarter, the amalgamated entity had reported a net loss of Rs 1,755 crore. The pre-amalgamated profit of the bank in July-September quarter of 2019-20 stood at Rs 358.56 crore. State-owned Uco Bank on Thursday reported a second-quarter net profit of Rs 30.12 crore. The bank had posted a net loss of Rs 891.98 crore during the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. Sequentially, the profit during the second quarter of 2020-21 was higher from Rs 21.46 crore in the first quarter ended June 2020. Total income was down at Rs 4,326.14 crore during the reporting quarter from Rs 4,533.51 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||RBI signals end of proprietary QR code||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said payment system operators (PSOs) who use proprietary quick response (QR) codes will have to shift to one or more interoperable QR codes by March 31, 2022. The regulator also announced a framework for the recognition of a Self-Regulatory Organisation for these operators. Some of the PSOs in the country include Clearing Corporation of India, NPCI, MasterCard, Visa Worldwide, American Express, Amazon Pay, State Bank of India (SBI) and Punjab National Bank. In a circular, the central bank said no new proprietary QR codes can now be launched by any PSO for any payment transaction. This comes after it accepted the recommendations made by the Deepak Phatak committee which was appointed to review the current system of QR codes in India. The RBI added that it will continue a consultative process to standardise and improve interoperable QR codes. It further disclosed that the two interoperable QR codes in existence — UPI QR and Bharat QR — will remain. The panel had said that proprietary or closed loop QR codes are a hindrance to an open, interoperable payments ecosystem and that there should be a clear plan to phase out such codes in favour of open, interoperable standards. Meanwhile, in a separate notification, the central bank also announced a framework for recognition of a self-regulatory organisation (SRO) for the operators. The RBI said an SRO should have authority, derived from membership agreements, to set up behavioural and professional standards and enforce them on the members apart from objective and well-defined processes to make rules and enforce them among the members. It should also have standardised procedures for handling conflicts and disputes, as well as methods to resolve them through a transparent and consistent dispute resolution mechanism. An SRO, the regulator said,  should be set-up as a not-for-profit entity under the Companies Act, 2013. “While self-regulation would release regulatory resources that can be better focused on issues of systemic importance, it would, by virtue of being developed by the industry itself, be more appropriate and encourage better compliance,” the RBI observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||Business||Deficit: Quibble over GST borrowing||The GST Council should meet and evolve a consensus on the borrowing by the Centre to compensate the states, Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac said on Thursday. “Having reached a consensus on who should borrow, the Centre and states can reach a consensus on how much to borrow. Extend to all states additional 0.5 per cent unconditional borrowing in the 2 per cent borrowing already permitted. Let the GST Council meet and continue the dialogue,” Isaac tweeted. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore because of Covid-19) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively. However, the Centre has now said that it would borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore and pass it on as a loan to the states. While the total compensation due to the states is Rs 2.35 lakh crore, states would have got Rs 1.83 lakh crore in the normal course as compensation for 10 months is paid in a fiscal year. Dues for February and March 2021 would be rolled over to the next year. “It will be an irreparable damage to the functioning of the GST Council if the Centre insists on its first option and enforces it without the consensus of the Council,” Isaac wrote in an article which he tagged with his tweet. “The best option would be to extend to all states 0.5 per cent more unconditional borrowing to the 2 per cent additional borrowing already permitted. “I am certain it would provide sufficient fiscal staying power to states to discuss and reach a consensus on how much to borrow,” he wrote. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in a letter to the states, had said: “Under this scheme, states get funds from two sources. First, they will get loans through a special window arranged by the government of India. The special window covers the shortfall arising from the implementation of the GST (calculated at Rs 1,10,208 lakh crore). The second source is through additional unconditional market borrowing. The condition attached to the final portion of the borrowing package issued on May 17, 2020 will be relaxed. Thus states will be able to borrow an amount equivalent to 0.5 per cent of GSDP without meeting any reform conditions.” The letter said the states will get access to resources of over Rs 2,16,000 lakh crore this year comprising Rs 1,10,208  crore (from the special window) plus Rs 1,06,830 crore because of the relaxation of the borrowing headroom under the stimulus package in May to the extent of 0.5 per cent of GSDP without condition. The Centre said the Rs 2.16 lakh crore will more than cover what the states were supposed to get this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
23-10-2020||India||Rahul calls out Modi for 'insulting' soldiers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Friday again accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having "insulted" the soldiers with his comment that nobody had intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh, and demanded that he tell the country when will the Chinese "be thrown out". Addressing his first rally during the Bihar assembly elections, Gandhi insisted the Chinese army had indeed intruded into Indian territory. "They have seized 1,200 km of our land. But when the Chinese army intruded, why did our prime minister insult our soldiers by saying that nobody entered into the Indian side?" he said. Earlier in the day, Modi also addressed his first poll rally in Bihar and referred to the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops and said the sons of Bihar laid down their lives for the tricolour but did not let "Mother India bow her head". "The question is, Modi ji, when will you throw out the Chinese soldiers sitting in our territory?" Gandhi asked. He also attacked the Centre over the migrant crisis triggered by the pandemic-induced lockdown, alleging when workers from Bihar were being "chased away" from other states the prime minister did nothing to help them. "He bows before the labourers but does not help them when they need it," he said. He demanded that the prime minister tell Biharis how many jobs he gave them and when. Congress's Neetu Singh is contesting from Nawada district's Hisua seat where she taking on sitting BJP MLA Anil Singh. A huge gathering was seen at the Hisua rally venue, with people also crowding the roof a college building where it was held. RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial candidate of the Mahagathbandhan, said the elections that were under way will not be fought on the issue of caste or religion but unemployment and poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Modi takes a dig at RJD in his second poll rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a stinging attack on the RJD-led opposition in poll-bound Bihar, blaming the "anarchy and bad governance of the 1990s" for most of the ills that plagued the state even now. Addressing an election rally here, Modi said the "Mahagathbandhan" (Grand Alliance) was a "pitara" (basket) comprising elements wary of the "governments crackdown on anti-national activities", and stressed that the state must vote to power the NDA led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar so that "Bihar does not fall ill (Bimar) again". "The state now has electricity. The days of lantern are over," said Modi in a reference to the election symbol of the Rashtriya Janata Dal founded and headed by Lalu Prasad. "Most of the ills that plague the state today are the result of the years of anarchy and bad governance it had to suffer in the 1990s. The new generation ought to know that Bihar has been witness to times when people alighting from trains in the night used to stay back at the station since anti-social elements used to maraud freely, he alleged. He claimed people used to avoid buying a new car out of fear that a particular political party might get to know about their prosperity and they might end up getting kidnapped for ransom. It was an obvious reference to the RJD, which was often accused by adversaries of patronising criminals. He also said that the assembly elections in the state were crucial because of the sheer number of people who are going to cast their votes amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Modi said it was a chance to the people to vote the NDA back to power and ensure unhindered growth. Taking potshots at the opposition Grand Alliance, which also includes the Congress and Left parties, Modi charged the coalition partners with "promoting naxalism" and intending to "keep the people poor as they fear that prosperity will make them politically irrelevant".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Modi slams opposition alliance in his first Bihar rally||Launching his campaign for the Bihar assembly polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invoked the alleged reign of "crime" and 'loot" during the 15-year rule of the RJD, as he sought people's vote for the NDA to ensure the state's continuous journey towards "development". In his first rally in the state, Modi sought votes for another term of the NDA government under Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying he had been working with the JD(U) president only for the last three-four years and that the state had seen much speedier development in this period. Kumar had returned to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in 2017 after fighting against it in the last assembly polls in 2015. A "double-engine" government, he said referring to the NDA ruling at the Centre and the state as well, will ensure Bihar's development at a fast pace. The Congress-led UPA government at the Centre between 2004 and 2014 put "roadblocks" in the state's development as Kumar was a member of the NDA for most of the time, Modi said. While the RJD ruled Bihar for 15 years from 1990, Kumar has been the state's chief minister since 2005, barring a brief period when he installed Jitan Ram Manjhi in his place in 2014 for over nine months. Modi also accused the opposition of siding with forces which are conspiring to weaken India by promising to restore Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir if it comes to power. Without naming any opposition party, he said their protests against the recent farm reform laws are in fact aimed at "saving" middlemen and brokers while being couched as support for the Minimum Support Price and agriculture 'mandis'. They had spoken the language of middlemen and brokers even when the Rafale fighter aircraft were bought, he said, asserting that India will not back off from the decisions it has taken. While speaking of various development initiatives of the NDA governments at the Centre and in the state, he spoke of frequent heinous crimes like "murders, dacoity and extortion" under the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad Yadav's RJD and said people can now live without any fear. "The people of Bihar cannot forget the era when life would come to a standstill after sunset. Today, roads, electricity and lights are there. The biggest thing is that a common man in the state can live without any fear," he said. The RJD-led opposition alliance is the principal challenger to the NDA in the state polls which begin from October 28. People have decided that those who have a history of making Bihar 'Bimaru' and looted it when in power will not be allowed to rule it again, Modi said. 'BIMARU' is an acronym for Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It was used to refer to the 'poor economic conditions' of these states. Modi began his first Bihar poll rally here by paying tributes to LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan and former RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who passed away recently. Even before the polls, people of Bihar have given their message and all surveys show that the NDA government will retain power in the state, he said. Kumar and BJP ally Mukesh Sahni shared the stage with the prime minister. Referring to the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops, Modi said the sons of Bihar laid down their lives for the tricolour but did not let 'Mother' India's head bow. The soldiers of Bihar were also martyred in the Pulwama attack, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Khalid: Locked  up alone  in cell||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the February Delhi riots, told a court here on Thursday that he was not being allowed to step out of his cell and it was akin to “solitary confinement”. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat directed the Tihar jail superintendent to be present before the court on Friday. Khalid made his submissions directly through videoconference when he was produced before the court on the expiry of his judicial custody. The court also pulled up the assistant jail superintendent of Tihar for not unmuting the microphone when Khalid told him that he wanted to speak to the judge. Khalid said the officer had told him the microphone would be unmuted if the judge gave permission for it. “If an undertrial wants to say something, then unmute and let him speak, or you tell us that he wants to say something,” the judge told the jail officer. Khalid alleged that he was alone in his cell and not allowed to step out or talk to anyone. “I have not been allowed to step outside at all. I am alone in my cell. No one is allowed to meet me. It is practically a sort of solitary confinement. I am not well for the past three days. I am feeling discomfort. This is like a punishment. Why am I given this punishment? I reiterate that I need security but it cannot be that I have to be in my cell all day,” the rights activist said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||A chosen bunny in the making||Chief minister Nitish Kumar has become the hare of the Bihar campaign, the BJP its hound. The two are running together; it doesn’t test imagination to tell how hare and hound tandems usually end. Bihar has turned into a teeming melee, thick with the kicked-up dust of battle that defies clear deciphering, just as it also defies cognition of a rampant and killer pandemic. But the verdict on Nitish Kumar already lies inscribed in bold letters on the unintelligible skirmishing for Bihar’s honours: he is headed to drastic diminishment. Should Nitish manage to secure — as Union home minister Amit Shah has publicly promised — a record fourth term as chief minister, it will be as chosen bunny of the BJP. The Nitish who used to dictate terms to the BJP is long history; the Nitish now in the making — or unmaking —  is one who will take dictation. Amit Shah’s guarantee on Nitish becoming chief minister again “regardless” of who gets how many in the alliance must be read as just that — a chief minister on Amit Shah’s guarantee, an office granted at his pleasure. The one clear message ringing out from Bihar is that Nitish’s public image has nosedived — “sushasan babu” has become a thing of ridicule. He has been mocked and taunted during election outings, angrily motioned to go back where he came from, called, among other things, a “chor”. Nitish is visibly riled; footage from the campaign trail is peppered with a chief minister in episodic outbursts of public anger. He is staring at the price he might have to pay for taking his eye off the governance ball to play survival games. It can be of little comfort to Nitish that many of those chanting “Nitish hatao” are also chanting “BJP lao”; not all the anti-Nitish sentiment translates into anti-NDA sentiment. The BJP, on the contrary, cannot be unhappy to sip the juicy paradox that this is —  it has been spared palpable public annoyance, the blame is all for Nitish to hog. As one state BJP leader said, no words minced, “If Nitish has been taking all the credit as ‘sushasan babu’, he must now also take all the blame for what has gone wrong.” Could it be a mere accident that Nitish, the anointed face of the NDA in Bihar, finds no mention on the BJP’s campaign menu for another “NDA sarkar”? He is not in the promotional clips, he is not on the posters, he was nowhere around when the BJP released its manifesto. For the BJP, it is all Narendra Modi and him alone. The BJP is clearly relying on another spell of the Modi talisman over Bihar and employing its war chest and wares to upscale its performance to the exclusion of Nitish. It often even appears a strategy —  a risk-ridden one — working at Nitish’s expense. Here is where the hounding of the hare comes. For all the chortled protestations over the rebellion of Chirag Paswan of the LJP, the fact remains he is still an NDA ally. He is contesting all non-BJP seats on a strident anti-Nitish platform and could cause maverick damage. There is nothing to suggest that if required, Chirag will not become intrinsic to the BJP’s game plan post-election. There is also the other “grand alliance” the BJP has nudged to formation, the coming together of marginal players like Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP and Mayawati’s BSP, now joined by Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which enjoys some heft in Bihar’s Seemanchal region. This is the region the BJP has largely left for Nitish to contest. Hares usually scamper alone, hounds hunt in packs; the BJP has ensured Nitish has more biting to fight off than just from the churning challenge of Tejashwi. Where they gnash and how deep they cut remains an imponderable, but it is a risk the BJP appears ready to run in order to secure a dictating hand over Nitish. That said, it remains a risk whose logarithm isn’t easy to calculate. Electoral spins can often spin out of control; voter equations are algebraic, seldom arithmetical. Two and two do make four but in adding them you may lose sight of what might be adding up to six elsewhere in reaction. As the BJP manifesto revealed on Thursday, the party senses the threat Tejashwi has overnight conjured out of widespread voter concern over unemployment, especially among the youth. Its redoubled promises over providing jobs are a knee-jerk response to the sentiment Tejashwi has triggered. It’s early in the campaign yet; it hasn’t been fired by its dominant themes. Tejashwi has lit a flame, a novel enunciation of distress and redress at a remove from beaten themes of caste and creed. His chief opponent, Prime Minister Modi, intends his first outing on Friday and what he says will probably provide a better sense of where this could head. Nitish, meantime, must mull the best utilities of a rubbed-out reputation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
23-10-2020||India||Vaccine-for-vote virus infects poll ||The BJP promised free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone in Bihar as it released its Assembly poll manifesto on Thursday, prompting the Opposition to accuse it of playing politics with the deadly pandemic and assert that any vaccine would belong to the nation and not a party. Health experts, one of whom described the announcement as “selling dreams”, said such promises were premature given the lack of clarity over which candidate vaccine might clear the tests and when, and how much of it could be produced and how fast. “At least three coronavirus vaccines are now on the verge of production in our country. When scientists clear it (the vaccine), our country will have the capacity to produce sufficient vaccines to enable what we are promising here — in Bihar, everyone will get a free vaccine,” Nirmala Sitharaman, Union finance minister, said while releasing the manifesto in Patna. “This is our first promise in our sankalp patra (vision document),” she added. Opposition parties castigated the BJP for its “cynical exploitation” of people’s fear of the coronavirus and wondered whether the “politicisation of the vaccine” meant that states where polls weren’t due anytime soon would be denied priority in access to the vaccine. Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders accused the BJP of being in “the business of death for votes” and of “trading vaccines for votes after allowing Covid-19 to spread across the country”. “The coronavirus vaccine is of the country and not of the BJP. The political use of the vaccine shows that it (the BJP) has no other option than to sell the fear of disease and death. The people of Bihar have too much self-respect to sell the future of their children for a few paise,” the RJD tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi posted a sarcastic tweet: “The Government of India just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise elections schedule to know when you will get it, along with a hoard of false promises.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor urged the Election Commission to act. “Tum mujhe vote do, main tumhein vaccine… what appalling cynicism. Will the Election Commission rap her (Sitharaman) and her shameless government on the knuckles?” he tweeted. Bhupendra Yadav, the BJP general secretary in charge of Bihar, defended the poll promise, saying: “Vaccines will be made available to all Indians at a nominal cost. The states can make it free. In Bihar, we will (if voted to power).” Health experts stressed the uncertainty about when and how fast a successful vaccine could be produced, which implies that promises about vaccinating an entire state like Bihar, whose population in the 2011 census was 10.4 crore, amounted to jumping the gun. Members of an expert panel tracking the vaccine development efforts have said that until a candidate vaccine is approved, it will be difficult to predict how many vaccine doses will be available or to set a budget for a vaccine. “How much of vaccine doses will be available will depend on which vaccine is successful,” a member of the panel had told this newspaper earlier this month. Different companies have different production capacities — although efforts are on to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology to make Covid-19 vaccines. The availability will also depend on whether a two-dose vaccine or a three-dose vaccine makes it. Health experts emphasised that it’s too early to even predict which among the 44 candidates under clinical trials worldwide, including three in India, might be successful. Scientists said that none of the vaccines had yet been proved through large-scale Phase 3 efficacy studies to protect people from Covid-19. India’s home-grown vaccines are still undergoing Phase 2 studies to determine their capacity to generate an immune response. A medical researcher familiar with the status of the vaccine trials appeared amused at the BJP poll promise. “Health is a state subject. If the BJP and the state have the access to and the resources for a vaccine and they want to give it free to everyone... I shall also go and take it,” he said. “There is a thing called selling dreams,” the researcher added. The BJP manifesto also spoke of creating 19 lakh jobs, making 1 crore women self-reliant through self-help groups, providing 30 lakh houses to the homeless, making medical and technical education available in Hindi, and stipulating minimum support prices for various kinds of pulses. Ally Janata Dal United too released its poll manifesto on Thursday, basing it on the “Seven Resolves for a Developed Bihar — Part II” announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar around a month ago. Bihar’s 243 Assembly seats will vote on October 28, November 3 and November 7, with counting on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Covid takes job, collector gives ||Baishnab Beria had scrimped and saved to send son Ananta to engineering college so that the boy need not become a labourer like him. He had not reckoned with the coronavirus. Two years after Ananta had earned a BTech degree from a Bhubaneswar college and gone on to secure an assistant engineer’s job with a Chennai company, the 23-year-old was back in Odisha, working as a labourer alongside his father. The pandemic-induced lockdown had cost him his job — as it had done to millions of old and young across the country — forcing a youth who earned Rs 15,000 a month to work for Rs 207 a day. Unlike many of his fellow sufferers, Ananta can hope for a happy ending. His lucky break came when Bolangir collector Chanchal Rana arrived in Jurlakani village on Tuesday to inspect the work being done under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Rana told The Telegraph on Thursday: “When I examined the muster roll to find out the number of workers engaged, I found a young man working there. When I talked to him, I was quite impressed.” “I enquired about his qualification and was surprised to learn that he had a BTech degree. I called him to my office in Bolangir the next day.” On Wednesday, when Ananta visited the collector in the district headquarters town of Bolangir, 320km from Bhubaneswar, he was offered a government job. “We have decided to absorb him in the MGNREGA cell (which maintains ledgers and records of all the rural job scheme projects and workers in the district) at the district headquarters. He will get between Rs 10,000 and Rs 12,000 a month,” Rana said. “But we’ll make it clear that it’s a temporary arrangement to tide him over his present financial problems. He should now work to realise his dreams. He can go in for higher studies or wait for things to change so he can land a good job. I shall do whatever I can to help him.” Ananta’s family is overjoyed. “We have no words to thank Collector Sahab,” father Baishnab said. But trade union activist and CPM leader Janardan Pati underlined that there were millions of others in the same boat as Ananta for whom the authorities needed to do more. “We must also think of those 16 crore other people who have lost their jobs to the lockdown. Among them are nearly 2.3 lakh engineers and technicians. The Centre and the state government have failed to come to their rescue,” he said. Ananta, who was first employed with the Bhopal Municipal Corporation before moving to Chennai, said the loss of his job had come like a thunderbolt. “My father had toiled as a labourer to send me to college. All his hopes were pinned on me. Before the lockdown I used to send him Rs 10,000 every month,” he told this newspaper. Ananta, who has a 17-year-old brother and two married sisters, said he had come home on leave in the first week of March. Just as he was about to set off for Chennai after the holiday, the lockdown was announced on March 24. His colleagues in Chennai told Ananta not to undertake the journey as things had gone horribly wrong there. “Friends who worked with me told me not to return as all their jobs had gone,” Ananta said. Soon, his savings were exhausted. “My father began working under the rural job scheme as a labourer and I decided to join him two months ago,” the young engineer said. Deogaon block development officer Navin Kishore Padhi said: “The boy worked on a canal project. He was paid Rs 207 a day. Earlier, his father and mother Binodini had worked under the scheme.” He added: “Under the MGNREGA, a skilled labourer gets Rs 453, a semi-skilled labourer Rs 338 and an unskilled labour Rs 207.” On Thursday, Ananta reported informally at his new office in Bolangir to learn the ropes at his new job. He will join formally on November 1, officials said. Bolangir being just 20km from his village, Ananta plans to commute every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Uniform marriage age plea||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a uniform marriageable age for men and women. The petitioner, who has sought the transfer of all related appeals to the Supreme Court from the high courts in Delhi and Rajasthan, has argued that the current thresholds of 18 years for girls and 21 years for boys are discriminatory and panders to the “stereotype” of women being subservient to men. Advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the petitioner, had earlier filed a writ petition on the matter, following which the court had issued notice to the government. A uniform marriageable age is being hotly debated on social media for the past few days. Upadhyay said on Thursday that as different petitions were pending in various courts, they should be clubbed and transferred to the Supreme Court for an authoritative pronouncement. “The petitioner is compelled to approach this Hon’ble Court as more PILs may be filed in other high courts seeking ‘uniform minimum age of marriage for men and women’. Therefore, in order to avoid multiplicity of litigation and conflicting views on interpretations of Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and liberty) and judgments on gender justice and gender equality, the court may be pleased to transfer these PILs and decide them collectively,” the petition said. The minimum age of 21 for men and 18 for women are stipulated in Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955; Section 60(1) of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872; Section 3(1)(c) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936; Section 4(c) of the Special Marriage Act, 1954; and Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Assailing the different age criteria for men and women, the transfer petition said: “While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married (off) when they are just 18. The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against the global trends.” Upadhyay pointed out that the Law Commission had earlier observed that there was no scientific basis for such a distinction and that differential limits “simply contributes to the stereotype that wives must be younger than their husbands”. The Committee on Elimination of Discrimination against Women had also noted that some countries provide for different minimum ages for marriage for men and women. As such provisions assume incorrectly that women have a different rate of intellectual development from men, or that their stage of physical and intellectual development at marriage is immaterial, these provisions should be abolished, the petitioner said. “The differential limit causes de facto discrimination. It is a social reality that women in a married relationship are expected to perform a subordinate role vis-à-vis the husband. Hence, there exists a power imbalance between the husband and wife in most marital relationships. This power imbalance is deeply aggravated by the age differential, because age itself constitutes a hierarchy of power. A younger spouse is therefore expected to respect and be servile to her elder partner, which aggravates the pre-existing gender-based hierarchy in the marital relationship,” the petition said. According to the petitioner, more than 125 countries have a uniform age of marriage for men and women. Noting this fact, the National Human Rights Commission, pursuant to the National Conference on Child Marriage held in New Delhi on August 29 and 30, 2018, had also recommended that India follow suit and bring uniformity in minimum age limits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Hathras pain turns Dalits towards Buddhism||More than 200 Dalits in Ghaziabad have converted to Buddhism in protest against the Uttar Pradesh government’s treatment of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim who belonged to their Valmiki caste, several Dalits from the area said. However, the police on Thursday registered an FIR against unidentified people for “spreading false rumours about religious conversions”, and Ghaziabad additional district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey told reporters the “rumour” was being probed. Rajratna Ambedkar, Bhimrao Ambedkar’s great-grandnephew and president of the Buddhist Society of India, had on October 16 tweeted pictures of the purported October 14 event. He had written in Hindi: “A historic moment for the Valmiki community as they receive diksha (initiation) in Buddhism and the 22 vows (prescribed by Babasaheb Ambedkar for his followers).” Accounts of the purported event, however, became widely known only on October 20 when a video was circulated on WhatsApp. It appeared to show people receiving diksha and then holding up a certificate from the Buddhist Society of India. A member of the Valmiki caste who claimed to have adopted Buddhism at the event told reporters the way the state government had tried to protect the Rajput accused and bullied the Hathras victim’s family “made us feel that we don’t belong to the Hindu community”. He said Rajratna had imparted diksha to the converts. Another avowed convert was quoted as saying: “We held a meeting on October 14 at village Karhera in the Sahibabad area of Ghaziabad that was attended by 236 members of 50 Valmiki families from the neighbourhood. They were hurt that the police had initially refused to register a gang-rape case in Hathras and later burnt the victim’s body without the presence of her family. We embraced Buddhism at the meeting.” While Indian law permits religious conversions, governments and the police have been known to harass converts and proselytisers by using the bogey of “forced conversion”. A 19-year-old Valmiki girl was allegedly gang-raped and brutalised by four Thakur youths at her village in Hathras on September 14. She died at a Delhi hospital on September 29 amid allegations that the police had refused to file rape charges for eight days and made no effort to get her the best possible treatment. The police then allegedly hijacked her body, took it to her village, locked the family up at their home and burnt the body after dousing it with a liquid from a jerry can, the forced and perfunctory “cremation” triggering outrage. The police have claimed in a court affidavit that the girl was cremated in the presence of her family, without specifying who these family members were. “Police and administrative officials bullied the family and journalists when they tried to tell the truth. It couldn’t have happened without the state government’s support,” one of the purported converts said. He stressed, as the girl’s father had done, that the police’s act was “un-Hindu” since tradition requires unmarried Hindus to be buried rather than cremated after death. “The entire episode made us feel that we don’t belong to the Hindu community. There was no point staying in the religion; so we decided to embrace Buddhism.” He added: “The Thakurs of Hathras and adjoining areas kept holding panchayats in support of the rapists and killers for many days while Section 144 (which bans the assembly of five or more people) was in force. However, the police beat up those protesting the atrocity on the girl.” The police said they had registered the FIR against “rumour mongers” on Thursday on a complaint from Montu Valmiki, a Sahibabad resident. Nand Kishore Gurjar, local MLA from the BJP, said: “I have sent a complaint to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to probe the rumour of religious conversions. I believe that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Pakistan’s intelligence agency are behind this rumour.” Resident doctors at Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College have demanded the reinstatement of two colleagues, who were allegedly sacked for speaking to reporters about the Hathras atrocity, PTI reported. AMU authorities have denied any sackings and said the two doctors had been engaged “on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9”, and the period had now ended. The order ending the two doctors’ contracts was issued on October 20, a day after the CBI team probing the Hathras case visited the hospital, where the victim had been treated for a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||‘Vaccine for vote’ offer sparks outrage||The BJP’s promise in its poll manifesto to provide the Covid-19 vaccine free to everyone in Bihar has prompted its rivals to condemn the announcement as immoral and illegal. While some questioned the opportunistic use of a yet-undeveloped vaccine as an election bait, others raised concerns about federal principles, wondering whether states where elections aren’t due anytime soon would be denied priority in accessing the vaccine. Rahul Gandhi expressed the concern through a sarcastic tweet: “The Government of India just announced India’s Covid access strategy. Kindly refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises.” Expressing surprise that such a promise could be made, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi told The Telegraph: “It is criminally irresponsible, morally indefensible and legally condemnable. If true, this is the most flagrant and egregious form of bribery. Worse, whereas bribers at least keep their promise, this is ex facie false and dishonest.” Bihar’s principal opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, was livid. “A vaccine for the coronavirus will be a national asset, (it’s) not owned by the BJP. The politicisation of the vaccine shows they have nothing else to sell other than fear and disease,” it tweeted in Hindi. “Biharis have self-esteem; they don’t sell the future of their children for a few bucks. The BJP has nothing constructive to offer for education, healthcare and employment. They are trading in death for votes.” RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha tweeted: “Making a vaccine for a global pandemic an electoral issue in a welfare state is a measure of the fall in the level of discourse. Electoral bargaining for saving lives? Shame. Hey Ram!” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Tum mujhe vote do, main tumhe vaccine… what appalling cynicism! Will the Election Commission rap her (Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who released the manifesto and articulated the free vaccine promise) and her shameless government on the knuckles?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||UP cop benched for beard||A police officer in Uttar Pradesh has been suspended on the charge of “indiscipline” for keeping a beard without taking “formal permission” from the department. Sub-inspector Intsar Ali, 50, however, said his request for permission to keep a beard had been pending with the department for almost a year now and that he had never faced any problem or resistance to sporting facial hair during his 25-year service in Uttar Pradesh police. Baghpat police chief Abhishek Singh, who has issued the suspension order, said Ali, attached to Ramala police station, 580km west of Lucknow, had disregarded instructions to seek formal permission. “As per the dress code of the police manual, all policemen, except members of the Sikh community, are expected to take formal permission from the department for keeping a long beard. However, they can keep a long moustache. The SI had been asked twice in the past to take formal permission but he ignored the instructions. He has been suspended for indiscipline,” Singh said. “Ali has ignored the dress code in the past also. The notice was served to him after an inquiry,” the SP added. Ali said he had submitted an application with the police department in November 2019 for permission to grow a beard. “But the department has yet to respond to it. I will soon complete the departmental process,” the sub-inspector said. “I have served UP police for 25 years, and until now nobody had stopped me from keeping a beard,” added Ali, who joined the force in 1994 and has been posted in Baghpat for the past three years. Ali, a native of Saharanpur, said his beard at present was around 6 inches long. The Baghpat SP’s office, however, denied that Ali had submitted any application seeking permission to grow a beard and that he had been served a notice earlier “for not following uniform protocol and trimming his beard”. Although the police have quoted chapter and verse of the rules and discipline is undeniably the abiding principle of the security forces, keeping a beard has been a symbol of faith and culture for Muslims and instances of suspension for sporting facial hair have been rare. A senior official in the Union home ministry said policemen were not permitted to keep a beard “to maintain uniformity in service and a smart look”, but a minority community member could seek and receive permission to grow facial hair. Publicly sporting religious symbols have led to harassment, and even turned fatal sometimes, for the minority community in the past few years. The country’s Prime Minister himself had insinuated that rioters could be identified by their clothes, and donning articles of faith have sometimes invited consequences as dire as lynching. The chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, the saffron-robed Yogi Adityanath, has often made inflammatory comments such as spotting a “green virus” and gone on a spree to rechristen places with Muslim names. After the February riots in Delhi in which 53 people had lost their lives, many Muslims had shaved off their beard and avoided wearing skullcaps for fear of being singled out for attacks. The Supreme Court had in 2003 ordered the reinstatement of Assam Rifles jawan Hyder Ali and the payment of his dues since his sacking in 1997 for keeping a beard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Guild speaks up for Kashmir daily ||The sealing of the Srinagar office of the Kashmir Times is reprehensible and has disturbing implications for the media of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the Editors Guild of India has said. The Guild calls upon the government of Jammu and Kashmir to restore status quo and create circumstances in which media can function without hindrance and without fear, said a statement issued by the Guild’s president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath. “Newspapers and magazines in the undivided state of Jammu and Kashmir were already ravaged by conflict, with editors and correspondents working against difficult odds. Publications have steadily lost advertising over the last decade. Jammu and Kashmir’s communication shutdowns, followed by the pandemic lockdown, have totally stopped the trickle of revenue. The online editions are crippled by the slow internet speed imposed by the government,” the Guild pointed out. The Kashmir Times, a 55-year-old publication, was forced to shut down its Srinagar edition in March. Instead of assisting the media, which was most needed in these dark times, the administration without any notice took control of the office of the Kashmir Times, putting its lock on the door,” the Guild said. The newspaper editor,  Anuradha Bhasin, and the staff have been denied access to records, computers, furniture and equipment in the office. The Guild considers the action of state administration vindictive and injurious not just to the Kashmir Times, but also to the entire free media in the Union Territory, the Guild added in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||Govt quells Delhi University crisis||The education ministry has stepped in to quell the leadership crisis at Delhi University, upholding the decisions of the acting vice-chancellor while annulling the steps taken by the vice-chancellor who is on leave. After the DU Executive Council presided over by acting VC and acting pro-VC P.C. Joshi appointed Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as finance officer late on Wednesday night, VC Yogesh K. Tyagi had on Thursday morning appointed Geeta Bhatt, an associate professor of Bhaskaracharya College, as the acting pro-VC replacing Joshi. Tyagi, who has not been coming to office for almost two months apparently because of illness, himself signed the letter. In Tyagi’s absence, acting pro-VC Joshi has been also operating as the acting VC. The education ministry, however, endorsed Joshi’s decisions. In a letter issued in the evening and signed by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the education ministry, the government also annulled all decisions taken by Tyagi. The ministry held that Tyagi was absent on medical grounds and could not issue orders without formally rejoining after submitting a medical certificate. Joshi shall continue as the acting VC, the letter stated, also implying that the appointments made by him would be official. Calls, mails and text messages to Tyagi and Joshi for comments on the crisis went unanswered on Thursday. On Wednesday, Joshi began the process of appointing a regular registrar and a finance officer by calling the Executive Council meeting. Tyagi did not approve of this as he had earlier in the day appointed Prof P.C. Jha as acting registrar. As a mark of protest, Jha on Wednesday sat in the registrar’s office in the VC’s building for several hours and locked the room before leaving. On Thursday morning, Joshi responded by locking up the entire premises of the VC’s office and continued to remain inside till late in the night to send the message that he still held his posts. Gupta took charge as registrar after meeting Joshi. Bhatt, too, took charge after meeting Tyagi at his residence. In the evening Bhatt issued an order stating that the appointment orders issued by Joshi were “without any jurisdiction” and declaring them “null and void”. The chaos had begun affecting the functioning of the institutions. The chemistry department of DU had to cancel scheduled interviews for guest faculty members on Thursday as there was no nominee from the VC in the selection panel. “The university is saved from whimsical decisions,” Prof. Inder Mohan Kapahi posted on Facebook after the government’s intervention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||India||President prod on ‘Muslim Regiment’ lie||Rashtrapati Bhavan has forwarded to the defence ministry a petition by military veterans seeking “immediate action” against those spreading false propaganda about a non-existent “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army that had “refused to fight during the 1965 war with Pakistan”. It has asked the ministry to directly inform the petitioners about the action taken. Last week, 120 military veterans had written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking action against those spreading the propaganda and urging him to ensure that the “secular and apolitical character” of the army is preserved. The letter pointed out that no such regiment existed and cited several instances of valour and selfless sacrifice by Muslim soldiers. The President is the supreme commander of the armed forces. “Please find attached/forwarded, for appropriate attention, an email petition addressed to the President/President’s secretariat which is self-explanatory. Action taken on the petition may please be communicated to the petitioner directly,” said a communication from Rashtrapati Bhavan to the defence secretary. Sources in Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President had taken cognisance of the veterans’ petition. In the letter the veterans had said the genesis of the campaign of falsehood lay in a May 2013 tweet from the handle @120croreHindus-World Hindus United that claimed that “in 1965 there was a regiment in Indian Army called Muslim Regiment which refused to fight against Pakistan after which it was dismantled”. “The tweet was meant to show that Muslim soldiers had their loyalties to Pakistan rather than India. The ‘Muslim Regiment’ post has been re-tweeted many times thereafter, and its insidious surfacing during the ongoing Chinese aggression is certainly suspect,” the veterans said. According to them, the post “questions the loyalty of all serving and retired Muslim soldiers”. “These ‘Muslim Regiment’ posts are blatantly false, because the Indian Army did not have a Muslim Regiment in 1965 or since. Some senior-ranking veterans have unequivocally pointed out the false nature of these posts,” the letter said. Written by former navy chief, Admiral L. Ramdas, and endorsed by 119 other veterans, the letter was addressed also to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the tri-services chiefs. The signatories had sought the following actions: ⚫ Investigate the antecedents of the individuals who have made the social media posts on the “Muslim Regiment” ⚫ Identify and charge such individuals for anti-national activities ⚫ Issue warning to the social media platforms (Facebook and Twitter) that have not acted against the posts ⚫ Issue immediate instructions to all state governments to take immediate action against false and seditious messages on social media so that national security is not jeopardised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-601
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Ichhamati boat rides on Dashami banned||Traditional boat rides on the Ichhamati river for the immersion of idols of goddess Durga will not be held this year on Dashami with the Taki civic administration on Thursday banning such events because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic administration after a meeting with police and district administration on Wednesday directed Durga Puja organisers to immerse the idols in the river at two designated ghats where only 10 persons will be allowed to enter to complete the ritual. The Taki municipality authorities made it clear to the puja organisers that no boat would be allowed to sail with the deities on the Ichhamati for immersion on Dashami. The authorities also said that boats would not be allowed to take people on joy rides. The administrator of the civic board and its former vice-chairman Azizul Gazi said: “The Covid situation is yet to be brought under control. Calcutta High Court has declared puja pandals as no-entry zones to avoid the gatherings. We have also decided to take similar precautions by placing a ban on any assembly on the bank of the river during the traditional immersion. People will not be allowed to enjoy a boat ride on the river.” On the Dashami, a few thousand people on either side of the river gather to witness the spectacular immersion of Durga idols while many people hire boats to enjoy a ride on the river on the occasion. On the Indian side, the deities are immersed in Taki, while the deities from Bangladesh are immersed across the river in Satkhira. While idols are immersed in the river, the custodians of the border of the two countries — BSF and BGB — patrol on speed boats through the middle of the river to create a line of control with ropes so that no boat from either side could sneak into other’s territory. “We are aware that many people eagerly wait for Dashami to experience the spectacular immersion in the Ichhamati. But this year we are going through an unusual situation due to the pandemic. We cannot put people’s lives at risk by allowing such a huge gathering of a few thousand people,” Gazi said. “We had suspended public celebration of Eid for the same reason. We have spoken to Durga Puja organisers, the police, and officials of the district administration before we decided to ban the boat ride for immersion in the Ichhamati,” he added. An officer of Basirhat police district said: “Puja organisers have been discouraged to take the deities to the river. In case they bring it there, we have told them to immerse it at the designated ghats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
23-10-2020||West Bengal||North Dinajpur puja portrays idols as frontline warriors||When a virus is the enemy of the entire human race, it is only fitting that Goddess Durga takes on the avatar of a doctor fighting the Covid-19 mahishasur (demon). Her daughters Lakshmi and Saraswati are a nurse, journalist. Her sons Ganesha and Kartik are a policeman and a hygiene worker. The coronavirus, the lockdown and the plight of migrants have dominated themes at community puja pandals across the state this year. Amid them, Adarsha Sangha, a prominent club in Islampur of North Dinajpur, stands out. During this year’s Durga Puja, Adarsha Sangha has portrayed the idols as frontline warriors against the novel coronavirus. It is the club’s way of honouring the frontline warriors who are combating the pandemic, Raju Sahani, a member of the club, said. “For over seven months now, doctors and others associated with healthcare, the police force, the cleaning staff and mediapersons are working in their own diverse ways, tirelessly, to combat the pandemic that has infected over 77 lakh people and claimed the lives of over a lakh in our country. That is why we thought of honouring them by depicting the idols as frontline warriors,” Sahani said. While the idols have been presented as frontline workers, the entire pandal too, not surprisingly, sports a Covid-19 theme. “On the outer side of the pandal, we have showcased nature and wildlife while the pandal on the inside models a hospital where the battle against the virus is going on,” added Sahani. The goddess, who is in the doctor’s white coat, has an injection syringe and not the trident in her hand. As a doctor, she will use the syringe to slay the demon, that is, the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19. The organisers said that they took every preventive measure according to the order of the Calcutta High Court and safety protocols stated by the state government to prevent crowds and ensure the safety of all those associated with the puja. “No visitor would be allowed to enter the pandal and violate social distance rules. We have installed a sanitisation tunnel nearby. Thermal guns are checking the temperature of all, and anybody found without masks will be immediately given one,” said Sahani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Milind ambassador of next Darjeeling hill marathon||Milind Soman, India’s supermodel, actor, producer and one of the most well-known fitness promoters in the country, became the first person to register the name for the seventh edition of Darjeeling Hill Marathon, the biggest such event in north Bengal. Soman is the ambassador of the November 22 marathon organised by Darjeeling Police. He interacted with people of Darjeeling live from Mumbai at an event organised by the police on Thursday. “I have been to Darjeeling many many times and am looking forward to participate in the event. Hopefully, my wife (Ankita Konwar) and my 81-year old mother will be taking part in the event. She (mother) will be very excited to participate in the marathon,” said Soman. The past marathons had attracted runners not only from across India but also from countries like Kenya, Nepal, US and Australia. Given the travel restrictions in force because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of international participants might fall but the organisers are expecting a huge count of Indians at the event as the marathon route has been “internationally recognised”. In keeping with the present situation, the tag line for the marathon is “Time to R-Unlock.” Darjeeling superintendent of police Santosh Nimbalkar, who is also a physician, advised people to take care of their fitness. “During the Covid pandemic, the best way out is to improve fitness and this will protect us from diseases. Start running, start building your stamina,” said Nimabalkar. The marathon, which has two sections of 21.1km and 10km runs, will start and finish at Chowrasta and has been divided into six categories. “There are categories for police, under 45 years and above 45 years for both male and females. Registration will be done only online through www.townscript.com/in/darjeeling and the runners’ blips will be sent to participants in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts through local police stations,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional SP (headquarters). Outstation runners will be handed over the blips in Darjeeling a day earlier. Soman, however, was all praise for hill runners and said “they are much better” than those in coastal areas. “Remember, everyone can run but at your own pace. It is not about finishing past but reaching the finishing point. Find your own space,” advised Soman. SP Nimbalkar, Gupta, Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa, runner Priti Rai and others launched the finisher’s medal, jersey and a promotional video titled “Darjeeling Calling” produced by the Darjeeling police. The top three winners of the 21.1km marathon will receive prizes of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 50,000 and Rs 25,000 while the podium finishers of the 10km run will take home Rs 25,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Gurung volte-face changes hill equations, creates room for GNLF||Bimal Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul Congress, a party which opposes the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland, may be seen as a masterstroke by Team Mamata Banerjee, but the hill leader has come under criticism from a large section in the hills. After Gurung formally snapped ties with the BJP and embraced Trinamul at a news meet in Calcutta on Wednesday, questions have started doing the rounds in Darjeeling hills about the new flag-bearer for the Gorkhaland issue. Gurung’s new political stand seems to have created a vacuum in hill politics as statehood continues to be the most influential political issue in the hills. Gurung, who resurfaced in Calcutta after a gap of three years, did talk about Gorkhaland being his main issue and said he would pursue it during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. But now, after joining hands with Trinamul, his credibility may be under question. Staunch statehood proponents may not buy Gurung’s stand. “The reality is that there still exists a strong anti-TMC feeling in hills largely because of the party’s opposition to the statehood demand. Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul has taken the sheen out of his aura,” said an observer. Sources maintain that other regional parties, mainly the GNLF, have started redrawing strategies in this emerging situation. On Thursday, some senior GNLF leaders held a meeting in Siliguri. Sources told The Telegraph that the GNLF is now taking a lead to work out a new political equation. A senior GNLF leader said as of now it was “100 per cent advantage GNLF”, but added they would cautiously watch people’s mood. “The word till now was that Bimal Gurung is the only one for Gorkhaland, but that myth has been busted... Even the BJP, if they want anything in Darjeeling, they can’t ignore the GNLF,” said the GNLF leader. The GNLF, an ally of the BJP, has been sulking that the saffron party is not giving it importance despite its help in ensuring Raju Bista winning the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat. However, Gurung’s latest decision, observers said, can change the direction of hill politics and much will depend on how the GNLF plays its cards. There is a possibility that contours of the BJP-GNLF relationship may change as well, as the hill party will have a higher bargaining power now. “Bimal Gurung’s arrival in Darjeeling will not ensure all votes will go to him,” the GNLF leader said. A political observer said that it would be interesting to see how the GNLF leadership manages to use this opportunity to prove they are the vanguards of the Gorkhaland issue. “Back in 2007, the party’s support base had fallen apart following the emergence of Morcha. During the past few years, GNLF has managed to revive its support, as the Morcha got divided into two factions (Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang),” the observer pointed out. He also said that steadfast advocacy for statehood by Gurung and other leaders of his party and their vehement opposition to parties in power in Bengal opposed to the demand — the Left earlier and Trinamul now —  helped the Morcha draw immense support of hill people. “But now that both factions of Morcha (Gurung and Tamang) are closer to Trinamul, GNLF will try to win back its support base with statehood,” the observer added. Sources privy to the negotiations between Gurung and the Trinamul leadership said that he might soon be offered a post that can also have a significant impact in hill politics. Gurung has a number of cases pending against him, including charges under the UAPA. “It is obvious that GNLF and some other parties may raise questions if the state takes a soft stand about him,” said a political analyst. While hill residents and political pundits are waiting for GNLF’s next move, they are equally curious to see the Binay Tamang faction react to ripples of Gurung’s decision to back Trinamul. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, was at Pintail village in Siliguri, where he hinted that their faction had not thought of any reconciliatory approach (towards Gurung) so far. “We are in the GTA and will continue to run it. I have spoken with the chief minister on the issue. So far the party is concerned, Binay Tamang is our leader and we will continue to work for the hill people. Anybody is free to return to Darjeeling but if he makes any attempt to revive his old image, common people will not accept it,” said Thapa. Gurung supporters have started coming out in the open. Some held a meeting at Vah-Tukvar, others in Kurseong plastered welcome posters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||4157 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday logged 4,157 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths and 3,608 recoveries, all the three figures highest for a 24-hour period. This is the 19th time that the highest 24-hour rise in the cases was reset in October. The day’s toll of 64 was reported for the fifth time, though still the highest so far. Calcutta reported 16 deaths and North 24-Parganas 18 on Thursday. Bengal’s total number of Covid-19 cases are now over 3.37 lakh, which include nearly 2.95 lakh recoveries and 6,308 deaths. Bengal climbed this month to the fourth spot among states with most active cases, after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. “Bengal alone has about 5 per cent of India’s total active cases now,” said a government source. “States such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, which were relatively far worse off, are doing marginally better now,” said a government source. Bengal’s recovery rate, ahead of the national rate for months, was 87.44 per cent on Thursday, slipping well behind the current national rate of 89.33. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.87, again behind the national rate of 1.51 per cent. “For months, we were in the top 3 or top 5 among states with the highest recovery rate. Now, we are languishing at 24th place. October damages have dragged us down, undoing much of the good work,” said a source in the government. “We can only hope that this (spurt in cases) does not worsen drastically over Durga Puja, given the high court’s intervention. Otherwise, we might have a full-fledged public health emergency before Kali Puja,” he added. In just a month, Bengal added nearly 1.06 lakh new Covid-19 cases while only 93,000 have recovered and 1,825 people have died. “Over 62,000 of new cases in the month were reported from five high-incidence districts (Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly),” said the government source. In those five districts, the total active cases was 12,805 exactly a month ago. On Thursday, it stood at 20,213. The state government termed 5,330 or 84.5 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Modi virtual presence can’t hide rift in Bengal BJP||Even the Prime Minister’s virtual presence couldn’t hide the rifts in Bengal BJP. As Narendra Modi inaugurated Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja at the Eastern Zonal Cultural Complex through a virtual speech on Thursday, many from state party president Dilip Ghosh’s “lobby” skipped the event. Ghosh’s absence was justified as he had recently contracted Covid-19, said a source. But virtually all leaders at EZCC were close to the Kailash Vijayvargiya-Mukul Roy lobby. “Dilipda’s lobby has taken a back seat,” a party source told this paper. Parliamentarians Locket Chatterjee, Babul Supriyo, Swapan Dasgupta and Arjun Singh, Arvind Menon, the party’s co-minder in Bengal, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and two other TMC turncoats — Sabyasachi Dutta and Shankudeb Panda — attended the event. Bengal BJP general secretaries Subrata Chatterjee and Sayantan Basu, said to be close to Ghosh, did not show up, though *Basu* later said he was in Howrah *while Chatterjee was in Burdwan*. Ghosh’s aides Pratap Banerjee, Agnimitra Paul and Raju Banerjee came, but the latter looked disinterested in the goings-on. When leaders inside the auditorium were asked to come onstage and play the dhaak, Raju Banerjee stayed away. Basu later explained his absence. “I am the president of different pujas in Howrah. I had told the party that I would be in Howrah listening to the PM,” he said. In the evening, the media cell of the state BJP unit circulated a Durga Puja video message by Ghosh that had no mention of the puja hosted by his own party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Effusive Modi sweet-talks Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday invoked Bengal’s icons, tried speaking the “sweet language”, spoke of the “sonar Bangla” dream and rolled out a long list of what the BJP-led Centre had done for the state in his 25-minute address from Delhi live-streamed across Bengal. “I feel like I’m in Calcutta among you and not in Delhi,” he said in his speech that was part of an inaugural event of a Durga Puja hosted by the Bengal unit of the BJP in Salt Lake. Billed as a message to the people of Bengal for Durga Puja, the contents of Modi’s speech made it clear that he was trying to woo voters in poll-bound Bengal though he steered clear of any reference to elections or Trinamul. The virtual event started with BJP MP Babul Supriyo singing a Tagore song in the presence of senior state BJP leaders, and Modi taking it up from there. Modi listed Bengal’s notables — Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Syamaprasad Mookerjee, Baba Lokenath, Thakur Anukulchandra, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Satyajit Ray, Uttam Kumar  — and juxtaposed his government’s commitment to adhere to the path shown by some of the state’s luminaries. He included Panchanan Barma, a 19th century Rajbanshi reformer, and Harichand and Guruchand Thakur, founders of the Matua sect, in the list. “If I continue to take the names of such Bengalis, the day will end but we won’t run out of names,” Modi said. “Whenever the need was felt in India’s history, Bengal has always led the way...” Linking the  autumn festival with woman empowerment, he went on to say what his government had done for women, including Jan Dhan accounts for 22 crore women, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme, among others. Modi referred to Ujjwala Yojana and Jal Jeevan Mission, which he claimed helped thousands of Bengal households. “Our government sanctioned Rs 8,500 crore for the East-West Metro corridor in Calcutta,” he said. “Besides, crores of rupees have been invested to build better roads among India, Nepal and Bangladesh,” he added. He also reminded people to be cautious during the festive season so that the pandemic situation did not worsen. “I urge everyone to ensure (social) distancing and wear masks during celebrations at all times,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Tourists barred from stormy sea at Digha||The East Midnapore district administration barred tourists from venturing into sea for three days from Thursday because of stormy weather triggered by a depression in the Bay of Bengal. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall and squally wind conditions in coastal Odisha, Bengal and northeastern states from October 22 to 24. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has barred bathing in the sea and asked fishermen not to venture into the rough sea for the next three days. Those who have gone for fishing have been told to return. Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Roy said: “In response to the forecast issued by the meteorological department, we have barred anyone from venturing into the sea from October 22 to 24. The weather turned stormy since Wednesday night and the sea is rough.” Roy said a control room had been opened at the block office to deal with any eventuality. The administration is also using the public address system to inform tourists about the weather and the ban imposed on bathing in the sea. Civil defence and police personnel have been deployed at the sea resorts of Digha, Mandarmani, Shankarpur and Tajpur to keep an eye on tourists and stop them from taking the plunge. A 22-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has arrived from Barrackpore in North 24-Parganas to deal with any emergency situation. Civil defence personnel Ratan Das said the sea had turned turbulent from Wednesday evening. “A woman was being swept away while bathing on Wednesday evening. We rescued her and took her to the hospital. She has returned home. From today (Thursday), we will not allow anyone into the sea,” Das added. Since Thursday morning, Digha wore a cloudy look and this dampened the spirit of tourists, many of whom had come to the sea resort after Calcutta High Court banned the entry of visitors inside Durga Puja pandals across the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Sumana Dasgupta, a resident of Tollygunge in Calcutta, had come to Digha with her family to enjoy the four days of Puja. The ban on bathing has left her gloomy. “My 14-year-old son and 11-year-old daughter have been planning for long to have a great time in the sea. Our plan has gone haywire with the ban on bathing in the sea. We arrived this morning and booked rooms till October 24. We will return early,” she said. Joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association, Bipradas Chakraborty, said: “The seaside resorts were slowly coming out of the lockdown blues but the change in weather has led to cancellation of bookings.” Assistant director of fisheries, marine, of East Midnapore, Surajit Bagh, said: “Fishermen have been asked to stay off the sea for three days beginning Thursday. Those who are in the sea have been asked to return fast.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||West Bengal||Social harmony at North Dinajpur, Malda pujas||The amity between Hindu and Muslim communities dwelling in remote pockets of North Dinajpur and Malda districts has once again come at the forefront during the annual festivities this year. In Mehendigram, a village in Raiganj block around 10km from the district headquarters, sees hundreds from both communities celebrating the Durga Puja for over 400 years now. Hindus and Muslims at a locality in Gazole of Malda are also busy in making final arrangements for a more recent puja being held since 2007, and initiated by a Muslim man for Dalits. “Our religions may be different, but every year we celebrate Durga Puja together. Right from collecting subscriptions to immersing idols, we join hands in every endeavour. Our puja might not have the grandeur and glamour like the pujas held in towns but this uniqueness of our puja draws hundreds of visitors from villages and towns every year,” said Rafikul Islam, one of the active members of the puja committee. At the village, the “mandap” or the pavilion located amid the lush green agricultural fields, elders and youngsters assemble every day to prepare for the puja. “Right from Sashthi to Dashami, all Muslim families here refrain from eating non-vegetarian food. They partake of vegetarian food just like us, join the puja and even offer bhog to the goddess. The puja here is more of an annual celebration for all of us and has kept us bound together for centuries now,” Rameshwar Roy, a senior resident, said. This particular Durga Puja, residents said, started way back in 1611. “We have learned from our ancestors that Durlabh Roy Choudhury, who was a zamindar of Haripur (now in Bangladesh), had started the Durga Puja,” said Roy. In those days, residents of Mehendigram used to walk up to the zamindar’s house in Haripur to collect the items needed for the autumnal worship and then return to the village. “Since that time, Hindus and Muslims have been working together for this Durga Puja. It is a symbol of amity now,” said a social researcher in Raiganj. In 2007, Bobby Ahmed of Malda town, a dry-cleaning shop owner, decided to collect a few people and start a new Durga Puja in Gazole for Dalits — the Aikya Sangha Puja. On why he decided to start the Durga Puja, Bobby said he was pained to see members of the Dalit community who stay close to his shop near the local bus stand in Gazole, some 25km from district headquarters, usually stayed aloof from the festivities. “I was shocked to see that even now the issue of untouchability is there and that is why they stay away from the pujas. This made me plan a puja where they can all join. I invited some youths of their community and other Muslim and Hindu youths joined me. We discussed among ourselves and since 2007 have been convening this puja. People from different communities join us every year,” said Bobby. In its 14th year, Bobby is depressed that the pandemic situation robbed their Durga Puja of much of its grandeur. A resident said that down the years this Durga Puja had earned many laurels. “Whether it is the pandal decoration, idols or lights, the Aikya Sangha Puja has bagged several awards,” said a resident. Though organisers have scaled down this Puja in view of the pandemic, members from different faiths — Ajit Ghosh, who is the club president, Dhiraj Harijan, Nannu Harijan, Sunny Harijan, Imtiaz Sheikh and Salauddin Sheikh — are busy with last-minute arrangements. Bobby, who also happens to be the club general secretary, said: “It is because of their relentless efforts that we can successfully host the puja every year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-334
23-10-2020||Opinion||Nawaz Sharif’s scorching pace could get Imran’s wicket||The confrontation between the political class and the Pakistan army reached a tipping point hours after the massive show of strength in Karachi by the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) opposition alliance. The opposition rally had been held symbolically 13 years to the day after former prime minister Benazir Bhutto landed in the city and a bomb intended for her killed 200 people. Last Sunday’s rally was a huge success, and the government was clearly desperate to drive a wedge between the PDM’s leaders who have defeated the odds to come together. It began with the dawn arrest of Pakistan’s former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law Capt.(retd) Safdar Awan, spouse of heir apparent Maryam Nawaz. Safdar was dragged from the couple’s hotel room, hours after the rally. Within hours the murky story behind the raid surfaced. Reputed journalist Hamid Mir tweeted how the para-military Pakistan Rangers had forced their way into the Sindh police chief’s house at midnight and taken him to police headquarters where he was made to issue a warrant for Safdar’s arrest. The Sindh police chief and the entire police force have threatened to go on mass leave, though they’ve suspended this for the time being. Safdar’s arrest was clearly a clumsy attempt to split the PML-N and the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), which runs the Sindh state government. In the event, it was such a ham-fisted operation that it backfired on its proponents. The PPP government in Sindh is already accusing the Karachi ISI head, Brig. Habib, of acting under the orders of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s trusted confidante, the ISI chief Lt. Gen Faiz Hameed. Most importantly, it reinforces the opposition’s charge that the army is playing an outsize role in all major political events for the worse. That’s always been an open secret but nobody dared to point a finger at the army as Nawaz has dared to do in the last few weeks. Seemingly impervious to criticism in the wake of the Capt Safdar debacle, it was the Chief of Army Staff Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa, and not Prime Minister Khan, who called PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, to discuss launching an inquiry. Gen Bajwa’s effort to step in and staunch public anger, is probably too little, too late. And he hasn’t been able to put the brakes on the opposition campaign to oust the Imran Khan government. On October 25, the PDM will stage its third mega-rally in the Baloch capital Quetta. Unless the army rolls out its tanks, the black and white striped flags of the powerful religio-politician Maulana Fazlur Rehman’s Jamiat-Ulema-e-Islam (Fazlur), will dominate the landscape alongside that of Sardar Akhtar Mengal’s Balochistan National Party’s green, white and red. Unlike previous alliances, this opposition group is not limited to the two mainstream parties, the PML-N and the PPP. The PDM, has tapped into the undercurrent of rage that consumes the Balochs, Pashtuns, Sindhis and the Urdu-speaking populace, and brought all their voices together on one platform.  On the stage at Karachi’s Bagh-e-Jinnah venue was Mohsin Dawar of the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement, whose youthful leaders have “disappeared” in targeted killings, their mutilated bodies left by the roadside, in a chilling message to those who criticise the army. Once at loggerheads with one another, this is a political opposition that for the first time, speaks for all of Pakistan. But Nawaz’s PML-N holds the high cards.  The party has the key to Punjab and it showed this by holding the first PDM rally in Gujranwala, the heart of the army’s traditional recruiting ground. Every second house here is either the home of a fauji or a Muslim Leaguer. This was challenging the army’s writ like never before. By choosing Gujranwala for the PDM rally Sharif demonstrated how adept he has become at stoking ‘People Power’, and how well, he understands the army’s weaknesses and his own strengths. At the Gujranwala rally, the three-time former prime minister, speaking from exile in London, held Gen. Bajwa personally responsible for his manipulation of the last elections and installing the “incompetent” Imran Khan, as prime minister. He also once again called out Gen Bajwa - to whom he had given a three-year extension - for the gross mishandling of the economy by Khan. This tapped strongly into the groundswell of public anger triggered by the rising prices of essential goods. The final twist of the knife was the calling out of Gen.(Retd) Asim Salim Bajwa, who was also Khan’s former media adviser, for corruption. It’s alleged that Asim Bajwa set up a fast-food chain in the US, Pakistan and the UAE by skimming money from the treasury. No details of the scam are now available on Pakistan media. There is a blackout of both Nawaz’ speeches, his televised address that marked the launch of PDM in September, and Friday’s evisceration of the army at the PML-N citadel Gujranwala. Besides that, no channel has aired the speeches by Mengal and Dawar and the others. Nawaz didn’t address the Karachi rally, but with no let up from either Bilawal, the Maulana or Maryam. Imran Khan, army chief Bajwa and Gen Faiz Hameed, the ISI chief, have clearly been put on notice. Some analysts in Pakistan are splitting hairs, saying the PDM is not attacking the army per se but the ‘Gang of Three,’ but there’s no doubt that the PDM will settle for nothing less than their ouster, the army’s return to the barracks and free and fair elections to elect a government of Pakistan’s choice. The next stop on the opposition’s calendar is a rally in Peshawar, followed by another in Multan on November 30. The grand finale will be when the opposition roadshow reaches Lahore on December 13. In January, barely 90 days after the campaign launch, the opposition is scheduled to converge on the capital, Islamabad Few expect the Bajwa-Imran-Faiz trio to buckle in the face of this political juggernaut. Insiders say that Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party is exploring the option of imposing martial law, though the army is less enthusiastic about this course of action. The targeted killings and incarceration of opposition leaders and their kin against whom cases are being filed are an indication that the Khan government is set to continue on the same path. Even before the Karachi rally ended, the pro-government media began leaking the story that Shahbaz Sharif, the incarcerated brother of Nawaz, was willing to step in as prime minister of an interim government before fresh polls are called. The Nawaz camp was quick to deny any such overtures had been made, let alone accepted. The Sharif patriarch has in fact, come full circle. Picked by President Gen. Zia ul Haq to counter the rising popularity of Benazir, he has now had multiple run-ins with successive military putschists, that left him convinced the army has no place in civilian life. That Imran Khan is rattled is obvious. A few weeks ago he talked in public about how, during the last elections, a PML-N legislator had reached out to former ISI chief Lt. Gen (retd) Zaheer-ul-Islam and begged him to save his seat. Imran was trying to say that even PML-N legislators had sought the ISI’s help. But this turned out to be a self-inflicted ‘doosra’ because he was openly admitting the ISI’s role during the elections. Imran’s comment came after Nawaz had accused the army chief of fixing the polls. against him. The PDM, aware of the army’s dirty tricks, is working to a plan. Its leaders’ criticism of Khan’s – and India’s - mishandling of Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, was to pre-empt the charge that Nawaz or the PPP chairman and former president Asif Ali Zardari are working at India’s behest. Both leaders attempted to forge a new India-Pakistan narrative that went against the army’s strategy of permanent war, but were thwarted by their respective military chiefs. With Nawaz’ Islamic credentials - like Maulana Fazlur Rahman’s – above reproach, and backed many say, by Saudi Arabia, the army has limited cards left to play. It’s no surprise the pro-establishment Jamaat-e-Islami has been tapped to hold rallies to counter Nawaz’s people power. Nawaz has openly charged the incumbent army chief with high treason so how can a compromise be reached? One possibility is that Imran will be the fall guy and be shown the door. But Gen Bajwa too is not in an impregnable position. It’s said that his extension after his three-year term ended, did not go down well with the next rung of generals. As the army stumbles headlong into uncharted territory, the 90 days in the run up to the Siege of Islamabad, will be crucial. (Neena Gopal is a South Asia analyst and author)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Lamp lady: Jacinda Ardern's victory||The outcome of the parliamentary election in New Zealand was a foregone conclusion: Jacinda Ardern, the leader of the Labour Party, was expected to return to power. What has surprised the pundits, however, is the massive public endorsement for Ms Ardern and her policies. The Labour Party has won over 49 per cent of the vote — it has received the biggest ever mandate since New Zealand adopted the proportional representation system — and is expected to take over half the seats in Parliament. The electoral outcome can be explained by Ms Ardern’s decisive leadership and bold management of crises, be it the coronavirus pandemic or sectarian violence. Even as bigger, influential economies struggle with the virus — presidential-poll bound Unites States of America is an example — New Zealand has managed to keep its fatality rate remarkably low. Ms Ardern’s intervention in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Christchurch was equally bold. She had no qualms about passing a legislation that targeted assault weapons. Compassion, equality, empathy and spirited public outreach have been the hallmarks of Ms Ardern’s political programme. Each of these elements has culminated in the creation of a fabric of inclusion that has received tumultuous public support. There, undoubtedly, is a broader message in Ms Ardern’s electoral triumph. Much of global politics, driven by schisms and antipathy towards minorities and other vulnerable constituencies, has turned vociferously shrill and insular. The ascendance of far-right leaders in several corners of the world is a testament to the failure of the liberal political project. But the victories of Ms Ardern in New Zealand and, now, the impressive performance of the socialist regime in Bolivia have ignited the possibility of the resurrection of the principles of accommodation, equality and freedom. Ms Ardern, even if she does not like it, could be christened the new messiah of liberalism. This, however, is not to suggest that her stint in power is going to be free of challenges. The virus may be down in New Zealand but it is not quite out; the economic costs of the pandemic have also been substantial. Ms Ardern, now saddled with greater expectations, cannot afford to slip on these battlefronts. Then, there is the worsening climate crisis, an issue that is central to Ms Ardern’s politics. It remains to be seen how Ms Ardern takes on these impediments. But any future assessment of her political legacy must concede that the lady charted a map for the possible return of liberalism by prioritizing public welfare over bigoted rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Deep void: Losing Kishore Bhimnai||Sir — The demise of Kishore Bhimani, the Indian commentator with a vast knowledge of cricketwhose commentary of Test matches on Doordarshan in the 1980s enthralled millions of viewers, was saddening (“Kishore Bhimani passes away”, Oct 16). Bhimani was commentating when Sunil Gavaskar became the first player to reach 10,000 runs in Test cricket, during the drawn match against Pakistan in Ahmedabad in 1987. As a writer on cricket, Bhimani was known to have been followed by British publishers during his heyday. He was also on air during the final moments of the famous 1986 tied Test against Australia at Chepauk. His death will leave a deep void in the world of Indian cricket commentary. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir —  For lovers of Test cricket in India, especially in the 1980s, Kishore Bhimani is a recognized voice. Both cricket and cricket commentary have changed over time; the renowned commentators of yore have been forgotten by the new generation of cricket fans who do not follow the game beyond the T20 format and the glamour associated with it. Bhimani’s style is sorely missed today. Rakhi Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The loss of Kishore Bhimani has deprived the cricketing world of one of the finest commentators, whose deep knowledge of the game and style of commentary in impeccable English set him apart. Bhimani was present at Chepauk, Chennai in 1986, where he commentated on the last bit of the Test between India and Australia. Incidentally, during this Test, I had the opportunity of interacting with him on the pavilion terrace. He showed great interest in the vibrant culture of the city of Chennai. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai  Festive beats Sir — Durga Puja is incomplete without the sound of the dhaak reverberating through the para. Yet the dhaakis, who create this festive ambience, leave for their homes at the end of the celebrations with very little. It is likely that most of their villages have been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan this year. The pandemic must only have made things worse. They should be treated generously this year. Chandrima Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Forced: Violence against women||The more things are supposed to change the more they remain the same. Countrywide protests and campaigns on occasions of the ugliest sexual crimes against women, changes in laws against such crimes, the insistence on the rights, dignity and autonomy of women seem to have barely made a dent on assumptions that encourage the belittling of women in an imagined but coercive kinship structure. A special leave petition before the Supreme Court has sought a direction to high courts and trial courts not to make comments during trials for sexual crimes or impose conditions when granting bail to the accused that would trivialize the suffering of the survivor. While the petition mentioned 12 such instances by different courts, the immediate occasion was the bail condition offered to an accused by the Madhya Pradesh High Court, that he visit the survivor with sweets, money — like a gift — and to exchange rakhis with the promise to protect her always. The desire to compromise displayed by institutions that are meant to deliver justice dilutes or even nullifies the gravity of sexual attacks. It gives perpetrators a sense of impunity, and sometimes, when the accused are brought to trial, leads to lighter sentences or even acquittal. Simultaneously, the survivor’s loss of dignity and autonomy is shown not to matter to society as long as a kind of spurious social order can be forcibly imposed by traditional relationship patterns — brother-sister or husband-wife. Gender-biased Indian society balks at penalizing the male in a sex crime. A rape accused in Odisha married the survivor during his bail in June, professedly with blessings from parents on both sides. Such ‘solutions’ are against the law, but are made possible because of the stigma surrounding the survivor. In a male- dominated shame culture, rape is the woman’s shame, not the criminal’s. The pressure, both social and economic, on the survivor’s family should they have to provide refuge to a raped girl, may prompt courts, the police, not to speak of panchayats and neighbours for whom rape is hardly a crime, to encourage these marriages. The criminal gets off scot free. What happens within the marriage is nobody’s business: the destruction of the woman’s sense of self, of physical and mental inviolability, and of agency is something that society desires anyway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Hate can be a mirror in testing times||The pandemic has coincided with a regression that has amplified the worst tendencies in Indian culture and polity. Why should anyone care about the welfare of minorities under these trying circumstances? The answer is that this needs to be done. This is because a beleaguered minority might reflect the true intentions of a regime. The Muslim experience thus offers insights into the challenges that confront India today. Toxic myths There is now a well-entrenched idea that Muslims wage jihad and go to great lengths to harm Hindus. Some of these myths allege that Muslims encourage larger families to become the numerically dominant group in India or they engage in occupations to wilfully offend Hindu sentiments. It has even been suggested that Muslims fell ill intentionally during the Covid-19 pandemic in an attempt to spread the disease. The propaganda has been disseminated meticulously. But how do we explain a vast section of the population believing these canards? The answer may lie in ‘majority appeasement’. Here ‘majority’ implies a constituency — as opposed to numerical superiority — that is nurtured and protected by the regime in power because of its unquestioning allegiance to the ideology of the elected party. ‘Appeasement’, in this context, is a code for a model of electoral politics in which a group of people is responsible for stoking deeply-held insecurities so that the real problems of the nation remain unaddressed. The all-round economic devastation caused by India’s present rulers is an example of such a calculated chaos in which bigotry and hate-mongering are being used to deflect scrutiny of the failures in governance. Graded misery Liberal intellectuals, activists and journalists have protested against the gravity of the situation. For instance, when there was a bigoted media campaign vilifying Muslims for spreading Covid-19, they dubbed it reprehensible. But in their condemnations, they asserted that the anti-Muslim campaign in the media was meant to distract public attention from the ‘real issue’ — that of the plight of migrant workers. In creating these hierarchies of misery, they seem to have ignored a crucial point. Is the plight of Indian Muslims — social and economic boycotts, the impunity of those indulging in anti-Muslim violence, brutal police crackdowns, lynchings and other kinds of violence, discrimination and intimidation — not real enough? The disenfranchisement of Muslims in electoral politics has marked an era in which the baiting of minorities is a necessary condition. Those affected by this ‘chaos’ wish for the resurrection of the welfare State from the brink of death. But have they not been a silent witness to a repressive State shedding all its pretences as it went about brutalizing the powerless? We can only place our hope in history. For history has a way of defying the insidious calculations of ideologues intent on bleaching their transgressions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||Politics over pandemic in Bengal||It is a pity that after managing to control the rates of infection, recovery and mortality from the coronavirus reasonably better than five other comparable metropolises, Calcutta now appears determined to tease its fate during Durga Puja. When the coronavirus appeared in tiny numbers, knee-jerk, unplanned, nationwide lockdowns were clamped down with a lot of drama, with politics and image-building taking precedence. The social media was inundated with hate-filled messages targeting West Bengal’s special incompetence in combating the pandemic, ignoring the fact that most other states were floundering as well. There were whispers that deaths were being hushed up here. To prove this, morbid visuals of the corpses of ‘corona victims’ being flung around insensitively were pumped into our mobiles. It was obvious that a professional, well-financed campaign was underway to seize power next summer. Instead of rushing much-needed testing kits and protective equipment, the Centre sent inspection teams led by an about-to-be-promoted bureaucrat who, unfortunately, joined the chorus to savage Bengal’s initial efforts. The state’s containment strategy was not faultless but the data published by the Centre could not substantiate the charge that Bengal was India’s worst performing state in the war against Covid-19. Many, therefore, simply fail to comprehend why West Bengal is suddenly going lax on large gatherings and social mixing during the Pujas, thereby inviting disaster. The chief minister has also ramped up her ‘assistance’ to 36,946 Puja organizers to Rs 50,000, up from last year’s sum of Rs 10,000. This may cost a staggering 185 crore of taxpayers’ money so that grander pandals attract several thousands more — knowing well that this vicious virus thrives on crowds. The usual homilies about wearing masks and maintaining ‘social distancing’ have been dished out, but massive crowds of Puja shoppers sans masks surely indicate what lies ahead. The Calcutta High Court has, however, intervened and has mercifully ordered strict control over numbers of visitors at the pandals but large crowds roaming everywhere else would be equally vulnerable. It has also directed that 75 per cent of grants must be spent by Puja organizers on masks, sanitizers and protective equipment. There is concern regarding their distribution at the pandals as freebies invariably trigger genetically-driven scrambles. A couple of years ago, there were accounting issues regarding an estimated Rs 700 crore that the state government had given to ‘sports clubs’ over five years or so. Besides, government grants given to any one religion militate against secularism — the old haj subsidy being a case in point. We may also recall that the Indian Muslim community has, by and large, accepted the rigorous post-corona stipulations. During Ramazan this year, it did not insist on the usual bustling evening food markets. This faith was reconciled to the ban on massive congregations for namaz on Eid, even refraining from fraternal hugs, community meals and Muharram processions. Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, ruled by pro-Hindu parties, imposed stringent prohibitions on crowds during the Ganapati festival. Kerala, too, attempted to tone down Onam celebrations. It appears that Bengal could be a spoilsport and may be accused, with or without evidence, of giving fresh life to the pandemic. Politics has, however, its own bizarre compulsions. The prime minister, who had imposed a draconian lockdown and has reminded us again to avoid crowds during Covid 19, is now hell-bent on addressing public meetings in poll-bound Bihar. His election rallies will surely draw enormous gatherings and all his sage counsel on social distancing delivered theatrically on television is likely to be ignored. His teflon may succeed in deflecting the blame for spreading Covid-19 on someone else, but Mamata Banerjee may not be that lucky if hospitals here cannot handle the unprecedented rush in patients. Her compulsions are, however, different. To understand them, we have to go back to the 34 years when the Left Front ruled Bengal without any serious challenge. The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s ‘local committees’ exercised a complete grip on localities. Their skilful sub-allocation of specific tasks to cells meant that every voter on the electoral roll was tracked. During elections, these local committees mustered not only supporters but also ensured that dead or absent electors ‘voted’ through proxies. Mamata Banerjee could dislodge the regime because she developed an alternative ‘grassroots’ — trinamool — response. She came up with a network of dedicated local-level field units, consisting of Puja-organizing clubs. These had been ignored by most Left parties that stayed away from religion — leaving, thereby, the only gap in their impregnable fortress. This vacuum was filled by Banerjee’s ‘clubs’ that took on the local committees and started responding actively to her calls for street-agitations and road blockades against the Left Front regime. Her model of agitational politics finally found its feet with the help of these local clubs, which provided her with a solidarity with local voters. She and her supporters also bonded through subaltern community feasts and soon enough many other deities were added to the calendar of celebrations. With an assured following, she could finally knock the Marxists off their perch. With another election round the corner, Banerjee has to recharge her support base during the festive season. For Modi, Didi and their flocks, it is now ‘payback time’ — corona be damned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
23-10-2020||Opinion||A citizen objects||My father was a brilliant metallurgist who worked for the Tatas. We lived in Jamshedpur and would go for long walks. He loved the forests around the city. I remember one evening as we walked, the Tata ‘mountains’ poured out their slag — molten and incandescent — as if the Tatas made sunsets. Then, a few minutes later, the Dalma hills lit up as the tribals burnt an area for jhum cultivation. Both were brilliant sights and my father watched entranced. He then said, almost cryptically, “Both have to survive. Justice is balance between the two.” For my father, Tata’s validity lay in the continuity of the tribe. It was a vision of a different world. When I heard of the Jesuit Father, Stan Swamy, I sensed here was a man who understood that vision, grasped why the tribes and the tribal way of life had to survive. People talk of the Jesuits practising conversion without realizing that many Jesuits have fought against conversion. What Jesuits like Stan Swamy preached was not to be converted to the fundamentalism of development, a world that destroys the margins. Stan Swamy at 83 represented that world, represented a hope that the tribal world and its imagination may survive. When the government arrested him for conspiracy, one realized that what they were arresting is hope and justice for the tribe as a way of life. It is sad, in fact ridiculous, that Stan Swamy should have been arrested under a tribal chief minister, Hemant Soren, who sat silent at first before the diktats of the Centre. The sadness of this regime, its mediocrity, comes from arresting men and women of conscience. It is not ideology one objects to but conscience and caring. I sensed this when I got a letter from Kobad Ghandy thanking me for a piece I had written. There was a quiet elegance to the letter, a matter-of-factness about jail. What he mourned was the death of his wife, who was busy as an activist in tribal areas. At that moment, I was wondering whether the word, Naxal, should be used to refer to people battling for justice. They seem more to be conscientious objectors fighting for a different dream with the weapon of courage rather than destruction. The regime’s indifference to such idealism seemed perplexing. One has to ask if the best of our society, from Stan to Kobad, are in jail, how does one define the civic and the social? It looks more like an honour list than a roster of criminals. These people do not speak the rabid logic of Kanu Sanyal or Jangal Santhal. They talk of justice, suffering, without reifying revolution and they suffer quietly in jail without a murmur. Ghandy could have been my professor at the Delhi School of Economics. I wish a writer like Mahasweta Devi were around. She had an uncanny sense of hypocrisy, of calling the bluff of a regime like the current one. As the regime grows in power, one senses a Stalinism against the tribe. Kobad and Mahashweta were witnesses to such tyranny. Watching him speak one day, I realized the wisdom of a leading dissenter. He told me the only way one can be nationalist in the Modi-era is to be anti-national. It is anti-national to defend the life of a tribe, to protect craft as a way of thinking, to define caring as the essence of citizenship. Whenever the question of caring is raised in this context, people cite Mother Teresa. They accuse her of conversion. I remember when an official wanted to harass her, Jyoti Basu slammed him, saying no one can empathize with suffering and justice the way she can. Both Marxist and missionary understood caring was a cosmopolitanism that went beyond Marx and Christianity. Caring was an act of love, of compassion. In this sense, Sudha Bharadwaj cared, cared for the people she fought for. It is a strange regime that sentences her for caring. But then one has to realize that it is only government that does not care that can create the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and see Covid-19 as an Olympiad of death. In any real democratic country, we would be telling stories of Stan, Sudha and Kobad. Instead we harass them, telling an aspirational, mobile generation that caring is criminal. Even Kafka could not have produced the turn of phrase. Regimes for the past few decades have always produced the archetype of the Naxal they love to hate. In India, it is the poet, Varavara Rao. Rao carries his poetry and politics lightly. I remember the first time I met him. It was in Bhopal after the gas tragedy of 1984. He spoke of justice. Standing around him were tribals who carried shields with a strange tribal god. I discovered it was Stalin. Rao smiled, hinting that maybe the tribals understood and tamed the demonic in Stalin better than we did. Rao has been at every demonstration for justice. He cares that his poetry creates an oral language of caring. He is virtually saying my orality is my morality. My protest is my ritual of citizenship. It has an eloquence and an originality. Today, Rao is ill and the regime takes pride in arresting him because he cares too much. The word, humanitarian, or justice, does not seem to apply when we discuss such men. All of them have added a sense of civilization to their struggles. It is a strange society that criminalizes caring and justice. But present politics is more than a condemnation of virtues. Majoritarian democracy hates dissent because dissent celebrates the poetics and politics of difference. The arrest of Hany Babu from Delhi University exposes this. Dissenters and dissenting imaginations may be more committed to their institutions and see institution-building beyond law-and-order issues. As a wag put it, soon social service will be suspect; it will be conducted in jails. Dissent needs to be understood in the wider context of knowledge and democracy as a difference that sustains. A majoritarian regime has little sense of the university and its pluralism. As an institution, the university has been the first major casualty of a repressive and mediocre regime. In fact, one has to read a sense of plurality and debate into these issues. One does not have to agree with everything that is said, but one must understand the dynamics of dissent in keeping us plural and free. The sadness is ideology has completely destroyed both protest and scholarship. The merging of internal and external security has made dissent the first target of a securitarian regime. Two modes of dissent have suffered from this onslaught. The concerns for environment and for human rights. Both these issues have converged around the tribe as a way of life and thought. The fate of the tribe, the loosening of forest laws, all gets swept under the table of ‘urban Naxal’. The word, Naxal, threatens the tribal way of life. One needs to deconstruct it and understand the plural styles of Marxism, from Rosa Luxemburg to Teodor Shanin. We need a rethinking of scholarship here. The arrest of Stan Swamy and others raises these issues. It is time citizens and academics see these dissenters and scholars as arguments for democracy and sustain them. Politics without ethics is finally empty. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-129
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pistols seized by police from Jamshedpur’s Bagbera||Police seized two pistols after arresting three persons from Bagbera police station  area in the small hours on Friday. The trio were arrested while they were hatching a conspiracy to commit a crime by assembling at Wireless Maidan barely 200 metres from the Bagbera police station around 1am on Friday. Besides the firearms which included a sophisticated .45 Chinese-made pistol, a scooter that did not have a number plate was also seized. Those arrested were identified as Popo Munda, 25, Shushil Patro, 24 and Rajneesh Gupta, 23, all residents of Bagbera. Deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan said Munda had been arrested for possessing a pistol a year ago, whereas Patro was arrested for committing murder. He pointed out that Gupta also had a criminal record. A truck carrying stones overturned on the Ramgarh-Bhurkunda road in Ramgarh on Friday, resulting in serious injuries to the driver. The incident took place near Army School when the driver failed to control the vehicle due to it being overloaded. Police reached the spot and took the injured to a hospital in the Chhatarmandu area. A team of police and excise department officials destroyed 10 illegal liquor manufacturing units at Jabra village in Huntergunj block of Chatra district. A total of 250 litres of liquor was found and destroyed. The team was led by sub-inspector Nirmal Marandi. The action followed a tip-off. No one was arrested in the raid. A car fell into a 10ft-deep ditch along Ranchi-Patna highway at Saraiya in Padma block, around 22km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Five men who were in the car sustained minor injuries and were sent to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Of them, one was not well as he had fractured his hand a few days ago. They were on their way to consult a doctor at the time of the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bypolls: Congress names star campaigners||The Congress has named Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan leader Sachin Pilot among its star campaigners for the forthcoming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo on November 3. The All India Congress Committee’s (AICC’s) national general secretary K.V. Venugopal released the list on Friday night. The party’s spokesperson in Jharkhand, Lal Kishorenath Shadeo, said the schedule for the rallies of the star campaigners was being finalised. The number of rallies will increase after Durga Puja. Talking to reporters, he said: “The schedule will be notified after the candidates inform us about their choice of dates for rallies.” The state government’s move to scrap the mandatory 14-day quarantine rule will encourage the leaders to visit the state, he added. The other star campaigners in the list include former Madhya Pradesh minister Umang Singhar, former Union minister R.P.N. Singh, all four Congress ministers in the state and party MLAs. On Friday, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon wrapped up his tour to Dumka and headed to Bermo. On Saturday, he will attend half a dozen rallies in favour of party candidate Kumar Jaimangal Singh. Chief minister Hemant Soren reached Dumka on Friday evening for a two-day visit to lead the canvassing for his brother and JMM candidate Basant. Shahdeo said: “The UPA, comprising the JMM, Congress and the RJD, is together in the state and strategically holding campaigns at key places to woo voters. This apart, we have already deployed our MLAs from block to panchayat levels in Bermo for overseeing poll work.” The BJP and the AJSU-P (which is fighting under the banner of NDA this time) are banking heavily on three former chief ministers — Babulal Marandi, Union tribal minister Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das — besides other central leaders. In the last one week, the three went on a whirlwind tour of Dumka and Bermo to hold a series of rallies in favour of the candidates. In Dumka, the BJP has put up Lois Marandi while in Bermo, Yogeshwar Mahto Batul has been fielded. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo too said campaigning will intensify after Durga Puja. “Campaigning has already begun but will be intensified as the poll dates near,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Onion prices make common people weep||Onion prices are once again making homemakers weep. For the last couple of days, retail vendors in Ranchi and Jamshedpur have been selling onions at anywhere between Rs 70 and Rs 80 a kg. Coal town Dhanbad and Bokaro too are buying this kitchen staple between Rs 65 and Rs 70 a kg depending on the quality. At several markets in the steel city, the crop was sold for Rs 85 a kg or even more on Friday. Till last week, onions were available between Rs 35 and Rs 40 per kg in the steel city, Ranchi and Dhanbad. Traders in Jharkhand  are anticipating a further rise in prices. Onion production in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka was badly hit this year due to heavy rains which have damaged crops. Currently, four to five trucks -- each carrying 25 tonnes of the pulp -- are arriving in vegetable market yards at Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. “Farmers are themselves selling onions at a very high rate. How can you expect a price buffer so soon?” said Ranganath, a wholesale onion dealer at Sakchi. Wholesalers are selling onions between Rs 60 and Rs 65 in Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Dhanbad. Traders said the rates are expected to come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of next month after Diwali. Pankaj Kumar, a wholesaler at Harmu in Ranchi, said: “The rate would come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of November.” He said onions, which sold at Rs 35 a kg in the retail market even a week ago, was now dearer at Rs 70 a kg in most markets of the state capital. An onion vendor at Purana Bazar in Dhanbad said the price rise was bad for business too. “Till last week, I used to get regular customers every day. But for the last couple of days, people are hesitant to buy,” he said. Officials at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpad Bazaar Samiti (KUBS) said onions in most places across the state were being supplied from Nashik and Pune as consignments have stopped coming from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka because of this year’s heavy rains. “There is a supply restriction which has resulted in a price rise. In normal conditions here, seven-eight trucks used to bring onions. The situation is the same elsewhere in Ranchi and other places,” said an official. He ruled out the possibility of artificial hoarding which might have resulted in a price rise. Homemakers are crying hoarse over the sky-rocketing onion prices. “Onion is a kitchen essential, but the rise in its price is taking a big toll on the common man’s budget. The price of onion has skyrocketed to Rs 80  in many retail markets here. The state government should make onions available at a concessional rate through Suvidha Kendras,” rued Anindita Choudhary, a homemaker at Kadma in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||RIMS, TMH among six hospitals to set up post-Covid care centres||The Jharkhand health department has designated six hospitals across the state to run post-Covid-19 care and counselling centres to help those recovering from the ailment without any health complications. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said on Friday that letters in this regard had been sent to the hospitals namely, RIMS in Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur, Bokaro General Hospital, Sheikh Bihari Medical College and Hospital in Hazaribagh and Shaheed Nirmal Mahato Medical College and Central Hospital in Dhanbad. Kulkarni said the idea behind post-Covid care centres was to enhance life expectancy by addressing any other complications a patient may have attained during the course of their coronavirus infection. “The post-Covid care centres will help recovered patients with counselling regarding health needs and periodic check-ups to tackle any co-morbid conditions. In the first phase, six such centres are being set up,” he said. An official at the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) said those who were on oxygen support during hospitalisation for Covid-19 were  mandated to visit post-Covid care centres once a month after their 14-day post- cure isolation period was over. “But those who were asymptomatic need not necessarily have to visit unless they face any issues,” he said, adding that hospitals had been asked to apprise patients about the availability of Covid care centres in their areas during  discharge. On facilities available at post-Covid care centres, the official said, “A host of experts, right from physicians to radiologists, cardiologists, physiotherapists, yoga consultants, among others, will be made available for consultation based on patient needs. A history of all patients will be maintained, along with their progress report, so that we are able to keep a track of them in case of further complications.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cracks appear on Bermo mine road||Cracks appeared on the main road leading to the Karo outsourcing mine under the Bokaro and Kargili project of Central Coalfield Ltd (CCL) in the Bermo subdivision on Friday. The traffic movement to the mine was disrupted after the cracks appeared on the road. The coal excavation work in the mine is done by BKB Outsourcing Company whose earthmovers and dumpers use the road. The road is the main route for the local cell, PT office and others of CCL projects. The caving in of portions of the road led to the falling of debris in the mine below it. The CCL management held a meeting with the displaced people of Karo Basti, which is connected via the road, to identify alternative routes. The displaced people of Karo Basti complained that the CCL management was not keeping safety standards in mind. Sohanlal Manjhi, one of the displaced, said there was no safety arrangement in the mines. The management should designate the old road for communication of the villagers. As there is a settlement around the project, people or cattle can fall into the open quarry. M.K. Rao, the general manager of CCL’s B& K project, along with project officer Tapan Kumar Roy, manager G.N. Singh and others visited the spot to assess the situation. Rao said that he had given the necessary instruction to the officials related to maintenance of the road and the coal mine. Rao added that as soon as they received the news about the cracks on the road, the machine and workers engaged in production work in the mine were removed. Currently, it has been closed by placing a boulder on both sides of the damaged road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||The grandeur of Goddess Shakti||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 20,000 railway employees get festival bonus||Amid low-key Puja celebrations, railway employees were in for some cheer with the South Eastern Railway giving out festive bonuses to over 20,000 employees of the Chakradharpur division on Friday. As much as Rs 36.16 crore was credited to bank accounts of 21,045 railway employees after Thursday’s announcement that about 11.58 lakh non-gazetted railway employees across the country would be granted bonus equivalent to 78 days wages for financial year 2019-20. Senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur division Manish Pathak termed it as productivity linked bonus. "This is for the sixth consecutive year that productivity-linked bonus is being given to railway employees," he said, adding that most of those who were benefitted were based at Chakradharpur and Tatanagar. Divisional railway manager of Chakradharpur V.K. Sahu, who extended festive greetings to all employees, said, the bonus was the railways way of motivating employees to improve performance and enhance productivity levels. The maximum amount of bonus payable to a railway employee worked out to Rs 17,951. But many employees of Chakradharpur division complained about a delay in payment of bonus, citing earlier years. "Payment of annual bonus was much delayed this year. Puja has already started. Today (Friday) is Saptami when we got our bonus. Last year, bonus was paid much before the beginning of the festival," said a railway official based at Tatanagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Cash seized at Bermo election checkpoint||A Static Surveillance Team deployed on Hindustan Bridge for the Bermo assembly by-election, seized Rs 16.25 lakh cash from a car on Thursday. The car was coming from Jainamod and going towards Phusro under Bermo police station, said Chandan Kumar Jha, SP, Bokaro. Amit Mehta, the driver of car, told police that the cash belongs to Shalimar Hatchery Limited, Kolkata. The SP said that according to the norms they have handed the person to the Income Tax department. Mehta said that the amount was being taken to get deposited in the SBI branch of Phusro from the company's office in Jainamod, when policemen caught him. This is the third time that police deployed at Hindustan Bridges have seized a large sum of cash. Earlier Rs 1.10 lakh was seized from Shankar Dayal Mishra a resident of Tantri and Rs 2.24 lakh from a person of Gomia. Ramgarh district administration has started preparation for coronavirus vaccination before the launch of vaccine. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh has asked the Health Department officials to keep all the facilities available for storage of vaccine. Singh directed to carry out publicity of the guidelines issued by the government against Corona. He asked the Civil Surgeon, Ramgarh, to prepare a plan for publicity in a planned manner. The Deputy Commissioner instructed the District Public Relations Officer to share information on various social media platforms and newspapers to prevent corona. The Deputy Commissioner also directed the Civil Surgeon and all the Medical Officers in charge to set up Corona Testing Camp at public places, puja pandals and other crowded places during Durga Puja. Newly appointed Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, Ashish Bansal said that increase in revenue and augmentation of passenger amenities will be his top priority. Bansal said, “Dhanbad Rail Division was at the top position among all the Rail divisions of country in terms of freight loading and we would like to maintain the same position during this year.” “We would also try to complete all the sanctioned projects of the division within the stipulated time”, said Bansal who took charge on Wednesday evening from the outgoing Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad Anil Kumar Mishra. A 1991 batch officer of Indian Railway Engineering Service, Bansal’s first posting was made in Buxar area of Bihar of Danapur division and was later posted at other Rail Divisions like Lucknow (Pratapgarh), Ferozpur, Moradabad and Ambala. “All the stations of Dhanbad Division will get such passenger amenities and facilities for which they are entitled,” assured Basal who earlier worked at Director (track) of Research Design and Standards Organization at Luknow and played significant role in commissioning of Track Recording car. During his stint at Delhi Railway Rail Metro Corporation, Bansal played a significant role in development of Railway Corridor from Bhikaji Cama station to the Sarai Kale Khan Railway station of Delhi Metro. Bansal also served as chief engineer (Track machine) of Northern Railway and Chief Track Engineer of Northern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bermo campaign: EC notice to Congress, BJP candidates for Covid non-compliance||The election officer cum sub-divisional officer (SDO), Bermo, Anant Kumar on Thursday evening issued a warning notice to candidates of Indian National Congress and Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), Kumar Jaimangal and Yogeshwar Mahto, for not complying with Covid-19 guidelines during election campaign. The SDO also warned them legal action if guidelines aren't followed. "If caught violating Covid-19 norms, legal action will be taken under section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, under section 188 of IPC and other statutory provisions as applicable," he added. He stated that through clipping of newspapers and video recordings done by the flying squad, it is known that the guidelines issued for Covid-19 are being ignored by both the candidates in their election meetings and other programs. He also said that both the candidates have been earlier given guidelines regarding compliance with the nomination letter. Kumar remarked that both candidates neither use masks, nor are serious about making people wear masks at their rallys and functions. Social distance of 06-06 feet is also not being maintained at such gatherings. There is also no arrangement of handwashes, sanitizers at these venues. Jayamangal, in his political functions at Petarwar, Chandrapura, Bermo and Jaridih organised on October 17, and a public meeting in Govindpur under the Bermo block on October 21, was found to flout regulations. Similarly, Mahato was found not complying with Covid-19 guidelines in his election meeting at Jainamod on October 19 and in Dugdha. “Both candidates were asked to ensure compliance a election campaigns,” the SDO added. There are 16 candidates contetsing the Bermo bypolls. However, Congress and BJP remain frontrunners. Both political parties have intensified their campaigns, with bigwigs actively camapaigning in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi police begin probe into a Persian cat's murder||Lower Bazar police on Thursday began a probe into the suspicious death of a Persian male cat following an FIR under different sections of the IPC and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. A Kantatoli resident identified as Sabir Hussain filed the report of his pet's murder two days ago in what is arguably the first such case reported in any police station in Ranchi in recent years. The FIR was lodged under section 428 and 429 of IPC and 11 of cruelty act. Section 428 of IPC relates to mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of Rs 10 and above and has provision for imprisonment of up to two years, or with fine, or both. Section 429 concerns the murder or maiming of any cattle or animal having imprisonment term up to five years or fine or both. On the other hand, section 11 of animal cruelty act stipulates a penalty of between Rs 10 and Rs 50 for any act of cruelty against animals. Talking to reporters, city DSP Amit Singh said that they have sent a team to the locality today to begin a formal probe. “An investigation official assigned for the case went to the area to begin probe. We are scanning local CCTV footages available in the area to ascertain whether if there was any foul play or not. Autopsy was done yesterday and formal report is awaited,” said Hussain. According to Hussain, he bought a Persian cat two years ago and was adored by his family. “It was like family to us and everyone cared for the cat very much. It was very beautiful,” he said, adding that it suddenly went missing two days ago in the morning. Hours later the cast was found dead outside his garage. “I suspect some miscreants in the locality strangulated the cat to death,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
23-10-2020||Jharkhand||Door-to-door drive on Stan Swamy ||People in Murhu block of Jharkhand’s Khunti district, which witnessed the pathalgadi movement in 2017-18 during the erstwhile BJP government, have decided to start a door-to-door campaign to mobilise support for agitation and exert pressure on the central government to release octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy. More than 100 members of Adivasi Adhikar Manch, a coalition of several tribal outfits, on Thursday formed a human chain at Saiko under Murhu block of Khunti to express solidarity with Fr Swamy at an event to observe the martyrdom of tribal leader Abraham Munda. Munda was allegedly shot dead by police on October 22, 2016, while he was going to Ranchi to protest against the dilution of the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act. Tribal academician Karma Oraon, a member of the Manch, termed the arrest of 83-year-old Fr Swamy “unconstitutional”. “We have to mobilise a mass movement to exert pressure on the central government to release Father Stan Swamy. The ailing father’s arrest is unconstitutional and immoral and shows how the government machinery is being used to silence voices raised for tribal and Dalit rights. All our members should go door-to-door to make people aware of the central government’s nefarious plans and come out on streets for the release of Stan Swamy,” said Oraon. “Stan Swamy has been fighting for rights of tribals and marginalised for decades and had to face harassment from the then BJP government over the pathalgadi issue. It is our turn to stand with him at this juncture and resist the current BJP-led central government’s move to suppress voices of dissent,” said advocate and tribal rights defender Aloka Kujur, who joined the human chain in Khunti. Manch members have planned to stage a demonstration along Ranchi Main Road against the arrest of Fr Swamy on Friday. Murhu block in Khunti is over 45km from state capital Ranchi. The Munda Adivasis of Khunti had in 2016-17 began erecting stone slabs in their villages inscribed with provisions from the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution (excerpts from the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996), that grants special autonomy to tribal areas, after the then BJP government tried to amend the age-old land laws. The erection of stone slabs (pathalgadi) was an age-old tradition of tribal people to demarcate ancestral lands by commemorating the contributions of ancestors. However, the BJP government perceived it to be “anti-development and anti-national” and deployed paramilitary troops and police forces to suppress the pathalgadi movement. As the news of the repression spread, many people posted comments on social media about the government’s ruthless approach. The state government filed sedition cases against 20 activists, including Fr Swamy, on the basis of their Facebook posts which stated that it should engage in peaceful dialogue with the Adivasi people involved in the pathalgadi movement rather than repressing it. Several Opposition leaders, including chief minister Hemant Soren, intellectuals and rights activists, have condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy. He was arrested from his home near Ranchi on October 8 night by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima Koregaon case, in which 16 rights activists, writers and lawyers have been charged with Maoist links. He was remanded in judicial custody by a special Mumbai court till October 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-258
