24-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta offers virtual Ashtami anjali to keep Covid at bay||It was virtual anjali for most people in Calcutta on Ashtami, Saturday, barring some neighbourhoods where people stood close to each other to offer anjali. In some places people stayed confined to circles at a gap of 6ft to maintain distancing rules while at some police had to intervene to ensure people followed distancing rules. Senior citizens in most parts of Calcutta stayed away from pandals. Several puja committees had arranged to live-stream the anjali on various platforms. They had shared links and passwords with residents so that they could watch the proceedings from their homes. “We had told residents to collect their flowers and give it to us. We placed these offerings to the goddess later,” Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha said. “Some senior citizens, though, turned up at the pandal as they did not want to use the virtual platform to offer anjali on Ashtami.” But in most places, residents, including senior citizens, chose the virtual platform to offer anjali. Several puja organisers said this was the first time in decades when the Ashtami anjali witnessed such a “scant turnout” at pandals. A small puja in Kasba saw people standing close to each other and even fighting to be the first to offer anjali. Reminders by the organisers had no effect as visitors tried to grab flowers and be part of a batch every time the priest chanted the mantras. A police team reached the venue and reminded the visitors of the high court order and the distancing rules they are expected to follow during the pandemic. But as soon as the cops left the people were back to what they had been doing. But the picture was different in big-ticket puja pandals in the north and south. People followed the rules and organisers ensured there was no crowding as every batch offered anjali. “Our turnout was small… around seven to eight per cent of what it has been in previous years… senior citizens were not around,” Amalendu Sarkar of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, the organisers of the puja at Maddox Square, said. In some pandals, people turned up in large numbers but followed distancing rules and stood in demarcated circles. “We had split the total number into small groups. They stood far from the barricade and offered anjali. But the turnout of residents was nearly 100 per cent,” Rahul Shaw of Ajeyo Sanhati in Haridevpur said. The distancing rules, along with the high court order, left many senior citizens ruing how they could not turn up at pandals to offer the Ashtami anjali. “This is no anjali,” Apurbo Ghosh, a resident of Kumartuli, said. “I didn’t step out; I chose to repeat the mantras sitting in front of my home idols… but that is something I do every day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Ashtami evening sees rise in footfall||Bright sunshine during the day and clear skies in the evening ensured more people were on the roads on Ashtami on Saturday than on Saptami. But it was nowhere close to the Ashtami crowd of previous years. Most big-ticket pujas in north and south Calcutta saw a high turnout, the crowd comprising mostly young people. Senior citizens stayed away from pandals and chose the confines of their homes rather than taking the risk of getting infected with the coronavirus by stepping out. “There was a slight rise in the number of people compared to Saptami,” Amalendu Sarkar of Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity, the organisers of the puja at Maddox Square, said. “But those who did come didn’t even pause after watching the idol, forget lounging in the park.” Police said cops were not trying to keep a count on people in pandals because the turnout was “a far cry from previous years”. “The surge of visitors in every hour was missing this time. Only those who have two-wheelers or cars tried to visit some pandals,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “Even that is negligible compared to what we are used to managing on Ashtami evenings.” For most people, adda sessions were restricted to homes on Ashtami, the day when Kumari Puja is held at Belur Math, the global headquarters of the Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission. On Saturday, “Uma”, as the kumari has been named this year, was worshipped in a small pandal on the western balcony of the main temple in Belur Math. Usually, monks bring the girl child and place her on a chair before worshipping her. This year, the child’s relatives were asked to bring her to the chair. The monks sat on chairs far away on a lawn. The compound wore a deserted look with no visitors from outside being allowed in because of the pandemic. Close to 100,000 people visit the Math every year on the occasion of Kumari Puja, a senior monk said. In most parts of Calcutta, people started trickling into the pandal areas from evening. Almost everyone had their faces covered with masks and many were seen with sanitiser bottles. The crowd at Suruchi in New Alipore and Tridhara along Rashbehari Avenue in the south or Hatibagan Sarbajonin in the north watched the idols from a distance. Some, though, paused for a quick “selfie session” in some of the pandals. “The number of visitors increased in the evening compared to the past few days,” Sandip Chakrabarty of Badamtala Asharh Sangha said. “Since ours is a drive-in and drive-out pandal, probably people didn’t find it a challenge.” The evening crowd grew in top-draw pandals in Salt Lake, Dum Dum and Lake Town. At FD Block in Salt Lake, a steady stream of people with their faces covered with masks could be seen walking and some clicking photographs of the Jungle Book-themed pandal and some taking selfies with Mowgli from across the barricades. Chandni Ganguly, a Dum Dum resident, reached the pandal with her daughter Ahona, a Class XII student of Auxilium Convent School in Dum Dum. “This is the first time we have stepped out during Durga Puja. Although the threat of Covid is there, we decided to step out as we could not stay cooped up in our house… we had to enjoy the festivities. We haven’t taken off our masks and we have brought hand sanitiser bottles with us,” Ganguly said. Visitors to the pandal could get a clear view of the goddess from far away. Banibrata Banerjee, a member of the puja committee, said the number of visitors was more than that of Friday. “On Ashtami, we had people coming from late afternoon. The number went up as evening set in,” Banerjee said. In AK Block, pandal-hoppers were spotted clicking photographs outside the pandal. “We are a bit sad because we could not enter most of the pandals we visited. So, we decided to take some photographs and have dinner at a restaurant,” Anandi Chatterjee, who tried visiting the Sreebhumi puja pandal but could not because of police barricades, said. The pandal of Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha Club had a few visitors during the day. Many who had stepped out in the evening could not enter the pandal because of barricades. “We could not properly see the interiors of the pandal because of the barricades. This year is very different and we are happy to be out,” Sandeep Jha, who works in a Sector V company, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja panels in court ruling bind||The Puja-related ruling of the Calcutta High Court has created confusion among puja organisers. Puja committees that had set up food counters near the pandals are caught in a bind as residents were supposed to collect food packets from there. Banibrata Banerjee, president of the FD Block puja, said that they had decided to send the packets home. “Our volunteers will deliver them to prevent crowding,” said Banerjee. BJ Block is locking horns with police over interpretation of what a pandal is. While the puja committee insists that it is the structure that houses the idol, the police think it is any temporary structure in the same compound. “We left a gap of 11m from our idol. From there, we left another 10m gap to create a space with a shed where our residents could offer pushapanjali from. The police is taking the pandal boundary to be the periphery of that structure. In that case, we have to offer anjali from 100m away on the road!” said secretary Bhaskar Sinha Roy. AK Block is worried about losing revenue for the 10 stalls set up around the park. “Those who had booked them might want the advance amount back,” said secretary Aritra Sen. They plan to let residents in by rotation to see key rituals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||South Dum Dum to follow NKDA immersion model||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) has set out to create a model immersion mechanism in two ponds under the South Dum Dum Municipality this year to explore how the immersion process can be executed adhering to the guidelines of the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) guidelines. The initiative will be put in place from Durga puja immersion till the observance of Chhath puja. According to Panchu Roy, chairman of the South Dum Dum Municipality, around 600 Durga and Laksmi idols are generally immersed in these two water bodies. WBPCB has decided to experiment with immersion in ponds taking a cue from the successful New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) experience and also because the union agency’s guideline bars immersion in flowing open water of the Hooghly. “We have decided to create a model immersion system in two ponds in South Dum Dum — Debi Ghat in Lake Town and Tank no. 4 in Dum Dum Park. Immersion will be organised in accordance with the immersion guidelines earmarked by NMCG,” said state pollution control board chairman Kalyan Rudra on Wednesday. Under WBPCB monitoring, the municipality will barricade and earmark a part of the water bodies for immersion. A synthetic lining will be spread out below the water to arrest the dissolving pollutants, the floating garbage will be continuously cleaned. A mobile water treatment facility is likely to be set up to treat the water where immersion will take place. The quality of the water will also be measured before, during and after immersion to assess the pollution trend. Rudra admitted that the idea had emerged from the successful execution of the pond immersion model executed by NKDA in recent years. According to NKDA chairman Debasish Sen, the idols are immersed through specially designed ramps with stairs on both sides at Upasana Ghat. “Idols are slid down the ramp into the water, restrained by ropes held by expert worker groups deployed by the NKDA. They push the idols into the water from where cranes pull them back onto the bank,” Sen explained to The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday. The PCB immersion action was prodded by a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay last Saturday where the importance of toeing the NMCG guidelines was stressed in presence of Rudra and PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar. NMCG, which provided the guidelines in 2018, recently reiterated the mandate in a letter to the state government. “The chief secretary discussed with the municipalities the need to implement the mandate and clean up the river immediately after immersion last Saturday. Subsequently the principal secretary of the environment department also stressed the importance of the process before the district magistrates,” added Rudra. The NMCG guidelines state that “adequate arrangements should be made for designated idol immersion sites within municipal area or bank of river Ganga and its tributaries by constructing temporary confined ponds with removable synthetic liners at the bottom”. “This model is nothing new. Almost 15 years back, the ramp-within- water-body model was successfully deployed in Kalyani,” pointed out Biswajit Mukherjee, former chief law officer of the state pollution control board. Mukherjee has recently written to the state administration, urging them to ban immersion in the open stretches of all rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Pray for a child, instead of a boy||The mode of offering a floral anjali to Durga might change this year but tens of thousands of worshippers will continue chanting a mantra that seeks a child from the goddess, instead of a boy. Many pujas in the city and neighbouring areas have pledged to make the pushpanjali mantra gender-neutral by urging people to say “santanan dehi” instead of “putran dehi”. The Telegraph had launched the campaign last year to fight gender bias. At least 150 pujas in Calcutta had supported the campaign. The high court order treating pandals as “no-entry zones” to combat the pandemic means anjali will not be the same this year. According to the court, only 60 people can access the pandal and its immediate vicinity of a big puja every day. The campaign for a gender-neutral mantra is expected to grow in strength, even without traditional anjalis. “We started the campaign but it became a people’s movement because of the participation of the pujas. Amid all the odds, many new pujas are expected to extend their support to the campaign  this year in addition to the ones who already have,” an organiser said. Banners to spread awareness about the proposed change are in place at several puja pandals in the city. “We plan to conduct a staggered anjali outside the pandal. Each session will have a limited number of worshippers. The hymns chanted by the priest will be played on sound boxes outside the pandal. The priest will chant santanan dehi and so will others outside the pandal,” Saswata Basu, the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgotsav, said. “Last year, our priest had chanted santanan dehi instead of putran dehi. The drive got the wholehearted support of all our members and people of the area. We will continue with the new mantra, whatever be the mode of anjali,” Pratik Chowdhury from Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Four  held in Chennai  for drug haul||Four men have been arrested in Chennai for allegedly sending narcotics to Calcutta using a courier service. From Calcutta, the contraband would be sent to Australia, an officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau said. The officer said the men were sending large quantities of pseudoephedrine and ephedrine, banned narcotics that are used to produce metaphetamine, which is commonly known as crystal meth. Pseudoephedrine and ephedrine both sell for around Rs 1 lakh a kg in the illegal drug market. The drugs were allegedly hidden inside showpieces such as vases and candle stands. The bureau had seized two consignments of the drugs around 10 days back from a courier company in the city. Around 6kg of pseudephedrine was seized on October 11 and around 4kg of ephedrine on October 13. “We found that both consignments had been sent from Chennai. The receiver was to send them to Australia,” the officer said. Officers of the agency then started tracking the consignment and sent a team to Chennai, from where the accused were arrested. The arrested men have been identified as Mohammad Hamid Alam, who hails from Bihar; and Kadir Ibrahim, Tabrej M. and Bashir Ahmed, all residents of Chennai. The officers are also trying to track down the receiver in the city. The four accused in custody are being brought to the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Puja with a difference, kid as a priest||A 13-year-old is the priest at the debut Durga Puja at a home for girls in north Calcutta. From pandal to food, everything has been arranged by the girls. A three-and-a-half-year-old is the youngest and most exuberant member of the organising committee, keeping “a keen eye” on the decorations and running around the pandal. A condition binds all the residents — all of them are HIV positive. Snhneer (abode of affection) in Teghoria is home to 26 girls. The youngest is three and a half and the eldest 19 years. The girls come from different districts. Over half the girls are orphans. Some of them have been discarded by their families. The girls reached the home — set up in 2004 — via Childline India Foundation. They live at the home, are enlisted at local schools and receive vocational training alongside formal education. “In the past years, some of the girls visited their parents or relatives during the Puja break. But this year, because of the pandemic, they have not been allowed to leave the home since March,” said Tania Das, the director of Bhoruka Public Welfare Trust, which runs the home. Das said the girls came up with the idea of hosting a puja inside the home this year. “I was a little apprehensive when I heard the proposal because Durga Puja needs elaborate preparations. There are so many things to take care of. But the girls were determined and I had to give in,” she told Metro. A small pandal was built in the courtyard of the home. Three sides of the pandal are open and the roof is covered with tarpaulin on the base of a net. The background of the idol has been decorated with thermocol plates of varying sizes. The idols — 15-inch miniature of goddess Durga and smaller versions of her children — were brought from a studio in Bagbazar by Das. A 13-year-old girl from Nadia is donning the role of the priest. She was trained for a week by a professional priest with the help of a book of shlokas. “I was nervous at the start of the training. But day one went off smoothly and boosted my confidence. I have been told that sincerity is most important, not the nitty-gritty of rituals,” the teenager told Metro over the phone. Food is also an important part of the celebrations here. The menu is simple. On Day One (Sashthi), breakfast was Maggi. The menu for lunch was rice, daal, alu bhaja and machher dim bhaja (fried fish roe) followed by chutney. Egg rolls were served for dinner. A local phuchka seller has offered free evening snacks to the children, said Das. Similarly, a patron has promised a hilsa lunch and another a mutton lunch. The youngest member of the home, a three-and-a-half-year-old girl, was found on a pavement over a year ago, said Das. She was extremely weak when she came to the home. But with proper food, medicines and care, the girl is able to run around now. The centre of everyone’s attention, she “tries her hand in everything” related to the pujas, including drawing alpana on the floor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||System tipped to trigger heavy rain in Calcutta veers towards Bangladesh||A system tipped to trigger heavy rain in Calcutta veered towards Bangladesh on Friday, the Met office said. A consistent cloud cover, stray drizzles here and there, gusts of wind and a slide in the Celsius are what the city got. The city sky is likely to remain cloudy in patches over the next couple of days on Ashtami and Navami. The maximum temperature is likely  to be under check, said a Met official. “The depression has lost steam and is now a well-marked low-pressure zone. It will lead to some cloud formation. If the sun comes out strongly in phases, there is a chance of thunderstorms,” a Met official said on Friday evening. The monsoon is expected to withdraw from Calcutta for this year over the next “three-four days”, which will lead to the entry of northwesterly winds into the city, said a Met official. A low-pressure area that formed over the central Bay of Bengal on Tuesday subsequently intensified into a depression and was headed towards the Bengal-Bangladesh coast, the Met office said. “The system was expected to gain steam and become a deep depression. It did not and remained a depression. It was supposed to make land-fall between Khepupara (Bangladesh) and Sagar Island (Bengal) on Friday afternoon. The depression kept moving more eastwards as it approached land,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Centre, Calcutta. Around 2.30pm on Friday, the depression was around 140km from Sagar Islands. The system was too far from Calcutta to make any significant impact in terms of rain. But it led to a steady blanket of clouds and gusts of wind and a hint of cold. “The cool and comparatively dry northerly winds came from Sikkim, bringing the mercury down, as the sun remained hidden behind the clouds,” said a Met official. Winds from the Bay of Bengal are moisture-laden and they trigger rain in Calcutta, he said. The maximum temperature had been hovering around 35 degrees in the city for several days at a stretch. On Friday, the maximum temperature was 27.7 degrees, four notches below normal. On Thursday, when the overcast conditions had set in, the maximum temperature was 27.6 degrees. The monsoon, which stayed back in the city longer than usual, is finally set to withdraw for this year, said Das. “It should withdraw from Calcutta over the next three-four days. The withdrawal will be marked by the entry of northwesterly winds into the city,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
24-10-2020||Calcutta||Unusual Saptami as Covid fear looms||This Saptami was not the Saptami Calcutta usually experiences. As the Covid-19 pandemic forced many people to stay away from pandals across the city, puja organisers said they could not remember the last time they witnessed a Durga Puja like this. From north to south, the organisers of a number of big-ticket pujas lamented the low turnout. In the afternoon, only residents of respective neighbourhoods were seen around pandals. The count rose a little in the afternoon as a section of people ventured beyond their localities to see pandals and the deity. But for most puja organisers, that was nothing compared with the turnout in previous years. “Last year, even with the Tallah bridge inaccessible, around seven lakh people used to visit our pandal daily. This year, it is not even a fraction of that. We are not even trying to keep count as the turnout is pathetically low,” said Abhishek Bhattacharya of Tala Barowari puja committee, which is celebrating its 100th year. “Unlike other years, there is hardly any challenge in managing the crowd.” Pandal-hoppers who ventured out in their cars chose not to stop at any of the pandals and stand in any queue, however small that be. A few who walked in expressed surprise at the new experience — possibly for the first time they did not have to wait in a serpentine queue or wade through a crushing crowd to enter a big pandal. “We had expected at least some crowd on Saptami afternoon. There were only a handful of people. We could float in and out without any trouble,” said Sanchari Bhattacharya at the College Square puja pandal. A puja committee member at College Square said they weren't expecting the usual crowd since suburban trains were not running but such a poor turnout was beyond their expectation.  Across parts of south  Calcutta the crowd mostly remained confined to their neighbourhoods. Most senior citizens did not step out as a precaution against the coronavirus. Across most pandals the morning anjali was a low-scale affair. People offering anjali stood in circles drawn for them beyond the 10-metre barricade to maintain a safe distance among themselves. At Mudiali, there were some visitors in the afternoon, their faces covered with masks. The visitors stopped at the barricade set up at a distance of 10 metre from the idol. Some clicked pictures, while most took a quick U-turn. At Badamtala Ashar Sangha, organisers said the footfall picked up a bit in the evening but that was nothing compared with what they had  expected. “Compared to Thursday, the number of visitors was just a little higher. But we had expected much more. Our volunteers had no problem managing the crowd even though there were police,” said Sandip Chakrabarty, of the puja committee. At the Chetla Agrani Sangha puja, the number of police and volunteers outnumbered that of the visitors. The puja organisers — urban development minister Firhad Hakim is among them — ensured that no one walked in without their faces properly covered by masks. Those who had their masks on their chins were asked to pull them up. This time Lalbazar had decided to deploy two policemen at each puja pandal to ensure that the high court directive — barring entry into pandals — is strictly adhered to. An additional force was drawn up to manage the crowd. By Friday, a part of this force was withdrawn as streets witnessed a low crowd count across the city. Some of the pujas had an officer of the rank of inspector and a handful personnel outside their pandals. Assistant commissioners of police were asked to “cover” a cluster comprising a few big-ticket pujas in each area. “We have withdrawn some force keeping in mind the number of people who are either suffering from Covid-19 or have just recovered,” said a senior police officer. “The force for managing traffic has been kept more or less the same with nearly 6,000 cops on the roads.” Salt Lake and parts of Dum Dum and Lake Town were no different from Calcutta. Most roads and lanes wore a deserted look throughout Friday. Ankita Bhowmick, a Salt Lake resident, said was taken by surprise when she could walk right up to the pandal of the Dum Dum Park Barat Chakra without standing in any queue. “There were a few people but we could reach the pandal with ease. However, there was signage all over asking visitors not to enter. Policemen posted near a guardrail blocking the entrance said we would not be allowed inside,” said Bhowmick. For Kasba resident J. Monani, a visit to FD Park in Salt Lake proved disappointing. He said his son wanted to visit the pandal as it is built on the Jungle Book theme and he could see it from a distance on Saptami afternoon. However, in the evening when he revisited it, they found all entry points blocked by police for cars. At Sreebhumi, policemen posted on VIP Road were spotted asking pandal-hoppers to move on as they would not be allowed to enter. “We are not allowing people to go inside the pandal. But many are coming anyway to see the decorative lights and are stopping,” said a policeman posted on VIP Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-262
24-10-2020||Business||Sebi grants NTPC exemption from certain buyback norms||Sebi on Friday granted exemption to state-run NTPC from certain buyback norms for the proposed merger of wholly-owned subsidiaries with itself. In October, NTPC had filed an application with Sebi to seek exemption from the strict enforcement of the buyback norms. The application had been necessitated on account of a scheme of amalgamation providing for the merger of NTPC’s wholly-owned subsidiaries with itself. Sebi considered NTPC's application and noted the proposed buy-back will be in the interests of investors as the shareholders will benefit from return of surplus cash through the buy-back programme. In November 2019, NTPC’s board had approved a scheme of amalgamation of Nabinagar Power and Kanti Bijlee Utpadan Nigam with NTPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Electric vehicle penetration likely to get delayed by Covid-19||Electric vehicle penetration in the country is likely to get delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic as low affordability and the government’s priority on reviving the conventional automobile industry has moved the focus away from EVs in the interim, a research report said. The sector also faces supply side risks as most of the components are sourced from China, which is the major global supplier for these vehicles. The passenger vehicles (PVs) segment of e-mobility will face a double whammy as consumers would be wary of buying a costlier EV over an internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle, while original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) would refrain from incurring high capex, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a statement. Reduced affordability and lower economic activities due to the pandemic could result in the automobile industry recording a decline in sales of over 20 per cent year-on-year for the second consecutive year in 2020-21, the agency said. “Most of the components for an EV are imported from China and the supply side risks are high, given the current geopolitical tensions with China,” the report said. India lacks meaningful resources of lithium and cobalt, which are the key raw materials for a lithium ion battery. Moreover, significant capital expenditure is required to establish battery manufacturing facilities, undertake research and development and develop required expertise, which is difficult in the current scenario and can only be justified with a larger scale. Hence, Ind-Ra expects that it would be limited to assembling of battery packs in the near to medium term, while manufacturing of batteries may take longer. The other components of EVs could be localised in India as the overall volumes go up. Indian auto ancillaries have made several tie-ups to enter into the EV space. While some of these are also supplying to global EV OEMs, the overall number is fairly small.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Onion price hike: Centre imposes stock holding limit||In a move to contain the spiralling prices of onions, the Centre on Friday imposed stock holding limit on retail and wholesale traders till December 31 to boost availability of the bulb crop and provide relief to consumers during the festive season and also to prevent adverse political impact in poll-bound Bihar. Retailers can stock onions only up to 2 tonnes, whereas wholesale traders are allowed to keep up to 25 tonnes, consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan told reporters. The prices of the kitchen staple have surged across the country for the second consecutive year. She said the government has to invoke the Essential Commodities (Amendment) law — which was passed last month in Parliament — that allows it to regulate perishable commodities in an extraordinary price rise situation. Consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tweeted “to control rising onion prices and curb hoarding, the government has taken the third step. Imposed stock limit of 2 tonne on retailers and 25 tonne on wholesalers”. Onion prices have shot up sharply to about Rs 100 per kg in some parts of the country, including Mumbai and Pune in the last few weeks in the wake of damage to standing Kharif crops in producing areas due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||OTT video content providers revenue to increase at 28 per cent||The revenue of Over-The-Top (OTT) video content providers is set to increase at a growth rate of 28 per cent between 2019 and 2024 in India, according to a study by PwC on global entertainment and media outlook. The OTT video segment revenue in India was $0.8 billion in 2019 and is projected to grow to $2.9 billion by 2024, driven by changing trends of media consumption, emerging device ecosystem and accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. US, China, South Korea, Germany and Australia are among the key markets for OTT players such as Netflix and Amazon. But the growth rate in India will surpass the global growth rate over the next four years. “In the case of OTT, there would be a two times growth in India compared with the global growth rate over the forecast period. In terms of absolute revenue, India would be sixth globally by the end of 2024. The drivers of the growth being smartphones, connected TVs and availability of affordable data,” said Rajib Basu, partner and leader, entertainment and media — PwC India. He added that the new at-home environment has led to the rise of direct to consumer apps, local ‘bite-sized’ entertainment platforms and user generated contents format. “In tier 2 and tier 3 cities, there is a significant proliferation of OTT mode of delivery,” Basu said. While the global OTT market revenue is expected to increase at a CAGR of 13 per cent to $86.8 billion by 2024, the growth rate for India is estimated at 28 per cent. Within the OTT options, subscription VOD (Video On Demand) will be the prime driver of revenue, increasing at a 30.7 per cent CAGR from $708 million in 2019 to $2.7 billion by 2024. In case of subscription VOD, a user pays a recurring fee to an operator that grants them access to all content without limit. This is in contrast to transactional VOD, where users mostly pay per view. There are platforms that also offer both options to the user. “By 2024, the s-VOD segment in India would be 93 per cent of the market against 83 per cent globally,” Basu said. PwC in its report also said that OTT revenues are expected to surpass that of box office in 2020, mostly on account of Covid-19 and cinema halls being closed due to lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||JSW Steel reports over 37 per cent decline in consolidated net profit||JSW Steel on Friday reported an over 37 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,595 crore for the September quarter of 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 2,536 crore for the same quarter a year ago, JSW Steel said in a BSE filing. Total income stood at Rs 19,416 crore against Rs 17,728 crore in the corresponding quarter of the preceding fiscal. Expenses were at Rs 16,958 crore against Rs 17,025 crore in the year-ago quarter. The company also informed exchanges about acquiring four mine blocks in the auctions held by the Odisha government in February. JSW Steel has signed the mining development and production agreements with regard to all the four blocks and executed the lease deeds. Nestle to invest Rs 2,600 crore FMCG major Nestle India on Friday announced its plans to invest Rs 2,600 crore over the next three to four years to augment its manufacturing capacity in the country, terming the move as “vindication of confidence and trust” the company has in its India journey. The company, which saw a robust 10.23 per cent growth in its domestic sales in the July-September quarter, said its production units have returned to “normal output” post lockdown. The FMCG major — which follows January-December financial year — posted a marginal 1.37 per cent drop in its net profit at Rs 587.09 crore in the third quarter ended September 30, 2020. Net sales, however, were up 10.19 per cent at Rs 3,525.41 crore during the period under review, the company said. Yes Bank profit at Rs 129 crore Yes Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 129.37 crore, helped by a decrease in operational expenses and widening of margins on a much lower loan book. The lender had posted a net loss of Rs 600 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. The bank’s core net interest income declined 10 per cent to Rs 1,973 crore, majorly because the loan book was 28 per cent lower, but was helped by a 0.34 per cent expansion in net interest margin at 3.1 per cent. IDBI Bank IDBI Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 324 crore for the second quarter of the current fiscal year against a loss of Rs 3,459 crore for the same period of the previous fiscal. Compared sequentially, the bank registered a 125 per cent jump against the first quarter net profit of Rs 144 crore, IDBI Bank said in release.         Total income of the bank fell by 7.5 per cent to Rs 5,761.06 crore during July-September 2020-21 compared to Rs 6,231.02 crore in the same period of 2019-20, the private sector lender said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||MPC retains growth focus hoping high rate inflation rate will recede||The monetary policy committee (MPC) has retained its growth focus on hopes that the high rate of inflation will recede in the second half of this fiscal thereby giving it more space for further rate cuts, the minutes of the first meeting of the reconstituted panel showed on Friday. Earlier this month, the government had appointed Ashima Goyal, Shashanka Bhide and Jayanth R. Varma as external members of the interest rate setting panel. The three-day meeting of the committee, which ended on October 9, saw them keeping the repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent though the accommodative stance was maintained. The RBI released minutes of the meeting on Friday. The CPI-based retail inflation had risen to an eight-month high of 7.34 per cent in September, largely due to rising prices of food items. It has stayed above the medium term inflation target given to the panel. While the minutes did indicate the dovish tilt of the panel, a key highlight was that the discussions also saw the mention of the management of government borrowing, availability of liquidity, real negative interest rates and steep yields which do not fall under the purview of the panel. It also saw a dissent from Varma, who disagreed with the wording of the forward guidance given by the committee. The MPC had said that it had “decided” to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next financial year — to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward. Varma, who felt that the date based forward guidance is not a decision but an expectation, said the committee should say that it expects to maintain a low policy rate and an accommodative stance during the current financial year and well as into the next financial year. Board meets The RBI’s central board on Friday held a meeting to discuss, among other things, the economic situation and other challenges. The meeting, which was held through video conferencing, also deliberated on the issues concerning financial stability in the present context. “The board reviewed the current economic situation, continued global and domestic challenges and various areas of operations of the Reserve Bank,” the RBI said. The board also discussed the working of sub-committees of the central board and the local boards and deliberated on the aspects related to financial stability in the present milieu," the RBI said in a release. “In a world that is full of unpleasant surprises, the MPC must out of necessity be data driven... In practice, I suspect that the word ‘decided’ only means an intention to remain accommodative as long as realised outcomes do not diverge drastically from what is currently expected. I am firmly of the view that the MPC risks a damage to its credibility when it uses words that do not accurately reflect what it means,’’ a blunt Varma said. Varma who is a well-known figure in financial circles also raised the subject of India having the steepest yield curves in the world. Pointing out that the yield curve here is extremely high beyond a maturity of about a year, he observed that for monetary policy to have the desired impact, it is desirable that the forward guidance should extend beyond the one year horizon at which the steepness of the yield curve sets in and that forward guidance of six months in the MPC resolution is 'suboptimal’. "It appears to me that the steep yield curve reflects a lack of credibility of the MPC’s existing accommodative guidance’’, he said while noting that excessively high long term rates are inflicting damage to the economy. Among other members, RBI executive director, Mridul Saggar raised the plight of savers when he said that retail fixed deposit rates are currently ranging between 4.90-5.50 per cent for tenors of 1-year or more and the headline inflation have been prevailing above that for some months now, thereby giving them a negative carry. He cautioned that if current real negative interest rates fall further, it may generate significant distortions that could adversely affect aggregate savings, current account and medium-term growth in the economy. He added that headline inflation should start softening from October. Apart from favourable base effects, the unlocking has picked speed and would significantly reduce supply chain bottlenecks causing both agriculture and non-agricultural prices to correct. Ashima Goyal who is seen as a dove, was of the view that though inflation is at present above the target band, it is expected to come down and therefore no change in the policy rate is appropriate and that one should await impact of on-going supply-side improvement, as well as for uncertainty around COVID-19 to dissipate. She added that while there is scope for further prudent expansion of government spending to boost demand and trigger private spending to raise growth, there is a need to keep the cost of government borrowing low. Dr Michael Patra, deputy governor, RBI said that if the projections of real GDP for 2020-21 (-9.5 per cent) made by the committee hold, the level of GDP would have fallen by around 6 per cent below its pre-COVID level by the end of 2020-21 and it may take years to regain this lost output. He cautioned that the COVID curve is arching inwards, from the cities where infections had hitherto festered, into interior regions. The fear of a second wave looms over India and the country with the second highest caseload of infections and over-stretched healthcare infrastructure, cannot be immune. "In the absence of intrinsic drivers, the recovery may last only until pent-up demand has been satiated and replenishment of inventories has been completed...with unprecedented contractions in economic activity and elevated inflation posing a razor’s edge trade-off fraught with uncertainty, forward guidance has to be clear and decisive’’, he observed. On the other hand, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das felt that there exists space for future rate cuts if the inflation evolves in line with the central bank’s expectations. "This space needs to be used judiciously to support recovery in growth. Meanwhile the ongoing transmission of past monetary policy actions would help ease financial conditions further..With the supply side disruptions that are seen to drive the current inflationary pressures likely to be transient and wane out in months ahead as economy normalises, there is merit in looking through the current high levels of inflation and persevere with the accommodative stance for monetary policy as long as necessary to revive growth on a durable basis ’’, he said while adding that there are downside uncertainties that could put sand in the wheels of a nascent recovery seen lately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Centre borrows and transfers Rs 6,000 crore as first tranche of GST compensation||The Centre has borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as the first tranche of GST compensation under the special borrowing window to 16 states even as some states continue to demand a meeting of the GST Council to discuss the quantum of borrowing. “The borrowing is at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent. Tenor of borrowing is expected to be broadly in the range of 3 to 5 years,” the finance ministry said. The Centre gave in to the demands of Opposition-ruled states last week to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states, and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. The 16 states and 2 Union Territories that received the first tranche are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, MP, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir. This borrowing will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the government. The amount will be reflected as the capital receipts of the state governments and as part of financing of its respective fiscal deficits, said the finance ministry. The Centre has evolved a special borrowing window to address the shortfall in the GST collection during the year 2020 – 2021. The release said 21 states and 2 Union Territories opted for this special window involving back-to-back borrowing coordinated by the finance ministry. Out of these, five states did not have any shortfall on account of GST compensation, explaining why the sum has been transferred to 16 states and 2 UTs, it said. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac had said that the GST Council should meet and evolve a consensus on the quantum of borrowing by the Centre to compensate states. “Having reached a consensus on who should borrow, the Centre and states can reach a consensus on how much to borrow. Extend to all states additional 0.5 per cent  unconditional borrowing in the 2 per cent borrowing already permitted. Let the GST Council meet and continue the dialogue,” Isaac tweeted. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore due to Covid-19) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively. However, the Centre has now said that it would borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore and pass it on as a loan to the states. While the total compensation due to the states is Rs 2.35 lakh crore, states would have got Rs 1.83 lakh crore in the normal course as compensation for 10 months is paid in a fiscal year. Dues for February and March will be rolled over the early part of next fiscal year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
24-10-2020||Business||Flipkart to invest Rs 1,500 crore for 7.8 per cent stake in Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail||Walmart-owned Flipkart is investing Rs 1,500 crore to pick up a 7.8 per cent stake in Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL). The transaction will enable ABFRL to sell its various brands on the latter’s platform. The investment by Flipkart will be through a preferential issue. ABFRL will issue 7,31,70,732 shares at Rs 205 apiece. In a regulatory filing with the bourses, the Birla group firm said this investment agreement “provides for pre-emption rights and the right of first refusal, which are for a limited period of between 1-5 years from the date of allotment of equity shares or if the equity shareholding of the investor falls below a certain threshold’’. ABFRL has the Pantaloons fashion chain in its portfolio along with other brands such as Louis Philippe, Van Heusen, Allen Solly and Peter England. However, both the companies were silent on the brands that will be marketed as part of the agreement. Shares jump Shares of ABFRL zoomed by almost 8 per cent on the announcement. On the BSE, it closed at Rs 165.05 — a gain of Rs 11.65 over the last finish. In a press statement, the Aditya Birla group firm said that following the issuance, the promoter and promoter group companies of ABFRL will hold about 55.13 per cent. ABFRL said it plans to use this capital to strengthen the balance sheet and accelerate its growth trajectory. The company is also looking to aggressively scale-up its existing businesses where it holds strong, market leading positions while increasing its presence in emerging high-growth categories such as innerwear, athleisure, casualwear and ethnic wear. The company added that it will aggressively drive its large-scale digital transformation strategy that will deepen the consumer connect of its brands, expand the reach of its diverse brand portfolio, build strong omni-channel functionalities and augment its backend capabilities; positioning it amongst the most comprehensive omni-channel fashion players in the country. The Flipkart group said that through this partnership, it will strengthen the range of brands offered on its e-commerce platforms — Flipkart and Myntra—  even as it would also deepen the relationship with ABFRL. “Flipkart’s technology prowess will enhance ABFRL’s omni-channel capabilities, enriching customer experiences while continuing to provide access to premium loyalty programmes and affordability constructs,’’ the statement said. The transaction comes at a time when Reliance Retail is also set to aggressively venture into online fashion retail through JioMart. Though JioMart largely sells groceries now, the plan is to enlarge its portfolio to include electronics, fashion and even pharmaceuticals. Flipkart, however, has a major presence in the online fashion segment, because of Myntra. “This partnership is an emphatic endorsement of the growth potential of India. It also reflects our strong conviction in the future of the apparel industry in India, which is poised to touch $100 billion in the next five years. “Fashion retail in India is set for robust long-term growth due to strong fundamentals of a large and growing middle class, favourable demographics, rising disposable incomes and aspiration for brands. Rapid growth of technology infrastructure will further accelerate this process. “Over the years, we have shaped ABFRL into a strong platform to capture future growth opportunities in India. This partnership is a critical component of that strategy,’’ Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of Aditya Birla Group, said. “Through this transaction with ABFRL, we will work towards making available a wide range of products for fashion-conscious consumers across different retail formats across the country. “We look forward to working with ABFRL and its well established and comprehensive fashion and retail infrastructure as we address the promising opportunity of the apparel industry in India,’’ Kalyan Krishnamurthy, CEO of Flipkart Group, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-256
24-10-2020||India||Molesters shoot dead Dalit teen at home ||A Dalit teen was shot five times in the head and killed allegedly by three youths who she had stood up to for molesting her in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. The Class XI student, a resident of Premnagar in Firozabad district, was returning from school when the three youths — identified as Manish Yadav, Sopali Yadav and Gaurav Chak — allegedly molested her. “She had told us about the incident after returning home. At night, we were walking on the terrace after dinner when the youths came on a motorbike, entered our house and shot my daughter. We rushed downstairs and found her lying in a pool of blood. The trio ran away on seeing us,” the father of the 16-year-old girl told police on Saturday. “These youths have been molesting and harassing girls in the area for the past several months. Residents know these are criminals, so they avoid lodging a police complaint,” the father said. His daughter had protested when the trio attacked her, the father said. “They had misbehaved with my daughter in the past also and I had told the police about it. But I had never imagined that they would kill my daughter for standing up to them.” Sachindra Patel, the senior superintendent of police, said Manish and Sopali had been arrested. The officer said the killers had pumped five bullets into the girl’s head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Valley alliance raises its flag ||The People’s Alliance, forged to fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, on Saturday adopted the erstwhile state’s scrapped flag as its symbol, seen as a rallying cry to force Delhi to reverse last year’s decisions. The fledgling alliance also got a formal structure with the National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and the People’s Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti being unanimously chosen as its president and vice-president, respectively. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone was made the chief spokesman of the seven-party alliance. CPM leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and Anantnag MP Hasnain Masoodi of the National Conference have been selected convener and coordinator. “The biggest thing to happen (on Saturday) was that we searched for what should be our symbol. We all thought the best tribute… will be to adopt the symbol (flag) that would unfurl atop the secretariat in Jammu and Kashmir,” Lone said after a meeting where the decision was taken. Jammu and Kashmir had its own constitution, flag and penal code, all of which were scrapped after the abrogation of key provisions of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. The state lost its special status and was split into Union Territories. The flag was removed from the civil secretariat offices in Srinagar and Jammu last year. The decision to adopt it as the symbol of the alliance came a day after Mehbooba ruffled feathers in the BJP by vowing not to hold the Tricolour until the state flag was reinstated. BJP activists on Saturday hit the streets in Jammu and elsewhere, accusing her of insulting the national flag. Mehbooba countered that it was the BJP that had insulted the Tricolour. “(The national) flag stands for diversity and peaceful coexistence amongst all. If anyone has insulted the Tiranga, it is the BJP that persecutes minorities and sows division and hatred. The flag of India was disrespected the day BJP leaders carried it to justify rapists of a nine-year-old,” she tweeted. The PDP president was referring to the protests in Jammu’s Kathua in support of the men who had raped and murdered a child. Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday urged lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha to take cognisance of Mehbooba’s remarks and book her for sedition. Abdullah said the BJP had launched a false propaganda, painting the Valley’s leaders as anti-national. “The People’s Alliance is not anti-national. We want to tell them we are certainly anti-BJP, there is no doubt about that. They have tried to destroy the Constitution of the country, divide the nation and destroy its federal structure through what they did last year,” the former chief minister said. “But I want to tell them, we are not anti-national. We want the rights of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh to be restored. Our fight is for that and we want nothing more,” he added. Abdullah said efforts to divide Jammu and Kashmir in the name of religion would fail. “This is not a religious fight. This is for the identity of our watan (homeland,” he said. Earlier in the day, the National Conference chief visited Durga Nag temple in Srinagar to join Pandits in Ram Navami celebrations. Almost all the leaders of the alliance had been arrested or put under house arrest before August 5, 2019. Following their staggered release, they have joined hands to fight for the restoration of the special status, resisting pressure from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Sitharaman backs party's poll promise of free Covid vaccines in Bihar||Amid the opposition's criticism of the BJP's Bihar poll promise of free Covid vaccines, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted on Saturday that the announcement was perfectly in order and a party can announce what it wants to do when it comes to power. Sitharaman had released the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) manifesto for the Bihar polls on Thursday. A highlight of the promises made in the document was free Covid vaccines for the state's people if the saffron party comes back to power. Opposition parties had slammed the BJP for the promise and demanded action by the Election Commission (EC), while alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political gains. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Sitharaman, a senior BJP leader, said, "It is a manifesto announcement. A party can announce what it wants to do when it comes to power. That is exactly what is announced. Health is a state subject. It is perfectly in order." Every party in its manifesto states what it wants to do when it comes to power, she added. The Bihar Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in three phases, starting October 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||India's Covid tally past 78 lakh after more than 50,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 78.14 lakh with 53,370 fresh cases in a day, while 70,16,046 people have so far recuperated pushing the national recovery rate to 89.78 per cent on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 78,14,682 and the death toll to 1,17,956, with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 650 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.51 per cent. There are 6,80,680 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 8.71 per cent of the total caseload, the ministry data said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,13,82,564 samples have been tested up to October 23, with 12,69,479 samples tested on Friday. The country's infection tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past the 50 lakh-mark on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. The 650 latest fatalities include 184 from Maharashtra, 60 from Bengal, 58 from Chhattisgarh, 51 from Karnataka, 40 from Uttar Pradesh, 33 from Tamil Nadu and 26 each from Delhi and Kerala. The total 1,17,956 deaths reported so far in the country include 43,015 from Maharashtra followed by 10,858 from Tamil Nadu, 10,821 from Karnataka, 6,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,544 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,368 from Bengal, 6,189 from Delhi, 4,095 from Punjab and 3,673 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Judicial probe cry into firing on tribals||Social organisations have demanded a judicial inquiry into the firing at tribals in Bihar’s Kaimur on September 11 for protesting eviction from forests. The All India Union of Forest Working People, Citizens for Justice & Peace and the Delhi Solidarity Group had sent a fact-finding team to probe the incident and the report was released by CPM politburo member Brinda Karat on Friday. According to the report of the fact-finding team, Bihar police had fired at peaceful Adivasi protesters at Adhaura block, injured seven activists, lathicharged them and then picked them up on “trumped-up charges”. They were released on bail after over a month, on October 16. “Two days later, in response to a ‘boycott election call’ given by the Kaimur Mukti Morcha, an organisation formed in the 1990s to democratically struggle for the land rights of the people of Kaimur, political heavyweights including the central minister of state for home, Nityanand Rai, air-dropped into the far reaches of Kaimur, pleading with the protesters to lift the boycott call,” the organisations said in a statement. “The KMM’s demand to cancel all the decisions to earmark the Kaimur Forest Wildlife Sanctuary and Tiger Reserve in the area is a long-standing one. In the guise of the sanctuary and the reserve, the long-overdue land rights of the Adivasis were being further endangered,” the statement added. The fact-finding team had Amir Sherwani Khan and Matadayal of the All India Union of Forest Working People, Raja Rabbi Hussain of the Delhi Solidarity Group and Aman Khan, a Supreme Court advocate.It has demanded the quashing of the FIR filed against all the activists, the setting up of a judicial commission of inquiry by the government to investigate the police firing and lathicharge and the prosecution of the police officers who had opened “illegal and unwarranted” fire. The team has also recommended compensation for those injured and implicated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Neglected shepherds ask: Kuchh milega kya?||Away from the cacophony of highways and the Assembly elections in Jehanabad district of Bihar, a small group of shepherds, locally known as gareria, was having an early lunch. Their flock of around 300 sheep was ruminating nearby after grazing the entire morning on fields sporting a fresh coat of monsoon green. It is a part of their lifestyle to cook on the go and camp under the open sky or a tree, or beneath a shelter of polythene sheets. They could return to their villages only after a gap of several days while moving with the herd. As we approach, they stop eating for a while. One of them, Raj Kishore Pal, eagerly asks, “Kuchh milega kya? (Will we get something?)” He guffaws when the answer is negative. “Actually we never get anything from the government, but the hope is always there that someday some official will come to us, ask about our problems, and give us something to make us happy. Our sheep die without treatment, but no official or doctor ever bothers,” said Raj Kishore. These shepherds are from Ainma and Nizamdipur villages in Kako and Jehanabad blocks, respectively. They team up while going out to graze the sheep. Theirs is a hard life for they have to take out the flock every single day of the year, be it rain, shine, or winter — living on the fringes of the society. Raj Kishore’s comments opened a Pandora’s box of complaints. The shepherds rued their fate and life. “When these animals fall ill, the veterinary doctors do not come despite sending messages. We just use some medicines adopting a trial and error method. The sheep survive if the medicines suit them or else they die. The number of stray dogs has increased phenomenally over the last couple of decades. They attack and kill sheep, especially lambs,” Pramod Kumar Pal, 56, told The Telegraph. “The polls have no meaning for us, but the hope for betterment encourages us to vote. Governments have come and gone, but our problems kept on increasing. When the RJD was in power and Lalu Prasad was the chief minister, some people used to say that he was from our caste. But he did not do anything for us. Then Nitish Kumar came and nothing improved. We are slipping behind every passing day,” said Munna Pal. Jehanabad and Ghosi constituencies vote on October 28. But Munna or the shepherds in his group have no idea about who all are contesting from the constituencies. The Jehanabad seat is going to witness a fight between Nitish’s Janata Dal United MLA and minister K.N. Verma and Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Suday Yadav. Rambali Yadav of the CPI-ML and Rahul Kumar of the JDU are pitted against each other on the Ghosi seat. However, Munna has a point. The economic system in which the shepherds survived has collapsed, leaving limited avenues of income. Till a couple of decades ago, farmers all over Bihar used to invite the shepherds to rest their flocks in their fields before the sowing season in lieu of foodgrains or some money. Sheep manure is rich in phosphorus and potassium, and serves as an excellent organic, slow-release fertiliser. It is also low in odour. However, this custom is over because of inorganic, synthetic fertilisers and their easy to use method. The system of wool collection is over and blanket weaving is also plummeting. Earlier, traders from different parts of Bihar and other states would come to buy wool, but they have vanished now. “We used to sell wool at Rs 50 per kg till around 15 years ago. But with no buyers, we now just shear the sheep and leave the wool on the ground. Each grown-up sheep can yield up to 200-250 grams of wool every time it is sheared,” said Chandrika Prasad, a shepherd from Sarthua Sarai village in Nalanda district. He and his mates were cutting the wool in a low-lying grass field near Ekangarsarai. Earlier, the shepherds used to weave blankets on rudimentary looms kept at home, and sell them at fairs or in the market. But the demand is gone. “People prefer synthetic blankets because they are soft and colourful. Moreover, weaving blankets has become unprofitable for us. It takes a person five to six days to weave a pure wool blanket, but it fetches just Rs 500-700 in the market. If the same person works as a labourer, he could earn Rs 300-400 in a day,” Chandrika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Dharna to lift Sikkim transport restrictions||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) has been on a dharna at Tashiling, the Sikkim government’s secretariat in Gangtok, since Thursday night to demand the restoration of the pre-Covid-19 public and private transportation arrangements. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place to deal with the raging pandemic, both shared taxis and government-run buses are allowed to operate at 50 per cent of capacities, but at double the cost in terms of fares. Besides, two-wheelers are not allowed to carry pillion riders. The SPYF, which espouses various political and social issues, wants the restrictions to be lifted because it feels the new arrangement hurts the common people and is fundamentally not in sync with scientific advice on ways to contain the contagion. “Science says 6ft distance should be maintained between persons. But, for instance, if two persons sit in the back in a small cab, the stipulated distance cannot be maintained. Same is the case with all types of public transport whether they are buses or SUVs. But commuters are being forced to pay double the fare because of the 50 per cent restriction when the risk to their health is no way minimised,” said Shankar Sharma, a member of the SPYF, which as an organisation doesn’t have a hierarchy. Sharma was among five SPYF members who sat on the dharna at Tashiling. “We will continue to protest till our demands are met. We want the carrying restrictions on all modes of public transport to be lifted and old fares restored, pillion riding on two-wheelers to be allowed and more state-operated buses to be run between various places,” he said. A senior Sikkim transport department official said the restrictions were in keeping with the larger Covid-19 SOPs in place in the state. “We will be guided by the directives of the state government,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Delhi University ‘meddling’ finger at ministry ||The faction of the Delhi University (DU) administration led by indisposed vice-chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi has questioned the education ministry’s stand on the power dispute at the institution. Several faculty members also decried the government’s letter on Thursday supporting the group led by acting VC and acting pro-VC P.C. Joshi that is claiming to have legal authority to appoint a regular registrar and a finance officer. The faculty members are of the opinion that the ministry had no business interfering in DU’s affairs and the government had encroached upon the autonomy of the premier institution. A meeting of the Executive Council (EC) presided over by Joshi had on Wednesday approved the appointments of Vikash Gupta as regular registrar and Girish Ranjan as regular finance officer. Tyagi, who is unwell, has not been attending office for about two months. He had appointed Prof P.C. Jha as acting registrar on Wednesday and replaced Joshi with professor Geeta Bhatt on Thursday as pro-VC. Joshi, who like education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal hails from Uttarakhand, has not accepted Tyagi’s decisions, citing his continued absence. Late on Thursday, the government ratified Joshi’s decisions and overturned those of Tyagi. A letter issued by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the education ministry, said the orders issued by Tyagi were not valid and that Joshi would continue as acting VC. Jha, who has been appointed by Tyagi as acting registrar, shot off a letter to Singh in the education ministry on Friday. “The honourable vice-chancellor, Prof Yogesh K. Tyagi, has taken decisions in due compliance with the Act, Statute and Ordinances of DU,” the letter by Jha said. Jha objected to the ministry letter. “The university would like to submit the following with reference to your letter…. The letter has been addressed to Shri Vikash Gupta as registrar, DU. Attention is drawn to office order dated 22 October 2020 issued in this regard by the university. It is informed that Prof. P.C. Jha in addition to his responsibilities as director South Campus is acting registrar, DU, as an interim arrangement. It is also informed that Geeta Bhatt has been appointed as pro-vice-chancellor in place of P.C. Joshi,” Jha has written. Hansraj Suman and two other teachers said the government’s actions amounted to encroachment. “The ministry has no scope of interfering in DU’s affairs. This is encroachment into the autonomy of a premier university. The university runs by its acts, statute and ordinance, which do not allow any scope for government interference,” Suman said. The camps of Tyagi and Joshi have remained adamant. Jha has set up a working group to expedite the process of promotion and recruitment of teachers at the university and its affiliated colleges. Gupta issued a media release on Thursday night stating that Joshi would act as VC and would be the only competent authority to issue orders on administrative matters. Another letter, from an official in the VC’s department to the varsity’s IT department, also surfaced suggesting that the Joshi camp had changed the password of the official email ID of the pro-VC, thereby denying Bhatt access. The education ministry had till late on Friday night not replied to this newspaper’s email asking for comment on the criticism that has come its way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Garment workers compensate for lockdown aid with work, pay ||From unpaid overtime to wage cuts, garment workers say they are being made to compensate their bosses for the food, shelter and salary provided in the coronavirus lockdown. But it is a steep price for a workforce that was already juggling low pay and poor conditions before the pandemic shuttered their factories and strangulated orders. Workers say they are being offered the choice of less money or working extra shifts for free to pay back their bosses, who dangle the threat of unemployment if employees refuse. “Workers were absolutely not expecting these Covid cuts when they returned to work,” said Mahesh Gajera, programme manager with labour rights charity Aajeevika Bureau. “They thought their employers were providing humanitarian relief during the crisis and no one was told that they would have to compensate for every meal and the money given when factories were closed.” The “Covid cuts” have left tens of thousands of garment and textile workers across the country in deep debt,forcing many to pull children out of school, pawn jewellery and cut meals to survive, unions and labour right campaigners said. The lockdown announced in March badly hit the manufacturing, services and retail sectors, squeezing millions out of jobs. Despite state advisories asking employers to pay full wages in lockdown and an appeal from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “be kind” to workers, unions said they have been flooded with complaints of non-payment. Where wages were paid, salaries are now being docked. “The worker will compensate for all the losses and that has been made very clear by companies,” said Sebastian Devaraj, honorary president of the Karnataka Garment Workers’ Union. “Companies have calculated the number of extra hours a worker has to put in to compensate for lockdown wages. In one instance, it is 208 hours, of which a worker has to work 104 hours without paid overtime. They have no choice.” The labour ministry did not respond to repeated calls for comment. The country’s multi-million-dollar garment industry, which employs at least 12 million people, was hit when global brands cancelled orders or demanded steepdiscounts to cope with plunging sales. K. Selvaraju, secretary general of the Southern India Mills Association, which has more than 500 members, denied the allegations and said that manufacturers had gone the extra mile to take care of workers despite their own losses. But workers in the garment hubs of Bangalore in southern Karnataka told their union leaders that they were given a couple of options when factories reopened. They could forgo half their April wages or work extra hours for free, Devaraj said. “This fear has been whipped up that if workers don’t take pay cuts and work harder, running the factory would be difficult, it would be closed and they will lose their jobs,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. “Employers are basically saying that they are sinking and workers should save them or they will also drown. It is a veiled threat and workers are scared to complain.” Lawyer Amrish Patel said that it was illegal for companies to deduct wages in retrospect and force people to do overtime. “These are blatant violations of labour rights,” said Patel. A worker in Tamil Nadu, who requested anonymity, said the salary cuts swallowed nearly 20 per cent of her take-home pay. “It has become almost impossible to pay school fees or the instalments for the loans we took during lockdown,” she said. Gajera gets distress calls from workers in the garment hubs of Gujarat everyday. “They don’t want to upset their employer but they are unable to put two square meals on their table,” Gajera said. “Their distress is mounting and complaints will surge if they are not paid their dues by Diwali next month.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Karnataka colleges to reopen on November 17||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to reopen from November 17 engineering, diploma and degree colleges that are shut since March due to the pandemic, with students free to opt for online or offline classes or a mix of both. “In a meeting that took place under the chairmanship of the chief minister, it was decided to reopen degree colleges from November 17. Engineering, diploma and degree colleges will all reopen,” deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said students would have the option to either attend classes physically or online or go for blended learning by using both options. Parents’ consent should be taken to attend classes in person at colleges, Narayan said. Depending on attendance, it will be decided how the classes will be held and in how many batches, in adherence to all standard operating procedures, he added. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired the meeting of officials from the health, social welfare, backward classes, finance, transport and education departments, along with Narayan on reopening of colleges. Narayan, who is also in charge of the higher education department, said all necessary arrangements would be made for students who would stay at SC/ST, social welfare and OBC hostels. Transport arrangements will also be made to facilitate smooth conduct of classes, the deputy chief minister said. Priority will be given to practical classes, he said, pointing out that UGC guidelines also provides an opportunity to conduct offline classes from November. Students have also been demanding that classes restart, Narayan said. He said the decision to reopen colleges was taken after several rounds of consultative meetings with all the stakeholders. Each college will have a task force, the deputy chief minister said, adding that deputy commissioners of districts had been authorised to coordinate and monitor at the district level. To a question on cutting short the syllabus, Narayan said “we have not discussed it for now”. That flexibility will be looked into keeping exams in view, he added. “For now, we are trying to give impetus to learning.” “As per UGC guidelines, we will be conducting classes. Online classes have already started in October,” he said. On November 17, the chief minister will launch the Learning Management System (LMS) portal, which, Narayan said, would be a first in the country, for the benefit of about five lakh students studying in government colleges. Necessary approvals and budgetary allocations have been made for the LMS, he said, adding it would be of help to students and teachers and improve the quality of education. “It is aimed at bringing about revolutionary reforms in the education sector. We will be sharing details about this in due course,” Narayan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-599
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Tejashwi Yadav keeps focus on governance||The inability of the ruling BJP-JDU combine to get RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad boxed in the traditional Lalu Yadav brand of politics has become a critical factor in this Bihar election as the young challenger has quietly moved from the politics of representation to good governance. What has happened in the process is that Tejashwi has snatched the development plank from chief minister Nitish Kumar who was struggling to retain it in the aftermath of the unprecedented misery caused by the lockdown and the rising aspirations over the last 15 years. While the BJP-Janata Dal United alliance kept targeting the Rashtriya Janata Dal for the perceived or real misdeeds of Lalu’s tenure — an era of identity politics — Tejashwi largely succeeded in blunting the attack with a refreshing obsession with governance issues. Tejashwi starts and ends his speeches with the unemployment crisis, promising to start the process of delivering 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting after coming to power. This has not only generated enormous curiosity among the youth cutting across caste barriers, it also helped the RJD’s carefully crafted mission of image makeover. He avoids meandering, vague rhetoric and offers the job proposal like a scared pledge, telling the hugely responsive crowds to give him one opportunity after the failed experiment of 15 years. While this is a constructive way of dealing with the soaring anti-incumbency sentiment, Tejashwi avoids talking about contentious issues — national or local. Even on Friday while addressing a joint rally with Rahul Gandhi in Hisua, he said: “We don’t have to get misled. There will be attempts to divert attention to caste and religious issues. But we are fighting this election on livelihood. We have to stick to that. We have to worry about the future of our youth, to think about their education, jobs and healthcare.” The RJD anticipated the nature of the political offensive it will face and took radical measures to disconnect itself from legacy issues. Unlike Lalu who explicitly appealed to the caste consciousness of voters, Tejashwi stresses the need for unity, promising to take every section of society along. Lalu stressed on identity and representation when the oppressed sections needed voice and social empowerment. That politics — based on the Muslim-Yadav equation — had its limitations and the RJD sensed that it needed to change. Tejashwi seized on the overriding concern of livelihood. The RJD manifesto also keeps the focus on governance issues — development, welfare and security, instead of stressing on social justice, its traditional theme song. The manifesto talks of jobs, new industrial policy, food processing SEZs (special economic zones) and 22 per cent budgetary allocation to education and model residential schools in every district. Together with the Congress’s progressive vision, the alliance weaves a strong pro-poor narrative that has flummoxed the BJP-JDU combine which is still hunting for the old enemy. While Nitish is stuck in that groove, even the BJP is relentlessly firing at a non-existent ghost. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, considered a pragmatic and smart electoral strategist, was also found wandering in the forgotten lanes. He did his best to revive fears of “jungle raj”, the symbol reserved by the elitist media for Lalu regime, recalling how goons used to loot and terrorise citizens across Bihar. He also referred to family rule and wondered if those driven by vested interests could serve Bihar well. But the emotional connect that Tejashwi has developed with the voters was absent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
24-10-2020||India||All bandits have to return loot: Mehbooba||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday came out all guns blazing in her first public address after 14 months of imprisonment, referring to “bandits”, describing the revocation of the special status as robbery, declaring that Kashmiris were not comfortable in today’s India and vowing not to unfurl the Tricolour until the state flag was restored. The People’s Democratic Party leader also pledged to tap into all peaceful means available to fight for the resolution of the Kashmir issue and force Delhi to reverse its decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate the state into Union Territories, even to the peril of her life. “My flag is this (pointing to the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir kept on the table in front of her),” Mehbooba told reporters at a media conference. There was no Tricolour on the table. Jammu and Kashmir lost its flag and constitution with the abolition of certain key provisions of Articles 370 and 35A on August 5 last year. “When this flag comes back, we’ll raise that flag (Tricolour) too.... This flag (of Jammu and Kashmir) forged our relationship with that flag (Tricolour),” the PDP leader said. She repeatedly referred to bandits while speaking of the Centre’s move to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, which gave the erstwhile state’s residents exclusive rights over land and government jobs. “No matter how big a thief or a bandit is, or how dreaded he is, how heavily armed he is, but if he steals something, he has to return the goods. The robbery on August 5 was not according to law,” she said. “If there had been discussion and it had happened in keeping with the law, we would have thought it (special privileges) had gone and it won’t be returned. But it was stolen through loot, violating the Constitution.… They don’t have any power, the Indian Constitution gave that (power to decide on the special status) to our Constituent Assembly, which had decided it would continue,” Mehbooba said. Mehbooba, who looked frail, said her struggle was not restricted to the restoration of Article 370. “Our fight is as much for the resolution of the Kashmir issue as it is for the restoration of Article 370.… The Kashmir issue is an issue. You cannot shut your eyes like a pigeon to drive away the cat. If you close your eyes, the cat will devour you. You will lose yourself. Those who think we will forget the Kashmir issue, they are mistaken,” she said. The former chief minister said she would be among the first leaders to offer to sacrifice her life. “Thousands of people in Jammu and Kashmir have offered their lives,” Mehbooba said. “We will not forget their sacrifices…. So far, ordinary people have offered their lives. Now it is time for leaders like us to do so.” Mehbooba, who stressed she would fight using peaceful means, appeared to suggest that Kashmiris were not happy in India anymore. “They (Centre) don’t want the people of Jammu and Kashmir. They (people) are expendables for them. They want the territory. The territory was with them through legal means till August 5, 2019, but when they broke the relations on the basis of which we had acceded with them... let me tell them we are not comfortable in today’s India, what they have made of it,” she said. The former chief minister said Jammu and Kashmir had acceded with a liberal, democratic and secular India, but Dalits and minorities were not safe in the country today. To a question whether the Chinese aggression and the repeal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status were linked, Mehbooba said even China had said so. “China has gobbled up 1,000sqkm. And that is a reality,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
24-10-2020||India||Trump labels India ‘filthy’, puts ‘friend’ in a spot ||US President Donald Trump has put his “friend” Narendra Modi in a spot once again by calling India “filthy” and placing the country in the same league as China for the second time in less than a month at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are at loggerheads. Speaking on climate change during the final presidential debate on Thursday at Nashville, Tennessee, Trump said: “Look at China. How filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India. It’s filthy. The air is filthy.” No sooner had Trump made the comments than social media platforms went into a tizzy at the mention of India in the same club as China and Russia, with which the US is currently engaged in a “great power competition” in the words of secretary of defence Mark Esper. More so because of the amount of effort Modi has invested in his relationship with Trump, whom the Prime Minister has described as “my friend”. Modi has hosted two community events for the President in the run-up to the US elections — in Houston last year with the diaspora turning out in strength and in Ahmedabad this February in the presence of a lakh-plus crowd. Gujaratis make up a sizable section of the NRIs in the US. Although India has maintained that neither event was related to the elections, the Trump campaign has from the beginning viewed these as an endorsement from Prime Minister Modi of Trump’s re-run for the White House. A video released by the Trump campaign to woo the Indian diaspora amplified that view. Against this backdrop, Trump calling India “filthy” — even if followed by the qualification that the “air is filthy” — was used by Modi’s detractors to criticise him and his foreign policy, given how his bromance with President Xi Jinping, too, had come apart this summer with the Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control. There were many who pointed out that Trump was being factual about India’s air quality, considering the national capital is already dealing with smog though winter is yet to arrive in full swing. Others like Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill said: “India is filthy and India’s air is filthy are two separate statements with two distinct meanings and both were said by President Trump. Bhakts defending the ‘filthy air’ comment, as air pollution is bad, are conveniently forgetting the first comment. Now where is Bharat Mata ki Jai?” Some others also pointed out that this was the second time in less than a month that Trump had been critical of India. Earlier, in his first presidential debate, he had questioned India’s statistics on Covid deaths. Even in that instance, Trump had clubbed India with China and Russia. “When you talk about numbers, you don’t know how many people died in China. You don’t know how many people died in Russia. You don’t know how many people died in India. They don’t exactly give you a straight count,” Trump had said. Bringing this up, Congress MP Kapil Sibal tweeted on Friday: “Trump: Fruits of Friendship (1) Questions India’s Covid death toll (2) Says India sends dirt up into the air…. (3) Called India ‘tariff king’. The result of ‘Howdy Modi’!” Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena said: “What an unfortunate comment to make about India, @realDonaldTrump. Reminder: India stands committed to climate change goals, US chose to withdraw, much against the wishes of many Americans. Thank you.” What added to the government’s discomfiture was that Trump made the remark just three days before India and the US are to hold their third 2+2 ministerial dialogue for which secretary of state Mike Pompeo and Esper are flying into New Delhi on Monday. Briefing mediapersons in Washington on Thursday, Dean Thompson, principal deputy assistant secretary in the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, had said: “The 2+2 format is reserved for our closest friends and partners and reflects our belief that the United States and India are stronger, more secure, and more prosperous when we work together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
24-10-2020||India||SC clears air on default bail||An accused has an indefeasible fundamental right to bail if the investigating agency fails to file the chargesheet within the stipulated period, the Supreme Court has said. Under CrPC Section 167, the investigating agency has to file the chargesheet against the accused within 90 days where the offence involves imprisonment ranging from 10 years to a life term. In case of charges that entail a punishment of less than 10 years in jail, the investigating agency has to file the chargesheet within 60 days. “…So long as an application for grant of default bail is made on the expiry of the period of 90 days… before a chargesheet is filed, the right to default bail becomes complete,” a bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha and K.M. Joseph said in a recent order. The bench said that in cases of special Acts such as the UAPA, where the time limit for filing the chargesheet can be extended to 180 days, an accused is entitled to “default bail” if the probe agency fails to meet the deadline. The bench allowed an appeal filed by Bikram Singh, a murder accused, challenging a Punjab and Haryana High Court ruling cancelling his bail. “We must not forget that we are dealing with the personal liberty of an accused under a statute which imposes drastic punishments. The right to default bail, as has been correctly held by the judgments of this court, is not mere statutory rights under the first proviso to Section 167(2) of the Code, but is part of the procedure established by law under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, which is, therefore, a fundamental right granted to an accused person to be released on bail once the conditions of the first proviso to Section 167(2) are fulfilled,” the Supreme Court said. “This being the case, we set aside the judgment of the high court. The appellant will now be entitled to be released on ‘default bail’ under Section 167(2) of the Code, as amended by Section 43-D of the UAPA. Singh had been arrested in 2018 but the NIA failed to file the chargesheet within 90 days. The accused subsequently filed an application for grant of default bail on February 25, 2019, which was allowed by a special court. The high court had, however, set aside the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Modi starts with Paswan tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his speech on Friday at his first campaign rally in Bihar with a tribute to “close friend” Ram Vilas Paswan, whose son and political heir Chirag has been relentless in his attacks on chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Bihar has recently lost two of its worthy sons who served the people of the state for decades. I pay my tribute to Ram Vilas Paswan, my close friend who dedicated his life to the poor and the Dalits and stayed with me till the end, till his last breath,” the Prime Minister said at Sasaram in Rohtas district, as Nitish stood by his side on the dais. Modi also hailed former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had a few days before his death severed his decades-long association with Lalu Prasad’s RJD. The tribute to Paswan at the start of his speech at a rally that was expected to be a show of unity between the BJP and the Janata Dal United further fuelled speculation that Chirag’s attacks on Nitish — the chief ministerial candidate of the National Democratic Alliance — have the backing of the BJP’s top leadership. Chirag has fielded candidates of his Lok Janshakti Party in 136 Assembly seats, including almost all the seats from which the JDU is contesting. Several BJP leaders, including some sitting and former MLAs whose constituencies went to the JDU in the seat-sharing agreement, are contesting on LJP tickets. Even as he has attacked Nitish, Chirag has continued to praise the BJP, to the extent of describing himself as Narendra Modi’s “Hanuman”. Speculation has been persistent that the BJP has propped up Chirag to undermine the JDU and reduce its seat tally, and clarifications by senior BJP leaders that the LJP was not an ally in the state have failed to put the lid on it. The JDU and the BJP agreed to contest 122 and 121 Assembly seats, respectively. However, the JDU has given seven seats from its share to former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular, and the BJP has parted with 11 seats in favour of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP). “Modi’s praise for and tribute to Ram Vilas at this juncture when the elections are just five days away have destroyed all the hard work done by us and other BJP leaders to drill into the psyche of voters that Chirag and his LJP are not part of the NDA, and that voting for them would be akin to voting against the alliance. This situation could have been avoided,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. Modi subtly chipped away at Nitish during his speech. He praised the work done in Bihar to counter the coronavirus pandemic by “the NDA government under Nitishji’s leadership”. The Prime Minister spoke about the development of Bihar over the past 15 years but again did not give individual credit to Nitish. The chief minister, however, while recounting the progress made during his term and in the fight against Covid-19, kept praising the assistance provided by the Centre. Modi alleged that the 10-year UPA rule at the Centre had put obstacles in the development of Bihar. “Though we came to power at the Centre in 2014, in reality our ‘double engine’ government has got just around three to four years to work with Nitishji for the development of Bihar,” Modi said, drawing a distinction with the two years from 2015 when Nitish was part of the Grand Alliance. Modi closed his speech by saying that “the NDA government under Nitish Kumar in Bihar is necessary to strengthen the resolve for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-600
24-10-2020||West Bengal||Covid: More beds after high toll||The Bengal government has decided to introduce 245 high dependency unit (HDU) beds for critical Covid-19 patients across North 24-Parganas after the district recorded alarmingly high deaths from the pathogen in the past few days. “A total of 2,174 Covid beds, including 535 ICU beds, will soon be introduced across the state. Of them, 245 HDU beds are for North 24-Parganas as the number of deaths in the district in the past few days are alarmingly high,” said a senior state government official. According to the figures available with the state health department, North 24-Parganas recorded 19 deaths from Covid on Wednesday, 18 on Thursday and 16 on Friday. Only Calcutta logged a similar number of deaths in the past three days. The toll from the novel coronavirus in the city was 19, 16 and 24 on Wednesday, Thursday an Friday, respectively. “Higher deaths in Calcutta is nothing unusual as critical patients are referred to the city from all over the state. If a district records similar number deaths like Calcutta, it demands highest attention from the state government,” said a senior bureaucrat. According to the plan, the administration would soon set up 50 HDU beds at CNCI, Rajarhat, and 25 HDU beds at the Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital, both in North 24-Parganas. Besides, 30 beds at the Ashokenagar State General Hospital, 40 beds at the Naihati State General Hospital and 40 beds at the Sree Balaram Seva Pratisthan in Khardah would be upgraded to HDU beds. Besides, 80 beds at the Baranagar State General Hospital have been earmarked for Covid patients and 60 of them are HDU beds. Sources said the HDU beds offered more intensive observation, treatment and nursing care than the beds in general ward but slightly less than those in intensive care units (ICUs). “As critical Covid patients require oxygen support more than anything else, the additional HDU beds are likely to help the authorities bring down the number of deaths in North 24-Parganas,” said a senior government official. The sources said the Covid graph of North 24-Parganas had prompted the state health department to upgrade the infrastructure in the district as it was putting additional pressure on the hospitals in Calcutta. “The number of coronavirus patients were increasing alarmingly in both Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. If critical cases of North 24-Parganas can be treated within the district, it would ease the pressure on Calcutta hospitals,” said a bureaucrat. The bureaucrat said considering the manner in which Covid cases were shooting up in Calcutta, patients in the city might require more critical support in coming days. “The only way we can deal with the situation is by decongesting the beds at Calcutta hospitals. This could be done if we can minimise the cases being referred from districts,” added the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip disbands district youth panels||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh dismissed all district committees of the party’s youth wing on Friday, a move that yet again brought the organisation’s inner conflict out in the open. Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the Yuva Morcha, had formed the committees and appointed their presidents over the last couple of months. “The committees were declared without following the due process. District leaders are unhappy. We had to dissolve all the committees,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “In our party, the state committee of the youth wing is supposed to discuss and approve the names suggested by the district leaders before announcing the names of the Yuva Morcha district committee members and their respective presidents. However, in this case, the suggestions from the districts were overlooked,” Ghosh said explaining the reason for the dissolution of all the district committees. This is not the first time that Ghosh has shot down a list prepared by Khan, a Trinamul turncoat, who won the Lok Sabha election from Bishnupur. In August, Ghosh had discarded a list of district presidents within minutes of Khan circulating it in various social media groups. A notice, signed by Ghosh, announcing the disbanding of the district committees and dismissing their presidents stated that the respective district presidents of the BJP would look after the affairs of the Yuva Morcha. The row over the district committees of the youth wing, sources said, exposed the power struggle in the state BJP, where the differences between the Ghosh camp and the rest are growing. Leaders close to Ghosh and Khan spun different narratives about the incident. Sources close to Ghosh said the committees were disbanded because of several allegations of misconduct against Khan. Multiple sources in the party said the decision of dissolving the committees was taken by senior leaders in Delhi and Ghosh executed their wish. “In the past few days, some eight to 10 members have left the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha. There are some serious allegations against Saumitrada about which Delhi isn’t happy and that’s why the committees formed by him were disbanded,” a source in the Yuva Morcha said. This person refused to reveal what these allegations were citing party protocols. The Telegraph couldn’t contact Khan on his phone. However, in a television interview, Khan said he had seen the notice from Ghosh and would speak to him about it. Sources close to Khan said he was livid with Ghosh’s decision and had already brought the matter to the notice of senior BJP leaders in Delhi. “Dilip-da wants to run the youth wing, the women’s wing and also the parent party... This cannot go on,” said a source. Another Trinamul turncoat Shankudeb Panda, who was named a vice-president of the youth wing on Thursday by Khan himself, blamed Khan for the fiasco. “He (Khan) has not handled a responsibility as serious as the chief of a party’s youth wing previously and to announce district committees without the consent of the seniors was irresponsible. Senior leaders should strictly look into this issue. Otherwise, this would have an adverse effect on the party,” Panda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||Speeding car kills elephant||A wild elephant crossing NH31C was killed when a car rammed into the animal on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night. “The car was damaged and the driver suffered injuries. But he did not stop on the spot. We informed police about the incident and they traced the car to a garage at Malbazar. Our department will take legal action against the driver and the vehicle’s owner,” said a senior Bengal forest department official. Panjhora, where the elephant was killed, is around 10km from Malbazar. “There are clear markings and signals on the particular stretch of NH31C that the road falls in an elephant crossing zone and vehicles should move at a lower speed. Even then, such an unfortunate incident took place,” the forester said. According  to the residents of Panjhora, the car was at a high speed when the accident occurred. Veterinarians conducted a post-mortem on the carcass of the sub-adult elephant in the Panjhora beat of the Chapramari forest on Friday. They suspect the elephant died because of serious injuries and haemorrhage in the head. The forest department conducted a raid on the Naya Sylee tea estate in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday night and seized two leopard skins. A team of foresters led by Ayan Chakraborty, the range officer of Gorumara south range, conducted the raid and arrested Sanicharoa Mahali, a resident of the garden. “He will be produced in a court in Jalpaiguri and we will seek his custody. He needs to be interrogated to collect more details,” Chakraborty said. According to him, the forest department had a tip-off that some people, who were associated with a racket that deals in animal parts, would hand over the leopard skins to prospective buyers in the tea garden. The raid was conducted accordingly and the skins were found packed in bags. Apart from Mahali, some others were also on the spot but they managed to escape. “One skin is of an adult leopard. The other appears to be the skin of a sub-adult leopard,” said a forester. “We need to know whether the skins were smuggled in and if so, from where, or whether the animals were killed in the forests of our region.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||West Bengal||After 40 years, no Chandi Path||Durga Puja at the Mukherjee family in Birbhum’s Mirati will witness a break in a tradition of at least 40 years this time. There will be no Chandi Path on Ashtami as former president Pranab Mukherjee who used to recite it passed away in New Delhi on August 31. Pranab, the eldest member of the Mukherjee family, is believed to have set the four-decade-old tradition of reciting hymns from the book of Chandi on Ashtami and every year, a large audience would turn up to hear the veteran politician’s recitation of the shlokas glorifying goddess Chandi. Sri Sri Chandi, a mythological text containing 700 verses on goddess Chandi, is part of the Markandeya Mahapurana. The verses narrate the tales of goddess Chandi fighting and destroying the evil forces of Madhu, Kaithabha, Mahishasura and Shumbha and Nishumbha. Pranab used to visit his ancestral home in Mirati, around 220km from Calcutta, during Bengal’s biggest festival and would spend all four days of Durga Puja by taking part in the rituals. Even in his heyday as a Congress leader and Union minister, Pranab would reach Mirati by the afternoon of Mahasasthi and supervise the beginning of Puja every year. “Even after he became the President, he never missed Durga Puja for a single year. He would monitor the puja rituals on all four days. The puja had become special for us because of his presence,” said a family member. A family member of the Mukherjees said the former President’s absence was being felt at the puja this year. “We cannot imagine Chandi Path without him. So, we decided not to have Chandi Path this year,” said a family member. “The priest used to do all the formalities but on Ashtami, my father spent hours reciting the hymns. As my father used to recite hymns from the book of Chandi, in his absence, we have decided to exclude the Ashtami ritual. I or any other member of my family will not take part in any puja rituals because of my father’s death,” said Abhijit Mukherjee, the former Jangipur MP and son of the former President. “Next year, I will try to bring an expert who can recite the hymns of Chandi. The ritual has been put on hold at least for this year,” he added. Pranab’s presence at the puja used to attract hundreds of visitors, who would throng the remote village to catch a glimpse of the man. “Since my days as a student leader, Durga Puja meant the one held at the Mukherjee household in Mirati. Those of us visiting the Mukherjee household for years during Durga Puja will miss him at the puja mandap and his recitation of Sanskrit mantras,” said Milton Rashid, district Congress president and MLA from Birbhum’s Hasan. Villagers recalled how Mukherjee would become “one of their own” during the Puja days. “Everyone had the privilege to meet him personally during Durga Puja and the protocol associated with the high office he held never came in the way,” said a Mirati villager. “Pranab babu used to sit in the courtyard of his house and interact with people who would come to meet him. He could recall the names of many villagers as he knew them personally. We will miss him this year,” said Jayanta Chakraborty, a resident of Kirnahar and a regular during the Puja in Mirati. Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, who teaches English at Mukherjee’s alma mater Kirnahar Sibachandra High School, said: “Since my childhood, I had been hearing his Chandipath. There will be a break in the tradition for us too.” The Taki municipality on Friday withdrew the ban on traditional boat rides on the Ichhamati river for immersion of idols on Dashami this year. The blanket ban had been announced in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. While announcing the withdrawal of the ban, Taki municipal chairman Somnath Mukherjee said only 10 persons would be allowed to ride a boat with the deity. “For a personal ride on the river, only five people are allowed for a small boat and 10 for a big one,” said the chairman. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
24-10-2020||North East||Equipment flown in to kill Baghjan gas well ||Oil India Limited flew in equipment weighing about 60 tonnes from Canada on Wednesday night to kill the Baghjan gas well that suffered a blowout on May 27. On September 13, experts from Alert had successfully managed to douse the well fire by diverting the flow of natural gas to nearby flare pits, a prelude to killing it sometime next week. A senior Oil India official said it will take another 14 days for the equipment from Piston Well Services to reach Baghjan because the trailers can travel only at night, and another seven to 10 days for the stubbing operations to be completed. Four experts from Piston had arrived on October 14, of whom two have gone to Calcutta to bring the equipment to Baghjan in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, around 530km from Guwahati. Piston has a tie-up with another Canadian firm Alert, whose experts are working to kill the well after efforts to cap it failed. The Oil India official said that stubbing is a process by which pipes are inserted into the bottom of the well through which chemical mud will be injected to kill it. “Once killed, the well will be abandoned. Killing is a process to control a well which is blowing out,” he said. But, there is no guarantee all stubbing operations will be successful, he said. After three unsuccessful attempts, the experts resorted to diverting the gas flow to the flare pits. The blowout and the subsequent well head fire on June 9 has affected around 8,000 residents and the local ecology. Locals have been staging protests in Baghjan, Tinsukia and more recently in Guwahati seeking early release of compensation and killing/capping of the well so that they can slowly return to normalcy. On September 29, Oil India chairman and managing director Sushil Chandra Mishra had spoken about the stubbing operations and that the company will be able “resolve” the Baghjan issue by November. “We hope they are able to stub the well because we are the ones suffering,” a Baghjan resident said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
24-10-2020||Opinion||The goddess returns||India, to the wide-eyed visitor, could, for very good reasons, look like the land of ceaseless festivals. One such festival — the argumentative Bengali believes it to be the fairest of them all — has now graced this part of India. What makes Durga Puja truly unique is its ability to make a diverse set of forces — the religious and the secular, spiritualism and materialism, the community and the individual — coexist peacefully in a fascinating potpourri for a while. Where else but in autumnal Bengal can one see people engage in conspicuous consumption — even a virulent virus did not quite deter the Puja shopper — as well as unprecedented acts of humanitarianism? Several philanthropic entities lend a helping hand to the needy this time every year and the Year of the Pandemic has not been an exception. Where else but in Bengal would one see the committed, year-long atheist bow his/her head in reverence in front of a magnificent idol of the goddess in a poignant moment that fuses faith and temporality? The devi does make Bengal work in mysterious ways. Even Karl Marx, that original revolutionary, would have been mystified by this melting pot of contradictions. His followers had attempted to teach Bengal for over three decades that religion is the opium of the masses. Yet, Durga Puja continues to be an occasion that heightens public awareness of prevailing human conditions. Art and craft are central to this periodic emancipation. This year, some of the dominant social themes — these are the central motifs in the architecture of pandals — include the suffering of the constituency of migrant workers who lost their livelihood and, on some occasions, their lives on account of an uncaring government and its hastily imposed lockdown; elsewhere, Durga is seen exterminating the coronasur. Had it not been for Durga, the average Bengali could have remained afflicted with the frog-in-the-well syndrome eternally, thereby remaining oblivious to the suffering of others. The artisans, the men and women who breathe life into these novel ideas with the help of clay, cloth, bamboo and even lights, have suffered immensely this year with their businesses adversely affected by low-key celebrations. But saviours — human and divine — have come calling. There have been reports of several crowd-funding initiatives to raise money for them. Unfortunately, the change of heart that is brought about by the turn of season remains as ephemeral as the autumn light. Darkness returns with the devi’s departure as people return to their insular, toxic shells. There is legitimate concern that the political virus — Bengal goes to the polls next year — could snuff out the dimming flame of fraternity and communal harmony. The challenge, therefore, would be to retain the spirit of amity across all seasons. If Bengal can show India the way of achieving this rare feat, it would be the best way of honouring the goddess.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
24-10-2020||Opinion||Justice at last: Medussa at NY County court||A statue was unveiled in New York close to the New York County Criminal Court — a statue of the Greek goddess, Medusa, symbolizing the MeToo movement. This is the same court where Harvey Weinstein was convicted of two felony sex crimes. The seven-feet-tall bronze statue titled Medusa With the Head of Perseus is the work of the artist, Luciano Garbati. The latter wrote on Instagram, “The place chosen is not accidental, since there they judge cases for crimes related to violence against women. We are already in the final stage working on the last details of this sculpture that became a symbol of justice for many women.” It was inspired by the 16th-century sculpture, Perseus with the Head of Medusa, by the Italian Renaissance artist, Benvenuto Cellini, which is on display in the Piazza della Signoria in Florence, Italy. The new statue, however, reverses the traditional mythology and stands as a symbol of triumph for survivors of sexual assault. The statue depicts Medusa standing tall with a low, intense gaze, with a sword in one hand and the head of Perseus gripped in the other. According to the myth, the powerful god, Poseidon, raped Medusa, but instead of Poseidon being punished, Medusa was blamed and turned into a monstrous beast with snakes for hair, as well as a gaze that could turn men into stone. She was exiled and later hunted down by Perseus, and her head was displayed as a trophy. Garbati’s new venture was organized by the artist-led MWTH Project, in partnership with NYC Parks, and will be on view through April 30, 2021. Spooky affair Halloween is around the corner on October 31, and many Americans love immersing themselves in all things spooky, including skulls and haunted houses. The coronavirus, which is still raging through the United States of America, poses a challenge to people and businesses on how to get through the day safely. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, traditional trick-or-treating and indoor costume parties, indoor haunted houses —where people are likely to scream —are listed as “higher risk.” This year, the pandemic-approved concept is the Halloween drive-through where you go in your vehicle through a land of tombstones and pumpkins for about half an hour. The ‘Nights of the Jack’ in California is offering a drive-through on the ranch promising thousands of hand-carved, illuminated pumpkins. If you are into more immersive haunted experiences, the Highway of Horror in Chicago transformed a parking lot into a 90-minute-long terrifying experience starting October 15. First you watch a drive-in scary movie. Then you will be confined to your car for an hour-and-a-half, during which you will be spooked by zombies, demons and other ghoulish creatures prowling the premises, ready to jump, shake your car and spray fake blood against the windows. In the Bay Area, the Fields family have operated their haunted house, called the Pirates of Emerson, for 29 years. Their home was used to create the haunted house, a major attraction drawing in thousands of visitors. Now, they have converted their 10 acres into a drive-through haunted house.Plastic surgery New York has finally banned plastic bags for businesses. The ban was approved back in March but got held up due to Covid-19 as well as a lawsuit by plastic bag manufacturers. The lawsuit was struck down last month and businesses were given 30 days to prepare for this change, which went into effect on October 19. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation said that New Yorkers use 23 billion plastic bags a year, 85 per cent of which ends up as landfill. Customers at stores will be charged five cents for paper bags and a dollar for reusable bags, but will have the option of bringing their own bags. Groups bringing forth the lawsuit said the ban would make them go bankrupt. The director of the American Recyclable Plastic Bag Alliance, Zachary Taylor, told The Associated Press that the ban was “unworkable” and it would be harder for smaller stores to acquire paper bags during the pandemic. The only exceptions are bags used for uncooked meat and fish, fruits and vegetables, prescription drugs and dry cleaning. Families who use food stamps will also not have to pay for paper bags. Last month, the New Jersey state legislature voted to ban both plastic and paper single-use bags, as well as polystyrene foam food containers, plates, cups, and utensils, rendering it the strictest plastic ban in the US. The ban would begin 18 months after the bill goes into effect, and the governor, Philip Murphy, is expected to sign the bill. Businesses that violate the bill will get a warning on the first offence, a fine of up to $1,000 for a second, and a fine of up to $5,000 for a third or subsequent offence.Shop smart This year, in spite of the pandemic, holiday shopping has started earlier than usual. People are resorting to online and nearby brick-and-mortar retail stores owing to Covid-19. According to a consumer survey, 61 per cent of shoppers plan to begin their holiday shopping before Thanksgiving, while 39 per cent are going to wait till after. Amazon has also announced it will release Black Friday deals early this year. Some large stores are using ‘pickup lockers’ for pre-ordered items so that a shopper can come and collect them without needing to communicate with an associate. Jewellery stores are even sanitizing their diamonds and rings. Given the economic uncertainty, and shortened family gatherings, this year shoppers are likely to buy fewer gifts as well. Shipping is also expected to take twice as long.Footnote Chicago, for the sixth year now, has been given an ignominious title: the US’s most rat-infested city. Orkin, an Atlanta-based pest control service, ranks US cities based on the number of new rodent treatments from September 1 to August 31 of the next year. The result is a list of 50 cities, with most moving up or down each time the list is updated. Rounding out the top 10 on Orkin’s list were Los Angeles, New York, Washington, DC, San Francisco, Detroit, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Denver and Minneapolis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
24-10-2020||Opinion||Damaging legacy||Four years ago, as the last American presidential elections were being held, I was asked to chair a talk in Bengaluru by Strobe Talbott. At that time the head of the well-known Washington think-tank, the Brookings Institution, Mr Talbott had previously served as deputy secretary of state in the administration of President Bill Clinton. In that capacity, he had played a crucial role in tilting America’s policy away from its traditional bias in favour of Pakistan towards a position more congenial to the interests of India. The talk of Strobe Talbott’s that I was scheduled to chair was to be held in the third week of November 2016. By then the presidential elections would be over. Hillary Clinton was the favourite to win. In the event she lost and, instead of coming to Bengaluru in a mood of jubilant anticipation, Mr Talbott arrived looking (and feeling) utterly crushed. In our conversation before the talk he spoke bitterly about the fact that a pathological liar had befooled the American electorate. I agreed with Mr Talbott that Donald Trump had told a lot of lies during his campaign. But, I said, he did utter, again and again, two words that were true. These were ‘Crooked Hillary’. Donald Trump had portrayed Hillary Clinton as the quintessential Washington insider, her past record replete with instances of networks used and abused, favours given and received. Four years later the situation is very different. It is now Trump who looks corrupt and compromised, as well as inefficient and incompetent. His gross mishandling of the pandemic has exposed his administrative weaknesses, while the evasiveness about his tax returns has cast doubt on his integrity as well. His abusive and misogynist ways have alienated a large number of women who voted for him in 2016. By just appearing to be a plain, decent man, one who will listen to the experts rather than foist his own nutty views on public policy, Joe Biden is (at the time of writing) the clear front runner in the race to be the next president of the United States of America. Democracies are meant to be governed in a collegial and collaborative manner. Donald Trump, however, is a vain demagogue, interested only in publicity and self-promotion. To be sure, there have been charismatic American presidents before, who presented themselves as larger than their office. They have included such figures as John F. Kennedy and Theodore Roosevelt in the 20th century, and Andrew Jackson in the 19th century. Yet none of them remotely approached Trump in their self-love. If Trump has not done more damage than he has, that is largely due to the resilience and inner strength of American institutions. The media, the universities, the defence establishment, the scientific community have by and large maintained their integrity. They have all pushed back, albeit with varying degrees of success, against his attempts to control and manipulate them to fulfil his own personal agenda. If Trump were to be defeated by Biden next month, then these institutions will all play a vital role in rebuilding America, in helping it heal the wounds within as well as in constructively reasserting its role in the world. Like the world’s richest democracy, the world’s oldest democracy, the United Kingdom, is also governed by a self-obsessed demagogue. Boris Johnson’s path to power was not dissimilar to Trump’s. Within his own party, he was seen as a dashing alternative to the dull, staid figure of Theresa May. The Conservatives won the general elections of 2019 in part because of the wit and intelligence of their leader and because his rival, Jeremy Corbyn of the Labour Party, was seen by many voters as a dogmatic (as well as humourless) socialist absolutely unfit to run the government. Compared to Donald Trump, Boris Johnson is perhaps more maverick than malign, an ambitious opportunist rather than a proto-racist with autocratic tendencies. It took the last year of Trump’s term for his weaknesses to be exposed; whereas the turning of the public mood away from Johnson has come rather sooner. His attitude towards the pandemic and the Brexit endgame has shown him to be more an incompetent bungler than a fascist-in-the-making. Meanwhile, Labour, having dumped Corbyn for a leader with greater intelligence and administrative ability, has also weakened the prime minister’s case. An increasing number of British voters now see Keir Starmer in more favourable terms than they ever saw Jeremy Corbyn. Within his own Conservative Party, there are those who say that the chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak, is more fit for the office of prime minister than Johnson himself. The next general election in Britain is three-and-a-half years away. Johnson being defenestrated by his party even before then remains a distinct possibility. But, as with Trump, whenever he goes, the damage he has done will be undone by the institutions he has degraded but not destroyed — such as the Parliament, the courts and, not least, the media. Indeed, for all his faults and fraudulent behaviour, history may judge that it was David Cameron who, by calling for a referendum on Brexit when one was not needed, hurt the UK far more than Johnson. Since 2016, the world’s richest democracy has been sought to be run into the ground by a demagogue. Meanwhile, the world’s oldest democracy is also currently misgoverned by a demagogue. So we come, finally and inevitably, to the world’s largest and most populous democracy, our own. Narendra Modi came to power two-and-a-half years before Trump; and a full five years before Johnson. He, too, is a demagogue, a politician who thinks he is bigger than his party and his government, and who will not shrink from using deceit and falsehood in order to consolidate his power. There are some ways in which Modi is similar to Trump and Johnson, but there may be more ways in which he is different. For one thing, he has been a full-time politician for far longer than they, with much greater experience of how to manipulate public institutions to serve his own purposes. Second, he is far more committed to his ideology than Trump and Johnson are to theirs. He lives and embodies Hindu majoritarianism in a much fuller (and hence more dangerous) manner than Trump lives white supremacy or Johnson embodies xenophobic Little Englandism. Third, in the enactment and fulfilment of his ideological dream, Modi has as his instrument the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, whose organizational strength and capacity for resource mobilization far exceeds any right-wing organization in the US or the United Kingdom. There is a final reason why Modi is more dangerous to the interests of his country than Trump and Johnson are to theirs. This is that the institutions of Indian democracy are so much weaker. Trump cannot command the Federal Bureau of Investigation to do his bidding, whereas Modi can direct our tax authorities and investigative agencies to do his. Sections of our judiciary seem to have lost their nerve; large sections of our media have certainly lost their spine. They are unwilling, or unable, to keep the prime minister in check, to hold him accountable for his errors and his excesses. In his desire to extend his lease on power, Narendra Modi is also much luckier than either Donald Trump or Boris Johnson. His luck lies in the unchanging nature of his Opposition. Trump will certainly find it far more difficult to defeat Joe Biden than he did Hillary Clinton. Keir Starmer is a more credible challenger to Johnson than Jeremy Corbyn ever was. On the other hand, despite suffering two humiliating defeats in the general elections of 2014 and 2019, despite the burden of nepotism and inexperience that he carries, and despite even his failure to retain the family pocket borough of Amethi, Rahul Gandhi is still being presented by the Congress as the prime ministerial alternative to Narendra Modi in 2024. All demagogues are bad for democracy, but some demagogues are worse than others. If Donald Trump loses next month, America may recover relatively soon from his depredations. Great Britain was shrinking into itself even before Boris Johnson became prime minister; his impact on the history of his country will turn out to be relatively negligible. However, the destruction that Narendra Modi can wreak, indeed has already wreaked, on Indian democracy is immense. It will take decades to repair. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh journalist injured in attack||Six men late on Friday attacked a 33-year-old journalist, Vivek Singh, in Hazaribagh’s Kadma locality using a sharp-edged weapon, injuring him in his neck, ear, waist and other parts of the body. The assailants fled on their motorcycles soon after the attack. Singh, who was bleeding profusely, was taken to HZB Arogyam, a private hospital, where he was operated upon for five hours. From the ICU, Singh, who works for Hindi daily Freedom Fighter, said he was attacked when he tried to mediate in a fight between two groups near his home in Kadma, which is in the Katkamdag police station area. Police said they had begun their investigation and the attackers would be arrested soon. Singh’s family has appealed for leads in the case. Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal said the attack was unfortunate. MP Jayant Sinha  criticised the state government for the deteriorating law and order. Sinha said criminals didn't have any fear under the Hemant Soren government. Koderma deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap has ordered a ban on the sale of liquor from 4 in the evening of October 26 to 4pm of October 28. The deputy commissioner said the measure was taken in view of polling in neighbouring Nawada and Gaya of Bihar on October 28. The move follows instructions from the chief electoral officer of Bihar. A similar ban will be clamped in the district during counting in Bihar on November 10. A cattle smuggler was arrested from Ramgarh’s Kaitha on Saturday afternoon. Yusuf Khan, or Bablu Khan, is a resident of Barkathha in Hazaribagh. His brother, Tinku Khan, or Arif Khan, is similarly accused of cattle smuggling and is absconding. “Cattle smuggling cases have been registered against the brothers at police stations in Koderma, Hazaribagh, Barhi, Chaupran and Dhanbad,” a police officer said. On October 15, the police had seized 40 cattles in a truck in Rajrappa police station area. The brothers were accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau police officers visit martyrs’ kin||The families of three cops who died fighting Maoist rebels years ago on Saturday played host to a team of Palamau policemen who wanted to show that the martyrs had not been forgotten. The team led by subdivisional police officer Sandip Kumar Gupta also comprised circle inspector Sunit Kumar and officer in charge Vishnu Singh. They visited the families and enquired if they needed any help from the police. The three were martyred in 2001, 2010 and 2011. Martyr Ram Surat Singh’s father Kuldip Singh, a resident of Sikki, told Gupta that the name of his wife has not been included in the family ration card. Gupta asked the other officers to take up the issue with the district supply office immediately. Ram Surat was slain by the rebels in 2001. Martyr Upender Singh’s family, residents of Pahley Kalan, welcomed the police team with apples and tea and appreciated being remembered years after his death in 2010. Upender was killed in Chak in a bid to save the life of then Palamau superintendent of police Anoop T. Mathew. The family got his young widow to marry another male member, the police team was told. At Jamooney, Gupta and his team met Kishori Prajapati’s father Ram Raj Mahto who broke down. He told the cops how Kishori’s wife had abandoned the family after receiving the Rs 45 lakh compensation the government had given them. Gupta said: “I have asked the Sadar police station to take all details to see how Mahto’s daughter-in-law can be asked to start taking care of the family.” Kishori was among the 11 cops who were killed in a landmine explosion in 2011. The contingent was escorting the then Chatra MP, Inder Singh Namdhari. The Telegraph Online spoke to zonal inspector-general of police, Ranchi, Navin Kumar Singh, who is currently fighting a Covid-19 infection, regarding the visits by the police team. “Martyrs who died fighting rebels are seen as role models. Remembering their sacrifice can strengthen the feeling that the martyrs and their kin continue to be parts of a ‘police parivar (family)’,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city hotels, takeaways in a soup over selling ‘bhog’||A few hotels and takeaway services of Jamshedpur are in a spot for publicising and selling a traditional platter of Puja delights in the name of “bhog” with both the district administration and religious organisations taking umbrage. Jamshedpur ADM (law & order) Nand Kishore Lal served showcause notices to two Bistupur hotels, The Sonnet and Hotel Nataraj, along with two eateries Radhey Tiffin and Mom's Kitchen, for “distributing bhog” _ cooked meal offered to deities and then distributed among devotees _ in violation of the state government’s Covid safety guidelines. Hindu Pith Jamshedpur, a religious organisation, has also filed a police complaint against the hotels for “misleading” people at a time when state government regulations have barred all Puja committees from distributing bhog on account of the pandemic. "We have received complaints that these hotels were selling bhog which isn't allowed under point 16 of the latest state government order. If Puja committees were not allowed, on what authority are these hotels selling bhog," said Lal. The four hotels and takeaway services have been promoting their menu of khichdi, sundry fries and a sweet dish _ the traditional lunch-time prasad, or bhog, during Durga Puja _ on social media for the last couple of days. Per plate prices range between Rs 130 and Rs 350. Though members of the Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity tried to convince the state government to allow Puja committees to distribute bhog since restaurants and food outlets were already functioning, the state government did not relent, fearing crowds at pandals that organised community feasts of bhog. Arun Singh, president of Hindu Pith Jamshedpur who filed a complaint at Bistupur police station on Saturday, said the hotels were selling a platter comprising khichdi and other delicacies that are usually part of the bhog menu. But since it wasn’t prasad, they could not label it bhog, he argued. "Puja committees organise Puja and then distribute bhog, which is prasad. This time, they were not allowed to prepare and distribute bhog to the public. Then, how can hotels distribute bhog? It is not even bhog because it is not food that was offered as a part of the ritual. Also, it is being sold... people are being misled,” he said. Hotel Natraj had come around and apologised to the district administration by the time this report was filed. "This was a mistake. We have sent an apology letter to the district administration. It was a simple platter of khichdi and not bhog," said Anirudhha Basu, the hotel’s operations manager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||No Ravan Dahan in steel city this time||Giant effigies of demon king Ravan that are set ablaze in this traditional depiction of the victory of good over evil during Dussehra will be missing this year in the steel city. All cultural outfits which used to organise Ravan Dahan on Dussehra _ this year, it’s on Monday, October 26 _ have decided to give it a miss this year to avoid crowding amid the ongoing ovid-19 pandemic. Ramleela Utsav Samity of Sakchi would have organised the event for the 98th year this time. "In 2022, we would be celebrating the centenary of the grand Ravan Dahan event. This is for the first time in 98 years that we have decided to skip the event because of the pandemic," said Munna Babu Gupta, the general secretary of the samity. Last year, the samity had made 16-feet-high effigy Ravan which drew huge crowds at the Ramleela Ground in Sakchi. Similarly, Veer Kunwar Singh Ravan Dahan Samity at Chotta Govindpur, near Telco, has also cancelled the event. "The event witnesses a huge turnout on Dussehra. If we organise it, we won't be able to control the crowd. Hence, we decided to do away with the event this year," said a member of the group. Last year, the Veer Kunwar samity, which has been organising Ravan Dhan since 2007, had made a 40-feet-high and 10-feet-wide Ravan. Members claimed that last year, they spent over Rs 2 lakh on creating the effigy and the crackers that were bought from Odisha. New Star Club Ravan Dahan Samity in Golmuri has also decided not to observe Ravan Dahan. Last year, Ravan Dahan Samity in Bagunhatu had burnt a 32-feet effigy at the local ground in Sidhgora with elaborate fireworks. The event witnessed a huge gathering. But this year, the group has decided to skip the event. "We do not want to risk people's life. Safety is first and foremost. By skipping the event we will help check the transmission of the coronavirus," said S. Kumar, a member of the Ravan Dahan Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pandemic: A silver lining for IT professionals||Durga Puja may be a low-key affair this year because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, but there is still a silver lining. Thousands of professionals, who mostly work in the IT industry in cities like Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai and Gurgaon, are spending the puja with their families here. “In the past four years, I missed pandal-hopping with friends as I would do when I was at school. Memories of Durga Puja celebrated here would make me emotional. Even while in engineering college, I would enjoy when I returned home for the pujas. However, ever since I moved to Bangalore, I missed celebrating with my family,” said K. Sagar, an IT professional. “Fortunately, this year, I am with my family,” Sagar added. The 28-year-old resident of Bistupur said the pandemic not only gave him and others like him the chance to celebrate Durga Puja with their families, but also will allow him to take part in Diwali festivities at home. Vinita Singh, another IT professional based in Pune, echoed Sagar. “In the past three years, I celebrated Durga Puja by visiting restaurants and moving around with colleagues in Pune. I would miss the festivities back home a lot. But this time, I was blessed to celebrate Durga Puja with my parents at home,” Singh said. A resident of Kagal Nagar in Sonari, Singh said that though revellers are missing the pleasures of pandal-hopping and bhog, she is having a good time with her family members. As per an estimate, over 5,000 youngsters who were working in big cities are back home after a lockdown was imposed on March 24 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Significantly, all those IT professionals returned to the steel city and are working from home. The situation, the professionals say, may not change soon. “I will have to continue to work from home till a Covid-19 vaccine hits the market,” said Amit Ghosh, a 28-year-old resident of Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Pushpanjali and Kumari Puja in Covid times||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
24-10-2020||Jharkhand||Human chain for Swamy||Tribal rights activists and civil society groups continued their protest against the arrest of octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy on Friday evening by forming a human chain in the heart of Jharkhand capital Ranchi, while Jesuits held special prayers across the country for his release. The NIA special court had on Thursday rejected Fr Swamy’s interim bail petition. Nearly 50 activists and members of civil society groups held placards and formed a 200-metres human chain under the aegis of Adivasi Adhikar Manch near Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi on Friday for nearly two hours from 3pm. “We would continue our protest in a peaceful manner till Fr Stan Swamy is released. Those who have worked for tribals know that Stan Swamy has been arrested on fabricated charges by the central government. We came to know yesterday night that the bail petition filed by his legal counsel in the NIA special court in Mumbai was rejected. This was one of our ways to express not only our solidarity with Fr Swamy who has been defending tribal rights for over four decades but also defy the central government tactics of intimidating voices of dissent through the UAPA. We also demand release of all the 16 people falsely arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case,” said tribal rights advocate and Manch member Aloka Kujur. Manch general secretary Prafulla Linda expressed shock that an ailing elderly resident has not only been arrested on fabricated charges but even his bail petition has been rejected. “He has denied being present at Bhima Koregaon but still the 83-year-old Jesuit who is suffering from age-related health issues and has always stood for tribals and Dalits is being targeted and arrested during the Covid-19 pandemic and kept in jail. Even his bail petition has been rejected. We will continue our agitation come what may,” said Linda. Jesuits across the country held special prayers on Friday for the release of Fr Swamy. “Prayer is our most potent weapon and the Jesuits are doing community prayers across the country for the release of Fr Stan Swamy. We are praying for all the efforts being undertaken for his release. We also seek power of the Holy Spirit that we may continue to be defenders of human rights and restore humanity. Even sisters of Missionaries of Charity are praying daily and the Archbishop House in Ranchi joined the prayer today,” said auxiliary Bishop of Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas. The NIA special court on Thursday rejected the interim bail petition filed by Fr Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh on medical grounds citing his old age and health problems. According to the petition, Fr Swamy suffers from Parkinson’s disease and could not even sign documents when he was produced before the court by the NIA and the legal team had to take his thumb impression. The petition said Fr Swamy had undergone surgery and hospitalisation right before his arrest and had fallen down in jail (Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai) and sought bail as per the recommendation of the Maharashtra government’s high-powered committee appointed on orders of the Supreme Court to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the NIA opposed the bail plea, stating that Fr Swamy was trying to take undue benefit of the pandemic to get out of jail. Significantly, senior leaders of all Opposition parties, including Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor, DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, CPI leader Sitaram Yechury, CPM’s D. Raja, NCP MP Supriya Sule along with Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan have condemned the arrest of Fr Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-257
