25-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee's condition deteriorates to 'very critical'||The health condition of legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee deteriorated to "very critical" on Sunday, doctors treating him at a private hospital here said.  The 85-year-old actor is not responding to treatment and his platelet count has dropped further in the last 24 hours, a doctor at the facility said.  "There is a deterioration in his neurological condition and he has very little consciousness. He is not responding to treatment. His condition is very critical," a senior doctor at the hospital told PTI.  Asked whether the thespian has gone into a coma, the doctor said the medical practitioners are "evaluating the patients current condition".  It was learnt that the level of urea and sodium in his blood has further gone up.  The octogenarians Covid-19 encephalopathy has also deteriorated, he said.  Encephalopathy is a general term to describe a disease that affects the function or structure of the brain.  The actors age and comorbidities are a matter of concern for the doctors.  "His organs like lungs and heart are working well and his blood pressure is normal but his consciousness is a cause of concern," he said.  The critically acclaimed actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19.  Chatterjee had tested negative for the infection last week after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ITU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
25-10-2020||Business||Tata Motors’ search for a co-rider||Tata Motors is scouting for a partner for its passenger vehicle business in order to be ready for growth in the next decade which would see huge investments going into new technologies and regulations, according to a top company official. The auto major is looking for collaboration even as the process to carve out passenger vehicle (PV) business as a separate standalone unit gathers steam. Earlier this year, the auto major’s board had approved to form a separate entity which would house the PV business, including the EV vertical, by transferring relevant assets, IPs and employees directly relatable to the vertical for it to be fully functional on a standalone basis. “The whole purpose of subsidiarisation is to actively look for a partner because this is a reality for all of us that a collaboration can unleash a bigger potential in the next decade which is going to see significant investments in new technologies and regulations,” said Shailesh Chandra, president of Tata Motors Passenger Vehicles Business Unit (PVBU). The collaboration would also help in reducing product lifecycles and enhance new product launch intensity, he added. “All this requires huge investments and agility is also the key. So, this is something which we are actively looking into,” Chandra said. He noted that while the subsidiarisation process is on, the company is alongside “actively looking for a partner” to create assets and capabilities with a win-win situation for both. When asked about the timelines for both the initiatives, Chandra noted: “There are no specific timelines... as far as the subsidiarisation process is concerned, converting the business into a separate legal entity, we would like to accelerate in a year and as far as partner is concerned it is an active work which we will continue to work on.” On the company’s performance in the PV segment, Chandra said despite the lockdown Tata Motors posted a double-digit growth during the first half of this fiscal. “This has resulted in a market share of 7.9 per cent in the passenger vehicle segment..the company’s product range has been appreciated for safety and pleasure of driving,” he said. Chandra said the PV segment was witnessing growth revival as sales grew 18 per cent in the July-September quarter this fiscal. “A big part of it is pent-up demand which has been a big factor for the growth. There was 20 per cent decline last year because people wanted to wait for BS-VI products leading to pent up demand in the last year itself. Further, two months of lockdown this year has led to huge pent-up demand,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Samsung’s Lee Kun-hee dies at 78||Lee Kun-hee, who built Samsung into a global giant of smartphones, televisions and computer chips but was twice convicted —  and, in a pattern that has become typical in South Korea, twice pardoned — for white-collar crimes committed along the way, died on Sunday in Seoul, the South Korean capital. He was 78. Samsung announced the death but did not specify the cause. Lee had been incapacitated since a heart attack in 2014. When Lee took the helm at Samsung Group in 1987, after the death of his father and the conglomerate’s founder, Lee Byung-chull, many in the West knew the group’s electronics unit only as a maker of cheap televisions and unreliable microwaves sold in discount stores. Lee Kun-hee pushed the company relentlessly up the technological ladder. By the early 1990s, Samsung had surpassed Japanese and American rivals to become a pacesetter in memory chips. It came to dominate flat-panel displays as screens lost their bulk. And it conquered the middle-to-high end of the mobile market as cellphones became powerhouse computing devices in the 2000s. Samsung Electronics today is a cornerstone of South Korea’s economy and one of the world’s top corporate spenders on research and development. Lee — who was chairman of Samsung Group from 1987 to 1998, chairman and chief executive of Samsung Electronics from 1998 to 2008, then Samsung Electronics chairman from 2010 until his death — was South Korea’s richest man. He and his family members used a web of ownership arrangements to exert influence over the other companies under the Samsung umbrella. Over the course of his tenure, even as professional managers came to have more responsibility at the group, Lee remained Samsung’s big thinker, the provider of grand strategic direction. But his reign also showcased the sometimes dubious ways in which South Korea’s family business empires, known as chaebol, safeguard their influence. South Korea’s corporate dynasties are such a major source of economic vitality that some South Koreans wonder whether the chaebol are holding their country hostage. In 1996, Lee was convicted of bribing the country’s president, then pardoned. More than a decade later, he was found guilty of tax evasion but given another reprieve, this time so he could resume lobbying to bring the Winter Olympics to the mountain town of Pyeongchang in 2018. Soon after the Pyeongchang Games, Lee Myung-bak, South Korea’s president from 2008 to 2013 and no relation, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for accepting $5.4 million in bribes from Samsung in exchange for pardoning Lee. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||JSW upbeat on sustaining growth momentum||JSW Steel posted robust numbers in the second quarter, driven by a gradual recovery in the domestic market and strong price for the metal. Sambit Saha of The Telegraph caught up with Seshagiri Rao, joint managing director and CFO of the company, who exuded confidence that steel would continue to do well for the rest of the fiscal, backed by unexpected pull from the automobile and appliances industry. An edited excerpt: JSW had a stellar show, recouping the loss of the first quarter. Can the momentum continue? If we look at the steel demand supply scenario in India and globally, I believe the momentum will continue. China produced 4.5 per cent, or 34 million tonnes (mt) higher than last year from January-September, driven by a $550-billion stimulus package, 50 per cent of which is going to construction and infrastructure. During this period, China’s export has fallen 20 per cent to 40mt from 50mt. During the same period, imports have gone up over 200 per cent, from 7.6mt to nearly 23mt. This means China is sucking steel from the global market while also increasing the production. In the rest of the world, there is a lower production of 78mt. But if total production is considered, it is down 44mt. This indicates that places where demand is slower, production is also lower. But in countries such as China and South Korea where demand is strong, production is going up too. — This is bringing harmony to the market and balance in steel prices. How does India look compared to the world? Here demand had fallen 50 per cent in the first quarter, while it is down 10 per cent in the second quarter. So, overall it is down 30 per cent in the first half. India on an average consumes 25mt every quarter. So far, 15mt is down in the first half but only 2mt in the second quarter compared with 13mt in the first quarter. So, making up the 15mt in these quarters may not be possible. But we will reach the last fiscal level from this quarter. What will be the drivers of growth? Nobody expected automotive to be the growth driver — be it two-wheelers or passenger cars — 33 per cent year-on-year and 392 per cent quarter-on-quarter jump. JSW has 80 per cent of the best quarter in terms of auto steel sales. For commercial vehicles, everyone is looking at the scrappage policy by the Centre. If that comes, demand will shoot up. I also think that the rural economy will drive the recovery and steel consumption — good monsoon plus government intervention. Strong demand came from roofing and colour coated sheets, which had the highest EBIDTA ever for us. Auto contracts will be reset with effect from October. Auto and appliances are 20 per cent of the sales. We will have better realisation from the auto contract going forward. Would JSW be able to meet production and sales guidance? Do not think of any problems on the sales side (target 15mt), but not sure about production. We lost 1.2mt of production in the first quarter which could not be recovered in the second quarter. Iron ore availability was a big issue. India had produced 110mt iron ore in the first half of the last fiscal compared with75mt this year. Odisha alone contributed 30mt of the shortfall. But the export of iron ore has gone up 10mt, to 20.3mt. Moreover, 3.7mt of pellets was also exported. So, the availability is down 48.5mt. In contrast, there was a 12mt shortfall in steel production, which translates to 17mt demand contraction for ore. So, there is a net supply shortfall of 30mt. JSW somehow managed to maintain because we started four mines in Odisha from July 1. It could have been a disaster otherwise. Out of the 19 mines which were auctioned and handed over in March in Odisha, only five could be operational, including four by JSW and one by ArcelorMittal. The companies who lost the mine had a chance till October 31 to clear the dump. So, they are very aggressive in moving material, paying any amount to the truckers, blocking the logistic chain. Even if we increase our production at the mines, we are unable to evacuate. If the time to move the dump is extended, the industry will be in a soup. We have to run at 100 per cent capacity to achieve a production target of 16mt. That may be difficult because of ore shortage. JSW faced delay in completing expansion at Dolvi because of Covid. Would it now be able to meet the year-end target? Absolutely. Dolvi work is in full swing. There are more than 15,000 people at the site. Our capex is about Rs 9,000 crore, including Rs 800 crore for Odisha. JSW reduced net debt by Rs 1,635 crore in the second quarter. Can we expect more deleverage going forward? We cleared 4.75 lakh tonnes of inventory, releasing Rs 1,300 crore into the system. We accounted Rs 400 crore in relation to our liabilities towards foreign currency debt as rupee appreciated. We reduced working capital limits to that extent. Finance costs also went down on foreign currency loans because of the reduction in Libor rates. Our forex loans are Libor based — which has been reset to 0.30 per cent from 1.5 per cent. Foreign currency loan is 54 per cent of overall loan, of which floating based loan is 75 per cent. Our rupee loans were also reset based on MCLR. Weighted average cost has come down from 6.08 per cent to 5.81 per cent quarter-on-quarter. But a similar trend may not be possible going forward because of inorganic growth and capex lined up. However, our relative ratio of debt to EBIDTA will certainly improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Karnataka high court spanner in Franklin plan||The Karnataka high court on Saturday ruled that Franklin Templeton cannot implement its decision to wind-up six debt schemes unless it gets the consent of unit holders by a simple majority. Franklin Templeton MF had shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. A division bench on Saturday ruled that while it will not interfere in the decision taken by the trustees on April 23, consent by its unit holders will be required. “We hold and declare that the decision of the trustees (Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Pvt Ltd) to wind up the six schemes... by taking recourse to sub-clause (a) of clause (2) of Regulation 39 of the mutual funds regulations cannot be implemented unless the consent of the unit-holders is obtained in accordance with sub-clause (c) of clause (15) of Regulation 18,’’ the bench said. Under Sebi’s mutual fund regulations, trustees should obtain consent of the unit holders to wind up or prematurely redeem the units. In a 336-page order, Chief Justice Abhay S Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi also directed the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to examine the report submitted by the forensic auditor and take a decision on further action. This decision shall be taken within six weeks from the date of the receipt of the forensic audit report. The market regulator had earlier appointed Chokshi & Chokshi to conduct a forensic audit on the six schemes. The Karnataka high court also pulled up the market regulator. “Sebi should have been prompt and proactive especially when this is perhaps the first case of winding up under Regulation 39(2)(a). “As a watchdog, Sebi was expected to play a very proactive role ... The investors/unit-holders of the said schemes will be justified in their criticism that Sebi was a silent spectator,’’ the bench said. Janak Dwarkadas, the counsel representing the AMC and trustees, prayed for a stay on the operation of the judgment so as to appeal the order. “Considering the nature of issues involved, we deem it appropriate to stay the operation of the final judgment and order for a period of six weeks from today subject to the condition that none of the respondents will take any steps to implement or to act upon the impugned notices dated April 23 2020 and May 20 2020.” During these six weeks, there will not be any redemptions or borrowings for the six schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
25-10-2020||Business||Tax returns by December 31||The government on Saturday extended the deadline for filing returns by individual taxpayers for 2019-20 by a month till December 31. For those taxpayers whose accounts need to be audited, the deadline has been extended by two months till January 31, 2021, the finance ministry said. The due date for completion of statutory audit and presenting them in the AGM was already extended to December 31, 2020. The present extension aligns the due dates for completion of statutory audit, tax audit and transfer pricing certification to December 31, 2020. Naturally, the due date for filing of ITR for such taxpayers who are subject to such audit/certification is extended to January 31, 2021,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia & Co LLP, said. The government had in May extended the date for filing ITR for financial year 2019-20 from July 31 to November 30. Tax advocate Narayan Jain has welcomed the timely decision of the CBDT and said: “It was needed because of the prevailing situation of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
25-10-2020||Business||Interest waiver before Diwali||India’s lenders were set a November 5 deadline on Saturday to waive penal interest payments on loans in a move that could give relief to millions of people ahead of one of the country’s biggest festivals. The government was forced to rethink the loan moratorium scheme which allowed borrowers to not pay loan instalments between March and August, but allowed lenders to accrue additional interest on the unpaid sum. An Indian optician from Agra was among the first to challenge the scheme for making borrowers pay additional “interest-on-interest”. Earlier this month, the government told the Supreme Court it will waive certain interest levies on loans below Rs 2 crore to provide relief to eight category of loan takers, including home, education, automobiles, consumer durables, MSMEs and credit card dues. The court had asked the government to implement the scheme, which will bring relief to millions of borrowers, at the earliest. The government has said lenders have to credit borrowers on or before November 5. Lenders will have to claim reimbursement from the government by December 15. The scheme will cost the government about Rs 6,500 crore. The five-day Diwali festival, which starts on November 14, is a time when houses are re-decorated, big-ticket items purchased, feasts held and gifts exchanged. The court is set to hear the case on November 2. The government also said that an “ex-gratia” amount would be given to borrowers with loans up to Rs 2 crore who had not availed the moratorium during the six month period. “Borrowers who have loan accounts having sanctioned limits and outstanding amounts of not exceeding Rs 2 crore (aggregate of all facilities with lending institutions) as on February 29 shall be eligible for the scheme,” it said. According to the eligibility criteria mentioned in the guidelines, the accounts should be standard as on February 29, which means it should not be a non-performing asset. The lending institutions shall credit the difference between compound interest and simple interest with regard to the eligible borrowers in respective accounts for the said period irrespective of whether the borrower fully or partially availed themselves of the moratorium on repayment of the loan announced by the RBI on March 27, 2020. The circular explained that the rate of interest for education, housing, auto, personal and consumption loans would be as specified in the loan agreement. In cases where no interest is being charged on EMI for certain periods, interest to be applied at lenders’ base/MCLR rate. For credit card dues, it said that weighted average lending rate charged by the card issuer to be charged and for MSME loans, it would be as specified in loan agreement. For cash credit/overdraft, the contracted rate would apply. Basis of calculation would be according to the prevailing rate on February 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
25-10-2020||Business||Vedanta declares dividend of Rs 3,500 crore||The board of Vedanta on Saturday declared an interim dividend of Rs 9.50 per share, amounting to Rs 3,500 crore. “The board of directors of the company through a resolution passed by circulation on Saturday, October 24, have approved the first interim dividend of Rs 9.50 per equity share — 950 per cent on the face value of Re 1 per share for 2020-21, amounting to Rs 3,500 crore,’’ Vedanta said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. The interim dividend from Vedanta was keenly watched particularly after subsidiary Hindustan Zinc (HZL) declared its highest interim dividend in 12 years at Rs 21.3 per share amounting to Rs 9,000 crore. In May, it had declared an interim dividend of Rs 16.50 per share. Vedanta holds a 64.92 per cent in HZL and the focus was on whether the mining conglomerate will pass on the entire amount received as dividend from HZL to its shareholders. However, Saturday’s decision would indicate that Vedanta is not passing on the complete amount received from HZL to shareholders. Market circles were looking forward to a high dividend payout from Vedanta after its delisting effort failed earlier this month. On October 10, Vedanta announced that its voluntary delisting offer — to acquire the balance public shareholding and then delisting it from the stock exchange — had failed at the reverse book building stage. The total number of shares tendered by public shareholders fell 7 per cent short of the mandatory minimum 90 per cent for successful delisting. Shares of Vedanta had ended with gains of 0.29 per cent at Rs 104.80 on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-255
25-10-2020||India||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das tests Covid positive||Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said he has been tested positive for Covid-19 and will continue to work from isolation.  Das said he is asymptomatic and has alerted those who came in contact with him in recent days.  "I have tested Coivd-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone," he tweeted. Currently, the RBI has full strength of four deputy governors B P Kanungo, M K Jain, M D Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao.  The RBI governor was quite active during the lockdown period and post unlock period to keep the economy and financial market in good shape.  He used both conventional and unconventional monetary policy tools to support economic recovery hit by Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Kapil Dev discharged from hospital after angioplasty||India's first World Cup winning-captain Kapil Dev was on Sunday discharged from a city hospital, two days after undergoing angioplasty following a heart attack. The 61-year-old complained of chest pain on Thursday following which he was taken to Fortis Escorts Heart Institute's emergency department. He is doing fine now. "Mr. Kapil Dev got discharged today afternoon. He's doing fine and can resume his regular daily activity soon. He'll be under regular follow-up consultation with Dr. Atul Mathur," the hospital said in a statement. Angioplasty is a procedure to open blocked arteries and restore normal blood flow to the heart. Following his admission, Kapil's condition was evaluated and an emergency coronary angioplasty was performed by Dr. Mathur, who is the director of cardiology department in the Fortis Escorts Heart Institute. "Dr Atul Mathur did Kapil paji angioplasty. He is fine and discharged. Pic of @therealkapildev on time of discharge from hospital," his former India teammate Chetan Sharma tweeted along with a photo of Kapil and the doctor who performed the procedure. The legendary all-rounder was wished a speedy recovery by many on social media, including India's current captain Virat Kohli and batting great Sachin Tendulkar among others. He remains the only player in cricket's history to claim over 400 wickets (434) and accumulate more than 5000 runs in Tests. He also served as India's national coach between 1999 and 2000. Kapil was inducted into the International Cricket Council's Hall of Fame in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||India a Hindu Rashtra, Hindutva essence of self-hood: Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India is a "Hindu Rashtra" and Hindutva is the essence of its self-hood. Speaking at the RSS's annual Vijayadashami rally here which was broadcast online and attended by 50 swayamsevaks (volunteers) due to the Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said when the Sangh says Hindustan is "Hindu Rashtra", it does not have any political or power-centered concept in its mind. "Hindutva is the essence of this Rashtras Swa(self-hood). We are plainly acknowledging the self-hood of the country as Hindu because all our socio-cultural practices are directed by its principles with their spirit percolating in the personal, familial, professional and social life of each one of us," he said. The RSS chief said the term Hindutva has been "distorted" by appending a ritualistic connotation to it. The Sangh does not use it to refer to this misconception. "To us, it is the word expressing our identity along with the continuity of its spirituality based traditions and its entire wealth of value system in the land of Bharat," Bhagwat said. "Therefore, the Sangh believes it is the word applicable to all 1.3 billion people who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh, whose every day life is striving towards an alignment with its moral and ethical code and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors who successfully traversed the same spiritual landscape since time immemorial," Bhagwat said. He said being oblivious to the true meaning of this term weakens the thread that integrates us with this country and society. "It is for this reason that this term is the first target of castigation by those who instigate inter-group conflicts, who are bent on splitting our country and society," he said. By presenting as separate our diversities which are traditionally accepted, respected and are a part of larger scope of Hindu philosophy in reality, they try to convert them into a source of alienation or separatism, Bhagwat said. "Hindu is not the name of some sect or denomination, it is not a provincial conceptualisation, it is neither a single castes lineage nor the privilege of the speakers of a specific language. "There may be some who have an objection in accepting this term. We do not object their using other words if the content in their mind is the same," he said. However, in the interest of the countrys integrity and security, the Sangh has over the years humbly assimilated the colloquial and global interpretations of the term Hindu, Bhagwat said. He further said being Hindu does not require giving up one's faith, language, land or any other identity marker. It only mandates an abandonment of the quest for supremacy. "One has only to be alert and keep away from the selfish and hateful forces who confuse and instigate people by showing them false dreams of supremacy, encourage radicalism and foster separatism," he said. Dwelling on the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, he said India stood strong in the face of adversity and dealt with the calamity effectively. "There are some reasons why we escaped corona debilitation that few countries could not. Our governing and administrative agencies promptlysprung up in action. They cautioned citizens, created emergency task forces and efficiently implementedcontrol measures," the RSS chief said. Government officials, medical practitioners, police officers, municipality workers and cleaners displayed an extraordinary sense of responsibility by dedicatedly serving the infected patients, he said. Citizens of the country too mobilised private resources and left no stone unturned in offering all possible help to their fellow beings, he noted. "The larger picture was that of sensitivity, cooperation and mutual trust between governmental administrative agencies and society," Bhagwat said. He also talked about reflecting on the centuries' old culture ethos of the country. "Many of our traditional habits pertaining to cleanliness and hygiene, healthy lifestyle and strengthening immunity with the science of Ayurveda also proved to be useful in this period," he said. Bhagwat asked for restarting educational institutions, compensating teachers, resending students to their schools and colleges while paying fee for the same. He noted that in cases where families are facing deprivation, stress creeps up in the households. To prevent negative dispositions like crime, depression and suicide, there is an extensive need of counselling and support services at this time, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
25-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Elections 2020: Sheohar candidate shot dead||A Janata Dal Rashtravadi party candidate and one of his supporters was shot dead during their poll campaign in Bihar's Sheohar, while the suspected attacker was also lynched, police said on Sunday. Shri Narayan Singh, 45, was killed on Saturday evening while campaigning at the Hathsar village in the Puyanhiya police station area. Singh himself had a criminal record and over three dozen cases registered against him. Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh linked the killing to a "gang war". Sheohar's Sub-Divisional Police Officer Rakesh Kumar said Singh was shot in his chest. He was rushed to the Sheohar Sadar Hospital from where he was referred to another facility, but he died on the way, police said. Singh was at a political campaign when the attack happened, the SP said. The suspected attacker was in the crowd walking with the candidate and shot at him, he said. One of the candidate's supporters was also injured and he later died, he added. The attacker was then beaten to death by the mob, the officer said. The Sheohar seat has 15 candidates in the fray, including five independents. The RJD, the JDU and the LJP have fielded their candidates from the seat. The BSP is also contesting. Police said security has been tightened in the area and paramilitary personnel deployed. Police said Singh's last rite has not yet been conducted. The constituency goes to poll in the second phase on November 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||Four-legged wheels of polls||As the Bihar Assembly election draws closer, candidates are coming up with novel ways to attract voters even if it backfires on them; from riding buffaloes while canvassing to driving tractors and ploughing land. A 34-year-old candidate for Gaya Town constituency — Muhammad Perwez Mansuri — contesting on a ticket of the Rashtriya Ulema Council, thought of giving a novel touch to his campaign by moving on a buffalo. His supporters brought one on Monday. He promptly sat on it and moved out from the Gandhi Maidan in a small procession. However, Mansuri could ride the buffalo just a few hundred metres when the  seized his “vehicle” and registered an FIR against him at the Civil Lines police station under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). Stumped by the action, Mansuri protested and said he was riding the buffalo because he has no other vehicle. “I do not have money to buy an automobile. Those who have cars use them for campaigning. I have a buffalo, so I was campaigning on it,” Mansuri said. He also said that he was riding a buffalo to highlight the fact that Gaya was among the most polluted cities in the country. “The current representative and BJP leader Prem Kumar who has been a legislator for 30 years, and his main challenger Congress’s Mohan Srivastava, a deputy mayor for the last 15 years, have done nothing for the development of the city,” Mansuri said. Gaya senior superintendent of police Rajeev Mishra said that an FIR was registered against Mansuri for violating various laws. “The police will investigate the matter and take further action accordingly,” he said. On the other hand, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest son Tej Pratap drove a tractor and ploughed five cottahs of land in Hasanpur constituency of Samastipur district. He also sat on a machan (makeshift bamboo tower to keep a vigil on the crop) to listen to the problems of the farmers. Tej Pratap left the Mahua constituency in Vaishali district, which he represents at present, to contest from Hasanpur to rely on caste equations to get elected. While campaigning in the constituency, he saw a farmer driving a tractor in Badgaon area. He borrowed the vehicle and ploughed his land. “I understand the problems of the farmers. Many parts of this constituency, especially vast stretches of agricultural land, face problems such as waterlogging. My priority would be to create a canal system to alleviate the situation,” Tej Pratap said. The results will tell whether his actions helped reap votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||Rajnath to visit China border in Sikkim today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived at the Bagdogra airport here on Saturday and will fly to Sikkim on Sunday for an interaction with senior army officials along the China border and inauguration of a road near the frontier. “Heading to Darjeeling on a two day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim. I shall visit the forward areas and also interact with the troops. A road constructed by the Border Roads Organisation in Sikkim will also be inaugurated during the visit,” Singh tweeted on Saturday, before leaving for Bagdogra. The defence minister is being accompanied by senior officials of the army. From Bagdogra, he has reached the headquarters of the 33 Corps of the Indian Army at Sukna, around 10km from here. Army officials will brief the minister on deployment of troops and other details during the visit which comes amid the stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. Singh will fly to Sikkim on Sunday and attend a “Shastra Puja” — the traditional worship of weapons by the defence personnel on the occasion of Dusshera — and interact with the troops. Later in the day, he is scheduled to inaugurate a road near the China border and later the Thakurbari temple in Gangtok. There was a stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Dokalam, a tri-junction of Sikkim, Bhutan and China, three years ago. This is the first time that the defence minister is on a visit to the India-China border in Sikkim after the clash between the armies of both the countries in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh. “The minister’s visit seeks to boost the morale of soldiers in forward areas,” said a defence ministry official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||Sadhu beaten to death in UP||A sadhu was beaten to death in Hamirpur district while another was found hanging from a tree in Lucknow on Saturday. Mahant Ratiram, 60, the head priest of Siddh Baba Mandir at Kharehi Mihuna village in Hamirpur district, was attacked with sticks and bricks by five persons during an argument following an accident. Banke Bihari Singh, a local police inspector, said: “An SUV had hit a motorcycle. The sadhu, who was riding pillion, had tried to calm nerves when the two drivers came to blows. The SUV driver and some other people then assaulted him. The sadhu was taken to a hospital with serious head injuries and died during treatment.” Singh said the police had arrested one person and were looking for the four other accused. Eyewitnesses, however, said the sadhu was a bystander, not the pillion rider. “An SUV and a tractor had collided. When those in the two vehicles began to fight, the sadhu had tried to pacify them. The SUV driver called his friends, who reached the spot within minutes and started beating the sadhu. He fell to the ground. The police took him to hospital, where he died,” a resident said. Ram Baran Yadav, the younger brother of Ratiram, has lodged a police complaint. In Lucknow district, a sadhu identified as Sukhdev Sahu was found hanging from a tree in the forest at Dubagga. The police claimed Sahu used to take drugs and had been arrested earlier for possessing marijuana. Local people told reporters that the sadhu had fractured his left hand and it had been placed in a cast. “It would not have been possible for Sahu to climb the tree, tie a rope and hang himself. It is clearly murder,” a local said. At least four sadhus have been killed and several attacked over the past year in Uttar Pradesh, ruled by the saffron-clad Yogi Adityanath who is also a temple mahant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||No imported goods at military canteens ||The government has ordered its 4,000 military shops to stop buying imported goods, according to a document reviewed by Reuters, a move that could send an unwelcome signal to foreign liquor firms such as Diageo and Pernod Ricard. The defence canteens sell liquor, electronics and other goods at discounted prices to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families. With annual sales of over $2 billion, they make up one of the largest retail chains in the country. The October 19 internal order from the defence ministry, reviewed by Reuters, said that in future, “procurement of direct imported items shall not be undertaken”. The order said the issue had been discussed with the army, air force and navy in May and July, and was aimed at supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign to promote domestic goods. A defence ministry spokesman declined to comment. The order did not specify which products would be targeted. However, industry sources said they believed imported liquor could be on the list. Imports make up around 6-7 per cent of total sales value in the defence shops, according to an August research column of the government-funded Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA). Chinese products such as diapers, vacuum cleaners, handbags and laptops, account for the bulk if it, it said. Reuters reported in June that Pernod and Diageo had briefly stopped receiving orders for their imported brands from such government stores. Diageo did not respond to a request for comment, while a Pernod spokesman declined comment. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||BJP nominee accused of taking voter cards ||The Congress has accused the BJP candidate for an Assembly bypoll in the city of bribing and illegally collecting the voter identity cards of many electors to ensure they don’t vote against him. The Congress got a court order on Thursday directing Bangalore police to file a case against RR Nagar BJP candidate N. Munirathna and his associates who allegedly collected thousands of voter ID cards in exchange for Rs 5,000 to each voter. RR Nagar has a sizeable population of Muslims and the poor. “By denying the poor and the minorities the right to vote, the BJP is also trying to create a rift and take undue electoral advantage from that,” Congress spokesman and senior lawyer V.S. Ugrappa told The Telegraph on Saturday. “We want action against Munirathna and all those who are involved in this crime. If the Election Commission does not act, we will file a contempt petition since there is a court order to proceed with a police case,” he added. “In the same complaint (on Tuesday), we have addressed the serious issue of Munirathna overshooting the electoral expenses (originally Rs 30 lakh). He would have paid at least Rs 2 crore for the thousands of voter cards collected,” Ugrappa said. The court order cited offences under IPC Sections 171 B, C, E and F that cover bribery and interference in elections, and Sections 25, 77 and 125 of the Representation of the Peoples Act, which pertains to charges ranging from overspending to promoting enmity between classes. The police booked an FIR against the BJP candidate on Friday. “We are still waiting to see what kind of action the police and the Election Commission take on this electoral fraud,” Ugrappa said. Bypolls to the RR Nagar Assembly seat in Bangalore became necessary after Munirathna defected to the BJP last year along with 12 other party colleagues and three from the Janata Dal Secular. The defections led to the fall of the Congress-JDS government and the BJP came to power. This is not the first time Munirathna is being accused of voter ID fraud. As a Congress candidate in the 2018 Karnataka polls, he had been booked along with 13 of his party associates after the Election Commission seized 9,746 genuine voter ID cards from two steel trunks in an apartment belonging to one of his supporters. They had allegedly collected the cards to ensure that JDS supporters did not get to vote against Munirathna. He eventually won by over 41,000 votes, after polling had been deferred by a few days owing to the fiasco. Although the Congress had not taken any steps against Munirathna then, many in the party had internally expressed disgust at his actions. In their written complaint to the chief election commissioner, Congress leaders, including Ugrappa, have cited the 2018 instance. “We have listed the names of several voters whose cards were forcibly taken away by Munirathna’s people. We expect swift action against him and all those responsible for the gross violation of law,” Ugrappa said. The BJP denied any wrongdoing. “These are false accusations. We have done no wrong. They just want to keep this issue alive until the election,” state BJP legal cell co-convener Yogendra Hodaghattha told this newspaper. The BJP has filed a counter-complaint with the Election Commission and lodged an FIR bringing allegations of bribery and voter card confiscation against Congress Legislative Council member M. Narayanaswamy, who has been campaigning for the Congress candidate for RR Nagar, and others. “They are the ones who are grabbing voter cards from the people, not us,” insisted Hodaghattha. The first elections after being appointed state Congress chief, D.K. Shivakumar has taken the bypolls to RR Nagar and Sira in Tumkur district as a prestige issue. He has fielded Kusuma Ravi, the widow of IAS officer D.K. Ravi who committed suicide a few years ago, against Munirathna, apparently with the aim of bagging sympathy votes. Former minister T.B. Jayachandra is the Congress candidate in Sira.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||BJP under graft fire from ex-MLA in Bihar ||Saryu Roy, a former BJP legislator and a whistleblower in the multi-crore fodder scam, is using his political goodwill in Bihar to help mostly Independent candidates in constituencies going to polls in the first phase on October 28. The Bihar-born Roy had created a flutter in political circles after he fought as an Independent and defeated former chief minister and current BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das from Jamshedpur East constituency in the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly polls. “I have so far visited three constituencies going to polls in the first phase and have campaigned for those candidates who had invited me and sought my blessings. I do not campaign for any party but highlight the ills affecting the BJP, a party which I had once served to the best of my ability. The BJP government at the Centre has forgotten its own standard practices against corruption which is evident in the case of Jharkhand where a former chief minister (Raghubar Das) facing corruption charges and a probe by the ACB has been made the party’s national vice-president (in September),” said Roy, 69. He had made the corruption allegation against Das his main plank during the 2019 Jharkhand polls and ultimately defeated the five-time MLA from Jamshedpur East after being denied a ticket by the BJP allegedly at the insistence of the former chief minister. Roy had served as an MLC on a BJP ticket for a six-year term (1998-2004) in undivided Bihar before being given a ticket by the party from Jamshedpur West (in Jharkhand). He began his campaign in Bihar at Ramgarh (in Kaimur district) for RJD candidate Sudhakar Singh (son of veteran RJD leader and former MP Jagdanand Singh), followed by Brahmapura (in Buxar district) for Independent candidate Ramesh Kumar and Shahpur (in Bhojpur district) for another Independent candidate Shobha Devi. He had earlier played a key role in exposing the multi-crore fodder scam in Bihar leading to the conviction of RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav. “RJD leader Lalu Prasad has been convicted and that is a past thing. I am not against the BJP but I am pained to see that those at the helm in the party have forgotten the ideals and standards for which it was once known. I am trying to paint the same picture in areas where candidates have sought my support,” said Roy, who has close links with BJP ideologue K.N. Govindacharya and party MP Subramanian Swamy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||Cong to BJP: Hoshiarpur not Hathras ||The Congress on Saturday expressed shock at the senior ministers of the Narendra Modi government comparing the Hathras horror with the rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, wondering if they couldn’t see the difference between the response of the Punjab and Uttar Pradesh administrations. Rahul Gandhi himself confronted the BJP’s leaders who had questioned his silence on the Hoshiarpur rape, saying through a tweet: “Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice.” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said at a news conference: “Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi felt the need for standing with the family of Hathras because the police, the administration and the government was threatening them and were trying to hush up the case. The body of the rape victim had been burnt in the middle of the night against the family’s wishes. The chain of events was so horrific that leaders of other parties also went to show solidarity with the family.” She said: “Three ministers — finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, I&B (information and broadcasting) minister Prakash Javadekar and health minister Harsh Vardhan woke up from their deep slumber to speak about Hoshiarpur incident and question Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for not going there. Can’t they see the difference? While the FIR was registered under the strictest possible clauses of the IPC and Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act in Punjab, the chief minister and the DGP have called for immediate action. All the accused have been arrested.” She added: “In Uttar Pradesh, the district magistrate was threatening the family. Rape charge was not included in the FIR. Top police officers said no rape took place. The media was not allowed to enter the village. The administration and the BJP leaders were rallying behind the accused. “It becomes the duty of the Opposition to express solidarity with the victim’s family under such abnormal circumstances. What were the BJP ministers doing when all this happened in Hathras? Did they call for justice to the victim and the family at that time, or during the Unnao case when the victim and family members were being killed?” Recalling that even Allahabad High Court felt compelled to intervene because of the actions of the administration and gave a tight slap in the government’s face, Sushmita said: “Rape is an unfortunate tragedy wherever it happens. But what is critical is the role of the government. We won’t tolerate if our governments behave in that brutal manner like the Yogi Adityanath government did. Nirmala Sitharaman, having ruined India’s economy, should keep her mouth shut if she has any sense of shame. She should not demonstrate her insensitivity and brazenly partisan attitude towards such issues.” Attacking Rahul and Priyanka, Sitharaman had said: “In the Hathras rape case, it seemed as though they were all going out for a picnic. The brother and sister ran towards the village. But why not in the case of Hoshiarpur or Rajasthan? “The selective outrage of the party has been completely exposed. Why was there no response from the ‘tweet-friendly’ leader? Does this selective outrage suit the Congress party? At least 35 MPs were flamboyant in their statements on Twitter in the case of Hathras. Where are those 35 MPs today?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||RJD vows to give jobs, not ‘pakodas’||Bihar’s main Opposition party, Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, has in its Assembly election manifesto promised to provide 10 lakh government jobs immediately, waive farm loans, develop smart villages and offer better healthcare facilities. “This is not a manifesto, this is our vow. This is our determination to bring a change, which is going to come true. The aim is to develop Bihar,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said on Saturday. “Our first cabinet decision after coming to power will be to provide 10 lakh government jobs. We could have promised 1 crore jobs like other parties just for the sake of elections, but we did not because we have to fulfil the promise,” he added. “And when we say jobs, these will be government jobs. There is a distinction between job and employment. Frying pakodas, cleaning garbage or drains are also employment. But we are talking about government jobs,” Tejashwi said, taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had said in 2018 that selling fritters was also a type of employment. Tejashwi’s election rallies are witnessing a huge turnout of youths, which is said to have caused some worry in the NDA camp. Political experts said that runaway unemployment could be a reason for youngsters flocking to the young Tejashwi’s rallies. Arguing that 10 lakh jobs would fulfil the requirements of Bihar’s workforce, Tejashwi, the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance, took a swipe at chief minister Nitish Kumar and the BJP, which has promised 19 lakh jobs in its manifesto released earlier this week. “Nitishji gave up on hearing about 10 lakh jobs and asked where was the money. If he cannot, then how is the BJP promising to provide jobs? They are just trying to fool the people,” the RJD leader said. The RJD, which is leading the Grand Alliance that includes the Congress and three Left parties — the CPM, CPI and the CPI-ML — is the last among the bigger parties to release its manifesto. The state’s 243 seats will vote in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be announced on November 10. The RJD manifesto includes messages from former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. While Lalu has sought to remind voters how he had taken Bihar towards equality and harmony and how the state had slipped on the development index in the past 15 years, Rabri has said living in Bihar had become a problem. “People are drowning in sorrow. Unemployment, crime, scams, atrocities on women are at the extreme. This indicates that Nitish has completely failed as chief minister,” Rabri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||India||WHO sounds caution on Remdesivir||The World Health Organisation’s chief scientist, Soumya Swaminathan, has said experts and regulators assessing the use of remdesivir against Covid-19 should take into account all evidence, including the WHO’s global trial that found no benefit. “We believe our results are robust and we hope that people doing treatment guidelines and regulators around the world will take note of our study results in addition to other evidence,” Swaminathan said at a WHO briefing, a day after US regulators approved remdesivir for Covid-19. An Indian panel of medical experts is also examining available global evidence on remdesivir and is expected to decide in the coming days if the drug should continue to be offered to Covid-19 patients. The national treatment guidelines pencilled earlier this year recommend remdesivir for Covid-19 as an “investigational drug” under emergency use authorisation. The US Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved remdesivir citing three clinical trials, including one by the US National Institutes of Allergies and Infectious Disease (NIAID). The FDA said the WHO results did not refute the findings of benefits observed in the US trials. The NIAID trial found recovery time from Covid-19 was 10 days in patients who received remdesivir compared to 15 days for patients who received the placebo. The overall 29-day mortality was 11 per cent in the remdesivir group and 15 per cent in the placebo group, a difference the FDA said was “not statistically significant”. Swaminathan said it appeared that the FDA used data from Gilead, the US manufacturer of remdesivir, and did not take into account the WHO trial’s findings. “What we understand… the FDA decision was based on data submitted to them from Gilead which did not include the (WHO) trial results,” she said, pointing out that Gilead had advance access to the results. “They first saw the results on September 23 and saw the full manuscript on September 28,” Swaminathan said. “They had the results even before they were public through medRxiv (a preprint archive). We gave it to them 10 days in advance. It appears that the results were not provided to the FDA.” Some doctors have argued that the WHO trial was not placebo-controlled and was not double-blind — in other words, it did not adopt the most rigorous of standards for clinical trials. But Swaminathan said the trial was still robust because it looked at endpoints such as death. “Death is not a soft endpoint. You cannot fudge that endpoint,” Swaminathan said. “We looked at progression to ventilation which is again very objective. On the other hand, the (US-NIAID) trial looked at time to recovery.” Another top WHO official, speaking at the briefing, suggested what really matters in whether a drug should be used or not are the treatment guidelines and not the regulatory status of drugs. “The primary function of regulatory authorities at the national level is to assure safe products are put on the shelf and that… they have certain levels of proven efficacy or indicative efficacy,” said Michael Ryan, WHO’s executive director. “The regulatory process is a signal for what can go on the shelf.” What doctors ultimately use is based on complex clinical guidance, he said. “For day-to-day practice, it is the clinical guidance package that is most important in guiding physicians to use what is on the shelf.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-598
25-10-2020||West Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flag signals Gurung return||Supporters of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hoisted the party’s flag atop Gitangadara — a podium where most public meetings in Darjeeling are held — in a symbolic move which is seen as a precursor to his return to the hills after more than three years. Gurung had resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21, after being on the run since the violent Gorkhaland agitation in 2017, and announced his party’s decision to quit the National Democratic Alliance and join hands with the Trinamul Congress in the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. Until the announcement of his tie-up with Trinamul, many had felt Gurung was the most popular leader in Darjeeling who had not compromised on the statehood issue. But since then, the Gurung faction has come under the scanner largely because of Trinamul’s opposition to the statehood demand. Against this background, Saturday’s development at Chowk Bazar here was significant. “The party leaders are definitely preparing ground for Gurung’s most probable return to the hills and also trying to send a message that many are still with Gurung despite his alliance with Trinamul,” said a hill observer. Gurung had earlier said he would soon return to the hills and many observers believe that this could be possible after the handshake with Trinamul, even though there are legal hurdles in the way. On Saturday morning, his supporters not only unfurled the Morcha flag on the rooftop of Gitangadara but also raised slogans in favour of Gurung, an act which was considered impossible until a few days ago. “We promise that our leader is returning soon. We will welcome him in a grand manner,” said Noman Rai, the working president of the Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp). The Gurung camp is justifying the decision to ally with Trinamul on the ground that the tie-up would facilitate the return of “5,000 supporters who are on the run”. At his news conference in Calcutta on Wednesday, Gurung had said: “While I was sitting back for the past three years, I saw Mamata Banerjee meet whatever commitments she had made to the people. We have decided that in the Assembly elections of 2021, we will stand with her and Trinamul. She is an idol and we want to see her again in her post (of chief minister).” Rai on Saturday criticised the BJP for not even fulfilling small demands like “central university for the hills, not to talk about major demands” in the past 12 years of allying with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
25-10-2020||West Bengal||Mascots at pandals for mask awareness||The district administration of Cooch Behar and Durga Puja organisers have come up with a mascot called “Mohan”, which resembles the rare turtle with the same name found at a pond in Baneswar, to create awareness of the need for people to wear masks to keep the novel coronavirus at bay. At different puja pandals across Cooch Behar, a Mohan can be seen, donning a mask and imparting a message “Amar Mask, Amar Vaccine” (My mask is my vaccine). “We wanted to ensure that all those coming out of their homes during and after the festival wear masks in a proper manner. Consistent use of masks can considerably reduce the risk of Covid-19 infections. That is why we thought of using Mohan, as the rare turtle found at the Baneswar pond is called by residents here, as a mascot. The clubs have also responded to our call and displayed the mascots on their premises. We feel this initiative would help in disseminating awareness of the need to wear masks among people,” said an official of the district administration. Locally known as Mohan, the turtles found in Shib Dighi, that is close to a Shiva temple of Baneswar, are of Nilssonia nigricans species, commonly known as black softshell turtles. “These are indeed rare species as the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) classified them as ‘extinct in the wild.’ We believe the decision to present the species as the mascot will also impart awareness among people of the need for their conservation,” said Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist in Siliguri. Ranadip Bose, a resident of Gosani Road in Dinhata who is also associated with Gosani Road Sarbojonin Durgotsav, said he had found many pandal hoppers taking out masks or buying ones after seeing the mascot. “We have displayed the mascots at a number of spots near our puja and have seen people, particularly youngsters, taking out masks from their pockets and wearing the same after seeing the mascot,” said Bose. There is an apprehension that Covid-19 cases will surge in the state if health safety protocols are not properly followed during the Durga Puja days. In every district, the administration, in association with the health department, has drawn up plans to handle such a possible situation. Rathindranath Saha, a painter based in Dinhata, said: “Residents of Cooch Behar have a different sentiment for the Mohans of Baneswar. We believe they will follow the message.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
25-10-2020||West Bengal||Essex’s Sankalpo ensures Puja in pandemic||What is it about Essex that inspires great voyages? The answer might lie in the name of an association of residents that has beaten all odds to organise Durga Puja. Sankalpo, which translates to “pledge”, has refused to be brow-beaten by the pandemic and has soldiered on amid adversities to celebrate Durga Puja and in the process “spread hope and cheer” in these times of gloom. If Essex had cradled Daniel Defoe’s Moll Flanders and Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, both tales of epic and transcendental journeys, it has spurred Sankalpo on to dip into its reserves and make the best out of the situation. Sankalpo, an association of over 100 members at Chelmsford, Essex county’s only city 64km from London, is organising this year’s puja inside a garage of one of the organisers. The garage and the idols have been decked up by the association members, many of whom till last year participated in a puja at the local church’s sprawling community centre. The festivities, held with strict adherence to precautions at a time there has been an alarming resurgence in Covid cases in the UK, are being live-streamed on Sankalpo Chelmsford’s Facebook page for the community’s 137 members. The group also aims to “advance cultural values” among South Asian communities through Bengal’s biggest festival. “Building hope and spreading positivity is the challenge of our times. This very thought led to the birth of Sankalpo this year,” said Meghdut Biswas, 46, an entrepreneur and one of the organisers of the puja, during a telephone interview with The Telegraph. Over the years, Durga Puja has been celebrated in Chelmsford to the beats of the dhak and the call of the conch at Writtle Christian Centre, which has a church and a community hall. Although much of the fervour is missing this year owing to the pandemic, the spirit has not ebbed. A London-based puja committee has donated the idols to Sankalpo. The organisers said the Facebook group members of Sankalpo were offering “pushpanjali” from their homes as the rituals were being live-streamed. The intention, the organisers said, is to bring festive cheer and ensure that everyone enjoys Durga Puja from the safety of their homes. “This year’s puja is different from other years. This time it is a virtual puja. Purohit Proloy Mukherjee is performing the puja in front of the deity and the rest of us are watching and participating from our own homes,” said Debalina Gupta, 46, a spokesperson for Sankalpo. “My role of blowing the conch shell remains the same, but this time I am doing it from my own home and it is being live-streamed,” said Debalina, senior National Health Service transformation and commission manager. Debalina said she was originally from Salt Lake. “We have tried to recreate the ambience of Calcutta. The beauty of Durga Puja is that it is for all — sarbajanin. This year, we are making ananda naru and cooking bhog at our homes and distributing them from the puja venue, maintaining physical distancing. We have done everything to give it the feel of our own parar pujo back home in Calcutta,” she said. Debalina said only a few of the members of Sankalpo were Bengalis but everyone participated in Durga Puja. “Despite the restrictions this year, we have had an overwhelming response from the members of the community,” she said. Anurag Lohia, a software consultant from Indore and a resident of Chelmsford, weighed in: “Durga Puja feels like a family wedding…. We feel very much a part of the celebrations and feel blessed to be able to serve Ma Durga during the three days of celebrations.” “Sankalpo Chelmsford’s Durga Puja is where the east meets the west, the north meets the south, and people come together as part of a mega community festival. Transcending borders, breaking cultural barriers, together we have united from across the globe and the Indian subcontinent to celebrate Puja. It’s a microcosm of India with a firm focus on our beloved Calcutta,” Lohia added. Meghdut, who has been in Chelmsford for a decade, said it was Sankalpo’s aim to foster cultural values and send a message of inclusiveness amongst South Asian communities in Essex and surrounding areas by organising festivals celebrated in various parts of India. “In the face of this adversity, we’ll remember it (pandemic) as one of the toughest things that humanity has ever dealt with. The only solace we can take is that once we get through this, we can pledge and build a world together that’s more ready for the future we know is coming,” Meghdut said. Sankalpo also plans to raise funds to help the needy in Essex and also in India in fields as varied as education, sports, food and shelter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
25-10-2020||North East||Students test positive, schools shut in Mizoram||The Mizoram government has decided to shut down all schools for two weeks from Monday following detection of several Covid-19 cases among a section of Class X and XII students. This development might prompt other states to revisit their move to reopen schools and colleges in November. Mizoram education minister Lalchhandama Ralte said the decision to close down schools to check the spread of Covid-19 was taken after a meeting of department officials and teachers’ representatives.  If everything remains normal, they will reopen schools again on November 9. However, online classes will continue for Class X and XII students. An education department official told The Telegraph that at least 18 students from four schools had tested positive since schools reopened on October 16 after the  lockdown. Mizoram has registered 2,359 positive cases till Friday but there have been no deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
25-10-2020||Opinion||Wasted worship||Sir — The beloved Durga Puja of Bengal cannot start without the Nabapatrika snan, this involves nine types of plants bound together and bathed in the river. Yet, a festival that starts with the worship of a form of Mother Nature has become one of the most wasteful and polluting events in the Bengali calendar. Even this year, amidst the pandemic with smaller idols and pandals, the amount of plastic waste on the streets still seems to be overflowing. This is not to mention the sudden spike in light and noise pollution. How does kola bou feel about this, one wonders. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — Pakistan’s political pot is boiling again. Eleven Opposition parties have come together to call for the ouster of the Imran Khan government. Public unhappiness over the performance of Khan’s government is running high over deteriorating law and order, rising prices and food shortages. Pakistani politicians criticizing the military when in Opposition is not new, but this time Nawaz Sharif, who is in exile in London, has done the unthinkable. In a speech delivered remotely to tens of thousands of people in a rally, Sharif accused the army chief and the chief of the Inter-Services Intelligence of “rigging elections” and installing an “inefficient and incapable group of people” in power. Beijing will be monitoring developments in Pakistan closely. It has invested billions of dollars in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. It remains to be seen what the military does to respond to this latest threat. Whether it calls for talks between the government and the Opposition parties to get the latter off the streets or whether it prefers to use force. Given its record, the second option is more likely, but this course of action may not be wise. One thing is for sure, Pakistan awaits more unrest. Shovanlal Chakraborty Calcutta Sir — It is battle royale in Pakistan. On the one hand there are virtually all the Opposition parties with Nawaz Sharif and Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the vanguard of a motley crew. On the other hand there is the Pakistan army’s hand-selected prime minister, Imran Khan, and his allies who marshalled together to give him a wafer-thin majority in the National Assembly. The Opposition’s strength lies in public support. Sharif remains the most popular leader in Punjab, one of the strongest provinces in Pakistan. He also has strong pockets of support in the Hazara belt of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Even in the worst of times, Sharif’s support base remained intact. What Sharif’s party lacks is street power. The party can get crowds out at rallies and in the polling booths, but its supporters aren’t exactly known for having a stomach for street fighting. This is where Rehman becomes a force multiplier. Rehman is one of the most pragmatic politicians; has never confronted the military. He understands power like few in Pakistan do and that is why he has always been open to accommodating the military. Until now, that is. Khan and the army should be wary. A.K. Sen Calcutta Sir — It is no secret that there is something unique about M.S. Dhoni’s captaincy. For more than a decade he set one milestone after another in international cricket. But the Chennai Super Kings’ tame capitulation in this year’s Indian Premier League after languishing at the bottom of the points table has definitely demoralized countless fans. The last encounter against the Mumbai Indians was perhaps their worst performance ever in IPL history. They lost six wickets at the score of 30 and never really recovered from that. The team managed to post 116, but the Mumbai Indians won by 10 wickets. Although the CSK was without some of its star players, Dhoni’s captaincy left a lot to be desired; he seems to be at the end of his tether. The batting order looked rusty and Dhoni did not perform well himself. There is no doubt that under Dhoni, CSK was at the peak of its glory for the last decade. But it is time Dhoni stepped down as captain and let someone else take over the reins. Aditya Mukherjee New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||A determined Kamal Nath is fighting bypolls like never before||The former Congress chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath, has surprised the party with his hard work in the by-elections. He has taken it upon himself to whittle down the influence of Jyotiraditya Scindia — who pulled down his government by defecting to the Bharatiya Janata party with members of the legislative assembly loyal to him — in his fiefdom, Gwalior-Chambal. Although it is difficult for the Congress to claw back to power as it will have to win all the 28 seats to reach the magic figure, Nath is determined to ensure that BJP too fails to wrest the nine it needs to get a majority of its own. His target is to win at least 20 out of 28 seats, which will be a remarkable feat under the BJP regime. Nath is extensively campaigning in every constituency along with his former cabinet colleagues. While he has deployed all his resources for the bypolls, assigning specific constituency-wise tasks to different leaders, he has also deputed objective assessors from outside to leave no stone unturned in the Gwalior-Chambal region. So much so that the Maharashtra minister, Sunil Kedar, has been camping in Gwalior along with 40 experienced party workers from Nagpur for over a fortnight to monitor campaigning in every booth. Kedar himself visits every village in the area to take feedback and reports to Nath daily. The Congress never fights by-elections so seriously but Nath knows his political future depends on this outcome, setting the tone for the next assembly elections in 2023. The defence minister, Rajnath Singh, is one of the top campaigners for the BJP in the upcoming Bihar polls. Singh, who was clearly sidelined in the Modi 2.0 government after he had to vacate the home ministry for Amit Shah, seems to have regained some of his political heft. Insiders say he has won the trust of the prime minister, Narendra Modi. The PM consults him on most important political decisions and Singh also heads key government committees. Singh has been heard profusely praising the PM, commending his capacity to take risks. In Bihar, he has been backing these claims by citing the abrogation of Article 370 and the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple. Singh is not alone; Nitin Gadkari, too, has been praising Modi excessively these days. This is strange since ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gadkari had been airing indirect barbs at the current leadership of the party. Shooting from the hip never pays and the Assam minister, Pijush Hazarika, learnt it the hard way. He went after the Rajya Sabha member, Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, who had said that if literary luminaries like Syed Abdul Malik and Imran Shah can be Asam Sahitya Sabha presidents he sees no reason why another Muslim or All India United Democratic Front chief, Badruddin Ajmal, cannot become the state’s CM. Since the ruling BJP targets Ajmal for espousing the cause of ‘illegal foreigners’ (read Bangladeshi Muslims), Hazarika pounced on Bhuyan, saying that the latter is unmarried and “does not have to think about the future generations but I... can’t think about my future generations working under Ajmal.” Bhuyan responded by stressing on the unmarried bit, “He says I am unmarried so I cannot think about our future generations. It is fine. But while criticizing me he criticized prime minister, Narendra Modi, and chief minister, Sarbananda Sonowal [both unmarried].” Hazarika defended himself but it is always difficult to get past a self-goal. The Assam cabinet minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has urged the masses to observe Puja rituals at home to check the spread of Covid-19 and celebrate next year by which time it is hoped that the threat from the coronavirus will be a thing of the past. However, there are many on social media who have started questioning why huge poll rallies are being held for the Bodoland Territorial Council? Why are ministers and political leaders addressing massive meetings, why are they not wearing masks or maintaining do gaz ki doori (two yard distance) at such meetings to keep the virus at bay? But then who will tell them that while all Indians are equal, some are more equal than others. The growing influence of the All India Congress Committee general-secretary KC Venugopal has been sending shock waves in his home state where the Congress-led United Democratic Front is eyeing a return to power next year. While the leader of the Opposition, Ramesh Chennithala, has been trying to make himself the obvious choice for the chief minister’s chair, there were talks about the party high command air-dropping someone “very close” to the Gandhi family. Being the right hand of Rahul Gandhi, Venugopal is definitely sending chills to CM aspirants back home. The newly-appointed BJP national general-secretary, CT Ravi, seems to be too optimistic about his party’s fortunes in the southern states where he is the man in charge. The former Karnataka minister is certain that the BJP will come to power in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala in the 2021 assembly polls. With not much presence in these places, only Ravi can explain how he plans to pull this off. Perhaps he is trying too hard to impress his bosses. Is this why he is also trying to learn Hindi? Ill-equipped to deal with BJP leaders from the north, Ravi has realized that neither English nor Kannada would work in his new role. Ironically, as minister, Ravi had launched Kannada classes for non-Kannadigas living in Karnataka. Ravi does not want a linguistic handicap to stymie his growth as a national leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||Trapped in history: but now rescued||Seized, looted, bought unfairly, stolen, smuggled out. Countries once colonized in Asia and Africa have long sought to rediscover the histories carried by their own cultural objects displayed in museums in Western countries. Museums in the Netherlands have now decided to return thousands of objects taken away from Sri Lanka and Indonesia, while India, too, has a few items it would like the Dutch to return. Restitution of cultural assets is not a new demand. A French art historian said that calls for such repatriation had first gathered force at the end of the 1970s. At that time, Western museums had resisted strongly. Now, however, the Black Lives Matter movement has prompted a change in attitude. The widespread desire for a post-racist society required restitution of cultural riches as one of its steps. The role of the Black Lives Matter movement in the fresh impetus to restitution is like a key that unlocks memories of all kinds of coercive power imbalances of the past — it functions like an image of colonialism. India has been asking for its objects back for years — especially from Britain. The United Kingdom, the United States of America and Australia have all been quick to return beautiful and valuable objects, antiques and images that they found to have been stolen and smuggled out of India in post-colonial times. But that is not the same as restoring objects looted by invaders or acquired by colonial rulers. In 2013, the British prime minister at the time, David Cameron, had said that he did not support “returnism” as that would empty British museums. He seemed unaware of the ironical light his comment threw on colonial practice. A former director of the Louvre, heading a French advisory commission on the return of cultural objects, said that the act would be one of solidarity and fairness. Certainly, repatriation would be a belated acknowledgement of the violence inhering in colonialism; it would also render hollow, by hindsight, the pretence of civilization’s ‘sweetness and light’ implied in the tranquil, labelled display of objects under glass in well-guarded museums. Satisfying the sense of rightness in, say, returning the Amaravati sculptures where they came from is indeed important, while it is also a further unravelling of the tangled skeins left behind by colonial rule, another step towards fathoming an experience that is both past yet never absent. That invasions, conquests, looting, colonial rule create restless histories of division and change that refuse to settle down — become absent — is best exemplified in the demand for restitution of the Kohinoor diamond addressed to Britain by not just India, but by Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan as well. Will the United Kingdom be able to decide between the two claimants for Tipu’s Wooden Tiger, India and Pakistan, should it be inclined to return it? The past never fails to haunt the human race; it only finds new ways of doing so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
25-10-2020||Opinion||Web of lies||Lately, I have been putting an embarrassing amount of thought into notions like jinxes and knocking on wood. The polls for Joe Biden look good, but in 2020 any hint of optimism feels dangerously naïve, and my brain has been working overtime in search of potential doom. I have become consumed with an alarming possibility: that neither the polls nor the actual outcome of the election really matter because to a great many Americans, digital communication has already rendered empirical, observable reality beside the point. If I sound jumpy, it’s because I spent a couple of hours recently chatting with Joan Donovan, the research director of the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard’s Kennedy School. Donovan is a pioneering scholar of misinformation and media manipulation — the way that activists, extremists and propagandists surf currents in our fragmented, poorly moderated media ecosystem to gain attention and influence society. Donovan’s research team studies online lies the way crash-scene investigators study aviation disasters. They meticulously take apart specific hoaxes, conspiracy theories, viral political memes, harassment campaigns and other toxic online campaigns in search of the tactics that made each one explode into the public conversation. This week, Donovan’s team published “The Media Manipulation Casebook”, a searchable online database of its research. It makes for grim reading — an accounting of the many failures of journalists, media companies, tech companies, policymakers, law enforcement officials and the national security establishment to anticipate and counteract the liars who seek to dupe us. Armed with these investigations, Donovan hopes we can all do better. I hope she’s right. But studying her work also got me wondering whether we’re too late. Many Americans have become so deeply distrustful of one another that whatever happens on November 3, they may refuse to accept the outcome. Every day I grow more fearful that the number of those Americans will be large enough to imperil our nation’s capacity to function as a cohesive society. “I’m worried about political violence,” Donovan told me. America is heavily armed, and from Portland to Kenosha to the Michigan governor’s mansion, we have seen young men radicalized and organized online beginning to take the law into their own hands. Donovan told me she fears that “people who are armed are going to become dangerous, because they see no other way out.” Media manipulation is a fairly novel area of research. It was only when Donald Trump won the White House by hitting it big with right-wing online subcultures — and after internet-mobilized authoritarians around the world pulled similar tricks — that serious scholars began to take notice. The research has made a difference. In the 2016 election, tech companies and the mainstream media were often blind to the ways that right-wing groups, including white supremacists, were using bots, memes and other tricks of social media to “hack” the public’s attention, as the researchers Alice Marwick and Rebecca Lewis documented in 2017. But the war since has been one of attrition. Propagandists keep discovering new ways to spread misinformation; researchers like Donovan and her colleagues keep sussing them out, and, usually quite late, media and tech companies move to fix the flaws — by which time the bad guys have moved on to some other way of spreading untruths. The media ecosystem has wised up in some ways: note how the story supposedly revealing the contents of Hunter Biden’s laptop landed with a splat last week, quite different from the breathlessly irresponsible reporting on the Democrats’ hacked emails in 2016. But our society remains profoundly susceptible to mendacity. Donovan worries about two factors in particular. One is the social isolation caused by the pandemic. Lots of Americans are stuck at home, many economically bereft and cut off from friends and relatives who might temper their passions — a perfect audience for peddlers of conspiracy theories. Her other major worry is the conspiracy lollapalooza known as QAnon. It’s often short-handed the way Savannah Guthrie did at her town hall takedown of Donald Trump last week — as a nutty conspiracy theory in which a heroic Trump is prosecuting a secret war against a satanic paedophile ring of lefty elites. But that undersells QAnon’s danger. To people who have been ‘Q-pilled’, QAnon plays a much deeper role in their lives; it has elements of a support group, a political party, a lifestyle brand, a collective delusion, a religion, a cult, a huge multiplayer game and an extremist network. Donovan thinks QAnon represents a new, flexible infrastructure for conspiracy. QAnon has origins in a tinfoil-hat story about a D.C.-area pizza shop, but over the years it has adapted to include theories about the ‘deep State’ and the Mueller probe, Jeffrey Epstein, and a wild variety of misinformation about face masks, miracle cures, and other hoaxes regarding the coronavirus. QAnon has been linked to many instances of violence, and law enforcement and terrorism researchers discuss it as a growing security threat. “We now have a densely networked conspiracy theory that is extendible, adaptable, flexible and resilient to take down,” Donovan said of QAnon. It’s a very internet story, analogous to the way Amazon expanded from an online bookstore into a general-purpose system for selling anything to anyone. Facebook and YouTube this month launched new efforts to take down QAnon content, but Q adherents have often managed to evade deplatforming by softening and readjusting their messages. Recently, for instance, QAnon has adopted slogans like “Save the Children” and “Child Lives Matter”, and it seems to be appealing to anti-vaxxers and wellness moms. QAnon is also participatory, and, in an uncertain time, it may seem like a salvation. People “are seeking answers and they’re finding a very receptive community in QAnon,” Donovan said. This is a common theme in disinformation research: what makes digital lies so difficult to combat is not just the technology used to spread them, but also the nature of the societies they’re targeting, including their political cultures. Donovan compares QAnon to the Reverend Charles Coughlin, the priest whose radio show spread anti-Semitism in the Depression-era United States of America. Stopping Coughlin’s hate took a concerted effort, involving new regulations for radio broadcasters and condemnation of Coughlin by the Catholic Church. Stopping QAnon will be harder; Coughlin was one hatemonger with a big microphone, while QAnon is a complex, decentralized, deceptive network of hate. But the principle remains: combating the deception that has overrun public discourse should be a primary goal of our society. Otherwise, America ends in lies. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-128
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Newly-wed woman’s body found under Jamshedpur bridge||The body of a 22-year-old newly-wed woman was found lying on a sandy patch along the Subarnarekha river beneath Jai Prakash Narayan Setu in the Sitaramdera police station area early on Sunday. Police are unsure about the cause of death as there are no marks of any injury on her body. The woman had put on a red sari, had a tattoo on her left hand and was wearing a pair of anklets. Her body was found by slum dwellers who had gone to the river for a bath around 6am. Jai Prakash Narayan Setu is in the jurisdiction of three police stations: Sakchi, Sitaramdera and Mango. Cops from all three police stations reached the spot and after a discussion, decided that it came under the jurisdiction of Sitaramdera police. The officer in charge of Sitaramdera police station, Anjani Kumar Singh, let the body remain at the spot till 11am, expecting someone to turn up to identify it. However, no one came. Thereafter, the body was shifted to MGM Medical College Hospital for a Covid-19 test and then to the medical college for post-mortem. “We are unsure about the cause of death after a preliminary investigation. It appears that someone may have dropped the body at the spot after strangling her somewhere else. We have to wait for the post-mortem report to find a cause,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh added that the police were trying to procure footage from the surveillance cameras installed on either side of the bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Kumari or kanya puja rituals observed across steel city||Family members of former chief minister and present BJP national vice-president Raghubar Das performed kanya puja ( or Kumari Puja ) on the last day of Navratri at Shitla Mandir at Bhalubasa. Das could not attend the ouja as he is away at Patna for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls. His wife Rukmini Devi, son Lalit Das, daughter-in-law Purnima and other close relatives took part in the rituals that began at around 10 am and continued for about two hours. They offered prayers to nine girls aged below 12. The girls, who are believed to represent various forms of Durga were offered a chunri, a token amount and bhog comprising halwa, puri-sabzi and kheer. Kanya puja rituals were observed at several other pujas across the city on Sunday. Meanwhile, bight sunshine during the day and clear skies ensured more people were on the roads on Navami.But, it was nowhere close to crowds from previous years. Most pujas in the steel city witnessed a good turnout on Navami, the crowd comprising mostly young people. Senior citizens too ventured out but their numbers were less as most preferred to stay indoors. In most parts of the city, people started trickling into pandal areas from evening. Everyone had their faces covered with masks and many were seen with sanitiser bottles. " I am out with my family for the first time this puja. Although the threat of Covid exists but we are following all the safety protocols," said Sajal Kumar Sen, a former employee of Tata Motors who stays at  Telco Colony. Purnendu Ghosh, a businessman who had come with his two daughters at the Sarbajanin Durga Puja organised at the Aambagan Ground in Sakchi said,  " This year is very different and we are happy to be out. "||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city sets Dasami norms: immersion at daytime, no procession||The East Singhbhum district administration made elaborate arrangements for immersion of Durga idols on Monday with as many as 12 ghats along Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers cleaned up. Approach roads to the ghats have been levelled and lights and barricades are also in place. Volunteers will also be deployed. The administration has already issued directives to all the 320-odd puja committees to immerse idols before sunset as the water levels of both rivers are high. Moreover, as per Covid guidelines issued by the state government, the immersion will be sans processions. The authorities have also earmarked routes for the immersion of the idols. Magistrates and an adequate number of police personnel will be on duty at ghats from a security point of view. Barricading has also been done on routes which have not been earmarked for immersion. According to ADM (law and order) N.K. Lal, puja committees have been directed to not take out processions, “Puja committees have also been given timings for immersion and they have to adhere to the directives. Adequate security arrangements will be made at the ghats. Volunteers will also be deployed for assistance,” he added. While puja committees under Telco, Govindpur, Golmuri and  Burmamines police stations will proceed via R.D. Tata turnaround to Sakchi and reach the Subarnarekha river after passing through the Old Court Road, puja committees under Sitaramdera thana will catch the Straight Mile Road, reach Sakchi before reaching the river ghat. Idols of puja committees under Kadma police station will be immersed at Sati ghat and sub-station ghat after touching Rankini temple while immersion rituals for Pujas under Sonari thana will be conducted at Domuhani ghat. The ghats that have been readied for immersions include Subarnareka ghat, Sonari Naya ghat, Bhuiyandih ghat, Domuhani ghat, Kadma Sati ghat, Kadma sub-station ghat , Bodhanwala ghat, Bagbera Baroda ghat, Narwa ghat, Hurlung ghat, Baridih ghat and Dimna lake. Officials of district administration have already inspected the ghats. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and Mango Notified Area Committee have taken care of the cleanliness of the ghats. Puja-related items will not be released in the river. They will be kept at an earmarked place along the riverbed. The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS), which monitors pujas in steel city, has asked organisers to carry idols in small vehicles and maintain strict social distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM leaders seek special Assembly session to ratify Sarna code||A group of central committee members belonging to the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) wrote to Hemant Soren on Sunday, urging the chief minister to convene a special session of the state Assembly soon and pass a resolution to implement Sarna code and send a proposal to the Centre demanding that it be  included in the nationwide 2021 census. Ahead of the byelections to Dumka and Bermo Assembly constituencies on November 3, the JMM’s move is being seen as an attempt to calm frayed nerves of Jharkhand tribals who have upped their ante to posh for their demand for a separate Sarna code. Over the last week, several tribal outfits have held a series of protest matches and dharnas across the state, including capital Ranchi, in this regard. They have vowed to intensify their stir against the state and Centre in the coming months. The tribals’ demand for a separate sarna code, also known as religion code, is to retain a separate identity. Currently, they are either included as Hindus, Christians or Muslims in the census without a separate column for their distinct religion. The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government, led by Hemant, had promised to work towards a Sarna code in its manifesto. However, it is yet to take any formal step towards fulfilling that promise. Fearing a backlash in the coming byelections, the JMM central Committee has backed the latest demand for a Sarna code, voiced by half-a-dozen members who want a special session of the Assembly convened to seal the matter. JMM central committee member and former Silli MLA Amit Kumar said, “We are requesting the state government to make a formal move and express it’s commitment for the long-pending demands of tribals for a separate Sarna code. Hence, we wrote the letter.” Among the other signatories of the letter are several district party presidents too. In their letter, the JMM leaders have argued that between 1871 to 1951, adivasis used to tick the Sarna column as their religion. But that option was removed since the 1961-62 census. “Even during the last census, over 22 lakh tribals across the country separately identified themselves as Sarna followers but were later classified under Hindu, Muslim or Christian tribals, which is a ploy against their distinct identity,” the letter read. “Tribals (Sarna followers),” the letter added, “worship nature and must be given a separate religion code to retain their distinct identity and customs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Unique pujas across 3 Jharkhand districts||In Hazaribagh, Shivdayal nagar mohalla resident Abhishek Bhushan Prasad has been organising puja at his household including making the idol himself for the last 15 years. Bhushan said he used to bring all required items from Calcutta. “People say that the idol made by me is not seen anywhere else as its different and lively,” said Bhushan. In Chatra, a unique custom to crown goddess Durga at Mayurhund Durga Puja Mandap has resulted in a long waiting list till 2060. Devotees who get the chance have to bear the cost of the crown when their turn comes. Crown makers come from Bengal and total cost comes as Rs.20,000. Puja committee members and villagers gather at the house of the person. The crown custom is performed by priests. This year, Anant Kumar Sinha performed the custom whose father had made the booking in 1996. “My father wanted to do this but he passed away with this wish of him remained unfulfilled. I have done this and wherever my father is, he would be happy today that I fulfilled his wish,” said Sinha. In Koderma, the committee organising Durga puja since 1954 for the first time kept a picture of Goddess Durga instead of an idol. Vice president of puja committee, Suresh Yadav said puja this year is a low key affair. “It was a unanimous decision of the members as we found keeping picture better option to maintain the covid protocol,” he added. Yadav said committee members have been given the task to ensure there is no violation of protocols with devotees asked to come and leave the place immediately after the darshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Surprise Covid tests at night tame Puja crowds||Pandal hoppers returning to Jamshedpur from Adityapur were in for a surprise before being allowed back in the steel city on Ashtami night on Saturday: on-the-spot Covid tests. A team of health department officials from East Singhbhum, including city SP Subhash Chandra Jat, conducted surprise rapid antigen tests on people as they drove down Kharkai bridge that connects the steel city with the town in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. People were asked to get down from their cars and bikes for the tests during the drive which began at 8pm and continued for over three hours. During the time, around 150 people, men, women and children, were made to undergo rapid antigen test. Reports were made available within 15 minutes on the mobile phones of those who underwent the test. Of the 150, only one per son tested positive. "The patient belonged to Adityapur. He was immediately sent to a Covid hospital in Jamshedpur for treatment," said a health department official. As soon as news of the surprise Covid tests spread, the rush of pandal hoppers heading for Jairam Youth Sporting Club in Adityapur reduced. Of all the pandals, the one put up by the club whose patron is Arvind Singh, a former MLA of Ichagarh, drew considerable crowds on Ashtami night. The 10-feet-tall idol of Goddess Durga was the centre of attraction. The rest of the pujas in the steel city (around 320 ) were a low-key affair with simple  pandals. Civil surgeon of East Singhbhum R.N. Jha said, "Surprise tests were carried out to detect cases and avert the possibility of another wave of infection in the district." So far, East Singhbhum district has reported close to 16,000 cases with 328 deaths, the highest in the state. But in the past one week, cases have reduced in the district as the rate of infection has come down. On Saturday, 48 positive cases were reported out of 1,745 tested people. Significantly, East Singhbhum had reported an all-time high of 326 positive cases on September 9. Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti (JDPKS), the apex body of puja organisers, welcomed the surprise test initiative. “Covid tests on Kharkai bridge should continue on Navami too. These will achieve two objectives —check the flow of crowds into the city and also identify potential virus carriers,” said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of the Puja apex body. Singh also expressed dismay over the fact that despite standing instructions and state government’s guidelines people were found violating Covid protocols in several pandals on Maha Ashtami. "We have noted this and have asked these puja committees to deal strictly with pandal hoppers defying Covid rules on Navami, " added Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
25-10-2020||Jharkhand||Age-old rural puja in Bokaro goes online||A traditional Durga Puja in rural Jharkhand has gone hi-tech to avoid large gatherings and maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Being the only one in the village, the nearly 300-year-old puja of the Ghosh family of Marrah in Bokaro district is attended by nearly 600 families residing in the village bordering Bengal. Marrah is located around 35km from the district headquarters. The Ghosh family has installed Wi-Fi connection with a coverage area of about 20 metres so that people can witness the puja rituals even from a distance outside the temple premises. “This is the only Durga Puja in the village that our forefathers had begun about three centuries ago and everyone attends it,” said Sheetal Ghosh, a septuagenarian member of the Ghosh family. He said they thought the use of technology would help avoid a large gathering and also maintain social distancing. The Ghosh family has grown really large over the centuries but most of its members who are now scattered across the country and even abroad try to return to the village for witnessing the traditional family puja, he said. However, he lamented that most of them would not be able to come this year because of the pandemic. They contacted an agent of a mobile network service provider for getting a Wi-Fi connection and routers that would help stream puja proceedings live. A cable line has been laid for installing a broadband connection and routers set up, whose cost has been borne the organisers. “We are also seriously thinking of installing screens at strategic locations so that people can watch the rituals from a distance,” said Pritika Datta, a daughter-in-law of the family who now lives in Delhi but is actively involved in organising the Wi-Fi connection. “I’m a comparatively new member of the family but I’ve seen how my husband and his cousins enjoy the family get-together,” Pritika said. She said they would miss the celebrations this time. “But we are trying to get together online through social media, at least during the special rituals such as Sandhipuja (offered at the confluence of Ashtami and Navami), so that we get a glimpse of the goings-on at the village,” she said. However, the frequent and prolonged power cuts the village faces and poor mobile connectivity may turn out to be a damper. But the family are hopeful that power supply would improve during pujas and broadband Internet connection would also ensure better mobile connectivity. “We are keeping our fingers crossed,” Pritika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-256
