26-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra ‘very critical’, consciousness levels dip||The health condition of legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained "very critical" on Monday, neither improving nor worsening, his family sources said. The 85-year-old thespians platelet count had dropped on Sunday. "His condition has neither improved nor has it worsened. The condition is the same as yesterday (Sunday) as of now," a family member said. A spokesman of the city private hospital where he is being treated, said in a statement, "On the 20th day of hospitalisation and 17th day of ICU care Chatterjee's consciousness is not improving despite all our efforts. Rather it has decreased." His platelet count is little on the lower side and his haemoglobin has gone down, he said. "We have begun transfusion; we are correcting the platelet count. We are trying definitive therapy to end Covid encephalopathy which is the crux of the matter," the statement had said. Encephalopathy is a general term to describe a disease that affects the function or structure of the brain. "Our neuro board discussed ways like giving him invasive airway support after talking to his family," the spokesman said. The level of urea and sodium in his blood has gone up, he said. Stating that Chatterjee was "maintaining well on other organ functions," he said with prolonged ICU stay and invasive support there is always a chance of secondary complications due to his advanced age and comorbidities. "His organs like lungs and heart are working well and his blood pressure is normal but his consciousness is a cause of concern," the spokesman said. The critically acclaimed actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. Chatterjee, a Dada Saheb Phalke awardee, had tested negative for the infection last week after which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Colourful processions mark end of Durga Puja celebrations in Bengal ||The five-day Durga Puja festivities in Bengal came to an end on Monday, albeit colourful processions, which usually mark the occasion, were largely missing from the city streets, as the idol immersion ceremony was observed by just a handful of people. Dressed in traditional outfits and with masks worn on faces, devotees, while maintaining safe distance, touched the feet of goddess Durga as chants of 'asche bochor abar hobe' (till next year) rent the air. Women offered sweets to the goddess, even as the traditional 'Sindur Khela' (women smear each other with vermilion) was mostly restricted to organisers and a few local residents at the pandals. According to Kolkata Police sources, adequate arrangements have been made to ensure the idol immersion ceremony was peaceful everywhere, with CCTVs installed at all river ghats and personnel from civic bodies and Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) present at the venue to monitor the situation. All puja committees have been told to send bare minimum members to the ghats for  observing the rituals. Heavy cranes fixed atop boats were seen in action at some of the ghats to help lift and extricate the remains of the idols from the river to avoid water pollution. This year, however, the Durga Puja carnival at Red Road, where big ticket committees showcase their idols before participating in the immersion procession, has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||On Navami, pandal-hoppers come out||Saptami had a few people outside pandals. Ashtami evening had a fair turnout on streets and outside pandals. On Navami, Sunday, the crowd count started going up from the afternoon. Police and puja committees braced for a larger crowd at night. A college student who went out for a drive with her family on Sunday afternoon said there was such a gathering of people outside a restaurant in Kolaghat that they decided not to stop there and instead returned home to Bhowanipore. Puja organisers said they had expected more people after seeing the turnout on Saturday evening. “The number of visitors to our puja was more than double on Sunday afternoon and early evening compared to Thursday and Saturday,” Pratik Choudhury, the general secretary of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra, said. “We are expecting a stream of visitors well past midnight today (Sunday),” Saswata Basu, the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durga Puja committee, said: “We had more than double the number of people outside our pandals on Saturday evening compared to Thursday and Friday. We have had quite a good turnout from Sunday afternoon.” Sandipan Banerjee, the convener of Behala Nutan Dal, said there was a queue of people waiting to approach their pandal on Sunday evening. “The queue started forming around 6pm. There was a queue on Saturday evening, too. This is, though, nothing compared to previous years… but way better than Sashthi or Saptami, which were dull.” The crowd everywhere had to stop 10m from pandals. Calcutta High Court had declared all pandals no-entry zones. No visitors will be allowed inside a pandal, the court had said while ordering barricades 5m from the entrance for small pujas and 10m for big pujas. Many committees have built their pandals in such a way that people can see the idols from far away. Partho Ghosh, the general secretary of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin, said they have had a good number of visitors from the start. “Our idol was visible from beyond 10m. So, people approached the barricades and saw our pandal and the idol. Also, most idols this time would be immersed by Monday or Tuesday; so, people will go pandal hopping today (Sunday).” A VIP Road resident, who went out with her husband and daughter on Sunday evening, managed to see a couple of idols from inside their car. “I could see the idol of Maniktala Chaltabagan and Bosepukur Sitala Mandir from the car. There were quite a few cars that slowed down outside the pandals to catch a glimpse of the idol.” The queue outside restaurants in the city on Sunday afternoon and outside some popular eateries on the outskirts of the city gave a hint of what might be in store at night. Arkopriya Pal, a student of Lady Shri Ram College for Women in Delhi, went on a “long drive” with her parents. She had planned to lunch at a Kolaghat restaurant. “Seeing the crowd, we dropped our plan and returned home to Bhowanipore. We ordered food through Swiggy.” A police officer said his duty had ended by 1am on Saptami night. “It stretched till 1.30-1.45am on Ashtami. I expect to be on the roads till 2.30am today (Sunday).” The officer said it was in “no way comparable to previous years” when cops had to manage crowds till 3am or 3.30am every day and an additional hour on Navami night. “Still it shows how crowd count has gradually increased.” The city police deploy most of its personnel on road at night during Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Houston Puja goes digital||A Durga Puja in north America, billed as a meeting point of tens of thousands of Indians, has gone digital this year to combat the pandemic. Houston Durgabari Puja, in its 20th year, allowed only priests and volunteers inside the temple. Even though Durga Puja has been celebrated in Houston since 1975 — it was celebrated for the first time in Durgabari in September 2000. The entire puja and programmes were telecast on YouTube and Facebook this year. “Houston Durgabari is the nerve centre of our community — this puja is the epitome of our annual celebration. Every year, people in the Space City and rest of Texas and entire north America visit Durga Bari during the puja days,” Partha Sarathi Chatterjee, founding trustee of Durgabari and one of the key organisers of the puja, said on the phone from Houston. “This year, in the wake of the pandemic we wanted to give a message. Stay home and stay safe. We will bring the festivities to your home.” A fall/winter surge in Covid-19 numbers in the West has had doctors and public health experts worried. More than 84,000 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 across the US on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, a record one-day increase in infections during the pandemic. The pandemic has forced several Durga Pujas abroad to go the virtual way this year. At Durgabari, the pandemic did not affect the elaborate rituals. Every ritual — bodhon to anjali to sandhi puja — was followed to the minutest detail, said organisers. Spread over six acres of land with a central temple, auditorium, a multi-purpose education facility and playgrounds, Houston Durgabari stands on the banks of a big lake where birds flock in droves under the setting sun. Houston, home to Nasa’s Manned Spacecraft Centre, is known as the Space City. A host of cultural programmes lined up for this year’s celebrations were broadcast on social media. To create the puja ambiance, the pandal was soaked in Las Vegas-style lighting. “Thousands of people took part in the Sandhi Puja (that happened on Saturday morning, according to Indian time) from their drawing rooms. A day before, they had offered anjali to the goddess from their drawing rooms,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Inspiration from the Goddess||A group of girls from deprived families whose hardships have intensified during the pandemic are drawing strength from Goddess Durga. In the run-up to the puja, Calcutta Rescue, an NGO, has reached out to the girls they work with and tried to instill confidence in them and help them fight the situation by citing the example of Durga as a symbol of woman power. The pandemic, which appears to have no end in sight, and the gender discrimination the girls are being subjected to have left many of them demoralised, one of their teachers said. “Many of the girls have started to believe their life is meaningless. For some, especially those who are not academically strong, there is family pressure to get married,” Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of Calcutta Rescue, said. “We have tried to rebuild their confidence and help them resist early marriages. We encourage them to share their problems, seek help and speak out.” For example, a 17-year-old girl, who failed to clear Madhyamik in two consecutive years, but is a good dancer, was being forced to get married and made to think she is “worthless”. The girl, after this project, spoke to her teachers who told her there were vocational courses she could pursue — that of a beautician or a dance teacher. The girl then spoke to her mother about it and the marriage was called off. “We make girls recognise their inner strength; if we are able to change even one life we consider it as a success,” Chatterjee said. This was a month-long project and the girls made a video and spoke about the various roles the goddess has — a mother, a wife, and someone fighting evil. In the video, one girl is talking about the “tenacity of women, provided she is able to develop and hone her skills”. The girls can be heard saying “Provide us with opportunity”; “Respect women, save girls, provide the right nutrition. You will be close to your Durga”; and “Early marriage is no solution. Let me learn. Let me earn. I am your Durga”. Chatterjee said for many girls the circumstances were always difficult but the pandemic had intensified that. There is increased discrimination at home when it comes to them and their brothers. They are increasingly losing their confidence, an NGO official said. The girls will have to complete household chores and only then can they attend online classes. “During the lockdown the men in the family were not able to go out and they could not source alcohol; now, they somehow manage to get it and resort to violence at home,” the official said. Being a witness to such violence, these girls fear more violence if they show resistance. “But we need to make them realise that they can do anything. We have seen a change in them, too,” Chatterjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
26-10-2020||Calcutta||Trucks spread wildlife awareness||Three vehicles themed on wildlife conservation have started doing the rounds of Calcutta and three adjacent districts. The improvised five-seater mini-trucks, decked out with paintings, posters and leaflets that raise awareness about some of the animals and birds commonly found in the urban and semi-urban landscape, have been criss-crossing Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. This will continue till November. “Turtle trade is illegal,” is written in a large font on a tableau atop a vehicle. “Fishing cat is our state animal,” says another. The vehicles were flagged off from Aranya Bhavan, the headquarters of the state forest department, on Sunday by state forest minister Rajib Banerjee. Recorded messages are played, too. “Forest and wildlife are inseparable parts of our environment. The creatures we see around us every day… the many birds like sparrows, common myna and animals like squirrel, turtle, snake, mongoose, civet cat and fishing cat… all these are defined as wildlife according to the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. These animals and birds help maintain the ecological balance. Come, let us pledge to save them by protecting their habitat — trees and water bodies and wetlands,” says one message. “One vehicle has been moving around Calcutta. Another is doing the rounds of North 24-Parganas; a third Howrah and Hooghly,” Om Prakash, deputy conservator of forests, wildlife (headquarters), said. The idea is to generate visibility during the festive season, V.K. Yadav, Bengal’s chief wildlife warden, said. “The animals found around us are not harmful. But they are often killed out of a misplaced sense of fear. We want to give people the message, ‘please contact us if you need help’.” The vehicles are manned by forest personnel. They have distributing leaflets, posters and brochures. Some posters have turtle images. “Hath dilei hajote (Lay your hand, land in jail),” reads an accompanying message. All promotional materials have the forest department’s helpline number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-261
26-10-2020||Business||Clarity on leave travel concession stimulus||Central government employees can submit multiple bills of goods and services purchased in their own name to avail the benefit of the LTC (Leave Travel Concession) cash voucher scheme, according to the finance ministry. The expenditure department, under the ministry, has issued a set of FAQs (frequently asked questions) on LTC cash voucher scheme, clarifying that an employee can also avail the scheme utilising the applicable LTC fare without leave encashment. The government on October 12 announced the LTC cash voucher scheme under which central government employees can purchase any goods or services with GST rate of 12 per cent or above to avail the benefit. Till now, employees got LTC benefits only on travels made, or had to forgo the amount. The ministry said employees can avail the scheme utilising the applicable LTC fare without leave encashment. “The expenditure should be in accordance with the ratio as prescribed for LTC fare,” it said. To a query on whether the scheme would be applicable if a particular LTC which is meant to be used for the scheme has been partially availed by either self or members of the family, the FAQ said, “This scheme is applicable to the LTC fare left unutilised during the block year (2018-21).” On whether an employee with four family members eligible for LTC can avail the scheme for less than four members, the ministry said an employee can avail the scheme in partial, that is for the LTC part of the eligible family. “Since this is an optional scheme, if the LTC fare of any member of the family has not been utilised for this purpose, those members can avail LTC subject to extent instructions under LTC rules.” The FAQ further clarified that multiple bills would be accepted, but purchases should happen within the current financial year ending March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Amazon wins interim award against Future group’s sale of retail business to Reliance Industries||Amazon on Sunday won an interim award against the Future group’s sale of its retail business to Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the deal on hold. It may be recalled that the US-based retail giant had dragged the Future group to arbitration after it agreed to sell businesses to Reliance Retail. Earlier, this month Amazon had slapped a legal notice on the group, alleging that the asset sale to Reliance violated an contractual agreement with the e-commerce giant. It then approached the Singapore International Arbitration Centre saying that the Future group breached the contract. Last year, Amazon had bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons Ltd, with the right to buy into flagship Future Retail after a period between 3 years and 10 years. Future Coupons owns 7.3 per cent stake in Future Retail. Passing an interim award in favour of Amazon, V. K. Rajah — the sole arbitrator in the arbitration matter — has asked the Future group to put the deal on hold and said that the deal cannot go through until it finally decides the matter. A PTI report quoting an Amazon spokesperson said that the arbitration panel has granted the reliefs sought by it and expect an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process. “We welcome the award of the Emergency Arbitrator. We are grateful for the order which grants all the reliefs that were sought. We remain committed to an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process," the Amazon spokesperson said. Late last month, Reliance Industries Ltd had announced that it is acquiring the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division from Future Group for a lump sum consideration of Rs 24,713 crore. The acquisition was to bring retail formats like Big Bazaar, fbb, Foodhall, Easyday, Nilgiris, Central and Brand Factory into the Reliance fold. The Future group had announced that the transaction will initially see it merging close to five companies carrying the formats or the businesses that will go into the Reliance fold into Future Enterprises Ltd (FEL). As per the announcement, the retail and wholesale undertaking of the group will be transferred to Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd (RRFLL), while the logistics & warehousing undertaking will go to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), which is a RIL subsidiary. RIL had said that RRFLL, a subsidiary of RRVL will acquire 6.09 per cent of the post merger equity of FEL and it will invest another Rs 400 crore in preferential issue of equity warrants, which after conversion will see its stake going up by another 7.05 per cent in the company. Shares of Future Enterprises had ended with gains of almost five per cent on Friday. The scrip ended had settled at Rs 10.03 — marking a rise of 4.48 per cent over its last close. The Future Retail share too finished higher by 3.39 per cent. These counters may come under pressure on the news of Amazon winning interim award against the Future group on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Life Insurance Corp float date gets delayed||The mega initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp (LIC) may spill over to the next fiscal as the government will first look at the independent actuarial valuation of the country’s largest insurer, a top official has said. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said the pre-IPO work of LIC is going on at four stages — appointment of advisors for ensuring compliance, legislative amendment, LIC’s internal software changes to come out with its “embedded value” and appointing an actuary to  vet LIC’'s actuarial valuation. The government plans to amend the Act under which the state-run LIC was set up to prepare for the sale. A stake sale in LIC is crucial for meeting a record Rs 2.1 lakh crore disinvestment target set for the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021. Pandey said only after the four stages converge, then a decision would be taken on the quantum of government stake to be diluted in LIC. “Then the IPO decision would be there, what percentage of IPO we will go forward. Only after these four things converge... we are trying our best to do this fiscal. But this IPO is a big issue and I think it will take time,” Pandey said when asked if the offering would happen this fiscal. Pandey said Deloitte and SBI Caps have been appointed pre-IPO advisors who have been working with LIC to list out the items of compliance. The second part is a legislative amendment that the Department of Financial Services (DFS) is working along with Dipam, he said. This amendment would facilitate the initial public offering (IPO) of LIC, by making changes in the LIC Act. “Third, is the issue of internal changes in LIC like software changes to come out with embedded value. LIC has been doing old-style actuarial valuation. But for IPO they need to do embedded value,” he said. He said Dipam would come out with an RFP to appoint an actuarial firm that will independently verify the actuarial value produced by LIC. “LIC also has to do the valuation of its real estate assets,” Pandey added. In the 2020-21 Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government’s plan to sell a part of its holding in LIC by way of IPO. “Listing of companies on stock exchanges disciplines them and provides access to financial markets and unlocks its value. It also gives an opportunity for retail investors to participate in the wealth so created,” she had said. The government has budgeted to collect Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sale. This include Rs 1.20 lakh crore from CPSE disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stake in financial institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||Business||Shaktikanta Das tests positive for Covid||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He is 63. “I have tested Covid-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all deputy governors and other officers through video conference and telephone,’’ he said on Twitter. A growth oriented Das has been doing much of the heavy-lifting of the economy with the pandemic inflicting a record contraction. Since March this year, the central bank has brought down the policy repo rate by 115 basis points. The RBI has also taken several other steps that includes infusion of liquidity, easing financing conditions an cooling down yields amid a record government borrowing. Earlier this month, he also indulged in moral suasion. He said yields of government securities (G-sec) need to evolve in alignment with the comfortable liquidity conditions and that market participants, on their part, need to take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. These words were accompanied by other actions which included doubling the size of open market operations (purchase of Government securities) to Rs 20,000 crore, an on-tap targeted long term repo operations TLTRO with tenors of up to three years for a total amount of up to Rs 1,00,000 crore and OMOs in state development loans (SDLs). While this is for the first time that the RBI was buying state government bonds, all these actions have resulted in bringing down yields on the benchmark 10-year G-sec to below 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
26-10-2020||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia accuses Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh of being 'biggest traitors'||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday accused former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh of being the "biggest traitors" in Madhya Pradesh, saying  they betrayed voters' trust by running a "corrupt" government and he had to leave the Congress after people's issues raised by him were not addressed despite approaching "every port of call". He also expressed confidence that the BJP will "win a majority", if not all, of the 28 assembly seats where bypolls will be held on November 3. In an interview with PTI, Scindia said 27 out of the 28 assembly seats which are going to polls were Congress seats, so the BJP has everything to gain, while the Congress has everything to lose. By-elections were necessitated after 22 rebel Congress MLAs, loyal to Scindia, resigned from the party in March this year leading to fall of the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. Later, three more MLAs resigned and joined BJP, while further three seats fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs. "The Congress needs to win 28 out of 28 seats to be able to even think of coming close to forming the government and they have just lost another MLA (in Rahul Lodhi) who has joined the BJP. It is very clear that people do not have any hope in the Congress party, not only at grassroots, but also in sitting MLAs of the Congress," Scindia said. "I do not think in any other state you would have seen MLAs in such a large number -- almost about 30 per cent -- leaving. It very clearly shows the lack of trust and faith in the state leadership of the Congress party which is Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh, and who are in a partnership," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Asked about the Congress campaign narrative of betrayal and being called 'gaddar' by Congress leaders during canvassing, Scindia said it is not a term that he normally uses in politics as he believes that there must be a certain level in politics that should be adhered to. "If they indeed are using that term then the biggest gaddars (traitors) in Madhya Pradesh are Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh who have been 'gaddars' towards seven and a half crore people because none of the poll promises were fulfilled, they were busy in rent-seeking activities and holding on to power and chair rather than serving the people of the state," Scindia said. Talking about Kamal Nath's 'item' jibe at BJP candidate Imarti Devi, the 49-year-old leader said public figures must adhere to certain values and morals and set an example. Scindia said the remark was directed at a woman who has risen from the grassroots-level, fought a sarpanch election, became MLA three times and was a Cabinet minister in the Kamal Nath government. "Kamal Nath says he cannot remember her name, which shows his arrogance of power that he cannot remember the name of a colleague who was part of his cabinet. After all, he was only the Chief Minister, who is the first among equals, and she was a colleague," Scindia said. To top that, he calls a woman and that too a Dalit woman "an item", which speaks of his mentality towards both women and Dalits, he said. "What is very sad is that he has not been alone in this. He has been followed very arduously by the former leader of the opposition Ajay Singh who in a statement said 'Imarti should be made into a 'Jalebi' after the election'," he said. Scindia also alleged that former chief minister Digvijaya Singh had also also made a derogatory comment about Meenakshi Natrajan two-three years ago "This shows the attitude of the Congress party towards women and scheduled castes. If Baba Saheb Ambedkar was alive today, he would be very deeply grieved and pained," Scindia said. Kamal Nath has maintained he did not say anything disrespectful. Asked if like Arjuna of Mahabharata, he feels any dilemma in taking on people with whom he was close to and fought together, Scindia said he is fighting for the cause of the people of Madhya Pradesh and for their well being. Scindia said his father Madhavrao Scindia, grandmother Vijaya Raje Scindia and he joined politics only for the welfare of the people. "For me, a political party is a medium to be able to reach that goal of public service. So for me, politics is not important, what is important is the goal of public service," he said. Scindia said he is willing to do whatever it requires to fulfil the aspirations of people, and if it "entails sometimes fighting with those with whom you have worked for over 20 years, so be it". "I tried to change the way the (Kamal Nath) government was functioning for 15 months, I went to every single port of call that one can to try and address these issues, but when they lay unaddressed, what option was I left with," the former Union minister said. Scindia said when the Congress came to power, aspirations of citizens of the state rested squarely on the shoulders of Kamal Nath, but he ran a "corruption-riddled government during the span of 15 months". Accusing the Nath government of indulging in corruption in numerous areas from "sand mining to liquor mafia", Scindia said the Congress dispensation "literally ridiculed and belittled" the aspirations of the people. "Not fulfilling any of the election promises left me no options but to look for a better governance mechanism for the people of the state. I firmly believe that the Shivraj Singh government would be able to provide that to the people under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party president J P Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Rajnath holds talks with US counterpart, stag set for Indo-US 2+2 dialogue||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his US counterpart Mark T Esper held extensive talks on Monday, covering various aspects of fast expanding defence and strategic ties, including ways to further deepen military-to-military cooperation, between the two countries. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Esper arrived here on Monday on a two-day visit for the third edition of Indo-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue which will take place on Tuesday during which the two sides will focus on further boosting overall defence and security ties as well as cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian side at the 2+2 dialogue would be led by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Singh. The talks are taking place at a time India is engaged in a bitter border row with China, and the issue is expected to figure in the deliberations. The two key officials of the Trump administration will also call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and meet National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. The US Defence Secretary was given a tri-services guard of honour outside the South Block in the Raisina Hills ahead of his talks with Singh. In the last few months, the US has been very critical of China over a range of contentious issues including the border row with India, its military assertiveness in the South China Sea and the way Beijing handled the anti-government protests in Hong Kong. Ahead of Pompeo's visit, the US State Department said the US welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. "The United States welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council," the State Department said. It is expected that the two sides may finalise the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The BECA will provide for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. According to the US government, India maintains the largest fleets of C-17 and P-8 aircraft outside of the US, and as of 2020, Washington has authorised more than USD 20 billion in defence sales to India. The first edition of the two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Priyanka slams Yogi govt over law and order; says fear prevailing among people||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday slammed the Yogi Adityanath government over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that fear prevails among the people of the state. Along with her tweet attacking the state government, Priyanka Gandhi tagged a media report which claimed that an iron trader was kidnapped this morning in Baghpat and Rs one crore was demanded in ransom. "An iron trader was kidnapped in Baghpat this morning. Women are not safe in UP. Traders are not safe. Children are not safe," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Those in government make hollow speeches in election meetings. Fear prevails in public," the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP said. The Congress has been attacking the UP government over the state of law and order, alleging that criminal activities are rampant, a claim denied by the state dispensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Covid cases in India mount to 79,09,959 with 45,148 in 24 hours||New coronavirus infections reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 50,000 for the second time this month, while the new fatalities registered during the same period fell under 500 after 108 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 79,09,959 with 45,148 new infections being reported in a day. The death toll climbed to 1,19,014 with 480 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 71,37,228 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far pushing the national recovery rate to 90.23 per cent while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.50 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infections remained below 7 lakh for four days in a row. There are 6,53,717 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 8.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,34,62,778 samples have been tested up to October 24 with 9,39,309 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||RSS: China has intruded. Oops!||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday named China in connection with the border standoff, something Prime Minister Narenda Modi has shied off so far, and acknowledged Chinese intrusion into Indian territory, which the Prime Minister has denied. Shortly afterwards, however, the RSS tweeted an edited text of Bhagwat’s Dussehra address that changed “hamari seemaon ka jo atikraman kiya (intruded across our borders)” to “atikraman ka prayas kiya (attempted to intrude)”. “Corona mahamari me Chin ka naam aata hai. Pata nahi kya hai. Lekin uski bhumika sandigdha hai. Lekin Chin ne iss kaalawadhi me, apne aur samarik bal ke garv me, abhimaan me hamari seemaon ka jo atikraman kiya aur jis prakar ka vyavahar kiya aur kar raha hai (China’s name has come up in connection with the coronavirus pandemic. Don’t know what it is, but its role is doubtful. But during this period, the way China has intruded across our borders out of military pride, and the kind of behaviour it has shown and is still showing)...” Bhagwat said at the start of a long sentence on Beijing’s expansionist policies. The RSS tweet did not edit out the reference to China, but tweaked the intrusion part to quote Bhagwat as saying: “Parantu, Bharat ki seemaon par jis prakar se atikraman ka prayas apne aarthik samarik bal ke karan madandh hokar usne kiya (Besides, the way it attempted to intrude across India’s borders, intoxicated by its economic and military might)....” The RSS chief is seen as the guardian of the entire Sangh parivar, which considers his annual Dussehra speech an address to the nation. The sarsanghchalak dwells on the various challenges before the country and lays down the Sangh’s line on key issues. Modi had on June 19 denied any Chinese intrusion as he addressed an all-party meeting four days after 20 Indian soldiers had died during a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. He has not retracted or added to the statement since. “Na wahan koi hamari seema me ghus aya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje me hai (Neither has anyone intruded across our frontiers there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else),” he had said. Modi has avoided naming China all along. On the Galwan Valley clash, the Modi government has maintained that Chinese troops had tried to cross the Line of Actual Control but were thwarted by the brave Indian soldiers. Bhagwat, while acknowledging Chinese intrusion, credited not just India’s soldiers but also its government with a firm and bold response, although he gave no specifics. He claimed that India’s bold response had “stunned” China and inspired other countries to stand up to Beijing. “Iss baar Bharat ne jo uski pratikriya di uske karan woh saham gaya, dhakka mila usko kyonki Bharat tan-ke khada ho gaya (This time, India’s response stunned China; it received a blow because India had stood firm),” Bhagwat said. He said that while the world was aware of China’s expansionist policies earlier too, it saw it clearly this time with China picking on Taiwan, Vietnam, America, Japan and India simultaneously. Bhagwat said that to counter China, India needed to grow not only in “shakti” (power) but also in “vyapti” (scope). He said that while India wanted friendly relations with all its neighbours, its benevolence shouldn’t be seen as weakness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Chirag seeks votes for BJP ||Chirag Paswan on Sunday urged Bihar’s electorate to vote for the BJP in constituencies where his Lok Janshakti Party is not contesting. He also stepped up his attack against chief minister Nitish Kumar, in alliance with whom the BJP is fighting the election. “I request you all to vote for LJP candidates at all the places where they are contesting to implement ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ (the party’s slogan for the Assembly polls), and vote for BJP candidates at other places,” Chirag tweeted. “The next government in the state will be free of Nitish.” While senior BJP leaders claim that the LJP is not in the NDA in Bihar, many believe that the BJP is using Chirag to try and undermine Nitish and emerge the largest party in the October-November elections. Chirag’s latest act would bolster the suspicion. Such speculation had gained strength when Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to Chirag’s recently deceased father, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, at his first election rally in Bihar. Modi had refrained from criticising Chirag while broaching the subjects of Article 370 and the instant triple talaq— issues on which Nitish has refused to support the BJP. Chirag’s party has fielded candidates from 136 of the state’s 243 seats, including 115 where Nitish’s Janata Dal United is in the fray. A few LJP nominees are contesting against BJP candidates too, but sources said they had been fielded with the BJP’s permission. Many BJP flags were seen at Chirag’s rallies in Buxar and Sitamarhi on Sunday. Chirag’s appeal is being seen as a signal to the voters that he is indeed with the BJP. This could win him votes from BJP supporters in constituencies where his candidates are pitted against JDU rivals. It can help keep him in the BJP’s good books too — the LJP commands about six per cent votes in Bihar. Chirag’s move is also being seen as a bid to counter the allegation — levelled by many BJP leaders as they tried to distance their party from the LJP’s anti-Nitish stance — that his party is a “vote katwa” (gobbler of NDA votes). It’s also a way of rebutting insinuations that he is in touch with RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Such whispers had gained ground after Chirag fielded a candidate from Raghopur where Tejashwi is pitted against the BJP’s Satish Kumar. Many of the LJP candidates are rebels from the BJP and the JDU. At his rallies on Sunday, Chirag stepped up his attacks on Nitish and promised a temple at Sitamarhi, considered Sita’s birthplace, that would be bigger than the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Nitish and his officials will be behind bars if we come to power,” he said in Buxar while alleging rampant corruption in the execution of government schemes. In another rally, he asserted that Nitish’s pet project of prohibition had been a failure. “Liquor is being sold on a large scale and he (Nitish) is getting the money,” Chirag alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Squabble over unpaid doctor wages ||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP have traded blame over unpaid wages in five hospitals run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which has prompted a hunger-strike from Friday by five doctors at Hindu Rao Hospital and the threat of an indefinite cease-work. The BJP, which controls all three municipal corporations in Delhi, has blamed the crisis on the AAP-run state government’s alleged withholding of more than Rs 18,000 crore in funds to the civic bodies. The state administration says the corporations owe it around Rs 10,000 crore for multiple services, and that a bailout would merely fall into a bottomless pit of debt. Doctors at all the five hospitals have announced a “mass casual leave” on Monday, and an indefinite strike from Tuesday if a lasting solution was not found to the repeated delays in salaries, seen over the past two years. At a news conference on Sunday, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak condemned Saturday’s transfer of four chief medical officers (CMOs) from Hindu Rao to another corporation hospital. He said the four were being punished for participating in wage-delay protests. The orders said the transfers were being carried out “in view of the exigency of services due to the strike of senior resident and junior residents”. “For the last 10-12 days these Covid warriors are protesting. Now they are on hunger strike for the last two days. They have met BJP leaders, the mayor and others to solve this problem but nothing has happened,” Pathak said. He said that if even a tenth of the Rs 18,000-crore budget of Delhi’s municipal corporations were used efficiently, the crisis could be resolved. BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor told The Telegraph: “North DMC has not transferred any doctor; only a very short period deputation has been allowed from HRH to Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis to meet the urgent need for doctors there in the diphtheria season.” He said the AAP should “stop playing dirty politics in this health emergency” and its government should “extend a financial package immediately” to help end the crisis. The salaries have been unpaid for at least three months. Earlier this month, the North DMC had cleared a month’s wage arrears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Four-month delay for first-year tech classes||First-year classes in engineering and management colleges will start on December 1, more than four months later than usual, but efforts will be made to cut down on vacations to minimise the loss to students, the technical education regulator has said. Academic years at engineering and management colleges usually begin in mid-July. But guidelines issued last week by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to affiliated engineering, management and other professional colleges say that classes for the 2020-21 session will start from December 1 for the fresh entrants. The existing students (second year onwards) have been taking online classes since August. Even the first-year classes from December 1 are expected to be held online. The circular, issued by AICTE member secretary Rajive Kumar, adds: “Due to prolonged emergent conditions in the country and requests from various state governments and ongoing admission process of (the) llTs and NITs, the council has extended the last date of admission to first-year engineering courses (UG and diploma lateral entry) to 30th November, 2020.” Admissions are now going on at the Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology, and are expected to end in another fortnight. Many of the 3,500 other AICTE-approved engineering colleges wait for the IITs and the NITs to complete their admission processes before wrapping up their own admissions. “The colleges can admit students in October and November too; the AICTE has only suggested a last date,” Kumar told The Telegraph. He said the council would advise the institutions to cut down on vacations for the first-year students. Usually, the colleges close for about 10 days around Christmas and two months during the summer. First-year undergraduate and postgraduate students in general universities and colleges will not get summer or winter vacation this year, the University Grants Commission has said. However, the students will get a week’s break each after their first and second-semester exams. Their classes will start from November 1, according a revised academic calendar that the higher education regulator issued last month. The first-semester exams will be held from March 8 to 26 next year. The second semester will start from April 5 and continue till August 1, with the exams scheduled between August 9 and 21. Before the exams, the students will get a week’s preparation break. The second-year classes for the session 2021-22 will start from August 30. Usually, classes at universities and colleges begin in July. The colleges will decide whether and how long to conduct the classes online, depending on the policies of their state governments, a UGC official said. The UGC has provided for the cancellation of admissions with a full refund of the fees up to November 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||Rahul: Bhagwat knows truth, can’t face it ||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday confronted RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on the question of the Chinese intrusion, accusing him of not speaking the truth despite knowing that India’s territory has been captured. Responding to the RSS chief’s customary Vijaya Dashami speech, Rahul tweeted: “Deep inside, Mr Bhagwat knows the truth. He is just scared to face it. The truth is China has taken our land and the Government of India & RSS have allowed it.” Bhagwat in his speech had admitted the Chinese intrusion — something Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not done — but claimed that India’s firm response had rattled the neighbour. “Bharat tan ke khada ho gaya (India stood firmly). Bharat ne jo pratrikriya di, usse Cheen ko dhakka mila (China received a setback by the response given by India). The setback — economically and strategically — was good enough. China would not have anticipated it.” Bhagwat did not explain the setback. The Congress has been demanding restoration of status quo ante. Rahul has repeatedly said that nothing short of status quo ante was acceptable. The Congress has dismissed the banning of some mobile apps and the informal calls for boycott of Chinese goods as inadequate. While Bhagwat suggested that the only way to curb the Chinese tendency of expansionism was to strengthen India economically, strategically and diplomatically, he did not explain whether the Modi government was on course to achieve that target. India’s economy is in a mess, with GDP growth stuttering at minus 23 per cent. China’s economy didn’t dip into the negative territory despite the impact of the pandemic. India’s relations with neighbours are also not very healthy while Modi personally ran a huge risk by supporting Donald Trump’s campaign in the US election. Rahul, in his message on Vijaya Dashami, said: “Truthultimately triumphs.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi in her message said, “Dussehra is a symbol of victory of justice over injustice, truth over untruth and wisdom over arrogance.” She added: “There is no place for arrogance, untruth and betrayal of promise in a ruler’s life. That’s the key message of Vijaya Dashami.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
26-10-2020||India||BSNL union in 4G cry||The BSNL Employees’ Union has planned to intensify its campaign and launch an agitation to get its long-standing demands fulfilled by the Centre. The union has urged the Centre to keep its promise and roll out 4G services to help the state-run telecom company compete with private players. “It is a year since the government announced its revival package. But nothing has happened yet,” BSNLEU Karnataka president C.K. Gundanna told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Our employee strength has been halved, thanks to an ill-timed voluntary retirement scheme. In December 2019, we had 1.6 lakh workers across the country. Now it’s hardly 66,000,” Gundanna said, citing this as one of the biggest handicaps forced on the company. “We know the Centre is trying to kill us to help Reliance Jio that has benefited a lot since its launch. But let them realise that we have been getting new subscribers despite the lack of 4G services,” he said. He said BSNL added 3.88 lakh subscribers in July while Vodafone-Idea lost 37.26 lakh customers. But a significant chunk of subscribers went to Jio and Airtel. “The fact that people still trust us is enough reason for the Centre to permit us to roll out 4G services. While the private telecom companies are set to launch 5G, we are still being denied 4G,” he said. He said the trade union’s executive committee meeting held recently had called for an agitation. “We will be joining the nationwide general strike on November 26 called by all trade unions against the Centre’s policies. That apart, we are chalking out other strategies so that we can get across our demands without troubling our customers,” said Gundanna. The trade union also raised the issue of contract employees whose services were discontinued without clearing pending salaries of 18 months. “More than 70 per cent of our contract workers have been removed without clearing their salary dues. We demand that they must be paid without any more delay,” Gundanna added. The union put forth a 10-point charter of demands, which sought a level playing field with private players, retention of contract workers, revision of wages and pension and Rs 10 lakh compensation to the families of employees who die of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||BJP rides Jinnah’s ghost in Darbhanga campaign||Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s ghost has entered the campaign trail in the Jale seat of Bihar’s Darbhanga district riding on the coattails of Congress candidate Maskoor Ahmad Usmani. Another unlikely presence, also in spirit, has been that of Aligarh Muslim University, located a thousand miles away in western Uttar Pradesh, where Maskoor had been students’ union president in 2017-18. Over 50 AMU students are camping in Jale to manage Maskoor’s campaign and more are headed that way. And Maskoor’s opponents have been linking him to Jinnah, alluding to a controversy over a portrait of Pakistan’s founder at the AMU students’ union hall that broke out when Maskoor was union president. Giriraj Singh, a BJP politician, recently accused the Congress of fielding a “Jinnah supporter”. Cue for social media to be flooded with posts associating Maskoor with Jinnah. Even Rishi Mishra, Congress member and grandson of former railway minister Lalit Narayan Mishra who turned dissident after being denied the Jale ticket, has said: “I have no regrets at being denied a ticket by the Congress. But it hurts to know that a Jinnah worshipper has been chosen in my place.” Maskoor, ever ready to distance himself from Jinnah over his “dark history”, has brushed away the “mischievous” comments as a ploy by the ruling alliance to veer attention away from the backwardness of Bihar in general, and Darbhanga in particular. He has directed at the BJP the party’s own all-season epithet of “anti-national”, saying his opponents are “scared of AMU”. “The nationalistic, democratic and inclusive culture of AMU has always been a nightmare for the anti-national and fanatic elements. We knew they would harp on the old theme when I began campaigning in Jale,” Maskoor told The Telegraph over the phone. “Bringing Jinnah into the campaign means they are scared of AMU and are working to manufacture lies around me. These same lumpen elements had raised the issue of Jinnah’s portrait at the AMU students’ union auditorium during the May 2018 by-elections to the Kairana Lok Sabha seat and Noorpur Assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh.” Several BJP politicians had demanded the removal of Jinnah’s portrait, ignoring AMU’s plea that it had been put up in 1937 — long before Pakistan’s creation — and hung alongside the pictures of others who had spoken at the auditorium, such as Mahatma Gandhi and Mother Teresa. But the university had stood firm. Maskoor said the portrait of every pre-independence national leader who had visited AMU and given a fillip to the freedom movement launched by the students hung from the hall’s walls. “Satish Gautam, BJP politician and MP from Aligarh, had claimed at the time that Jinnah’s portrait had been hung just a few days ago. But the alert voters defeated the BJP candidates. That history will be repeated in Jale,” Maskoor said. “We don’t stand by Jinnah, for we cannot forget his dark history. But the lumpens were also against the visit by Hamid Ansari, former Vice-President of India, who was chief guest at an event organised by us,” Maskoor said. A clash between AMU students and a pro-BJP crowd had broken out at the varsity gates during Ansari’s visit, which took place shortly after the Jinnah row. “Ansari was escorted safely and left the campus. Beaten up by the police at the time, I fell unconscious,” Maskoor said. He added: “Darbhanga is my hometown and Jale the place where I spent my childhood. The people know me and my commitment to my country. They will give a fitting reply to the fanatics.” Mohammad Ashraf, an AMU student who plans to visit Jale soon, said in Lucknow: “Over 50 students from the university are already campaigning door to door for Maskoor. Many more who couldn’t make it to Jale are contributing money to the campaign — anything from Rs 100 to Rs 500. We are trying our best although there are some very rich people in the race.”Maskoor’s main rival is the BJP’s Jibesh Kumar, who won the last time. The constituency, which votes on November 7, has a habit of regularly switching support but backed the BJP the last two times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Janata Dal Rashtravadi candidate shot dead||Armed men in the guise of supporters shot dead a Janata Dal Rashtravadi candidate from Sheohar Assembly constituency and his aide on Saturday night while they were coming back after daylong campaigning. One of the attackers was lynched after the incident, prompting Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to stress the deterioration in the law and order situation in Bihar. Shrinarayan Singh, 45, and his aide were killed near Hathsar village under Puranahiya police station in the district. Eyewitness accounts suggest the presence of 10 to 15 attackers armed with pistols. They fired at Singh and his supporters from behind while they were returning from the village on foot. The Shoehar seat holds importance because jailed don Anand Mohan Singh’s son Chetan Anand is contesting on an RJD ticket while the current Janata Dal United (JDU) MLA Muhammad Sarfuddin is trying to get re-elected from there. “We are yet to receive the post-mortem report, but prima facie, it seems Srinarayan Singh was hit by two to three bullets, which led to his death. A villager also got shot and died in the incident. We have detained a few people for questioning. Raids are being conducted and we hope to crack the case soon,” Sheohar superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar told The Telegraph on Sunday. The deceased was a known muscleman and an accused in over 30 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, and loot. He was associated with former ganglord Santosh Jha and had a wide influence among the voters belonging to the upper castes. Singh had been in politics for a long time. He was a former mukhiya of Nayagaon panchayat and a former member of the district board. His family members have been mukhiyas of the panchayat since 2001 and his mother holds the post at present. Police have been unable to identify the alleged attacker who was nabbed and lynched by Singh’s supporters. However, they said that the killing could be a fallout of a gang war. “We have got leads that the killing is a fallout of the rivalry between criminal gangs. We will reveal everything once the investigation is over,” Kumar said. RJD leader Tejashwi condemned the incident and demanded a high-level inquiry to bring the culprits to book.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Farm law protests in Haryana||Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Sunday held protests against the Centre’s new farm laws at various places in Haryana and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. At Shahbad in Kurukshetra, BKU activists held a protest near the residence of former Haryana minister and BJP leader Krishan Kumar Bedi. Police used water cannon to disperse the demonstrators. The protesters, some of whom were carrying black flags, raised slogans against the Centre and the BJP-led state government, while demanding the rollback of the new farm laws. BKU state president Gurnam Singh led a protest at Lakhnaur Sahib village near Ambala City in the afternoon. As part of their protests, BKU members burnt effigies of Modi in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts. Gurnam Singh said the agitation would continue till the Centre withdrew the contentious legislations. Earlier this month, Kurukshetra police had booked Singh for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Modi. The complaint was lodged at the Shahbad police station barely hours after the BKU leader had appealed to farmers to burn effigies of the Prime Minister on Dussehra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||India wants peace on border: Rajnath ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that India wants peace on the China border, the comment coming after he had performed “Shastra Puja”, a weapon-worship ritual conducted by the army on Dussehra. “We want the tension that is prevailing along the India-China border to end.... We want peace to prevail,” Rajnath, who was on a two-day visit to north Bengal and Sikkim, said after the puja in Sukna, headquarters of the 33 Corps of the army. He inaugurated an alternative stretch of road connecting Gangtok with Nathu La on the China border. Rajnath was accompanied by the army chief, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, and a host of senior officers at the puja, held at the Sukna War Memorial in Darjeeling district. “The morale of our army is high and I’m confident that our soldiers will not let anyone take even an inch of our land,” Rajnath said. Rajnath had been scheduled to perform the puja at Sherathang, a high-altitude border barely 2km from the Line of Actual Control in Sikkim, but the plan was dropped because of bad weather, a source said. Rajnath’s puja of weapons in the region amid the standoff with China in eastern Ladakh was significant, a defence expert said. “A tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers took place in north Sikkim in early May. So, the defence minister’s visit and the puja of weapons is significant, as it signals India’s confidence,” the expert said. Multiple sources said that Rajnath, after landing in Bagdogra on Saturday, went straight to Sukna where senior army officials briefed him about the situation in the region and the China border. “The opening of the alternative alignment of National Highway 310 that connects Gangtok with Nathu La by the minister is also significant for strategic reasons,” the expert said. Although the new, 19.85km road marks a longer route between Gangtok and Nathu La, it will reduce the travel time since it’s a two-lane highway and has been built on topographically stable terrain. “The new alignment was necessary since the existing alignment has suffered extensive damage due to sinking and other natural hazards,” the Border Roads Organisation, which maintains the highway, has said in a release. “The road serves as an important link to bolster defence preparedness in the Nathu La sector in particular and all of east Sikkim in general.” While inaugurating the road through videoconferencing, Rajnath lauded the BRO for delivering outstanding-quality infrastructure in record time and optimal cost. “The defence minister enumerated the government’s drive towards progressing infrastructure development in far-flung areas to not only enhance defence preparedness but also in fostering socio-economic development of the region,” the release said. NH-310 attracts sizeable tourist traffic since it leads to the Tsomgo (Changu) Lake, Baba Dham and Nathu La. Since October 10, when Sikkim reopened its gates to tourists after the lockdown, about 1,500 sightseers have visited Tsomgo and Baba Dham, sources said. Nathu La is, however, yet to be reopened for tourism. Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang has welcomed the opening of the new road as a boost for tourism. “The chief minister of Sikkim brought out the positive impact the new alignment will have in boosting tourism as well as in inclusive socio-economic development of the entire region and the state,” a release from his office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Modi: Light a diya for soldiers ||Asserting that India stands firmly with its brave soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to light a “diya” in their homes to honour security forces guarding the country’s borders while they celebrate festivals. In his “Mann ki Baat” radio broadcast, Modi also made a strong pitch for unity in the country while remembering Sardar Patel whose birth anniversary is on October 31. “Unity is power, unity is strength, unity is progress, unity is empowerment, united we will scale new heights,” Modi said. He also remembered Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on the same day. Modi wished people on Dussehra and said they needed to follow health guidelines while celebrating these occasions. Hailing the contribution of soldiers to the nation, he said: “We must also think of our braveheart soldiers who are firmly stationed on our borders in the line of duty, even during these festive times… all in the service and security of Mother India... We have to light a diya at home in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Mother India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||India||Naveen versus Panda war intensifies||The crime branch of Odisha police have conceded to the request of BJP national vice-president Baijayant “Jay” Panda’s wife, Jagi Mangat, the managing director of news channel OTV, to record her statement in connection with an alleged gang-rape case involving two employees of her channel at a place of her choice. “As a woman, she has the right under the law to ask for recording of her statement in her office or at the place she chooses. We will soon proceed with the case,” said a senior crime branch official. Jagi had failed to appear before the crime branch to record her statement on October 17. She had then requested the crime branch to record her statement in her office. A senior reporter of the channel, Ramesh Rath, who was picked up by police from near his residence in the city on October 15 in connection with a case relating to circulation of an allegedly morphed obscene video clip of a Biju Janata Dal leader from Keonjhar, has resigned. The gang-rape case came into focus after the mother of the alleged victim who is a minor lodged a complaint with the police. The woman, a former OTV employee, accused seven persons, including two employees of the channel, of being involved in the alleged crime. She also alleged that Jagi had urged her not to proceed with the case. Jagi has vehemently denied the charge. The alleged crime took place between March and April but a complaint was registered only on August 30. Later, an audio clip of the purported conversation between Jagi and the victim’s mother came into public domain. While the case is being investigated by the crime branch, the state women’s commission is looking into the allegations of harassment of the victim’s mother at her former workplace. Jagi has consistently maintained that the women’s harassment cell of the channel had examined the matter and advised the victim’s mother to seek police and legal help. The channel claims that it is being harassed by the state government for exposing its alleged corruption in Covid-19 management. “Ever since OTV ran some stories about Covid corruption in Odisha, state government has been targeting it and its employees, even me and my family members,” Jagi said in a release issued on October 3. “The vindictive attitude of Naveen Patnaik government, which has been making false allegations against us, is there for everyone to see. We expect more false cases against us in future,” she added. The state government, on the other hand, feels that OTV is trying to malign chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s image by raising the issue of alleged irregularities in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other kits though allegations in this connection have also been made by others. There are also other reasons behind the friction between the channel and the state government. Based on information obtained through an RTI application, OTV had aired a report that cast doubts on the chief minister’s aerial survey of flood-hit areas. The channel said it did not get any response on the issue from the chief minister’s office despite repeated requests. Naveen is said to have flown in the helicopter for the survey for just 19 minutes on August 31. The Airports Authority of India, too, had clarified that the chief minister’s helicopter had indeed departed on that day. However, the RTI activists have demanded that the entire video of the chief minister’s survey be made public. Rath, who had highlighted the aerial survey issue, was picked up by the police on October 15 in the immediate wake of the channel running the aerial survey report. OTV has described it as a vindictive step. The police, however, maintain that he was interrogated in connection with the circulation of an obscene video clip last year. The police claimed that the video had gone viral on the eve of the 2019 general elections and one of the accused in the case had named Rath as the person who had provided him the video clip. Rath was released within hours of being picked up and asked to appear before Keonjhar police on October 21. However, he did not appear before the Keonjhar police on that day citing health problems and sought 15 days’ time. He resigned from the channel two days ago. In the wake of Rath’s detention for a few hours, Jay Panda had tweeted, “REPORTER who broke news of RTI activists’ exposé of Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik’s claimed flood review aerial survey is ARRESTED. Wonder whether @IndEditorsGuild will condemn this, or if the many legendary champions of #FreedomOfSpeech in India will protest or return their awards??” On the other hand, the BJD leader from Keonjhar had said in a release: “I have a question for OTV owners Jagi Panda and Baijayant Jay Panda. If a daughter from your family was in my place and her morphed obscene video had been viraled, would you have saved the man like OTV reporter Ramesh Rath who had perpetuated it?” “I want to ask the national media if your daughter and sister’s morphed obscene video was viraled by a journalist, would you have pardoned the journalist just because he was a journalist? Has immunity from police action been provided to journalists in India who commit a crime? As a tribal lady, my honour and dignity were defamed in public. When will I get justice?” the BJD leader asked. On its part, OTV said in a release that the law should take its own course in the matter. “But it is surprising that they have woken up to it only now, one day after Ramesh Rath reported RTI activist’s findings regarding the CM’s chopper review of the floods,” said the channel’s operating officer Litisha Mangat. The channel has cited other examples of alleged harassment by the government. Recently the Khurda district administration demolished the boundary wall of OTV’s CSR project at Saura on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar alleging that it was stopping the free flow of water into nearby agricultural land. The government has also launched a crime branch probe to find out whether there were any irregularities in the purchase of land. The political war between the chief minister and Panda, a former MP, has intensified following the latter’s suspension from the BJD in January 2018. “Differences between them grew further following OTV’s alleged attempts to malign the Naveen government. It’s not a healthy trend,” said political analyst Girija Shankar Dash. “We need to look deep into the matter. Panda used to be the blue-eyed boy of Naveen babu. But he fell from grace after he tried to spread false stories about the chief minister and the BJD and began tilting towards the BJP. His ambition to become the chief minister of the state has cost him a lot,” said a senior BJD leader. In an interview to news agency ANI in April 2019, Patnaik had said, “After 2014, a number of my friends from Delhi rang me up with concern because they thought I was in bad health. But my health has always been good and I told them so. They told me that this is what Baijayant Panda was spreading. This was a shock.” The chief minister had said that Panda was interested in promoting his mining business and wanted to become the chairman of the parliamentary finance committee, which he did not support. “Things worsened after the Panda family’s channel started targeting Naveen’s office and some BJP youth activists forcibly entered the residence of Naveen’s private secretary, V.K. Pandian. Their relations soured further when Naveen picked up Anubhav Mohanty to contest against Panda from the Kendrapara Lok Sabha constituency. The chief minister personally monitored the campaign and ensured Anubhav’s victory by a huge margin,” said a BJD leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-597
26-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Bimal go back’ chants at Binay camp’s rally||Supporters of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha hit the streets of Darjeeling on Sunday, sloganeering against the leader of the party’s rival faction, Bimal Gurung. This is the first major reaction of the Binay camp after Bimal resurfaced in Calcutta a few days ago after three years and announced his decision to ally with Trinamul, which also has the support of the Binay camp. The timing of the Binay camp’s rally in which thousands took part during the middle of Dashain (Durga Puja) festival suggests the underlying tension in hill politics. “The youths organised the demonstration to appeal for peace… we are not weak, helpless. Good things are not coming, some are challenging us, we are protesting these developments,” said Alok Kant Mani Thulung, president of the Morcha’s Darjeeling subdivisional committee, Binay faction, referring to their fractious relationship with the Bimal camp. This is the first time that the Binay faction galvanised its supporters after Bimal resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 announcing his support for Mamata Banerjee. Since then, Bimal supporters have slowly started coming out in the open. On Saturday supporters of Bimal camp had hoisted their party flag atop Gitangadara, a prominent stage for public meetings, at Chowk Bazar in Darjeeling. His supporters plastered posters and come out in the open in places like Kurseong, Sukhiapokhri and Mungpoo too. However, the Bimal faction’s flag was removed from Gitangadara by supporters of the Binay faction within a day. Bimal’s supporters use the Morcha flag bearing his picture while Tamang supporters use the original flag of the party. The slogans raised during Sunday’s hour-long rally from 11am included “Bimal Gurung go back”. The speeches of the leaders of the Binay faction were also directed against Bimal and his supporters. “Their cadres (those who were on the run with Bimal) are showing a vindictive mindset, that of revenge. This is not good, if they have such thoughts their leader will never be able to enter hills as none would want a law and order situation,” said Thulung. He also added that a political settlement (Bimal announcing his support to Mamata Banerjee) and a judicial process (in cases against Bimal) were two different issues. Thulung’s statement and allegations is a clear indicator that the Trinamul has a sizeable task at hand of balancing both the Bimal and Binay factions in the hills. “This balancing part could be the most difficult part of the new political development,” said an observer. Many hill residents also voiced their apprehension on the law and order situation. Bimal faction leaders on Saturday had, however, assured people of peace in the hills. Reconciliation between the two factions of the Morcha seems farfetched for now at least. “Your leader (Bimal) will have to ensure Binay Tamang’s victory in the coming election if Binay Tamang decides to contest, just to prove his (Bimal’s) leadership ability. Don’t be overenthusiastic right away,” Thulung told Bimal’s supporters. During the last Darjeeling assembly bypoll, Binay was supported by the TMC but lost to GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba, who had contested on a BJP ticket. Darjeeling apart, the Binay faction also organised rallies in Sonada and Kalimpong on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Techies print 3D idols||The National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, has designed and made five Durga idols using 3D printing technology. Teachers at the department of mechanical engineering said using the technology was a new concept they adopted for showpieces and idols. “We made five idols of Durga using 3D printing, using different materials, depositing them layer by layer,” said Shibendu Sekhar Roy, a teacher of mechanical engineering, adding that the pandemic-induced closure of the institute and long gaps between online classes afforded him the time to try this out. The five idols, of various sizes, were made within two days, October 21 and 22. He said 3D printing is a modern manufacturing skill for fabrication of engineering components for all engineering disciplines, including aircraft components. “This is the construction of a three-dimensional object from a digital computer-aided design model, by depositing specific materials layer by layer,” Roy said, adding that materials used to make the idols were polymer, wood dust-based filament, clay and ceramics. Two types of models, weighing between 30gm and 175gm, with dimensions between 2x1.5 inches and 6x4 inches were designed and manufactured. A Calcutta-based company that manufactures idols has evinced interest in using the process to make the items on a large scale. “Talks are on, we can transfer the technology to the company,” said Roy. “Dokra and terracotta artisans from Bankura can adopt this technology too. We can train them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Trench to ward off elephants||Regular incidents of elephant attacks in some areas of Jalpaiguri district that cause loss to life and property have made the district administration come up with a plan that can help address the problem and generate jobs. At Rajadanga area of Malbazar subdivision, where herds of wild elephants often enter villages, the administration has taken up a project to dig a 15-km-long trench to deter elephants. The project has been taken up under the 100-days’ work scheme of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme, administrative officials said. “On one hand, the rampage of elephants in villages can stop, and on the other, water conserved in this trench can irrigate nearby farmlands. We have dug around 9km of the trench while the rest of the work would be carried out after Durga Puja,” said Surajit Chatterjee, the nodal officer of MGNREGS in Jalpaiguri district. According to him, in Rajadanga and Odlabari, which are near forests Kathambari and Apalchand and also the fringes of the elephant corridor of north Bengal, 9km of the 15km trench (4km in Odlabari and 5km in Rajadanga) have already been dug. Around 3,000 man-days have been created through this project and only local residents hired under the 100-days’ work scheme. A resident said that the trench was seven feet in depth and 12 feet in width. “It won’t be possible for any elephant to cross the trench.” In Jalpaiguri, villages in Malbazar, Matialli and Nagrakata blocks see elephant attacks. “We plan to dig trenches in some other places too in consultation with officials of the state forest department,” said Chatterjee. Jalpaiguri district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary said they were also reviving the old water sources (hilly streams or jhoras) in the hilly tracts of the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||Queue outside Jalsaghar palace puja||It’s quieter times for the 155-year-old bonedi (ancestral) Durga Puja at the Nimtita Rajbari near Murshidabad town, made famous by Satyajit Ray’s 1958 classic Jalsaghar (The Music Room) on the life of a lonely landlord and patron of music. Mounting pressures posed by maintenance demands of the mammoth 150-room property and lockdown restrictions imposed on the Puja celebrations this year have caused visitors — who still flock to the decrepit palace once a year to see the thakur ghar (prayer room) — to dwindle. The family of landowners Rabindra Narayan Chowdhury (known among locals as Chhotobabu), who are settled in Calcutta, came here for a week last Wednesday to supervise what residents termed a “muted” celebration at the Rajbari. “Initially we had thought of having a strictly family Durga Puja, barring the entry of outsiders to the palace because of the prevailing pandemic situation. However, relenting to the pleas of villagers we decided to allow them inside the palace but have imposed strict curbs on their movement,” Chowdhury said. The Chowdhurys have hired a private security agency to enforce the Calcutta High Court directives on curbing puja crowds. Not more than 20 people are allowed inside the palace, said sources. “Despite the Rajbari’s worsening condition, the palace occupies a special place in our hearts for the residents of Nimtita. Moreover, Satyajit Ray’s film brought the palace widespread fame,” said local resident and schoolteacher Tarun Singha, 42. Singha said that though the police were only letting 20 people into the thakur ghar at a time this year for social distancing, they were all willing to patiently wait in the queue. “We are willing to wait for our turn. The palace might never know its former glory again, but it is our duty to be present at the yearly puja,” Singha added. One-hundred-and fifty-five years old, the palace, like the fictional aristocrat of Ray’s film shot here, has clearly seen better days. Sources said though the palace had a team of staff, it did not receive financial assistance of any kind from the government. “We were all quite upset this year when we learned that we would not be able to gather inside our beloved Rajbari for the Puja. No one is coming from the cities either. But still something (entry with restrictions) is better than nothing,” added the villager, standing in a short, socially-distanced queue outside one of the palace’s five courtyards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
26-10-2020||West Bengal||4,127 new Covid cases and 60 deaths but recoveries inch up too ||Bengal on Mahanavami Sunday logged over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, with 4,127, and 60 deaths, including 14 in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. On the brighter side, Sunday also marked the third consecutive day of a break from new highs in the spike, and saw 3,857 recoveries, the highest single-day number yet. While the total Covid-19 cases for the state, since the first was detected on March 17, is 3.49 lakh now, over 3.06 lakh of those are recoveries, besides 6,487 deaths. “Given the trends in the first couple of weeks of October, we were apprehensive of a major spike in the number of cases found daily by now. Had the damage we were fearing taken place, we would have seen much worse numbers now,” said a minister. “Instead, we have been seeing a sharp rise in recoveries. Another seven-10 days of this, and we will overcome much of the progress that we lost earlier this month,” he added. The rise in recoveries over the past few days contributed to a rise in the recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98. Having fallen to 87.43 per cent on Tuesday, it rose gradually to 87.56 on Sunday. The national rate, far behind the state for months, is now 89.98 per cent. Over the past month, Bengal reported nearly 1.09 lakh new cases on one hand, and over 95,000 recoveries on the other. In that period, there have also been 1,822 deaths. Now, Bengal ranks fourth in the country after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka among the states with the most active cases, currently at 37,017. It alone has over 5.5 per cent of India’s total active cases. Of the total 6,487 deaths reported so far, the state government attributed 5,463, or 84.2 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.85, behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. With 42,538 tests, the total of tests is over 42.98 lakh, at 47,759 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate, on the rise again since the sharp spike in new cases, is 8.14 per cent now. The state reported 36.3 per cent occupancy in the 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 93 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 3.74 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-333
26-10-2020||North East||Guwahati colour identity plea||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday suggested creation of a distinct colour identity for Guwahati so that it could leave a lasting impression on visitors and tourists who come calling to the city. “I have a request. Here Himanta Biswa Sarma will have to help. I want that colour combination for houses in Guwahati should be developed so that tourists who come from within and outside India take back beautiful, lasting memories of the city for its distinct identity. Have asked them (officials and ministers) to study and develop a colour combination with help of the people,” Sonowal said at a function to inaugurate the extension of the Ganeshguri flyover here on Thursday. The chief minister then referred to some cities across the world which are known for their unique building styles or uniform colours something which is their USP to attract tourists. “It feels good when you visit these cities, for the colour, the uniformity. Guwahati with its hills, forests, rivers and water bodies is nature’s gift; something we don’t appreciate much. We should all pledge to protect the city and turn it into one of Southeast Asia’s beautiful cities. Through its uniform colourful look we can convey to the world that we are one, have the same mentality, believing in peaceful coexistence. It will give the city a distinct identity,” the chief minister said. Sonowal urged PWD minister Sarma and Guwahati development department minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya to deliberate on the suggestion so that a consensus on the colour combination could be developed in the coming days with the support of the city’s residents. The Sonowal-led government has stepped up development activities in the run up to next year’s Assembly polls. During meetings on Thursday, all the ministers harped on development and developmental projects. Santanu Bharali, legal adviser to the chief minister, said the colour or colours for the city will be decided after thorough discussions within the government and ideas and reports submitted by the public and NGOs as “soon” as possible. He then referred to a couple of Hindi films shot in exotic and unique locations, especially Santorini island in Greece where Salman Khan’s Wanted (2009) and Hrithik Roshan’s Bang Bang (2014) were shot. “Santorini is all white; exuding peace. There is also a place in South Africa, a slum actually which was turned into an attractive tourist destination by an NGO which got it coloured. Guwahati’s potential has to be tapped, something our government has been trying. A decision will be taken after a thorough discussion but it will be taken soon,” said Bharali, who hails from Guwahati just like Sarma and Bhattacharya. Sonowal hails from Dibrugarh in Upper Assam. There have been attempts in the past to paint the city’s riverfront. One was initiated last year for the Japan Prime Minister’s visit which had to be cancelled because of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The colour was light yellow, a trader from the locality said.Guwahati was one of the dirtiest cities in the country, according to the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the results of which were announced in August. It was ranked 356 out of the 382 cities in the category having a population of 1 to 10 lakh.At the function, Sonowal said the completion of the Ganeshguri flyover extension is an example of “good governance, quality governance”. The extension was completed in 19 months though the deadline was three years. Built at a cost of Rs 58.74 crore, the 425.50m flyover will ease traffic congestion in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
26-10-2020||North East||Naga groups to seek ‘advice’ on peace talks||Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), which are in talks with the Centre apart from the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) to resolve the Naga political problem, will be holding a meeting with apex tribal bodies at Dimapur in Nagaland on October 29. The proposed meeting to seek the “valuable advice” of the tribal bodies on issues related to the Naga peace process comes in wake of the groups’ meeting on Thursday with R.N. Ravi, the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga talks, on the draft agreement signed with the NNPGs. The Centre and the NNPGs began their talks in 2017 and even signed a draft agreement that year before concluding their talks on October 31, 2019. Efforts at reconciliation and securing an early solution have intensified in recent months. The consultative meeting called by the Nagaland government in Kohima on October 15 also “appealed” to the negotiating groups to come together under a spirit of oneness, mutual trust and understanding with sincerity and commitment towards “achieving one solution for one people as early as possible”. The meeting came amid reports about the peace process, which started with the ceasefire with NSCN (I-M) in 1997, getting stuck. The differences between the negotiating groups was also an area of concern. NSCN (I-M) chairman Q. Tuccu has said the road to the final deal had become “ticklish” as the sensitive issue of “Naga Flag and Yehzabo (Naga constitution)” remains a “sticking point”. Though unity and early solution was the recurring theme of the October 15 meeting, the Opposition Congress, the Naga People’s Front and the Janata Dal United stayed away. “The meeting was not up to expectations,” Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi told The Telegraph. More than 200 representatives attended the consultative meeting of tribal hohos, mass organisations, civil societies, church organisations, political parties, NGOs and prominent individuals, the government said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
26-10-2020||Opinion||The tempest||October has been quite a roller-coaster ride for political buffs in Pakistan. Last month, the Opposition parties made an alliance called ‘Pakistan Democratic Movement’. On October 16, the PDM held its first jalsa in Gujranwala, Punjab. Gujranwala being a stronghold of the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz), it was expected to be a show of power by the Opposition alliance. The chairman of Pakistan Peoples Party, Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari, was there as well as Nawaz Sharif’s daughter, Maryam Nawaz, Maulana Fazlur Rehman and several others. The former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, addressed the rally through a video link. Earlier this month, the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority had banned the broadcast of speeches, interviews and public addresses by absconders and proclaimed offenders on television. Thus, Nawaz Sharif’s speech was not shown on television. Despite the television ban, Nawaz Sharif’s aggressive speech was discussed by the prime minister, cabinet ministers and other members of the ruling party. The Gujranwala rally was seen as a successful event by the Opposition even though government representatives dismissed it as a failure. The PDM rally in Gujranwala set the tone for the anti-government movement. Two days later, the PPP hosted a PDM rally in Karachi, Sindh. The PPP rules the Sindh province. It was a grand show with a massive crowd. This time though, Nawaz Sharif did not address the rally. However, the success of the Karachi rally was marred by the arrest of Maryam Nawaz’s husband, Captain (retd) Safdar, in the early hours of the morning from their hotel room in Karachi. The arrest was due to a first information report filed against him for trespassing into the restricted area surrounding the grave of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and raising political slogans at his mausoleum. This was in violation of laws that prohibit political activities at the founding father’s mausoleum. Safdar’s arrest would not have garnered so much attention had it not been for the way it was carried out. Around seven in the morning, Maryam Nawaz tweeted that the police broke into the room of the hotel where they were staying and arrested Captain Safdar. The Sindh government denied any involvement in the incident and even the PDM leadership, including Maryam Nawaz, did not blame the PPP or the Sindh government. Rumours began about an incident regarding the Sindh police chief that led to the arrest of Safdar. Those rumours were reinforced when the police chief and many other officers submitted leave applications the next day. As a result, Bilawal Bhutto had to address a press conference asking the army chief to investigate what had actually transpired. The army chief ordered an immediate inquiry into the matter. The Sindh police then tweeted that the department is “immensely grateful to the Army Chief for realising the sense of hurt that prevailed within a uniformed force, and for promptly ordering an inquiry into the matter” and that the police chief had deferred his own leave and ordered his officers to set aside their leave applications for 10 days “in the larger national interest, pending the conclusion of the inquiry”. While all this was going on, some Indian media outlets took it upon themselves to spread false news about a civil war in Karachi after ‘clashes between the police and the army’. All of this was obviously untrue. There was no violence at all, let alone clashes between the two institutions. While Pakistani Twitterati had a field day mocking the Indian media for their absurd and baseless claims about ‘civil war’ and ‘clashes’, one wondered why some of these Indian media outlets chose brazenly not to report facts. One senior Indian journalist told the BBC that a quick study of Twitter handles tweeting this misinformation will show that most of them are supporters of or affiliated to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. It is unfortunate but understandable that media groups that are tilted in favour of the BJP or Twitter handles supporting India’s ruling party would be accused of spreading misinformation about Pakistan. Ethics or factually correct reporting are not really their priority. The PDM’s third rally took place yesterday, this time in Quetta. The Opposition rallies are gaining momentum but we still do not know what the end result will be. The Opposition says it will get rid of the government by the end of this movement in a few months but how it will achieve this goal is yet to be revealed. Some analysts say that the government is quite confident that it is not going anywhere; some others say that there is panic in the government ranks. But it is too soon to speculate. The government may be facing a tough time due to rising inflation and a slow economy but whether these factors lead to some sort of mass movement on the ground remains to be seen. The Opposition may be banking on public sentiment but whether the people themselves are ready for political instability is something that only time will tell. However, I do feel that civilian governments should complete their five-year tenure in order for democracy to be genuinely strengthened in Pakistan. The government should sit and talk with the Opposition and start a national dialogue. It would go a long way in helping Pakistan’s nascent democracy. On an aside, October 24 was World Polio Day. Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only two countries that are left with this preventable disease. It is time for us to put an end to all conspiracy theories related to polio and ensure that like the rest of the world and, more recently, like Africa, we too would be polio-free soon. Pakistan has been quite successful in dealing with Covid-19. We can hopefully be successful in eradicating polio in the coming years.  The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||The minority report: 'UPSC jihad'||A promotional clip by Sudarshan News, alleging that Muslims were conspiring to infiltrate the civil services, had gone viral in the recent past. A glance at cold statistics would discredit such a claim. Only 42 Muslim students were successful in the Civil Services Examination for 2019. There were 829 successful candidates in total, among whom Muslims constituted a mere 5 per cent. There was one Muslim candidate among the top 100.  This has, more or less, been the trend for the last couple of years. The figures of Muslim candidates who passed the exams for the years, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 are 30, 34, 38, and 36, respectively. The success rate — around 5 per cent — of Muslim candidates in recent years has drawn attention primarily because Muslim participation in the Union Public Service Commission examination and in India’s administrative services has always been abysmally low in terms of their population.  Muslims constitute approximately 14.2 percent of India’s total population. In some states like West Bengal, they form one-fourth of the total state population. Yet, their representation in the upper echelons of the administration is minimal. Bengali Muslims produced one IAS and one IPS officer more than 40 years ago. Even in the state-level civil services, the participation of Muslims is low. An analysis of the data of the last staff census would show that Muslim representation in government jobs in Bengal is around 6.08 per cent. The Sachar Committee documented the abysmal representation of Muslims in the civil services. One of the major reasons behind this is the bleak state of affairs in the higher education sector. Despite some improvement in enrolment and retention of Muslim children at the primary, upper primary and secondary levels, their participation in higher education appears to be miniscule. According to the All India Survey on Higher Education in India (2018-19), Muslim students constitute merely 5.2 per cent in this category. The figure is lower than that of scheduled tribes (5.5 per cent) and considerably less than scheduled caste representatives (14.9 per cent). Even though an additional year of study increases the chances of getting employment, the mean years of schooling is the lowest among Muslims. Success in competitive examination entails hard work and, often, multiple attempts. Economic constraints force Muslim youth to start looking for employment opportunities early. This, in turn, prevents them from spending time in clearing the multi-layered CSE. The Sachar Committee report had noted that “the most striking feature is the relatively high share of Muslim workers engaged in self-employment activity.” Hearteningly, the possibility of selection of Muslim candidates in the UPSC examination remains the same as any other social group. Based on the data provided by UPSC, the Sachar Committee said “While the small number of Muslim candidates appearing in the written examination of the Civil Services is a cause of concern, similar success rates are re-assuring. There is a need to improve Muslims participation in the UPSC competitive selection process.” Among several recommendations, the Sachar Committee ardently advocated corrective measures to ensure higher participation of Muslims in India’s premier administrative services, including the creation of an ‘Equal Opportunity Commission’ to ensure unbiased recruitment in government jobs. The findings of the Sachar Committee resulted in a churn. Educational stipends for Muslims increased during the UPA years. Many states, including West Bengal, provided scholarships and educational loans and a number of organizations — Jamia Millia Islamia University is one example — offered support in the form of coaching classes for UPSC aspirants from the community. Religious organizations run on zakat (charity) started residential coaching classes too. A masjid committee in Chennai, for instance, served as a model to set up IAS coaching centers; a couple of its candidates even qualified for government services. These improvements notwithstanding, the representation of Muslims, the largest minority group in India, is far from ideal in terms of their share of the population. The road ahead is fraught with challenges as the party in power seems to be averse to the idea of diversity and pluralism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Bengali blues: Language in decline||The National Education Policy proposes to bring fundamental changes to the Indian education system. While the pros and cons of the NEP are being analysed, there are stakeholders who have expressed several apprehensions. Language and the medium of instruction in schools, for instance, are contentious issues. An examination of these concerns merits a glance at the linguistic map of India presented by Census 2011. The comparative speakers’ strength of the 22 scheduled languages reveals that Bengali is showing signs of decline. According to census figures, barring Hindi, which has shown a spectacular growth from 36.99 per cent in 1971 to 43.63 per cent in 2011, almost every other scheduled language, with the exceptions of Gujarati, Kashmiri and Manipuri, is on a downward trend. Bengali, the sixth most spoken language of the world, is shrinking. The percentage of Bengali-speaking people in 1991 was estimated to be 8.30 per cent of India’s population. In 2001, the figure dropped to 8.11 per cent and dipped further to 8.03 per cent in 2011. Census 2011 says that Bengali is the second most spoken language in India but its speakers are concentrated in three states and one Union territory: West Bengal (86.22 per cent), Tripura (65.73 per cent), Assam (28.92 per cent) and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands (28.49 per cent). Apart from these, Mizoram (9.83 per cent) Jharkhand (9.73 per cent), Meghalaya (7.84 per cent) and Arunachal Pradesh (7.27 per cent) have Bengali-speaking people too. A number of reasons can be cited to explain the rise in the number of speakers of a particular language. But there are critics who describe Hindi’s astonishing growth of 161 per cent between 1971 and 2011 as ‘linguistic imperialism’. The declining percentage of the speakers of other scheduled languages can be attributed to a faulty language policy, which promotes bilingualism that is a negation of the idea of a multicultural India. It is in this context that NEP 2020 with its multilingual formula becomes relevant. While acknowledging the power of languages, the Centre has proposed to promote multilingualism through NEP: “Wherever possible, the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language. Thereafter, the home/local language shall continue to be taught as a language wherever possible. This will be followed by both public and private schools” (para 4.11). The endeavour to promote the mother tongue must be appreciated and its significance understood in a multilingual country like India. However, there exists a chasm between the goals and principles and the policies envisaged for attaining them. NEP 2020 proposes that “there will be a greater flexibility in the three-language formula, and no language will be imposed on any State. The three languages learned by children will be the choices of States, regions, and of course the students themselves, so long as at least two of the three languages are native to India” (para 4.13). NEP 2020 demands that state legislatures convene special sessions to discuss the policy and suggest amendments. Given the important role assigned to the states in the implementation of NEP 2020, state legislatures must exhibit the spirit of cooperative federalism and suggest remedial measures for rectifying the faulty language formula that endorses bilingualism. The Union government promotes Hindi with zeal while English flourishes because it is linked with livelihood. The space for all other languages will continue to diminish if the language policy is not suitably amended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Many lines: Poverty measured by income||A recent report brought out by the Union ministry of rural development claims that poverty should not be measured by the lack of a subsistence level of income alone. Subsistence income is usually estimated by the rupee equivalent of a certain basket of food that guarantees a minimum calorific intake per person per day. Economists are prolific in coming up with alternative measures of poverty. Contending measures thus abound. This particular report emphasizes the importance of including basic education, affordable healthcare, hygienic sanitation and shelter in estimating subsistence. These are issues on which there would hardly be any debate. Measurements would not pose a major headache either as ample statistics are available to include a number of socio-economic factors into a multi-dimensional estimate of poverty. There is nothing novel about this proposal. But there are a couple of important issues that need to be kept in mind regarding a multi-dimensional index. The first is that political and civil rights and liberties are essential for a decent life and are as important as any material condition of living. This is very much relevant in today’s world where liberties and freedoms are being systematically challenged and pushed back by the State. The poor obviously receive the hardest part of the stick, having very little voice and power to be heard. This point has been well-discussed by scholars like John Rawls and Amartya Sen. For instance, the right to practise one’s religion of choice is a right that contributes significantly to the notion of well-being. Well-being is the opposite of poverty, destitution and deprivation. This freedom should be granted to all, and particularly ensured for the poorest of the poor. The second aspect of the multi-dimensional poverty index is the need to focus on the distribution of poverty below the cut-off level for the index. The reason is simple. There should be an implicit ordering of the importance of basic goods whose minimum availability defines freedom from poverty. Public policy often distributes scarce resources thinly to people who are just below the cut-off level. When poverty is measured in terms of the ratio of people living below the poverty index, the approach of thinly spread resources among many results in yielding better statistics of success. Yet, the strategy actually worsens the income distribution below the poverty cut-off. It is better to focus on the poorest of the poor even if it does not reduce the headcount of people living in poverty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Opinion||Short-sighted: National Trust Act repeal||One of the biggest threats to the health of a democracy is the gradual dismantling of laws and institutions that protect the most vulnerable sections of society. Yet, this is what would happen if the proposal sent by the Union finance ministry to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment to repeal the National Trust Act, 1999 — the plea is ostensibly part of a series of ‘austerity’ measures — were to succeed. The legislation was a millennium gift from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government to citizens with intellectual disabilities, and had been hailed as a rare piece of progressive legislation by both the community as well as its patrons on account of its empowering provisions, especially its focus on the economic and rehabilitative challenges faced by this constituency. Under the act, the autonomous National Trust was created to look after the interests of people with autism, cerebral palsy and other kinds of mental challenges — a community that suffers a greater degree of invisibility and discrimination — by implementing schemes involving healthcare, insurance and shelter homes. Another key provision of the law pertains to guardianship, which recognizes that citizens with intellectual disabilities and developmental disorders need the life-long support of a guardian for decision-making, which is then enabled through the intervention of local committees. Little wonder then that the contentious proposal of repealment has drawn strident criticism from the special needs community as well as leading disability rights activists and groups. The plan, apparently, is to include all disabilities under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016; this signifies a fatal form of myopia. Disability is a diverse spectrum of challenging conditions. Bringing every piece of legislation together — a typical bureaucratic urge to centralize — could lead to the exclusion of specialized protections. The NTA is an example of the latter. This, however, is not the first time that the Narendra Modi-led government is being accused of watering down crucial legislations. Earlier this year, it had proposed an amendment to the RPwD Act to decriminalize ‘minor offences’ against members of the disabled community, a move it had to withdraw in the face of stiff criticism. A similar pushback will be necessary in the case of the NTA which, if repealed, will leave the legal and economic protective framework for the disabled dangerously compromised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
26-10-2020||Jharkhand||RPF to procure doberman  pup for Tatanagar dog squad||Tatanagar's Railway Protection Force (RPF) unit has sent a proposal for procuring a doberman puppy for its dog squad on Monday. The puppy will be trained in tracking and will subsequently be inducted in the squad which is presently without any tracker. RPF inspector, Tatanagar, MK Sahoo said that their dog squad is supposed to consist of two sniffers and a tracker, but presently there is one sniffer only, causing the railway police to face hardship in carrying out the investigation when the situation arises. "We have only one sniffer, a labrador with which we have to carry out our search operation in the trains as well as in the railway yard.  But we are in urgent need of a tracker without which we find ourselves handicapped often.   We have, therefore, sent a proposal for a Doberman puppy which will be trained and inducted in the dog squad," said Sahoo while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out the proposal has been sent to the higher ups of the Chakradharpur railway division under which Tatanagar falls and it will be eventually sent to the South Eastern Railways' headquarters at Garden Rich in Calcutta for final approval. The RPF inspector said the Doberman proves to be a good tracker and the labrador is known for carrying out the sniffing job diligently. "The doberman puppy will be procured through a tender process.  Once it is procured, dog trainers from Kharagpur will be providing the training at the RPF's dog squad in Kitadih.  After a year-long training the doberman will be inducted in the squad for its service," said the RPF inspector. Sahoo, when queried, both sniffer dogs and trackers are of great use for the department. "Not only for the railways, the sniffer and tracker at the Tatanagar station used to be sent to as far away as Rourkela and Ranchi.  Even the local police would burrow it for detection of criminal cases.  But in absence of a tracker in the squad we are dependent on the tracker from the companies like Tata Steel and Tata Motors," the RPF inspector pointed out. A senior RPF official said ever since the naxalism started here in the Singhbhum region, the need of both tracker and sniffer dogs is being felt increasingly. "Apart from using the sniffers and tracker in detection of general crime, they are being put into service increasingly for checking unclaimed bags and also suspected explosives at the railway station, in the trains and also at the railway tracks," said the official requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
26-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City bids goodbye to the goddess||It was time to bid adieu to the goddess after five days of celebration.This year's festival was different, organised in a low-profile manner due to the Covid-19 induced pandemic. On Dashami today all roads led to the river ghats with members of various Puja committees ferrying idols. This year the idols were ferried to the river ghats on smaller vehicles. with a maximum of 15 members in the procession. Immersions were carried out in as many as 12 ghats of two rivers, Subernarekha and Kharkai as early as 11 am. Maximum immersions took place in Subarnareka ghat at Sakchi followed by Domuhani and Pandey ghat at Bhuiyandih. The East Singhbhum district administration was well prepared for peaceful immersions. Officials of two civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) and Mango Notified Area Committee ( MNAC ) alongwith Jusco officials supervised the immersions in various ghats. General secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti ( JDPKS )  Ram Babu Singh alonwith other members of the apex body went around various river ghats. "The immersions in all river ghats were peaceful . Around 300 puja committees immersed the idols in various ghats. Immersions continued till the evening, " he said. Policemen also undertook patrolling and were deployed in sensitive pockets for preventing any untoward incidents. The smaller idols of 4 feet, as per the guidelines of state government proved  a blessing in disguise for localities like Mango, Jugsalai, Chhotagovindpur, Sundernagar, Adityapur, Ghorabandha and several other localities which has power supply from Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited ( JBVNL ). None of those localities  which falls under JBVNL had a power cut this year. "As the idols were of smaller heights there was no risk of getting in contact with overhead high tension cables. Hence, there was no power cut. We ensured uninterrupted power supply, " said Sanjay Mahto, a JBVNL junior engineer posted in Mango division. Every year on the day of Dashami residents of JBVNL command areas had to confront prolonged power cut from 2 pm till midnight for facilitating smooth immersions. Earlier, in the day today some puja committes allowed Sindoor Khela while others did not due to the threat of the transmission of Covid -19. House-wives in Telco, Kashidih, Sonari and Kadma participated in Sindoor Khela and were seen exchanging greetings of Bijoya Dashami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
26-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bijoya Dashami: Adieu to Ma Durga||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
