27-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra not doing well, put on ventilator support||Legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee was put on ventilator support as his condition worsened further on Monday evening, doctors said. Chatterjee’s health condition further deteriorated late in the evening and oxygen support is less than 40 per cent, said the spokesperson of the private hospital in the city where he has been admitted. The 85-year-old actor's haemoglobin has gone down as has his platelet count, the spokesperson said. "We had to protect his airways. At 3 pm, we put him on ventilation support... His oxygen support is less than 40 per cent, and there were increasing chances of aspiration and secondary pneumonia. "He is not that well. His health condition has definitely deteriorated. The medical board took a unanimous decision to protect his airway, and we did it by putting him on endotracheal intubation," the spokesperson said in a late-night audio statement. According to doctors, endotracheal intubation is a medical procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. The spokesperson said, "Due to gastrointestinal bleeding and dehydration, his kidney functions which were fine till morning are now taking a toll. His urea and creatinine are also not good. His urine output is also not satisfactory." The critically acclaimed actor was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for COVID-19. Chatterjee, a Dada Saheb Phalke awardee, and the first Indian film personality to be conferred with the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, France's highest civilian award, had tested negative for the infection last week after which he was shifted to a non-COVID ITU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University ensures chicken lunch for slum dwellers on Dashami||Jadavpur University students who have been running a community kitchen to feed the poor raised a little extra to ensure people living in slums near Jadavpur rail station and under the Gariahat flyover could lunch with chicken on Dashami. These people have been surviving since the start of the lockdown on a meal comprising a bowl of rice and soya beans delivered from the kitchen on the university campus. On Bijoya Dashami (Monday), which marked Day 215 of the service, students wanted to do something extra to bring smiles to the faces of the impoverished. A group of students, including research scholars, along with former students and teachers, had set up the “Community Kitchen” in the parking lot near Gate No. 4 in late March to feed the poor in the neighbourhood. They started with khichdi before settling for meals comprising rice and soya beans. On Monday, 700-odd people had something better at lunch — chicken curry and daal, along with steaming rice — as part of an initiative to ring in the Puja for the disadvantaged. “One of the former students of the university contributed generously so that we could offer a different dish on Monday,” Jhelum Roy, a research scholar of the university associated with the initiative, said. The JU students did not restrict their efforts to offering a special menu on one of the days during Durga Puja. They gifted clothes to the destitute after an alumnae made a separate contribution for the purpose. As the volunteers set out on paddle-driven vans to serve lunch across the city, they gifted clothes to these people and their kids. As scores of Calcuttans hopped pandals, members of the community kitchen ran from one pandal to another to raise funds to keep the initiative running. “We visited the pandals of big-ticket Durga Pujas such as Tridhara and 95 Pally, requesting contribution,” a member said. Volunteers moved around with loudhailers and donation boxes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Food on wheels for the poor & hungry in Calcutta||Three cars stacked with food have been criss-crossing the city for the past few days. The occupants of each car have been stopping at rail stations, hospitals and slums to distribute food to the poor and destitute. On Sunday, the cars’ stops included Beleghata ID Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital, Sealdah and Howrah rail stations and the slum areas in Dhakuria, Park Circus and Taratala. At the hospitals, the recipients comprised relatives and friends of patients. Many of them were from outside Calcutta. They had camped on the outdoor premises of the hospitals. Rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), coolies, ragpickers, beggars and many out-of-work labourers were among the recipients at most other stops. The menu — steamed rice, daal and a mishmash of seasonal vegetables. “We have started a special Durga Puja drive keeping in mind that some are staying at their homes and some are venturing out to enjoy the festivities but many people maybe going hungry during the Pujas,” Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA Foundation, said. “Therefore, we are celebrating this festival by feeding the needy and hungry at various parts of the city.” The foundation, which is behind the drive, has been instrumental in providing more than a million people with meals during the pandemic, according to organisers. What had started as a drive to feed the poor at gurdwaras during the lockdown gradually shifted to food being carried on wheels and distributed to the needy across the city and suburbs. After completing over 100 days of food delivery on the trot till July, the drive was back again to feed people on days of total lockdown in the state. The puja drive started last Wednesday and will continue till Lakshmi Puja, an organizer said. The menu is simple but the food is cooked every day and served hot. The Saptami menu was pulao and chana masala. Khichdi and subzi were served on Ashtami. On some days, the meal is followed by a desert like chutney, boondi (sweetened, fried chickpea flour) or kheer. “The civic body and police have supported the drive. Around 3,000 people are being provided with meals every day during the puja drive,” an organizer said. A crowd forms every time an IHA car reaches a distribution spot. Volunteers get off the vehicle and get about setting the gathering in order, asking people to maintain distance and to stand in a queue. At most places, food is served on the spot. But many people prefer to bring their utensils and take the food home. Some take the food home wrapped in polythene packets. “Many people try to make two meals out of one. Many people are still out of work and staring at hunger,” an IHA volunteer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Covid amid Durga Puja: Fear hits ice cream sales in Calcutta||Ice cream sales have plunged headlong this puja, thanks to the Covid-19 scare. Ice cream carts, an inseparable part of Bengal’s biggest carnival, stood outside pandals like every year. But the number of customers was few and far between, vendors manning the carts said on Sunday. “I have barely sold stuff worth Rs 12,000 from Panchami to Navami this year. Last year, I remember I had sold stuff worth around Rs 8,000 on Panchami,” Buddhadeb Gayen, an ice cream seller who has been camping near Mudiali Club’s Durga Puja for many years now, said. Gayen, who sells products of a frozen dessert brand owned by a consumer goods behemoth, said his commission was Rs 16.50 for every Rs 100 sale. Gulam Mustafa, who sells products of the same brand near the Ekdalia Evergreen Puja, said he had sold stuff worth Rs 12,000 on Ashtami last year. This year on Ashtami he could sell stuff worth Rs 1,800, he said on Sunday. The Covid-19 threat has led to a substantial dip in the number of puja revellers on the road this year. “Children are our main customers. This year, elders are doubly concerned about kids catching cold. Every now and then, a small boy or a girl is asking for an ice cream only to be refused by parents,” Mustafa said. Members of an odd-group that stop by his cart ask him to leave the stuff on the cart, spray disinfectant on the packs before having the ice cream. Dilip Sardar, who sells products of a local ice cream brand from his cart near the crossing of Pratapaditya Road and Rashbehari Avenue, said on Sunday he was still to make his first sale around 1.30pm. Cycling from his home off Prince Anwar Shah Road, he had reached the spot around 12.45pm. “Sitting idle for 45 minutes on a puja day is something I had never known till this year,” Sardar, who earns a commission of 25 per cent on sales, said. Rabi Ghosh, an ice cream distributor in south Calcutta, said on Monday business was down by “around 50 per cent” this Puja. Ghosh, who gets stock from the company and has around 15 vendors selling them in Jadavpur, Dhakuria and Tollygunge, attributed the slump in business to the suspension of suburban trains to a large extent. In the absence of local trains, tens of thousands of people could not visit the pujas in the city this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta: Two killed, five injured in three accidents||Two motorcyclists were killed and two pillion passengers injured in two accidents in Ballygunge and Beleghata early on Tuesday. Three others on a motorcycle were injured in an accident on the Garden Reach flyover, police said. Kingshuk Bhattacharjee, 30, a resident of Bhowanipore’s Rupnarayan Nandan Lane, died after the two-wheeler he was riding skidded near the crossing of Ballygunge Circular Road and Dover Road close to St Lawrence High School around 2.40am, police said. Moumita Paul, 28, who was on the pillion suffered injuries and she was given first aid at SSKM Hospital. Bhattacharjee was taken to SSKM Hospital where doctors declared him dead. “There was a very long skid mark at the site of the accident. We scanned CCTV footage of the area, but they did not cover the accident site,” a police officer said. Helmets were found from the accident site, the police said. But investigations are on to find out if the two had been wearing helmets at  the time of the accident, an officer said. In Beleghata, Debashis Chatterjee, 35, died after he hit the divider on CIT Road near Sukanta Mancha around 3am, the police said. Chatterjee, a resident of Bagmari Lane, was declared dead at NRS hospital. Arindam Dutta, 42, who was riding pillion, suffered multiple injuries, the police said. Dutta was taken to NRS hospital. Cops have found Chatterjee’ helmet at the accident site. Investigations are on to find out if he was wearing it at the time of the accident. Cops did not find Dutta’s helmet. Three people on a motorcycle were injured in an accident on Garden Reach flyover around 1.40am on Monday. Atish Balmiki, 27, Mukesh Balmiki, 28 and Rajendra Balmiki, 36, residents of Dr AK Paul Road in the West Port police station area, were taken to Ekbalpore Nursing Home, the police said. Atish Balmiki and Mukesh Balmiki are admitted to the hospital. Rajendra Balmiki was discharged after treatment, the police said. No helmets were found at the accident site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Calcutta||Pandal-hoppers take over Navami night in Calcutta||Navami night was the most crowded this year, several puja organisers in the city said. But Dashami afternoon and evening was conspicuously empty, police said. Several puja organisers had said on Sunday that they were expecting more people at night and the anticipation turned out to be true. Pratik Choudhury, one of the organisers of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra, said there people were headed for their pandal till 4am on Monday. Partha Ghosh, an organiser of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin, said people came throughout the night. Two Calcuttans who had stepped out on Navami night had a similar take. A woman in her 30s went to a friend’s place from Salt Lake to Tallah and it took her more than 50 minutes, which is more than what it takes her on a normal weekday. A man in his 40s found a 200m-long queue of people along Bidhan Sarani waiting to approach the pandal in Kashi Bose Lane. “The organisers ensured no crowding at the barricades outside the pandal. They stopped people from approaching the pandal accordingly; but in the process a queue formed leading to the puja,” the Gariahat resident said. “There was a good turnout on Sunday night and it extended till early on Monday. There were people at the barricades outside our pandal even at 4am,” Choudhury of Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra said. “This is the largest number of people we had on a single day during Durga Puja.” Ghosh of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin said a steady stream of people walked past the pandal throughout the night. Shib Mandir Sarbojonin built their pandal in such a way that visitors could see the idol from beyond 10m, Ghosh said. Calcutta High Court had declared all Durga Puja pandals no-entry zones. No visitors should be allowed inside a pandal, the court had said and ordered barricades to be fixed five metres from the entrance for small pujas and 10m from the entrance for big pujas. A city police officer said 1,754 idols were supposed to be immersed between Monday and early on Tuesday. “This is excluding the idols worshipped in pujas organised at homes. The roads are completely empty. Every year, hundreds of people line up along the roads to watch immersion processions. There has been almost none this year. Immersion processions have been banned as a measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19.” Organisers as well as police officers said most puja committees had planned to complete the immersion by Ekadashi (Tuesday). The state government’s decision to not organise the annual immersion carnival on Red Road was the main reason behind most puja committees wanting to immerse the idols earlier than usual, according to police officers. “The idols of all big-budget pujas in the Gariahat-Dhakuria area will be immersed by Tuesday. In fact, barring a handful of big-ticket pujas, most idols were immersed on Monday,” an officer said. A puja organiser said committee members wanted to stay at home for now. “We had to spend a lot of time outside for the past four-five days. So, we would not want to expose ourselves to more people in the coming days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-260
27-10-2020||Business||Future Retail may challenge Amazon's interim award verdict||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and the Future group are digging in their heels even as Amazon.com Inc won an interim award against the latter with regard to the sale of its retail business to Mukesh Ambani. Future Retail (FRL) on Monday hinted that it may challenge the arbitration award before Indian legal forums, to ensure that the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance proceeds unhindered and without any delay. Late on Sunday, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), said that it has entered into the transaction for acquisition of assets and business of FRL “under proper legal advice and the rights and obligations are fully enforceable under Indian Law’’. RRVL added that it intends to enforce its rights and complete the transaction in terms of the scheme and agreement with the Future group without any delay. Amazon had won an interim award against the transaction after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the deal on hold. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated a contractual agreement. FRL said that it has received a communication from the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in the arbitration proceedings under shareholders’ agreement between Amazon, Future Coupons Private Limited and the promoter group. “FRL is examining the communication and the order. It may be noted that FRL is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon has invoked arbitration proceedings. “FRL has been legally advised that actions taken by the FRL/its board, which are in full compliance of the relevant agreements and eminently in the interest of all stakeholders cannot be held back in arbitration proceedings initiated under an agreement to which FRL is not a party,’” it said. The company added that as per the advice received by it, all relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act for all intents and purposes. “This matter raises several fundamental jurisdictional issues which go to the root of the matter. Accordingly, this order will have to be tested under the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act in an appropriate forum. In any enforcement proceedings, FRL would take appropriate steps to ensure that the proposed transaction will proceed unhindered without any delay,” it noted. However, the development impacted the share prices of Future Group firms and RIL. Shares of the Future Group declined by up to 10 per cent. While Future Lifestyle Fashions tanked 9.71 per cent to Rs 78.15 on the BSE, Future Retail fell by over five per cent to Rs 73.85 even as Future Enterprises fell 4.99 per cent to Rs 9.53 -- its lower circuit limit. Similarly,  Future Consumer Ltd also dropped by 4.92 per cent to its lowest trading permissible limit for the day of Rs 7.54 on the BSE. The RIL share settled with losses of four per cent or Rs 83.85 at Rs 2,028.70. Online retail giant Amazon had last year acquired a 49 per cent stake in Future Coupons Ltd, the promoter entity which owns a 7.3 per cent interest in Future Retail, the operator of more than 1,500 stores in India including grocery chain Big Bazaar. Amazon’s investment in Future Group came with contractual rights that include a right of first refusal and a non-compete-like pact. Also, the deal came with the right to buy into their flagship, Future Retail, after a period of between 3 years and 10 years. Commenting on the SIAC interim order, Sweta Patodia, analyst, corporate finance group, Moody’s Investors Service, said: “SIAC’s decision to put a stay on the sale of Future Group’s consumer business to RIL is unlikely to impact the latter’s credit profile, given its position as the leading retailer in India and its strong financial position. “Nonetheless, the decision will likely delay RIL’s plans to expand its retail footprint in India.” The Future deal would have almost doubled Reliance's footprint. In a statement issued late Sunday, Amazon said it got all the relief it sought, without providing specifics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Prime Minister Narendra Modi upbeat on oil refining||India will emerge as the main driving force behind the global energy demand including renewable and natural gas and the country’s refining capacity would increase from 250 million tonnes per annum currently to 450 million tonnes by 2025 to keep self-reliance in sync with demand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. Speaking at the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek, Modi said the coronavirus pandemic had resulted in global energy demand falling by one-third, investment decisions being impacted and predictions of a contraction in demand over the next few years. He said the country is on track to meet its renewable energy target of adding 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy to its electricity grid by 2022. “We are well on track to meet the commitment we made to the global community,” Modi said, adding that the country would continue to “fight climate change”. He said renewable energy helped the country “save around Rs 24,000 crore annually”. Stating that India saw transformational reforms in the energy sector in the last five years, the Prime Minister highlighted changes in oil and gas exploration and production regime as well as gas marketing. “India’s reform journey has been on the high speed in the last five years,” he emphasised. While the focus is to make India a gas-based economy, the nation would also be raising oil refining capacity from 250 million tonnes per annum currently to 450 million tonnes by 2025 to keep self-reliance in sync with demand, he said. India’s energy future is bright and secure, Modi said, adding access to energy should be affordable and reliable. “Our energy sector will be growth-centric, investor-friendly and environment conscious,” he added. As he showcased his government’s recent reforms in the sector to global investors, Modi said India is likely to see energy consumption double over the long term. And, he stated that this would be happening at at a time the country embraces cleaner and renewable sources of energy at a fast pace. Lauding India’s efforts of energy conservation, Modi said, “In the last six years, over 11 million smart LED street lights were installed. This has enabled an estimated energy saving of 60 billion units per year. The estimated greenhouse gas emission reduction with this programme is over 4.5 crore tonnes of CO2 annually.” “Leading global bodies project that global demand will contract for the next few years. But these agencies project India as a leading consumer,” says the Prime Minister. India, he said, was on track to meet its COP21 commitment of raising electricity generation from renewable energy sources to 175 gigawatts by 2022. “We have further extended the target to 450GW by 2030,” he said, adding India has one of the lowest carbon emissions. The event is being attended by global CEOs and energy leaders from India and over 30 countries. Global energy major BP Plc pitched for the inclusion of natural gas within the ambit of goods and services tax (GST) in India. “GST has been a very welcome federal initiative to ease trade in India. We believe it would make sense to incorporate gas in that,” BP Group chief executive  Bernard Looney said at the energy event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank net profit jumps 26.7 per cent  ||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday reported a 26.7 per cent jump in its standalone net profit to Rs 2,184.48 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. The private sector lender had posted a net profit of Rs 1,724.48 crore during the same quarter a year ago. The total income (standalone) rose to Rs 8,288.08 crore in the July-September period as against Rs 7,986.01 crore in the year-ago period, Kotak Mahindra Bank said in a regulatory filing. The bank’s asset quality improved on a net basis, with the non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 0.64 per cent of the net advances as on September 30, 2020, from 0.85 per cent by September-end 2019. In value terms, the net NPAs were down at Rs 1,303.78 crore compared to Rs 1,811.40 crore. However, the gross NPAs rose to 2.55 per cent (Rs 5,335.95 crore) from 2.32 per cent (Rs 5,033.55 crore). Provisions for bad loans and contingencies came down to Rs 368.59 crore for the reported quarter from Rs 407.93 crore parked aside for the year-ago period. On a consolidated basis, the bank said the net profit rose 22.4 per cent to Rs 2946.62 crore during the second quarter 2020-21 against Rs 2,407.25 crore a year ago. Total income grew to Rs 13,591.41 crore from Rs 12,542.99 crore. The consolidated result of the bank included financials of its various domestic as well as international subsidiaries and associate companies. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank closed at Rs 1,415.75 apiece on BSE, down 2.36 per cent from its previous close. SBI Life Insurance Co Ltd on Monday reported over a two-fold jump in net profit at Rs 299.73 crore for the second quarter ended September of the current financial year. The life insurer had posted a net profit of Rs 129.84 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Total income rose 45 per cent to Rs 18,458.25 crore during July-September period of 2020-21 from Rs 12,745.38 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20, SBI Life said in a regulatory filing. Net premium income increased 22 per cent to Rs 12,857.95 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 10,111.51 crore a year ago. Assets under management (AUM) grew to Rs 1,86,360 crore as on September 30, 2020 from Rs 1,54,760 crore as on September 30, 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Sensex down 540 points||Equity indices spiralled lower on Monday following heavy losses in Reliance Industries after Amazon won an interim arbitration award to stall the Mukesh Ambani-led firm’s acquisition of Future Group’s retail assets. A sharp fall in the rupee and a negative trend in global markets further unnerved investors, traders said. After tanking 737 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index recovered some lost ground to close 540 points, or 1.33 per cent, lower at 40145.50. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 162.60 points, or 1.36 per cent, to 11767.75. Bajaj Auto was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, tumbling 6.10 per cent, followed by M&M, Reliance Industries (RIL), Tata Steel, Tech Mahindra, SBI, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. Index heavyweight RIL accounted for most of the losses, sinking 3.97 per cent. Global markets were on the back foot amid an increase in Covid-19 cases in Europe and other regions and uncertainty over fresh stimulus in the US. “Volatility was expected as we are nearing the US election date. The prices are high which limits the capacity of the market to handle uncertainties though the final outcome of the election is unlikely to change the long-term trend of the global market. Rising Covid cases in the US and Europe and delay in US stimulus has added to worries,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||IndusInd Bank merger buzz gathers steam||Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday said acquiring companies and assets was one of the objectives of the capital raising exercise done during the first quarter, indicating that it is not averse to a merger with rivals such as IndusInd Bank. Its group chief financial officer Jaimin Bhatt told reporters that the bank will use its capital cushion judiciously and that it will grow its advance book when there are green shoots in the economy. On Sunday, a Bloomberg report said Kotak Mahindra Bank was exploring the acquisition of smaller rival IndusInd Bank through an all-stock deal. The report said that Uday Kotak, the promoter of Kotak Mahindra Bank, has held talks with the founders of IndusInd Bank and that the latter could retain a stake in the merged entity. However, the promoters of IndusInd Bank denied the news. “The promoter of IndusInd Bank, IndusInd International Holdings Ltd (IIHL), completely denies the said rumour and considers it malicious, untrue and baseless. IIHL is promoted by the Hindujas and broad base of other successful NRIs from the overseas Indian diaspora. They reiterate their full support to the IndusInd Bank, now and always,” a statement from the promoters said. It went on to add that whenever financial crises have impacted the Indian economy and its financial institutions, the promoter of the lender has positively intervened to support and improve the financial position of the bank. “It has a solid track record of facilitating the acquisitions in 2002 of IndusInd Enterprises and Finance Ltd (IEFL) by the bank, followed by another one of Ashok Leyland Finance Ltd (ALF) in 2004. Very recently, in July 2019, it supported the acquisition of Bharat Financial Inclusion Ltd (BFIL) by the Indusind Bank. The promoter would continue to support IndusInd Bank’s initiatives to grow inorganically should any such opportunities arise on the horizon in the future,” it added. At a video conference that was held to discuss its second-quarter results, Bhatt said the bank as a matter of policy does not comment on speculation or rumour. When asked if it will explore the merger and acquisition route, he referred to the Rs 7,000 crore raised during the first quarter. “When we raised capital in the first quarter, we did talk about the fact that we will look at acquisitions whether it is companies, assets, what not. So, I am not saying a no to any of that growth avenues but certainly not on this one (IndusInd),” Bhatt said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Yashovardhan Birla barred by Sebi for misusing IPO proceeds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has barred Birla Pacific Medspa Ltd (BPML), Yashovardhan Birla and eight others from the securities market for two years for mis-utilising IPO proceeds. BPML, which came out with offer documents in March 2011, had floated its over Rs 65-core initial public offering (IPO) in June 2011. The regulator found that the company made mis-statements in the prospectus in respect of the objects of the IPO. In a 61-page order that was given last Friday, Sebi wholetime member Ananta Barua said while around 75 per cent of the IPO proceeds were promised to be utilised in setting up Evolve Medspa centres under the “objects of the issue” in the prospectus, no such centres have been set up. While 15 such centres were promised to be set up by the end of March 2012, not even a single centre was set up by that time. Sebi added that 50 per cent of the IPO proceeds, or Rs 31.54 crore, were deployed as inter-corporate deposits (ICDs) to group companies, of which 60 per cent of ICDs were never returned to the company. However, the prospectus had permitted the interim deployment of proceeds as an investment in liquid instruments only and deployment of funds as ICDs was not allowed. The order said this decision was taken on the “pretext” that the macro-economic conditions were not appropriate to set up Evolve Centers and this decision was taken within 12 days from the signing of prospectus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
27-10-2020||Business||Loan interest waivers to cost Rs 7,500 crore||Over 40 per cent of the system credit and 75 per cent of the borrowers will benefit from the interest-on-interest concession for small loans which will cost the government around Rs 7,500 crore, says a report. Last Friday, the government informed the Supreme Court that it will reimburse the banks the compound interest on small loans under Rs 2 crore irrespective of whether these borrowers had availed of the moratorium or not, provided the loan was standard as of end-February. “Such loans account for over 40 per cent of the systemic credit and 75 per cent of borrowers, and the impact on the exchequer is around Rs 7,500 crore,” Crisil said in a note on Monday. The cost to the exchequer would be halved if the waiver is allowed only where moratorium, extended due to the pandemic, was availed of, it added. To ensure effective and timely implementation, the government has asked lenders to credit the amount to eligible borrowers latest by November 5. This will be the difference between compound interest and simple interest over the six months of the moratorium period. While lenders have to apply for reimbursement by December 15, the timelines for receipt of funds from the government are yet to be notified. According to the agency, a complete interest waiver, including interest on interest, for the eligible loans up to Rs 2 crore would have meant a Rs 1.5-lakh-crore impact and could have posed significant challenges for the government as well as the financial sector. From a borrower’s perspective, the benefit is relatively higher for those who had availed of higher-yielding loans and thus borrowers of unsecured, micro and gold loans will benefit more than those who had taken home loans. Loan segments eligible for waiver are medium and small enterprises, education, housing, consumer durables, credit cards, automobile, personal, professional and consumption. According to Crisil, around 60 per cent of eligible loans were under moratorium as of end April, and the same is estimated to have come down to around 30 per cent as of end-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
27-10-2020||Business||Supreme Court dismisses United Breweries India's appeal ||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed an appeal filed by United Breweries India Limited (UBIL) challenging a Karnataka High Court order directing the Vijay Mallya-promoted company’s liquidation proceedings to clear the dues of over Rs 15,000 crore to the consortium of banks led by the SBI. A bench headed by Justice U. U. Lalit refused to interfere with the high court order though senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan appearing for UBIL argued that the impugned order was erroneous as he claimed that the company had total assets the tune of Rs 14,500 crore against the Rs 6,000 crore-odd debts owed to the various creditors, including banks. He further argued that the total dues to the banks was only Rs 900 crore as such even after clearing the debts of the banks and other creditors, the company had enough surplus funds to continue in business. “Winding up should be the last resort, which should  not be readily accepted,” the senior counsel argued before the bench which also included justices Vineet Saran and Ravindra Bhat.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for the consortium of banks however, disputed UBIL arguments. He submitted that the defaulting company owed Rs 15,000 crore to the banks alone. Of these the banks had been so far able to recover only Rs 3,595 crore. More than Rs 11,000 crore are still due from the company, Rohatgi said. The bench after hearing the arguments said it found no reason to interfere with the orders passed by the high court and accordingly dismissed it.The Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) had earlier in 2017 passed attachment orders against the UBIL which was subsequently upheld by the Karnataka High Court in March this year; aggrieved by which the company has moved the apex court. Many of the company’s assets are already under attachment by the Enforcement Directorate for violation of the PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) 2002. The allegations against the UBIL which is the parent company of the now defunct Kingfisher Airlines that it stood guarantee for the huge loans availed by the latter which turned bankrupt, resulting in Rs 15,000-crore dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-254
27-10-2020||India||Coal scam: Delhi HC suspends 3-year jail term of ex-minister Dilip Ray||The Delhi High Court Tuesday suspended the three-year jail term of former Union minister Dilip Ray in a coal scam case pertaining to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand block in 1999. According to a lawyer associated with the case, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also issued notice to the CBI and sought its response on the appeal filed by Ray, challenging his conviction and sentence in the case. The high court, which heard the matter during the vacation, admitted the appeal and listed the matter for further hearing on November 25, the lawyer said. The trial court had on Monday sentenced Ray, the 68-year old former minister of state (coal) in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, to three-year in jail and also imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh on him. Besides him, the trial court has also awarded three-year jail term each to two senior officials of the ministry at that time -- Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, both about 80-year-old. It has also awarded the same jail term to Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla (75). The trial court had however granted bail to the convict persons for one month to enable them to approach the high court challenging the verdict. It had imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh each on Banerjee and Gautam, while Agarwalla was asked to pay a fine of Rs 60 lakh. It had also imposed a fine of Rs 60 lakh and Rs 10 lakh on CTL and Castron Mining Ltd (CML) respectively. The two firms were also held guilty in the case. The convicts had urged the trial court to take a lenient view considering their old age and that they were never convicted earlier. The CBI, represented by public prosecutors V K Sharma and A P Singh in the trial court, however, had sought maximum punishment for the convicts. The trial court had convicted Ray for the offences of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust by public servant and cheating under the IPC and under the provision of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Regarding Ray, it had said that he dishonestly facilitated allocation of the abandoned non-nationalised coal mining area in favour of CTL and that too in violation of the direction of law. The case pertains to allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih in Jharkhand to CTL in 1999. In response to the convicts' argument that no loss was caused to anyone in the matter since almost the entire amount of extracted coal was surrendered to the government, the trial court had said, that non-availability of sufficient raw material such as coal has in fact resulted in the lack of infrastructural/ industrial development of the country. Had coal block been allocated to a deserving applicant company after following the due process of law and the company would have proceeded to extract coal so as to use it captively in its end use project then it would have certainly added to the infrastructural/ industrial development of the country. ...arbitrary allocation of coal blocks as has been seen in the present matter to unscrupulous persons who never intended to establish any end use project in itself has caused huge loss to the nation which is difficult to be computable in monetary terms, the court had said. It had said the case involved commission of white collar crimes and that too by people occupying high places in the society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Centre amends laws to allow people from outside J&K to buy land there||The Centre has paved the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in the union territory by amending several laws, more than a year after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution.  In a gazette notification in Hindi and English, the Ministry of Home Affairs has made several changes to the land laws, including allowing use of agricultural land for setting up facilities of public purpose.  The most important tweak has been made in the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of land in the union territory as the Centre has omitted the phrase "permanent resident of the state" from Section 17 of the law.  Before the repeal of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the fresh changes have paved the way for non-residents to buy land in the union territory.  Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha told reporters that the amendments did not allow transfer of agricultural land to non-agriculturists.  However, there are several exemptions in the Act which enable transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, including setting up of educational or health care facilities.  Former Advocate General Mohammad Ishaq Qadri said the amendments have opened floodgates for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land. "Now there is no legal bar on purchase of land here by outsiders," he said.  The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- an amalgam of seven mainstream parties in Jammu and Kashmir -- condemned the changes in the land laws and vowed to fight these on all fronts.  National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the amendments were unacceptable.  "Unacceptable amendments to the land ownership laws of JK. Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land and transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. JK is now up for sale and the poorer small land holding owners will suffer," he tweeted.  PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said it was a step to "disenfranchise" the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "Yet another step that's part of GOI's nefarious designs to disempower & disenfranchise people of JK. From the unconstitutional scrapping of Article 370 to facilitating loot of our natural resources and finally putting land in JK up for sale," she tweeted.  The notification has replaced Section 30 and Part VII of the State Land Acquisition Act of 1990 with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.  The other major laws repealed by the notification includes the J&K Big Landed Estates (abolition) Act, a landmark act brought in by Sheikh Abdullah that gave land rights to landless tillers.  The JK Alienation of Land Act, 1995, the JK Common Lands (regulation) Act, 1956 and the JK Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1962 were also repealed.  Other laws to be repealed are the J&K Prevention of Fragmentation of Agricultural Holdings Act, 1960; JK Prohibition on Conversion of Land and Alienation of Orchards Act, 1975; the JK Right of Prior Purchase ACT, 1936 A.D; Section 3 of the J&K Tenancy (Stay of Ejectment Proceedings) Act 1966; the JK Utilisation of Land Act, 2010; and the J&K Underground Utilities (Acquisition of rights of user in land) Act.  The notification also maintains that government on the written request of an Army officer not below the rank of Corp Commander may declare an area as "strategic area" within a local area, only for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces, which may be excluded from the operation of this Act and rules and regulations made there under in the manner and to the extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Facebook India policy head Ankhi Das quits company||Ankhi Das, the controversial India policy head of Facebook who allegedly opposed blocking of right-wing hate content, has quit the company.  "Ankhi has decided to step down from her role in Facebook to pursue her interest in public service. Ankhi was one of our earliest employees in India and played an instrumental role in the growth of the company and its services over the last 9 years," Facebook's Managing Director India Ajit Mohan said in an e-mailed statement.  Das faced allegations of opposing enforcement of hate-speech rules against BJP and other right-wing leaders. She was also accused of posting messages in support of the BJP for several years on a Facebook group of the company's employees.  Her resignation came about two-and-a-half-months after she first shot into the limelight due to the allegations.  Over 40 human rights and internet watchdog organisations had called on Facebook to place Das on leave until the company finishes conducting an ongoing audit of its India operations.  Das had joined Facebook in 2011.  Ajit Mohan said: "She has been a part of my leadership team over the last 2 years, a role in which she has made enormous contributions. We are grateful for her service and wish her the very best for the future".  Das, on her departure, said she had decided to step down from Facebook to pursue her "personal interest in public service".  "When I joined Facebook in 2011, internet growth in the country was woefully low and I often wondered how social and economic asymmetries will be addressed. We were a small unlisted startup back then guided only by our mission and purpose to connect people in India. After nine long years, I feel that mission has largely been met," she said.  Facebook did not link her departure to stories around her controversial stand but said Tuesday was her last day at the company.  "I have decided to step down from Facebook after long service to its mission of connecting people and building communities to pursue my personal interest in public service," she said in her departure message.  She thanked Mark Zuckerberg for creating "something beautiful for the world."  "This is a special company and a special group of people," she wrote. "I hope I have served you and the company well".  "I know we will be in touch on Facebook," she added.  The controversy around her began on August 15 when The Wall Street Journal report alleged that Ankhi Das had blocked action against leaders associated with the BJP and other Hindutva groups.  According to the report, a day before the BJP won the 2014 Parliamentary elections, Das had written: "We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history."  She also wrote that Modi was the 'strongman' who had broken the former ruling party's hold. "It's taken thirty years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally," she wrote in another post about Congress.  The Wall Street Journal also reported that Ankhi Das had trained the BJP for its social media campaign for the 2012 Assembly polls. After the training, she wrote: 'Success in our Gujarat Campaign'.  The report further added: "When a fellow staffer noted in response to one of her internal posts that the BJP's primary opponent, the Indian National Congress, had a larger following on Facebook than Mr Modi's individual page, Ms Das responded: 'Don't diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well let my bias not show!!!'".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Modi slams 'dynastic corruption', says it's part of political culture in some states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday batted for strong action against "dynastic corruption", saying it has become a part of the political culture in some states and has emerged as a formidable challenge that is hollowing out the country. Inaugurating a three-day national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption organised by the CBI, the prime minister said that inaction in a single corruption case forms the foundation for future scams and corruption. "Dynastic corruption, as in corruption transferred from one generation to another, has grown over decades to become a formidable challenge before the country," he said "During the past decades, we have seen that when one generation of corrupt people is not punished adequately, its subsequent generations indulge in corruption with more impunity," he said. When a generation sees that a corrupt person in the family is let off without or very little punishment, their courage to indulge in corrupt activities grows manifolds, he said. "Because of this, it has become a part of the political culture in some states. Corruption running through generations and the dynasty of corruption are hollowing out the country like a termite," Modi said. His remarks came ahead of the first phase of voting in the Bihar assembly election, where the BJP-JD(U) alliance has been targeting Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial candidate of 'Mahagathbandhan', over corruption cases against his jailed father and RJD leader Lalu Prasad. When suitable action is not taken in corruption cases, it becomes normalised in society, the prime minister said. "People know, the media knows that a person has made crores of rupees through corrupt means, but they also start taking it normally. "This situation is a major obstacle in the growth of the country. It is a hindrance to a prosperous and self-dependent India," he said. The prime minister said there is a need to have systemic checks, effective audits, capacity building and training against corruption. "Fighting corruption is not a job of a single agency but is a collective responsibility," Modi said. During the conference, senior officials of the government, including the Home Secretary, the Comptroller and Auditor General, and the Finance Secretary, will discuss crucial issues related to investigation challenges in foreign jurisdiction, matters linked to vigilance and corruption, amendments in Prevention of Corruption Act among others. The national conference organised by the CBI coincides with the 'Vigilance Awareness Week', which is observed in the country annually from October 27 to November 2. "Activities in this conference would be focused on vigilance issues aimed at raising awareness and reaffirming India's commitment to the promotion of integrity and probity in public life through citizen participation," a government statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
27-10-2020||India||Centre extends unlock protocols till November 30||The Centre on Tuesday said the current guidelines on allowing various activities, like opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, will continue to be applicable till November 30 in areas outside containment zones. These guidelines, issued on September 30, were to be in force till October 31. But on Tuesday, the ministry of home affairs issued an order to extend this period till November 30, a ministry spokesperson said. The guidelines said that international travel, except those permitted by the Centre, would remain shut while state and UT governments were given the flexibility to decide on reopening of schools and coaching institutions in a graded manner. These decisions are to be taken in consultation with the respective school and institution management, based on their assessment of the situation, and subject to certain conditions, according to the guidelines. The activities permitted in areas outside containment zones were -- cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, business to business (B2B) exhibitions, swimming pools used for training  sportspersons, entertainment parks and similar places. Various ministries and departments have issued standard operating procedures for the reopening of activities. Political gatherings in poll-bound Bihar and those constituencies where by-elections will be held were allowed with attendance of a maximum of 200 people in a closed space or hall and in an open space depending on its size. Political gatherings can be held only outside the containment zones. The lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in containment zones during the period. The coronavirus induced country-wide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31. The unlock process in the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. The number of coronavirus cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 after over three months, while the new fatalities registered during the same period remained under 500 for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 79,46,429, with 36,470 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,19,502 with 488 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 72,01,070 people have recuperated from COVID-19 so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 90.62 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: CBI probe to be monitored by Allahabad High Court, says Supreme Court||The CBI investigation in the Hathras case, in which a Dalit girl was brutally raped and died of injuries, will now be monitored by the Allahabad High Court, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The apex court said that all the aspects of the case, including monitoring of probe and providing security to the victim's family as well as the witnesses, would be considered by the high court. A bench of Justices A.S. Bopanna, V.Ramasubramanian and Chief Justice S.A. Bobde said the plea for transfer of trial of the case from Uttar Pradesh would be considered after the CBI probe is over. The top court, which passed the verdict on a batch of pleas by activists and lawyers claiming that a fair trial is not possible in Uttar Pradesh as the probe has allegedly been botched up, said that CBI will file the status report in the case before the high court. The bench considered the request of Uttar Pradesh government and asked the Allahabad High Court to delete the victim's name from one of its orders on a PIL pending there. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". On October 15, the apex court had reserved its verdict on the pleas in the matter. The lawyer, appearing for the victim's family, had told the top court that trial in the case should be shifted out of Uttar Pradesh to a court in the national capital after completion of investigation. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by the Uttar Pradesh government which gave details about the security and protection provided to the victim's family and witnesses in the case. The state government, which has already transferred the case to the CBI and given consent to monitoring by the apex court, had filed the affidavit after the top court sought details on witness protection and whether the victim's family has chosen a lawyer. Referring to the compliance affidavit, Mehta had said that they have engaged a lawyer and also requested that government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||India, US ink strategic defence pact amid stand-off with China||India and the US signed the landmark defence pact, BECA, that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, geospatial maps and classified satellite data between their militaries as the two countries held a high-level dialogue on Tuesday, and vowed to ramp up their security ties and boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific amidst China's growing economic and military clout in the region. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh held the third edition of the 2+2 talks with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark T Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. The high-level interaction comes at a time China is attempting to expand its economic and military clout in the Info-Pacific region, and is also engaged in a tense standoff with India in eastern Ladakh. During the talks, the US side also assured India that America stands with it as they confront threats to their sovereignty and liberty. Addressing a joint media event along with Jaishankar, Pompeo and Esper, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the two sides held comprehensive discussion on range of key issues, and dubbed the inking of BECA with the US is a "significant move". "Our military-to-military cooperation with the US is moving forward very well," he said, adding that projects for joint development of defence equipment have been identified. "We reaffirmed our commitment to peace and security in Indo-Pacific region," Singh said. Pompeo, in his remarks, said, during the visit they visited the war memorial to honour the soldiers that sacrificed their lives for the world's largest democracy, including the 20 that were killed by China's PLA forces in the Galwan Valley in June. "The US will stand with people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty", Pompeo asserted. Slamming the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), Pompeo said the US leaders and citizens see with increasing clarity that the "CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law and transparency". The US and India are taking steps to strengthen cooperation against all manners of threats and not just those posed by the CCP, Pompeo added. Jaishankar said the Indo-US national security convergences have grown and the Indo-Pacific was a focus of the discussion. US Defence secretary Esper noted that the bilateral defence cooperation is continuing to grow. The inking of the BECA completes finalisation of four key pacts between the two countries which were identified as crucial to significantly expand the strategic ties. A key pact called General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed by the two countries in 2002. The GSOMIA provides for specific measures to ensure security standards for safeguarding critical information shared by the US with India. In a major move in 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provide for deeper cooperation. India and the US signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. About BECA or Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement,  officials said it will give India access to classified geo-spatial data as well as critical information having significant military applications from the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||India, US ink strategic defence pact ahead of November 3 elections||India and the US on Tuesday inked a landmark defence agreement that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, classified satellite data and critical information between the two countries. The signing of the long-negotiated Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) during the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue between the two strategic partners also signals further boosting of bilateral defence and military ties and it comes in the backdrop of India's tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T. Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. In the 2+2 dialogue, the two sides deliberated on a host of critical issues including ways to further expand the already close relationship between the militaries of the two countries as well as broader issues of mutual interest in the Indo-Pacific region. The inking of the BECA completes finalisation of four key pacts between the two countries which were identified as crucial to significantly expand the strategic ties. A key pact called General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed by the two countries in 2002. The GSOMIA provides for specific measures to ensure security standards for safeguarding critical information shared by the US with India. In a major move in 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provide for deeper cooperation. India and the US signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. About BECA, officials said the agreement will give India access to classified geo-spatial data as well as critical information having significant military applications from the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||MCDs not releasing salaries of doctors shameful, Centre must grant funds to civic bodies: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said it is shameful that doctors of MCD-run hospitals are forced to protest over salary dues and requested the Centre to grant funds to municipal corporations so that their pay checks can be issued. Several doctors in hospitals run by the North MCD have claimed they have not been paid in three months and have been protesting for the last two weeks. Kejriwal alleged gross mismanagement and corruption in the functioning of the MCDs. There was no immediate reaction available from the North MCD. “It pains me that our doctors have to protest for their salaries. These doctors risked their lives to serve us during the pandemic. This is shameful,” the CM said while inaugurating a waste-to-energy plant at the Ghazipur poultry and fish market. “We have been witnessing that civic bodies have not been able to pay salaries of teachers, sanitation workers and doctors over the years. Why is there such an acute shortage of funds in MCDs?” he asked. We have released more funds to the MCDs as compared to previous governments. We have given them more than their due Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said there should be no politics over the issue of doctors' salaries and everybody should make efforts to ensure they get their pay checks. He claimed that the Centre has been providing grants to municipal corporations across the country, barring Delhi. “I request the Centre to give funds to MCDs so that they release salaries of doctors,” the CM said. “The pandemic has hit the tax collection of the Delhi government. Still, it has been managing affairs properly and releasing salaries of its doctors and teachers,” he said. “If we had the funds, I would have given the salaries of doctors of MCD-run hospitals today itself doesn't matter if it was as per the Constitution or not,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court dismisses Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha's bail plea||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail plea of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in connection with a case related to a larger conspiracy in the Delhi riots in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, in his order passed on October 26, said that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against Tanha were prima facie true. Tanha was arrested in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Air pollution may hinder India's fight against Covid, say scientists||The causal link between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is yet to be established conclusively but long-term exposure will certainly make people more vulnerable to lung infections, warn scientists as the skies over large parts of north India, including Delhi, turn smoky and the air quality deteriorates rapidly. Their concerns come amid several global studies pointing to the possible connection between higher air pollution levels and increased Covid-19 cases and deaths. A study by researchers at Harvard University in the US in September showed that an increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate. "Given the current limited literature, the surge of PM2.5 level in Delhi may be associated with increased Covid-19 cases... Although the literature is relatively sparse at this stage," Xiao Wu, corresponding author of the Harvard study, told PTI. He said the relationship between long-term air pollution and Covid-19 has been documented in many studies, which indicate that adverse health impacts of air pollution can make people prone to the infection or exacerbate the severity of Covid-19 symptoms once infected. This is interesting, especially considering Covid-19 causes viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, and severe inflammation to the heart and circulatory system, the scientist said. Another study by the University of Cambridge in April found an association between living in an area of England with high levels of air pollution and the severity of Covid-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. "Based on our findings, I would expect to see an association between higher levels of air pollution in India and Covid-19 in the winter, similar with what we found in England," said Marco Travaglio, corresponding author of the Cambridge study. "If the levels of air pollution have been consistently above the legal limits for several months or years before this coming winter, I would expect to see a relationship between those levels and Covid-19 burden across different parts of India in November and thereafter," Travaglio told PTI. The level of small particulate matter (PM2.5) levels in Delhi have averaged around 180-340 g/m in the past few weeks while that of bigger pollution particles (PM10) has hovered between 120 and 450 during the time. Long-term exposure to chronically high PM2.5 levels weakens the ability of the lungs to fend off infections, therefore making people more susceptible to Covid-19, the scientists said. In addition, studies from Italy have shown that traces of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, the genetic material of the virus, can be found on pollution particles, meaning that increased air pollution may act as a vehicle to increase Covid-19 transmission in highly polluted places. The air quality in north India is expected to deteriorate further from November to February due to several factors such as stubble burning, festive fireworks and low wind speed conditions which lead to an uptick in vehicular and industrial pollution being trapped in the lower atmosphere. "In view of this evidence, high levels of PM2.5 in Delhi may lead to a higher number of Covid-19 cases," Travalgo added. Studies in humans have shown that toxic air particles can penetrate airways and cause widespread infiltration of lung cells. This chronic state of inflammation may induce or aggravate health conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, experts said. Because these conditions have been widely found to be associated with increased risk of contracting Covid-19 or incurring into critical illness, it is likely that air pollution acts as a risk factor to increase the susceptibility to Covid-19. India has the world's second-highest caseload of over 7.9 million and the third-highest death toll with more than 115,000 from the novel coronavirus. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned that Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter because of the prevalence of respiratory illnesses during this season that worsen the symptoms of the disease. On Sunday, the national capital recorded 4,136 fresh COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in 38 days. D.J. Christopher, head of pulmonary medicine at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu, noted that the increased severe form of Covid-19 among patients would lead to an increased ICU hospitalisations, thereby increasing the burden of the healthcare system. "Let us hope the numbers are not so high. There is a chance of hospital beds getting filled and shortage of ICU beds," Christopher told PTI. Prof. Rajneesh Bhardwaj concurred, saying there is growing scientific evidence that airborne respiratory droplets carrying the virus travel and contaminate the air after an infected person coughs. Pollution may help this airborne droplet to remain suspended for a longer time and may increase the spread of Covid-19," Bhardwaj, associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, told PTI. According to pulmonologist Anurag Agarwal, however, the relation between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is very complex. While in general high air pollution increases risk of respiratory infections, it is difficult to say much more," Agarwal, director of the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, told PTI. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Rahul asks Modi to reach out to farmers||Rahul Gandhi has described farmers’ burning of the Prime Minister’s effigy on Dussehra as a “very dangerous precedent” and asked Narendra Modi to reach out to them and provide the healing touch. Farmers at many places in Punjab and Haryana had on Sunday replaced Ravan’s effigy with Modi’s for the burning ceremony, calling the Prime Minister “Kisan ka Ravan (Farmers’ Ravan)”. At some places, portraits of industrialists Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani were attached to Modi’s effigy. Farmers are angry over the recent farm laws passed by Parliament, which they fear would deprive them of the relative security of minimum support prices and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big companies. After social media reported the trend widely with photographs and videos, Rahul tweeted: “This happened all over Punjab yesterday. It’s sad that Punjab is feeling such anger towards the Prime Minister.” He added: “This is a very dangerous precedent and is bad for our country. The Prime Minister should reach out, listen and give a healing touch quickly.” In BJP-ruled Haryana, police cracked down on the protesters. They rounded up farmers from many villages and booked Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni over the burning of the Prime Minister’s effigies and charged him with creating enmity in society. The BKU, a non-partisan farmers’ organisation with a presence in several states across the country, is leading the agitation for the withdrawal of the new laws. Over 250 farmers’ unions have joined the protests. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has repeatedly warned the Centre of unforeseeable consequences in the border state, which has faced militancy in the past, if the farmers lose faith in the system. Rahul too has described the new farm laws as a sinister move that would destroy agriculture and enslave India. While the Congress has extended support to the agitation, the farmers’ unions have so far not allowed politicians to join their movement. Even women and children have been participating in the agitation, publicly venting their fury at the Prime Minister. Songs are being sung to express the farmers’ anger. The BJP has, however, accused the Congress of instigating the protests. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tweeted: “On one hand, the Congress is making wild and baseless allegation of fascism, and on the other hand, shamelessly organising burning of Prime Minister’s effigy. Their dubious character is exposed in front of everybody.” He seemed to be alluding to an article Sonia Gandhi has written accusing the Modi government of assaulting democratic institutions. Reacting to the effigy burning, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar tweeted: “Entire Punjab has expressed its anger & resentment unequivocally. Up to the BJP now to take note and make amends, as Rahul Gandhi says, or charge entire Punjab for promoting enmity and breach of peace as they did to BKU’s Charuni in Haryana. Conciliation or confrontation?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Blow to India’s naval base hope in Seychelles||The election of Indian-origin priest Wavel Ramakalawan as the next President of Seychelles on Sunday may well bring the curtain down on India’s hopes of developing a naval base in the East African archipelago. Ramakalawan had led the opposition to the project, first announced during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the country in 2015. Ramakalawan had changed his position on the agreement — for India to develop the naval base on the Assumption Island, located around 1,100km from the country’s largest island, Mahe — from first supporting it to opposing it and stalling its ratification by the country’s parliament. He is reported to have reiterated during his campaign that no foreign military base would be allowed in Seychelles. After the initial opposition to the agreement, signed in 2015, then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar had made a fresh attempt in January 2018 to resurrect the deal by tweaking it to clear the air about who will control the naval base. The revised agreement was seen as an effort to allay fears in Seychelles that India will not only develop the naval base but also control it. India’s contention has been that Seychelles will own the base and the two countries will jointly manage it. However, Jaishankar’s effort to salvage the deal just before he retired as a diplomat came to naught, as did the renewed resolve to work together and develop the base during outgoing Seychelles President Danny Faure’s India visit in June 2018. The deal has remained in limbo since then with no word from Seychelles. In March 2018, Ramakalawan — while announcing that the Opposition would not ratify the revised agreement — had said: “This deal is dead.” Apart from the issue of sovereignty, there are also environmental concerns about the development of a naval base on the island, its usefulness in combating piracy notwithstanding. The environmental concerns arise from the Assumption Island’s proximity to Aldabra — the world’s second-largest coral atoll and home to its largest giant tortoise population. The Aldabra Atoll is a Unesco world heritage site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||Members of a Sangh parivar outfit allegedly enter the Taj Mahal and pray to Shiva||Members of a Sangh parivar outfit allegedly entered the Taj Mahal with a saffron flag on Sunday, Vijaya Dashami, and prayed to Shiva on the premises of the Mughal mausoleum. The Hindu Jagaran Manch — a moderately well-known group across northern and western India that holds discussions on religion and culture and is not known for activism — has posted purported videos of the act. Gaurav Thakur, president of the outfit’s Agra unit, told local reporters: “The Taj Mahal was originally Tejo Mahalaya — a Shiva temple. I have prayed to Shiva at the Taj Mahal at least five times in the past few years and will continue doing so until the government agrees to hand the monument over to Hindus.” The claim that Shah Jahan built the 17th-century tomb to his queen Mumtaz Mahal over the remains of a temple is part of a pattern. Ever since the Supreme Court handed over the disputed Ayodhya plot to Hindus last November, demands for the removal of Islamic structures allegedly overlying temples have gained ground in Mathura and Varanasi, too. BJP and RSS spokespersons distanced their organisations from Thakur’s purported act. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi did not respond to a text message asking whether Thakur and his men would be booked. A police officer in Lucknow said that flags — and inflammable substances, incense sticks, even pens — were banned at the Taj because of security reasons. “The youths can be booked for breach of security and promoting enmity between religious communities if the charges are true,” he said, asking not to be identified. In the video, Thakur is seen sitting on a bench on the Taj compound with his eyes closed while another man stands behind him holding a saffron flag. A third man is seen recording the two on his mobile phone. A fourth person would have shot the video. “Some youths are seen in a video taking selfies with the Vijaya Dashami flag,” state BJP media-in-charge Maneesh Shukla said. “It’s not the RSS flag.” The RSS is known to hold marches with its flag on Vijaya Dashami. Sateyndra Sonkar, a local RSS leader in Agra, said: “The flag the youths were carrying was not the RSS flag.” Rahul Yadav, a CISF commandant, said: “We are not aware when it happened and are trying to verify the authenticity of the video. Action will be taken if the charges are found true.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-594
27-10-2020||India||SC puts Lokur panel on hold ||The Supreme Court on Monday kept “in abeyance” a 10-day-old order appointing a retired judge, who is a trenchant critic of the State’s misuse of the sedition law, as a one-man committee to check air pollution in Delhi. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde put the Justice Madan B. Lokur committee on the backburner after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had previously opposed the former apex court judge’s appointment, conveyed a promise from the Centre for a prompt legislative solution. As a sitting judge, Justice Lokur had headed a bench that delivered an unpalatable verdict for the Narendra Modi government on extra-judicial killings. After retirement, he had condemned the use of the sedition law against “youngsters, students talking about doing something good for the country”. On October 16, the three-judge bench had tasked Justice Lokur with ensuring the prevention of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, an age-old practice that aggravates air pollution in the National Capital Region in October-November every year. On Monday, Mehta told the court the Centre would within three to four days issue an ordinance, to be later replaced by a regular law, creating a permanent body to deal with stubble burning. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing public interest petitioner Aditya Dubey who had sought the judicial committee, argued that legislation would take a long time and the Justice Lokur panel should therefore not be delayed. But the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, rejected his argument after Mehta said: “This government is different, it works faster…. The matter is being dealt with on a war footing. Several ad hoc measures have been taken.” Justice Bobde said: “We welcome the step (promised by the government). This is not a matter for a PIL.” Singh said: “I don’t understand the interests of the Union of India in getting the order suspended.” Justice Bobde told Singh the court was free to keep its own order in abeyance. “What is your problem? After all, you are a PIL petitioner,” the Chief Justice said, adjourning the matter till October 29. In September this year, Justice Lokur had told a webinar, without mentioning names: “(The charge of) sedition is being used with an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views.” Alluding to Dr Kafeel Khan, he had said that recently in Uttar Pradesh, a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. In 2018, dealing with a public interest plea on alleged extrajudicial killings of more than 1,500 people in Manipur between 1985 and 2001, a bench headed by Justice Lokur had ordered a CBI inquiry despite the Modi government arguing this would demoralise the armed forces. Justice Lokur’s willingness to express dissent also showed in the way he had combined with three other apex court judges in January 2018 to hold a news conference and accuse then Chief Justice Dipak Misra of allocating key cases to certain favoured junior judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Found: First direct evidence of water on Moon ||US scientists on Monday announced their discovery of the first direct evidence of molecular water on the Moon, 11 years after India’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft had detected the signatures of a possible component of water. Researchers at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Goddard Space Flight Centre and other collaborating institutions in Hawaii and Colorado have detected a distinct infrared spectral signature that they say can only be explained through molecular water — or H2O. Instruments aboard three spacecraft, including Chandrayaan-1, had in 2009 detected the signatures of hydroxyl (OH), a component of molecular water, but it was unclear whether the OH had emerged from water or other hydroxyl compounds. Now, Goddard scientist Casey Honniball and her colleagues have used an infrared camera on a flying observatory aboard a Boeing 747 to observe a region in the Moon’s high southern latitudes near the Clavius crater and spotted the strong spectral signature of molecular water. They have used their observations to calculate water concentrations ranging from 100 parts per million to 400 parts per million. They believe the water is probably stored in between dust grains on the lunar surface that protect it from the harsh environment. In an independent study, US researchers at Colorado University have estimated that hidden pockets of water preserved in the lunar regions of permanent shadow, called “cold traps”, could be more common on the Moon than assumed. Both findings appeared in the journal Nature Astronomy on Monday. Paul Hayne at Colorado University and his colleagues examined the distribution of such cold traps across the lunar surface and found that small micro-cold traps, some only one centimetre in diameter, are hundreds to thousands of times more numerous than larger traps. Their assessment suggests that around 40,000sqkm of the lunar surface can trap water. “If we’re right, water is going to be more accessible for drinking water, for rocket fuel, everything that Nasa needs water for,” Hayne, an assistant professor, said in a media release from the university. Studies suggest that the temperature in a cold trap could be minus 184°C. “The temperatures are so low in cold traps that ice would behave like a rock. If water gets in there, it’s not going anywhere for a billion years,” Hayne said. Space scientists say the presence of water on the Moon would be significant from the perspective of future lunar missions, including ideas of establishing temporary research outposts on the Moon. One scientist had in 2009 said that harvesting water from the lunar surface could dramatically reduce the costs of long-term human activities on the Moon. The scientist had estimated that it takes $50,000 to carry a litre of water to the Moon on a rocket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||A Birla cries ‘racism’ at restaurant||Ananya Birla, the daughter of Aditya Birla Group’s billionaire chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, has slammed a US restaurant for being “racist”, saying the Italian-American dining place in California “literally threw” her and her family out of its premises. The singer and artist took to Twitter to share her ordeal on Saturday. “This restaurant @ScopaRestaurant literally threw my family and I, out of their premises. So racist. So sad. You really need to treat your customers right. Very racist. This is not okay,” she said in a tweet. The Scopa Italian Roots restaurant is an Italian-American dining place by chef Antonia Lofaso. “We waited for 3 hours to eat at your restaurant. @chefantonia Your waiter Joshua Silverman was extremely rude to my mother, bordering racist. This isn’t okay,” Ananya said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||On video: BJP leader cleans shoe with flag||A Valley BJP politician has purportedly been caught on video cleaning his shoe with a Tricolour on a day his party held a Tiranga Yatra (Tricolour March) in Srinagar to celebrate Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India. The embarrassment for the BJP comes at a time the party has accused former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti of dishonouring the national flag. The People’s Democratic Party leader had said she would not hold the Tricolour until the scrapped state flag of Jammu and Kashmir was reinstated. A five-second clip shows Pulwama BJP president Sajad Ali Raina cleaning his shoe with the national flag while a man in the background, apparently the person shooting the video, breaks into laughter. “This is foolishness,” a smiling Raina, sitting on the floor, says as he notices he is being filmed. Almost as a reflex action he tries to hide the flag. The video has taken social media by storm. Raina told reporters it was an old video, from the time his “thinking” was different. “I am a proud Indian. My nation’s flag is my life and pride. The video you are talking about is six years old,” he said. “At the time I had something else in mind. But when I joined the BJP, I started loving my country. I will have no regrets if I have to sacrifice my life for the flag.” If the video were from a time before Raina joined the pro-India camp, it’s not clear why he should be seen objecting to being filmed in the act. BJP spokesperson Darakhshan Andrabi said she had neither seen nor heard about the video. She initially suggested that a “small issue” not be blown out of proportion. “It may have been done by mistake, somewhere. Now we are (blowing) a small issue out of proportion; I think that is not right,” she said. On whether it was indeed a “small issue”, she backtracked. “This is an offence, a crime. There could be a punishment for it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||ED glare on Kerala MLA ||A bribery scandal involving an Opposition MLA has broken out in Kerala, impeding efforts to corner the ruling Left front government over a gold-smuggling case in which a top bureaucrat has been questioned. The Enforcement Directorate has launched a probe against K.M. Shaji of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) who has been accused of accepting Rs 25 lakh in bribe in 2014 for sanctioning higher secondary status to a school in his Azhikode Assembly constituency in Kannur. Though Shaji had denied any wrongdoing, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau booked him in April this year. Initiating an investigation into the money-laundering charges against Shaji, the ED has summoned the MLA and several others to appear before the agency on November 10. The ongoing probe by the ED to locate Shaji’s assets led them to a palatial house in Kozhikode allegedly built in his wife’s name. Based on the ED’s order, the engineering division of the Kozhikode Corporation measured the dimensions of the mansion and found that it was built over 5,200 square feet instead of 3,000 square feet for which permission was granted. The civic body has issued a notice to demolish the unauthorised building. The ruling Left Democratic Front quickly grabbed the opportunity to nail the lawmaker whose party is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front and a significant player in northern Kerala. The ED’s entry and allegations of disproportionate assets against Shaji emerged at a time the former secretary of the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, has been questioned for nearly 100 hours over his alleged links with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||SC stay on campaign restrictions||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a Madhya Pradesh High Court order that had imposed several restrictions on physical gathering by political parties during campaigning ahead of bypolls to 28 seats on November 3 in view of the pandemic. A bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar passed the order on an appeal by the Election Commission and separate petitions by BJP leaders Pradyumn Singh Tomar and Munnalal Goyal challenging the high court’s October 20 judgment. The EC had contended that under Article 329 it alone had the powers to enforce restrictions on poll-related activities. The apex court bench told senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi appearing for EC that while the order of the high court was being stayed, the poll panel must “consider” the issues referred to by the high court on social distance. “We are not in any manner expressing anything with regard to the merits of the case or any process to be adopted by the Election Commission in this regard,” Justice Khanwilikar said. The BJP leaders, through senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi and advocate Astha Sharma, told the apex court that the restrictions impinged on the fundamental rights of the candidates to carry out campaigning. However, the court said it would not deal with the issue at this juncture and instead suggested that the candidates could make their representations to the Election Commission on their grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Nadda trains guns on Sonia Gandhi||The BJP on Monday hit out at the Congress’s Gandhi family for their criticism of the government, terming it “one dynasty’s deep personal hatred” against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP chief J.P. Nadda posted a series of tweets in response to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s article in a newspaper detailing how “Indian democracy is being hollowed out” under the Modi government. “One dynasty’s deep personal hatred against a person who was born in poverty and became PM is historic,” Nadda said in a tweet. “Equally historic is the love people of India have showered upon PM @narendramodi,” he added, stressing that the Congress’s hate for Modi would only increase his popularity. “More Congress’s lies and hate increase, the more people will support PM Modi,” Nadda said. Apart from the BJP chief, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar too posted tweets to attack Sonia for her article. Both these leaders sought to project the Congress chief’s criticism of the government as a personal attack against Modi. Sonia wrote in her article that “dissent” is branded as “anti-national” activity by the Modi government. Javadekar in his tweet said Sonia’s article reflected her “pain” as “people gave the PM’s chair to a leader from a poor family instead of her son”. Nadda also targeted Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of denigrating the Prime Minister’s chair. “The Rahul Gandhi drama of burning PM’s effigy in Punjab is shameful but not unexpected. After all, the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty has NEVER respected the office of the PM,” Nadda said. “Combination of despondency and shamelessness is dangerous.… Empty rhetoric of decency by the Mother is ‘complimented’ by live demonstrations of politics of hate, anger, lies and aggression by the Son,” he said. Nadda referred to the Emergency, a favourite of the BJP to attack the Congress, to attack the Opposition party for “pontificating” on freedom of speech. “They (Cong) have contempt for dissenting voices for decades. We saw glimpses of it during the Emergency,” he said. On Sonia’s charge of the Modi government using state power against dissenters, Nadda picked on the Congress-backed Maharashtra government. “If anyone wants to see a laboratory of usage of brute state power, troubling opponents, curbing freedom of speech in trademark Congress style, see the working of the Congress blessed Maharashtra Government,” Nadda alleged. He, however, didn’t substantiate his charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Ladakh review on commanders’ table ||The ground situation along the Ladakh frontier where Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a standoff since May, besides Indian Army’s winter preparations, will be reviewed  during the four-day army commanders’ conference that began on Monday, defence ministry sources said. The apex biannual conference, chaired by army chief Manoj Naravane, will be attended by top commanders. “The commanders will carry out a comprehensive review of the security challenges facing the country and assess India’s combat readiness in eastern Ladakh along with other sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control with China and Line of Control with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir,” a defence ministry official said. Since May, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is estimated to have taken around 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The government has not, however, confirmed this. According to an assessment, China has deployed around 50,000 soldiers along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. India has also made similar deployment along the high-altitude frontier. “The Chinese side is yet to fix the date for the eight-round army commander talks between the two sides. A fresh round of talks was supposed to take place at the end of the last week,” the official said. The seventh round of military talks between the two armies on October 10 had failed to achieve a breakthrough on the border standoff, triggering apprehensions that the Ladakh frontier could now become a permanently contested militarised zone. Sources said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control. As many as 18 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground. Sources said defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria will address the commanders on Tuesday. Besides reviewing the security challenges along the borders, the army commanders’ conference will also deliberate on several reform measures to enhance the operational capability of the 1.3-million-strong force. On the last day of the conference, the director general of the border roads organisation will provide an update on the various infrastructure projects that are currently being undertaken by the BRO and other formations along the borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Green alert! Rooftop gardens linked to heat stress ||Irrigated green areas and rooftop gardens in urban landscapes may please the eyes but are likely to exacerbate extreme heat stress, Indian scientists have cautioned after a study that has revealed how irrigation worsens moist heat. The scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, have shown in a study that the combination of high temperatures and high humidity resulting from irrigation can exacerbate “moist heat stress” which they say is harder to deal with than dry heat. Their research, published on Monday in the journal Nature Geoscience, has shown that although irrigation can cause the land surface to cool, it also leads to substantially higher surface humidity, increasing moist heat stress. “Moist heat, the kind that causes mugginess, is worse than dry heat,” Vimal Mishra, an assistant professor of civil engineering at IIT Gandhinagar, told The Telegraph. “You can beat dry heat by drinking water and cooling yourself. But water doesn’t help much in high levels of moist heat.” Mishra and his colleagues have found that intensive irrigation across the Indo-Gangetic plains cools the land surface by 1°C and the air by 0.5°C. But the decreased heat from the irrigation alters the layers of air near the surface, increases humidity and adds to the moist heat stress. The scientists have also pointed out that green roofs and green urban areas that require irrigation can increase surface humidity and worsen extreme heat stress conditions, especially under warm climates. The findings suggest that any increase in the irrigated areas in urban and agricultural rural regions could worsen extreme heat stress. “In the tropics, where humidity is high, green roofs and irrigated lawns can make the moist heat stress worse,” Mishra said. Mishra said the findings were surprising. “We did not expect irrigation to play such a strong role in lowering the dry heat and elevating heat stress through moist heat,” he said. “The combination of irrigation and climate warming could lead to rise in heat stress in India in the future.” The researchers say their work underscores how human land use to increase food production has impacts on temperature and thus on health. Their findings also suggest that irrigation in the Indo-Gangetic plains also contributes to extreme heat in Pakistan and Afghanistan through the transport of moisture in the lower atmosphere. Earlier studies have suggested that heat waves have increased significantly across India over the past decades, likely contributing to increase in heat stress-related deaths. Thousands of people have died across the country over the past two decades under extreme heat stress conditions. In 2010, more than 1,300 people had died in Ahmedabad city alone, prompting the city authorities to develop a “heat action plan” to mitigate the impacts on health. The plan involved establishing an early warning system and bolstering local healthcare workers’ capacity to manage heat-related illnesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||India, US set to sign agreement  ||India and the US will on Tuesday sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geospatial intelligence to expand their military relationship, government sources said. Sources in India’s defence ministry described the development as “very significant” at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. The two countries decided to sign the agreement after an hour’s meeting on Monday between defence minister Rajnath Singh and US defence secretary Mark Esper at South Block. On Tuesday, a two-plus-two dialogue is scheduled between the two countries’ defence and foreign ministers. “Rajnath Singh and Esper held extensive talks, covering various aspects of the fast-expanding defence and strategic ties, including possible ways to deepen the military-to-military cooperation between their countries,” a defence ministry official said. “The signing of the BECA is very significant considering China’s aggressive posture, and will pave the way for more cooperation in defence, security and intelligence. It will convey an unambiguous message about the growing relationship between India and the US.” The official, however, declined to say whether Rajnath and Esper had discussed the India-China border standoff. In a statement, the defence ministry said the two ministers “reviewed bilateral defence cooperation, spanning military-to-military cooperation, secure communication systems and information sharing, defence trade and industrial issues and also discussed ways to take bilateral cooperation forward”. “The two ministers expressed satisfaction that an agreement of BECA will be signed during the visit. US secretary of defence welcomed Australia’s participation in the exercise Malabar 2020,” the statement said. India had last week announced that Australia would join the upcoming Malabar exercise, which means that all the four member countries of the “Quad” or Quadrilateral coalition will be participating in the November-end drill. The other members are India, the US and Japan. The decision to include Australia comes amid the military standoff between India and China. The exercise will bring together the militaries of the Quad group in the Bay of Bengal. During Monday’s meeting with Esper, Rajnath broached the “Make in India” campaign. “Defence minister elaborated upon the initiatives under the Atmanirbhar Bharat to encourage investments in the defence industry in India and invited US companies to make avail of the liberalised policies and the favourable defence industry ecosystem in India,” the defence ministry statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-595
27-10-2020||India||Migrants in river-mouth battle for farmland||More than a hundred migrant labourers, who had returned to Odisha during the lockdown, joined hands with fellow villagers from around six villages of Ganjam to dig up 200 metres of the Rushikulya river mouth to drain out the water inundating agriculture land following torrential rains recently the influence of a low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal. Rushikulya flows through southern Odisha districts like Ganjam for the major part of its course. Residents of villages like Puranabandha, Paliabandha, Sanagaon, Badagaon, Potagarh and Nuagoan under Ganjam block were struggling to drain out the water accumulated in their fields following heavy rains in the past two weeks as the river mouth, nearly 2km from their area, had become choked with silt. “With no outlet for release of the excess water, flooding had become commonplace in our area. Though we had lodged a complaint with the district administration to desilt the river mouth, there was no action taken. So we decided to dig up a new river mouth to discharge the rainwater ourselves,” said Rabindra Sahu of Purunabandha. He said the migrant labourers who returned to the village during the lockdown extended a helping hand. “This motivated us to step up our efforts,” he added. The new river mouth was dug up last Thursday. “But we have started digging it again as it got filled with sand once more. So far we have spent Rs 4 lakh on the work. A major part of the money has been spent on hiring a JCB machine. We generally keep some money for emergency because we may get into trouble in the sea at any time during fishing. When we go out to the sea, we ensure that our emergency funds are safe. Now the funds have come in handy and helped us carry out the digging work. The migrant labourers have done their bit for us,” said Balraju of Sanagaon. Villagers said that waterlogging followed heavy rainfall triggered by a low pressure system in the Bay of Bengal. A low pressure system had formed in the Bay on October 10 and then it was followed by another. Rainfall is still continuing. “Thankfully, we have succeeded in opening the river mouth and the water is now being discharged to the sea. Now there is no back flow of water,” said Ganesh Behera, a migrant labourer who had returned to the state in the second week of May along with 30 others from Chennai by hiring a bus. Each one of them had paid Rs 5,000 for the journey. Behera said, “When we noticed the plight of the villagers we thought of helping them. But we had no money to help them as our income had dried up. There is no work available for us. So when the elders of the affected villages came up with an idea of digging up a new mouth of the river, we put out a message on our WhatsApp group seeking support from all our friends. All of us reached the site and helped the villagers to dig up the new mouth. It was a huge task.” He said that the old river mouth had not been de-silted for several years. “Dumping of waste had also choked it, obstructing the release of water from the river into the sea. But now excess water is being easily drained out to the sea through the new mouth. We face no crisis despite continuing rains,” Behera said. The other advantage of digging up a new river mouth is that the fish now have a free channel to enter the Rushikulya from the sea. “We expect a good catch once the rains subside. There is now free movement of inland and marine fish and crab,” said Rabi Behera. Ganjam collector Vijay Amruta Kulange told The Telegraph, “ I have sought a report on the development from the sub-collector. Change in the course of the river is a natural phenomenon when it happens due to siltation. Even a cyclone sometimes changes the course of a river following heavy rain. The area comes under a highly eco-sensitive zone. We will seek expert opinion on the new mouth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-596
27-10-2020||West Bengal||Kalimpong rain hits tourists on Dashami||A sudden bout of downpour in the upper reaches of Kalimpong hills since Sunday night came as a spoiler for hundreds of tourists and day-outers who had gathered on Dashami Monday near streams that originate from Kalimpong and move through some prominent tourist destinations of the Dooars. In Kalimpong hills, it rained close to 50mm in some locations, which raised the water level of streams such as Murti and Neora that pass through the fringes of the Gorumara National Park. Officials of the state forest department deputed forest guards near banks to prevent anyone from wading into the streams. “We are keeping a watch on the banks. Unless the water levels recede, we will not allow anybody into the streams,” said Nisha Goswami, the divisional forest officer of Gorumara wildlife division. Visitors were disappointed. “We had made plans to bathe in the Murti and then enjoy a festive lunch on occasion of Dashami at any nearby food joint. But we found that the river had swollen and was gushing forth. For safety’s sake, we only stood on the banks and took a walk on the bridge,” said Debasish Chakraborty of Jalpaiguri who went with wife Mou to Murti near Lataguri, the most popular tourist destination in the Dooars. While Neora flows through a comparatively deserted area, the swollen Murti also left the local taxi stand inundated. Also, the space where tents are laid on the banks of Murti for tourists got flooded too. The downpour led to mudslides in some locations, and damaged a house in Rocky Island, another destination for tourists near Samsing in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri. In the Lower Rumtikhola area, the house of one Robin Pradhan was completely damaged by a mudslide on Monday. “We are fortunate that the slide occurred in the morning. Initially, stones and boulders started falling on the house. We immediately shifted to a nearby place. Then we saw a mudslide approaching the house, and that eventually left the house completely damaged. We are homeless now and don’t know what to do next,” said Pradhan. Sources in the Met office said that southwest monsoon had started withdrawing from most places. “However, there is still a forecast of moderate rainfall in some north Bengal districts and in Sikkim during next couple of days,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||Kid rescued from drowning in Digha||Members of the civil defence team rescued a seven-year-old boy from downing in the sea in Digha on Monday morning. The Howrah boy, who had come with his parents Sheikh Saibuddin and Noornagina Begum, and sisters aged 13 and 15, had been told to sit on the crowded beach as his parents and elder siblings went bathing in the sea. Sources said that the boy, Dilanur, decided to follow his family and bathe in the sea too. But as soon as he stepped into the water, the boy got caught in the swift currents and got dragged away. Members of the civil defence force, locally known as nulias and are deployed in the sea and on the beach to respond to any emergency, spotted Dilanur being swept away, jumped into the sea and brought the child to safety. “There was a huge crowd in the sea. Everyone was busy enjoying sea-bathing. Suddenly, we spotted a child being dragged away by the sea. Our team members jumped into the sea and pulled him out of the water,” said Ratan Das, a nulia and member of the civil defence team. The task to search for his parents proved to be a bigger challenge. Though the child could tell the name of his parents, he did not know their phone numbers. Das added that he and fellow beach guards carried Dilanur on their laps and searched for his parents in the sea and on the beach for two hours. “The crowd was so huge on Monday that it was difficult for the child to spot his parents. After two hours, we spotted his parents who were enjoying the sea, oblivious to the close shave that Dilanur had,” he said. Shocked when told her son was being swept away by the sea, Dilanur’s mother Noornagina said: “We had come to Digha after 10 years and wanted to make the most of it. We had left our child on the beach hoping our fellow tourists would keep an eye on him. We are lucky to have got him back.” She added that her son was very obedient and she had never thought he would venture into the sea. Father Saibuddin, a bus conductor, added that they did not want the boy to enter the water for fear of his catching a cold. Police said the family had come on a day’s trip to the sea resort and were scheduled to return home in the evening. They were part of a group that had hired a bus to the sea resort. Officer-in-charge of Digha police station Krishnendu Pradhan said that this was not the first time people left their children on the beach and hit the sea. “A few years ago, a couple from EM Bypass in Calcutta had gone for a bath leaving their daughter on the beach. The girl entered the sea and drowned. Dilanur was lucky that nulias noticed him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Covid warriors’ on Durga Puja pandal duty in Bengal||Hundreds of cured novel coronavirus patients, who have been named “Covid warriors” by the state government, were on duty at many popular Durga Puja pandals across Bengal during the four days of festivities to tell people how to stay safe from the virus. “All the districts were asked to depute two to four Covid warriors at popular Durga Puja pandals to spread awareness. For each day of duty, each Covid warrior was paid Rs 500,” said a state government official. The Covid warriors explained the need to wear masks to fight the disease if anyone was found without one. They sprayed sanitisers on the hands of visitors while advocating the need to maintain physical distance. The Covid warriors also asked pandal-hoppers to wash hands with soap at regular intervals. Officials said local gram panchayats and municipalities had been asked to select the Covid warriors from among those who needed work or were jobless migrant workers. Each district had selected between 50 and 100 popular pandals. “Thousands of migrant workers in the districts recovered from the disease. We asked local bodies to select those who are jobless for the awareness duty,” an official said. For example, Sekhar Sain, the block development officer of Bolpur, explained that Birbhum’s Ruppur gram panchayat had appointed four Covid warriors on Baro Bari Puja premises in Sriniketan’s Surul village. “The Baro Bari Puja is very old and attracts thousands. As Calcutta High Court had placed restrictions on pandal-hoppers because of the prevailing pandemic, four Covid warriors had been deployed here on coronavirus awareness duty,” Sain said. Rabindranath Sarkar, deputy chief of the gram panchayat, said: “We selected the Covid warriors from poor families.” “It is not a permanent source of income. But this small earning helped me a lot during Durga Puja,” said a Covid warrior in Purulia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||West Bengal||‘Permanent solution’ question hangs in Darjeeling hills||The sudden change in the political contours of Darjeeling hills with Bimal Gurung’s volte-face has raised questions on the “permanent political solution”, a concept that despite being unclear had been steering hill politics till date. During the last Lok Sabha elections, the BJP, which was supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal camp), Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and other hill-based parties and apolitical organisations, had promised a “permanent political solution” and tribal status to 11 hill communities in its election manifesto. Without a doubt, the Bimal camp of the Morcha was one of the bigger influencers to help BJP candidate Raju Bista win the Darjeeling seat. On Vijaya Dashami day, discussions invariably veered on the present political developments in many hill homes. In the hills, Vijaya Dashami is the most important day of Dashain (Durga Puja festivities) as relatives visit each other’s homes to seek blessings from elders who anoint tika (made of rice, curd and vermilion) on the family members. Visits to relatives’ homes carry on for a fortnight and this social aspect of the celebration is the most important event of Dashain in the hills. But this year, most people are discussing the sudden change in the political landscape that has cast a shadow on the “permanent political solution”. “Now with the Bimal camp severing ties with the BJP (and backing Trinamul), the question is about the fate of the permanent political solution,” a resident of Darjeeling said. On October 21, when Bimal decided to join hands with Trinamul in Calcutta, he unequivocally said that “permanent political solution” should be a separate state of Gorkhaland. Gurung’s demand, however, will be turned down by his new ally Trinamul, which is clearly opposed to forming a separate state of Gorkhaland. Both factions of the Morcha, headed by Bimal and Binay, are now with Trinamul. The Binay faction heads the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The BJP has not spelled out the details so far on this aspect. The GNLF has maintained the solution should not be anything less than a Sixth Schedule status for the hills. Raju Bista, Darjeeling MP of the BJP, however, said that though Bimal and his party leaders might have their own understanding and compulsions for negotiating their safe return, the BJP was committed to fulfill their promises made to the people. “I can assure you all that irrespective of the ever changing political scenarios, BJP will fulfill the promises we have made to the people from our region,” said Bista. The Darjeeling MP stressed that BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda also iterated the party’s commitment towards finding a permanent political solution and including the 11 left-out Gorkha sub-tribes as Schedule Tribes during his recent visit to Siliguri. Observers however believe that BJP actually has very few options. “The BJP government might want to start the process of finding a permanent political solution but these negotiations would be fraught with failure as it would not have the participation of both factions of the Morcha,” said a hill resident. Another said the state government was unlikely to participate in talks on a permanent political solution as it believes in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
27-10-2020||North East||Assam joint protest plan by Opposition ||Opposition parties  in Assam will be holding joint protests against the “misrule” of the BJP-led government, a development which takes them a step closer to the proposed mahajot (grand alliance) to take on the ruling alliance in next year’s Assembly polls. The push for a mahajot by the Congress, Left parties and the AIUDF has become inevitable because the BJP, despite its “failure” to fulfil its pre-poll promises and imposing the Citizenship Amendment Act, remains on a strong wicket, Opposition members have admitted in private. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora told The Telegraph that a meeting with the CPI and the CPI-ML held here on October 15 discussed the prevailing political situation and the need for a joint and appropriate response by the Opposition. “More than pre-poll mahajot, we discussed and decided that all anti-BJP parties should come together to end the BJP’s misrule. We have decided to hold joint street protests, joint meetings, joint press meets with the Left against the BJP’s misrule and anti-people policies across the state. We will prepare a common protest schedule soon. The Left also agrees to the need for a mahajot. We will continue to hold such meetings to bring other anti-BJP parties together,” Bora said. The first of the joint news meets took place on October 20 and the first joint protest will take place after Durga Puja. Apart from the CPI, CPM and CPI-ML, the Congress and the AIUDF are also inching close to sealing a pre-poll alliance. However, not everyone in the Congress, especially those from Upper Assam, are too keen on an alliance with the AIUDF. The BJP considers the AIUDF as a party that “espouses” the cause of illegal migrants, a very emotive issue in the Brahmaputra Valley. On the other hand, neither the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti-backed Raijor Dal or the Assam Jatiya Parishad, which is backed by the student groups All Assam Students’ Union and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, have decided to stay away from the Congress and the AIUDF. But the Congress will continue to engage with these new parties. Bora said Opposition forces have to unite and expose the BJP’s game plan of polarising voters and the alleged scams taking place under the ruling dispensation, while referring to the senior BJP leaders’ bid to fan passion by projecting the 2021 polls as a “clash” of civilisations and cultures, the “imposition” of Arabic, the “continued” invasion of Mughals and “closure” of government-run madrasas from November. “The BJP is trying to polarise voters along the Hindu-Muslim line and to distort or rewrite history. We will have to unite to counter this narrative. Muslims too have contributed towards building India and Assam. We will continue to oppose the unconstitutional CAA,” Bora said. The PCC has been demanding the resignation of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal over the sub-inspector recruitment scam on moral grounds since he also holds the home portfolio that looks after the police department. A serving superintendent of police has been arrested in connection with the case. State BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma said, “Where are these Left parties? The PCC chief is just trying to increase the number of allies but it will be of no help.” The Left parties have no MLA in the 126-member Assam Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
27-10-2020||Opinion||Fair force? Women army officers||In February this year, the Supreme Court granted permanent commission to women officers of the Indian army. The initial deadline to implement this verdict — May 17, 2020 — is long gone, but the army is said to be dragging its feet over bureaucratic formalities on the matter. This procrastination may have prompted the Supreme Court to express its displeasure recently. The conduct of the executive has not been flawless either. Although the Centre gave its nod to permanent commission for women in all 10 branches of the armed forces in which they were serving in March 2019, this offer was not to be implemented retrospectively. Consequently, the fate of hundreds of officers still hangs in the balance. The court has also expressed its indignation on the kind of obstacles that seem to have been put on the path of empowerment and equality. Women officers aged 30-50 years with 10 to over 20 years of service experience are being made to compete with gentleman officers aged between 25-30 years for permanent commission. The issue here is one of parity in rank and honour. Why would a senior woman officer holding the rank of lieutenant-colonel have to learn the art of tactical strategy and train with a male officer of subordinate rank? Without a well-thought-out and sensitive policy that accommodates the special challenges faced by serving women officers close to retirement, the pledge of reform in the army would remain illusory. Why, for instance, can the State decree on permanent commission not be applicable to all women officers? Ageism in Indian establishments seems to intensify when it comes to women. It is a pity that the judiciary had to intervene yet again to set matters right. But this intervention should also be an occasion to highlight some of the skewed traits within the armed forces. Women form a minuscule 3.29 per cent of the Indian army personnel compared to an average of 11 per cent among Nato countries. There is no doubt that the Indian army needs to be more accommodating. The issue, unsurprisingly, is of a regressive sensibility. At a time when the United States of America and Israel have given deserving women combat duty, in India the top court has had to nudge both the army and the executive to adhere to the principle of fairness. Women’s ability is not the concern here. The deliberate obfuscation of merit is.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||Lost model: Bihar election campaign||Every electoral contest in India begins with tall promises by political parties. The Bharatiya Janata Party reached new heights — or depths — before the assembly elections in Bihar. The first promise on its manifesto is free vaccines for Covid-19 when they are available. In response to the Opposition’s outrage regarding the carrot of ‘vaccines for votes’ — what happens to the rest of the country? — the BJP said it was a policy to keep Bihar safe. The argument over whether the promise amounts to ‘bribery’, forbidden by the regulations of the model code of conduct put in place with the announcement of election dates, or a permissible promise in a manifesto is irrelevant. It is a question of ethics. Sticking to the letter of the model code’s regulations does not necessarily honour their spirit. Tejashwi Yadav, heading the Opposition’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, is running a fairly down-to-earth campaign based on development instead of the RJD’s usual representational one. He promises 10 lakh jobs, with a breakup of employment spheres, vacancies, new positions and of the funds necessary. In the National Democratic Alliance, Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) promises skills development and women’s empowerment while the BJP has trumped Mr Yadav with 19 lakh jobs on offer, with special emphasis on the medical sector, which was given a boost recently by the founding of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences by the prime minister. The RJD’s ally, the Congress, has income-based promises, while the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party, against Nitish Kumar but clearly sweet on the BJP, promises a web portal where job seekers can contact potential employers. Bihar’s unemployment rate is alarming, and has worsened during the pandemic. This alone is enough to expose the populism behind the parties’ promises: if so many jobs are possible, why are people jobless? While the flouting of ethics is most flagrant in the BJP, none of the other parties is blameless. Neither is this the first time this is happening; it happens before every state and general election. Perhaps the model code of conduct should be made more specific regarding ‘corrupt practices’ and permissible promises. And perhaps political parties could be directed to release their manifestos before the announcement of poll dates. Manifestos are expected to be constructive and rational, not exercises in competitive populism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||Amused to death: TV news||In the 1930s, Germany’s most popular radio receiver, Volksempfänger (People’s Receiver), brought news and entertainment in the form of songs and dramas into German households. The Nazi regime got direct access to vox populi by controlling radio organizations and programming, transforming these into a formidable propaganda machine. When listeners got bored with the incessant propaganda speeches, the broadcasters repackaged the content to serve a dual purpose — keeping the masses entertained while indoctrinating them into a selective public narrative. Almost six decades later, the Tutsis invaded Rwanda, triggering a civil war. Here too, the radio became a powerful weapon to perpetrate one of Africa’s worst genocides. Radical Hutus created a radio station that constantly targeted Tutsis with vituperative and false statements. Broadcasters invocated historical injustices that were imposed upon Hutus by Tutsis. These instances may be extreme. However, they highlight the capacity of information technology and newer forms of information dissemination to delude masses and incite violence. History seems to be repeating itself, albeit in a changed form, with television now inflicting the damages caused by radio earlier. The media theorist and cultural critic, Neil Postman, says television-based epistemology makes “seeing is believing” pre-eminent, leading to the relinquishment of what Bertrand Russell called the “immunity to eloquence” wherein an individual can distinguish between sensuous pleasure or charm or an ingratiating tone of the words on the one hand and the logic of the argument on the other. Television-based epistemology has polluted the public discourse where emotional gratification takes precedence over rationality. A common thread in Indian news channels is the employment of theatrical techniques, augmented by animation and background music, to invoke prejudice. During panel discussions, cogent thinking, reasoning and speaking take a back seat. This not to undermine television as a medium of entertainment; the problem arises when content is packaged to entertain and divide. Furthermore, the chain of information relayed is inevitably disrupted by the ‘breaking news’ phenomenon. Ten minutes of reporting on, say, floods in Bihar give way to information on baby Taimur eating, walking or blinking or the food that Rhea Chakraborty ordered on Swiggy. Consequently, the ‘contradictions’ in the information become irrelevant as a test of truth or merit. Postman argues that such problems arise because contradiction needs a context and context needs continuity in an argument. Moreover, the assessment of the quality of television shows or debates is quantitative, with viewership and TRPs playing a decisive role. The sole responsibility of an editor or a host is, thus, to try and increase viewership. Television must be examined as an epistemology where criticism — media trials — is predicated upon the political affiliations of media houses. The culture of 24X7 television has perpetuated an information glut where news is packaged to entertain and distract and delude viewers. As Postman observed, we are “amusing ourselves to death”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
27-10-2020||Opinion||That sinking feeling about the economy||There is no reprieve from that sinking feeling, with a further contraction of 13 per cent of the economy in the second quarter as per the Quarterly Review of the Economy by the National Council of Applied Economic Research. The earliest it will converge at the 2019-20 level will be late 2022-23. After that, growing at 5.8 per cent in the long term, it is likely to catch up by 2037-2038. As per the QRE, services and industry have contracted 20.6 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively, when compared to last July. Exports and imports remain in the negative territory. Inflation lies at an elevated 6.6 per cent, beyond the band fixed by the Reserve Bank of India. This makes the RBI’s task of reviving the economy more challenging. The projection of government expenditure expansion is 11 per cent more, combined fiscal deficit at 12.8 per cent, with public sector borrowing expected to be 15-16 per cent of the GDP. This is likely to crowd out investment. Revenue realization is expected to come down by 20.66 per cent. Gross NPAs of public sector banks are likely to be between 12.5-14.6 per cent, and the credit flow is expected to decline further. Is the country, which believes it is its destiny to have a seat at the global high table, fading away with a whimper? Instead of being in denial, those in the establishment should have realized the gravity of the situation much earlier since industry and services sectors were contracting from 2017-18. Any recovery is going to be two-paced. If the K-curve is to be believed, the middle class and the poor will slide further, accentuating inequality and poverty. The economist, Rathin Roy, has tossed up some interesting figures. His data show that the figure of 100 million Indians who spur consumption has remained static since the aftermath of the global financial crisis. If consumption remains flaccid, where is the question of increased output and investment when capacity utilization in industry remains low at 55-65 per cent? Economic administrators had forewarned the low convergence stall and the non-reliability of permanent exceptionalism in India’s case. Successful transformation comes from manufacturing, which has not happened in India. The type of growth also matters. Some economists had put the share of good growth, which includes manufacturing, at 52 per cent in China against 32 per cent in India in 2015. India’s growth happened with low structural transformation, with labour moving from the low-productivity informal sector to the marginally more formal and productive sectors. Agriculture productivity is critical for human capital accumulation for those who move to the modern sector. This did not happen and it will haunt us now. Not only did we fail to provide the basic education necessary for structural transformation but we have also had to witness the shift in the human development frontier with artificial intelligence and technology favouring skilled manpower. India’s tragedy lies in its inability to tap into the vast reservoir of technically-trained manpower, converting them into entrepreneurs. If a large number of entrepreneurs with bank loans with collateral are allowed to set up industries, they can generate substantial employment. Rodrick & Subramaniam had diagnosed India’s growth story to be skewed in favour of incumbent businesses rather than being pro-market. We do not require huge outlays. Allow new entrepreneurs to create quality jobs every year. Give them the protection from tax or labour inspectors for 10 years, but on the condition that they would have to create jobs and pay taxes. The top tier, which had access to capital, has run out of ideas. It is now inclined towards labour-saving devices, artificial intelligence and cheap loans. This is the time for geotagging properties and bringing people’s wealth, including inheritance, into a database. For inheritance above 10 crore per person, an annual inheritance tax of 1 per cent can be collected. The law needs to be amended to make family trusts taxable and prohibit the creation of family trusts abroad. It is not innovation but encouragement of monopoly and crony capitalism that created this wealth. This will give the government the required funds for health and education. This is also the time for revisiting vanity projects. Countries that ride out adversities typically exhibit unconventional thinking and patience. If India can do this, it can have a future ahead of 2038. The author is former secretary, GOI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
27-10-2020||Opinion||Bricks must fall||When I went to the United States of America in 1979, to study in an undergraduate college in Vermont, I carried certain ideas and assumptions about the country. As a 19-year-old with reasonable reading in current affairs, I thought I had a balanced view of the US and its role in the world. I understood that American foreign policy since the Second World War had wreaked hell on many parts of the planet and added grotesque misery to the lives of millions of people. Yet, along with the strife and bloodshed, America had also exported some hugely positive ideas and attitudes. In the civil rights movement, in the widespread protests against the Vietnam War, in Nixon being forced to resign from the presidency by courageous reporting and federal agencies working with real independence to investigate their own president, the country had demonstrated that democracy and freedom of speech were not just theories to which one paid lip-service but principles that American civil society put into action. Coming out of a newly post-Emergency India, watching what was going on in neighbouring Pakistan and Bangladesh, not to mention Brezhnev’s Soviet Union and Deng’s China, what America and Western Europe offered was crucial to struggles for political freedom and equality all over the world. Along with the outspoken democracy were the host of things that today would come under the label of ‘soft power’: most important was the gift of jazz, blues and rock and roll that the States gave to the world; next for me came the fearless churning in my own chosen field of visual arts, where every few years some crazy new upheaval would challenge the set of practices that had gone before; then there was the sexual revolution, which I was yet to understand as actually being three connected revolutions, but which, in conservative, fear-ridden India, seemed like a magical thing — the idea that you could be completely open about your desires without worrying about parents, police, the State or any other moralizing big brother or sister. The America I ‘knew’ was, of course, the country as depicted in the news magazines, Time, Life and Newsweek, in the films, the music and the literature. A proper examination of the last three, at least, should have prepared me for the reality, but I made the elementary mistake of seeing the sophistication of the rendering far more than the things being rendered. Thus, I was waylaid by the spare and humorous aesthetics of rows of tomato cans screen-printed on a canvas, the panache and beauty of the camera movement and editing in the Hollywood and independent films, the hilarious lyrics and punchy musicianship of a song like Bob Dylan’s “Maggie’s Farm” rather than the reality of a man who ‘puts his cigar/ out in your face just for kicks/ his bedroom window/ it is made out of bricks/ (while) the National Guard stands around his door’. Once in Vermont, it took some time to understand that I was in one of the most free (as in non-mainstream) and yet one of the most conservative areas of the US. There and travelling up and down the east coast, moving between New York and Boston — two of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world — and small-town New Jersey and Virginia, it finally got driven home just how parochial and ignorant many Americans could be. Shortly after I got to Vermont, the hostage crisis in Iran began to take over the headlines. As news of Americans being held hostage in Tehran spread in the general consciousness, my first semester ended and I found myself spending part of my holidays in Washington, DC. Once, sitting with two American friends in a bar, some off-duty Marines at the next table began to stare at me. One of them leaned over and asked my friend something. Upon receiving the answer the muscular group of soldiers visibly relaxed and began to lift their glasses in our direction — “Indiaa! Awright!”. My friend told us that they wanted to know if I was “Airanian”, in which case they would have put me in hospital. On other occasions I tried asking people if they even knew where Iran was on a map and I realized they had no clue — their windows to the world were, indeed, made out of bricks. The America in which I lived between 1979 and 1981 dumped the ‘softie’ Jimmy Carter and elected an incompetent, B-grade actor called Ronald Reagan in his place. A precursor to Donald Trump and so many other ‘strongmen’ leaders of today, Reagan too specialized in performing the vesh of a leader rather than actually being one. It is his policies (or policies made using him as a vehicle) of favouring the already wealthy, the morally reactionary and enemies of the environment that have trickled down to the current times and turned into a toxic torrent worldwide. Yet, those same years of the late 70s and early 80s also saw the sharpening of the American feminist and gay rights movements, inspiring and linking up with similar movements across the world. That was the same period when the awareness of concepts such as ‘ecology’ and the ‘environment’ moved out of marginal campuses such as my college into the mainstream. History repeatedly teaches us not to take improvements of the human condition for granted. It also teaches us that you cannot locate the growth of freedom and social justice in any one place, that emancipation and equality require shifting cultivation around the globe, new or refreshed fields from which the impetus can be distributed. Today, when I read columns in Indian media that insist on seeing the forthcoming US elections only through the lens of what the results would mean for India vis-a-vis China or some other narrow economic focus, I find myself in vehement disagreement. It is critical for the well-being of this small planet of ours that Donald Trump, his coterie and the gang of ethics-free Republicans in the Senate be emphatically ejected from power by the American voters. Four more years of this man and the people who’ve been deliberately blind to his actions would be akin to an unchecked continuation of a raging wildfire that’s devouring the already denuded forests of humanity across the globe. Whether you believe in some higher power or are a firm rationalist, it’s time to pray that enough bricks have fallen out of walled-up American windows that not too long after November 3 we will see the back of this odious man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-127
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||PWD contractor’s son shot at in Jamshedpur||The 26-year-old son of a PWD contractor was shot at and injured by two scooter-borne assailants at Ganesh Puja Maidan in the Kadma police station area on Dashami night. The injured, identified as Asfaque Khan, has sustained an injury in his right thigh and has been admitted at Tata Main Hospital, where he is yet to be operated upon.  Though the pellet is still stuck in the victim’s thigh, he is said to be out of danger. In his statement to police, Asfaque has alleged that Mohammed Sajjad and Chintu Khan shot at him after an altercation over an extortion bid by the duo. According to the statement, Asfaque, who is the son of Mustaque Khan, a resident of Dhatkidih, was returning home from a medical store in Kadma market around 10pm. Sajjat and Chintu who were on a scooter intercepted him and asked him to pay Rs 1 lakh every month if he and his father wanted to run their contract business in the city. On protesting, he was shot at by Sajjad. “He fished out a pistol from his waist and fired a shot at my thigh, causing me to fall down. This prompted some people to rush to the spot. The duo fled. While fleeing, Sajjat, who was driving the two-wheeler, ran over my legs,” Asfaque said. Sajjat and Chintu are members of a gang that was allegedly involved in an attack at Dhatkidih on October 5, which left some local residents injured. Chintu is the nephew of local JMM leader Firoz Khan. Mustaque said Chintu and his associates were involved in an attack last year on his son. Four persons, including a juvenile, have been arrested for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl  in a village under Manjhiaon police station on October 21. An FIR had been filed regarding the incident at Manjhiaon police station. The accused persons, Nasiruddin Khan, Nadim Khan, Khurshid Khan and the juvenile, are residents of the victim’s village. Three of the accused were remanded in judicial custody, while the juvenile was sent to a children’s home. On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case under Section 376 (D) (punishment for rape) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was registered against the accused persons, investigating officer Shyam Lal Gupa said. A break-in attempt was foiled by police in Chatra after they received a tip-off regarding some unusual noises coming from the branch of a public sector bank. A ventilator was used by a few persons to enter the premises of the SBI branch at Tapej. They were trying to cut a hole in the shutter when someone informed the police regarding the noise. A patrolling party was sent to the branch which remained outside the building. The police personnel kept knocking on the main entrance from the outside. Those who had entered the branch illegally panicked on hearing the policemen knock and fled. However, before leaving, they damaged the surveillance cameras and strew documents on the floor. The bank branch was closed due to Durga Puja. Bank officials learnt about the break-in attempt on Tuesday when they reopened the branch. The police were critical of the bank officials for not getting the ventilator closed despite being asked to earlier. The police have launched an investigation. Vigilance Awareness Week commenced at CCL Rajrappa on Tuesday. General manager of the Rajrappa area, Alok Kumar, administered the vigilance oath to all officers, employees and leaders in the presence of vigilance officer Ajay Kumar. This year, the theme of the Vigilance Awareness Week is “Vigilant India, Prosperous India”. After the vigilance oath programme, posters were pasted on vehicles and in various places by the officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Statewide crackdown on drugs, liquor smuggling from Nov. 1||Jharkhand police will roll out a special two-week drive against the sale of drugs and illegal liquor across the state from November 1, DGP M.V. Rao announced on Tuesday ahead of Diwali next month. Addressing the media at police headquarters on Tuesday, Rao said, “Raids and crackdowns will be conducted thana-wise during the period of the drive and in case of any major hauls, the respective officer in-charge of police stations will be held accountable.” The drive is also aimed at curbing illegal smuggling of liquor or other banned substances into neighbouring Bihar where Assembly polls will begin from Wednesday. Rao said police, along with paramilitary forces, were conducting intensive operations along state borders for last few weeks, keeping in mind the elections in Bihar. “Fifty check-points have been set up along the borders to prevent inter-state movement illegal liquor, drugs, and movement of criminals or rebels during the polls,” he said. Jharkhand, Rao added, would also hold byelections in Dumka and Bermo on November 3, for which respective districts had been alerted. On recent achievements of police, Rao added that in the last one month as many as 13 people had been jailed for arms smuggling. “We have seized 200 pieces of gelatine sticks, over 100 detonators, several cache of arms and ammunition from districts and jailed 13 people. It’s a continuous exercise and teams are on vigil,” he said. “As many as 4,642 litre country liquor and 1,495 litre foreign liquor was seized and over 80 people arrested in recent weeks. Similarly, 80kg ganja, 500kg dodda, 18kg opium, among others, were confiscated through special checks,” he said. Crime against women and children had seen a spurt in the state in recent months which prompted police to roll out Whatsapp numbers in all districts for registering complaints. Rao said that in one week, police had received 108 complaints. Of these, 28 cases were reported from Ranchi, 18 from Giridih and 12 from East Singbhum (12). “We are now mandating SPs to reach the spot and conduct preliminary investigations in case of any suspicious death of women and children to fix responsibility and prevent negligence at thana levels. Soon, we are going to issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) for handling sensitive cases in accordance with the law,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jusco starts cleaning steel city ghats and water bodies post immersion||A day after immersions, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (previously Jusco) started cleaning ghats along the Subernarekha and Kharkain rivers. The Tata Steel subsidiary, which looks after municipal and allied services in the steel city, deployed a 12-member team of  workers to clean the largest Subernarekha ghat in Sakchi, where 80 Durga idols were immersed on Monday. "The cleaning work has begun with the Subernarekha ghat. We will carry out similar operations at eight other ghats – Sati, Do muhani, Sub Station Ghat (Kadma), Naya Ghat (Near Kanderbera Bridge),  Pandey Ghat, Bhuiyandih Ghat, Bailey Bodhanwala Ghat and Dimna lake," said Sukanya Das, spokesperson for the company. She also informed that necessary preparations were in place at all these nine ghats for facilitating smooth immersions. Apart from the Subernarekha ghat, numerous idols were immersed in Pandey Ghat, Naya Ghat, Bhuiyandih Ghat and Do Muhani on Dashami. In total, over 300 idols were immersed in various river ghats this year. The cleanliness drive will continue for a few days to make the banks and rivers clean enough before Chhath. Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors the festival said, " It won't take much time for cleaning ghats as this year's Puja was a low-key affair with smaller idols." The directive to clean up ghats and rivers comes in the wake of guidelines issued by the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board via its Adityapur regional office, sent to the company from the central board that referred to the 2014 judgment of National Green Tribunal on water pollution due to idol immersion. Cleanliness is mandatory because Puja paraphernalia gets littered along riverbanks or ends floating on water. Inorganic paints on idols contain toxic chemicals like lead, cadmium, mercury, arsenic and others, which harm and choke aquatic life. Materials used in making idols such as plaster of paris also get deposited as harmful sediments in water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI to host its first start-up conclave Ingenium on October 31||In an attempt to create an entrepreneurial intent among the youth and inspire them to build start-up ventures, the placement committee of XLRI's Post Graduate Diploma in Management (General Management ) course will organise it's virtual flagship start-up conclave - Ingenium on October 31. Ingenium is a unique concept wherein start-ups get a chance to showcase their innovative vision and product offering, pitch to the right set of candidates looking to find the right investors, right mentors, and right employers or cofounders for their start-ups. Each of the sessions of the conclave will provide valuable insights into ever-changing dimensions of the start-up eco system. The conclave will facilitate a dialogue between budding entrepreneurs, mentors, experts, investors, professional service providers. Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI, will address the inaugural session. The participants in the panel discussions will include founders and co-founders from top start-ups including Amit Chaudhary (Lenskart), Dr Arokiaswamy Velumani (Thyrocare), Ranjeet Kumar (Team Pumpkin),  Swati Bhargava (CashKaro), and  Tripti Shinghal (Womennovator). Elaborating on the conclave, Prof. Kanagaraj of XLRI said," Entrepreneurship is a crucial factor in the development of any economy. Entrepreneurs are the alchemists who know the right combination of all those elements required to convert problems into opportunities. Their entrepreneurial mindset can give favorable results even in the midst of an economic downturn and promote and nurture entrepreneurship among Millennials. We are organising the first edition of the Start-up Conclave -2020 as an initiative to contribute towards encouraging and developing an entrepreneurial mindset and to handhold budding entrepreneurs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto yet to improve, says doctor in Chennai hospital||Critically-ill school education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had to be put on life support at a private hospital in Chennai following a coronavirus infection which damaged his lungs, is yet to show signs of improvement, doctors said on Tuesday. Dr Suresh Rao, the Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai, said that Mahto was stable but his lungs were not improving despite being put on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). “We have to give his lungs more time to respond to the treatment. He is stable, but his lungs are not showing any signs of improvement as of now,” said Dr Rao. At present, doctors at MGM were not even testing the efficiency of Mahto’s lungs, as a CT scan may also pose health risks, Rao added. “We are not planning any test at present. We will continue to keep him on life support and wait for his lungs to heal,” he said. ECMO is a life support system in which gas exchange happens outside the body through the machine instead of the lungs. Once the blood is oxygenated and carbon dioxide is removed, it is pumped back to the heart, from where it circulates to other parts of the body. Jagarnath Mahto, 53, a JMM legislator from Dumri constituency, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was initially admitted in state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medical Supercpecialty Hospital in Ranchi on October 1 after his condition deteriorated. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 and admitted at MGM Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital. Although Mahto’s lungs have not improved in the past one week, doctors are hopeful that they might heal. Some patients have recovered after being put on ECMO for a month, doctors said. A patient, who did not respond to ECMO, had to undergo lung transplant and is now doing well, said Dr Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Early signs of winter, there’s a nip in the air across state||There has been a nip in the air in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and several other places across Jharkhand during the last couple of days, the early signs of winter that are so familiar around Diwali and Kali Puja. For the past two days Ranchi notched night readings (minimum temperature) of around 16 degree Celsius, a notch below normal while Jamshedpur hovered around 17 degree Celsius, two notches below normal, in  sync with the exit of the monsoon that is accompanied by north-westerly winds. In Bokaro, the minimum reading plummeted below 15 degree Celsius (14.6 degrees) for the last two days, four notches below normal. Minimum readings in Daltonganj, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Chatra, Deoghar and other districts also witnessed a drop due to the dominating north westerly winds. "The wind pattern over the state has changed. It is fluctuating between northerly and westerly. Usually, such wind patterns lead to a fall in minimum readings," said S. D. Kotal, director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. According to last year's Met data around this time, the minimum reading was hovering around 18 degree Celsius in Ranchi, while it was between 20-23 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur. A senior weather analyst at IMD's Patna Meteorological Centre, which also keeps tabs on Jharkhand's weather, said three factors lead to a fall in night readings - the departure of the southwest monsoon, changing wind patterns and a sharp drop in water vapour in the atmosphere. Residents have been feeling the change in weather conditions. "For the last two days we have stopped using the AC. The weather has become pleasant both in mornings and evenings," said Avantika Singh, a homemaker at Sonari. Ranchi resident Pankaj Ghosal said, "I can feel the nip in the air during morning walk. Winter seems to have come early this year." Weathermen at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta issued a forecast of dry weather over Jharkhand for the next 72 hours. " Weather conditions will be dry with clear sky over Jharkhand during the next few days. In today's (Tuesday’s) satellite and other Met studies we found no adverse weather system which would impact Jharkhand's weather during the next 72 hours," said a duty officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
27-10-2020||Jharkhand||Twin murders in Palamau  during Durga Puja||Palamau district winessed two murders, resulting in 5 arrests during durga puja. At a press conference organised on Mondau, SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar revealed deatils of the cases, triggered by love and betrayal. The first case is of October 23 wherethe in body of a minor girl aged 17 was found in a well, owned by one Sanjay Pandey about a kilometer from the Sordeeha branch of SBI. The SP said the girl had two boyfriends, one Ranjeet Vishwakarma and one Sanjay Mehta of Bishrampur police station. SDPO Bishrampur Surjit Kumar said the two boyfriends conspired and killed her. Ranjit and Sanjay have been remanded in judicial custody today. In the other case, a 22 year old boy Hemant Kumar was found hacked to death. He was in love with a girl and her brothers killed him. The incident took place under Chhaterpur police station where the two brothers of Sunil Ram and Alok Ram along with a co-villager Guddu Pandey have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody today. Police have recovered two knives used in the crime and a blood soaked cloth, along a cell phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-255
