28-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra still ‘very critical’, to undergo dialysis||Doctors have decided to start dialysis on legendary Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee as his health condition continues to be "very critical", sources at the private hospital where the thespian is undergoing treatment said on Wednesday. The 85-year old has been "unconscious" since last week. "Mr Chatterjee's health condition is more-or-less the same as it was in the last 48 hours. There is no new deterioration. The haemologin and other parameters are stable, but his renal function is not... we have decided to go for dialysis to bring down the urea and creatinine levels. This will also improve his consciousness," one of the doctors said. “The dialysis will be for a short duration,” he added. The actor's creatinine and urea levels have been on the rise since Monday, and nephrologists are also mulling the option of providing "renal replacement therapy support". He is also suffering from secondary pneumonia. “Chatterjee's lung functions are more or less stable and his ventilation parameter is also good,” the doctor said. Chatterjee was put on a ventilator with endotracheal intubation on Monday evening to protect his airways. Endotracheal intubation is a procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. “He is on a ventilator. His saturation is more than 95 per cent with basic oxygen support,” the doctor explained. There has been no deterioration in the mental status of the veteran actor, he said. Doctors were planning to carry out blood transfusion on Tuesday, hoping that it would improve Chatterjee’s condition to an extent. “His platelet count has not gone down from what it was yesterday. We have given him medicines to bring up that count. We are planning a blood transfusion later today; hopefully, that will improve his condition,” he said. Describing Chatterjee’s “unconsciousness” as their primary concern, the doctor said that at the moment they will “focus on dealing with the secondary infections so that the patient can be pulled out of the ventilation support”. “We will focus on secondary infections and their repercussions. We have given antibiotics and antifungals and expect him to respond to them. Once his physiological derangements are corrected, we will focus on his neurological parameters. The main issue bothering us is his unconsciousness,” the doctor said. The critically acclaimed actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres — France’s highest civilian award — was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, he was shifted to a non-Covid Intensive Trauma Unit, having recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Engineering student found dead in pond||The body of a 22-year-old engineering student, who went missing on Sunday, was fished out of a pond near his house in Baranagar on the city’s northern outskirts on Monday. Police said Saurav Sengupta, a student of a private engineering college in Sodepur, had gone out pandal-hopping with friends on Navami night. His mobile phone was found on the steps leading to the pond in the locality. His gold necklace is missing, the police said. Sengupta’s family members have said he didn’t know how to swim and had never taken a dip in the pond. He has been murdered, the family has said. The family will file a police complaint after receiving the post-mortem report. Cops will question the friends with whom Sengupta had gone pandal-hopping on Navami night, the police said. A few of them have told investigators that they had dropped him off near his house around 1.30am on Monday after visiting pandals in north Calcutta. “Some of his friends told us that they were not aware of what happened to him after they had dropped him off near his house,” an officer of Baranagar police station said. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to find the exact cause of death.” Sengupta is the youngest child of Anirudhha and Sanchita Sengupta of Bhattacharjee para in Baranagar. On the night of Navami when he didn’t return, his parents called on his phone only to find it switched off, the police said. The next morning a resident of the area spotted a phone on the steps leading to the pond and alerted the family. The police were alerted and divers brought in. They fished out the body from the pond, the police said. A 15-year-old boy was injured after a portion of the first-floor wall of a two-storey building collapsed on an adjoining building on Martin Para Road in Anandapur on Tuesday, police said. Sujoy Mondal, the injured teenager, was treated at a nearby hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Tridhara shows way with immersion in pandal||What the fear of pollution could not do, the pandemic has done in Calcutta. A Durga idol was immersed in the pandal following the most environment-friendly “wash and melt” model and in the process spared the Hooghly of pollution. This year, Tridhara in south Calcutta club followed the “wash and melt” model. All the idols were washed and melted by spraying water from multiple water jets after positioning them within a makeshift 400sq ft water body adjacent to the pandal. Once the immersion of an idol got over — the outer clay and colour got washed off and the inner frame became partially visible — the same water, about 25,000 litres, was recycled to wash and melt the next idol. Once the process was completed for all the idols, the frames were taken to the Dhapa dumping ground just like the other idols immersed in the Hooghly are carried there after being taken out of the water. The “immersion” at Tridhara took close to 2 hours. “We have various restrictions because of the pandemic and risks associated with the conventional immersion in the Hooghly; so, we decided to follow this unique method,” Debasish Kumar of Tridhara, who is in charge of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s immersion proceedings, said. “We could cut down on cost as well as manpower in this process.” He said the club had followed the practice of clubs in Naihati. It is up to the other clubs in the city to decide if idols will be immersed this way, he said. The Telegraph had earlier reported about clubs in Naihati and adjacent Bhatpara, where Kali Puja is the bigger festival, going for such immersions. Water jets are used to melt idols there after a “darpan visarjan”, in which water from the Ganga is symbolically poured over the reflection of the goddess in a mirror. “Once darpan bisarjan is completed, the immersion is formally complete,” former Sanskrit College teacher Himangsu Pandit, who heads the team that publishes the almanac Bisudhha Siddhanta Panjika, told The Telegraph. Both the regulators and activists hailed the Tridhara move. “It’s a good environment-friendly initiative and we will be happy to support it if the Calcutta Municipal Corporation wants to expand the model in future,” Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board, said on Monday. “A new and extremely worthwhile initiative,” environment activist Subhas Datta said. “Immersion pollutes our rivers and water bodies.” Immersion directives have been passed earlier based on Datta’s petition in court. Various studies have shown that the level of pollution, particularly that of highly toxic heavy metals, increases significantly because of the immersion of thousands of idols in the Hooghly. The National Mission for Clean Ganga, a central government agency, and the National Green Tribunal have been pushing for immersions to be stopped on open stretches of the river since 2018. “We have set up dedicated and barricaded portions in water bodies in Lake Town, Debi Ghat and Dumdum Tank No. 2, following the National Mission for Clean Ganga guidelines, to ensure environment-friendly immersion,” pollution board chairman Rudra said. “The base of water bodies has been lined with synthetic cover so to arrest the diffused pollutants. If the model works, we will think of expanding it in future.” The Tridhara or the pollution board’s initiatives are standalone ventures, environment activist Krishnajyoti Goswami said. “Unless these become the rule rather than an exception, we will not be able to save the Ganga.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Monsoon set to withdraw today||The monsoon is set to retreat from Calcutta for this year by Wednesday, the Met office said. Weather scientists have spotted telltale reversal of wind flow that marks the withdrawal of the monsoon, which stayed back longer than usual this year. The normal date of the season’s withdrawal is October 12. A low-pressure area had formed over the Bay of Bengal last week and delayed the retreat. But over the past couple of days, winds from north India are entering the city, instead of winds from the southwest, the direction of the Bay of Bengal. That means dry winds from north India have replaced the moisture-laden winds from the bay. “The southwest monsoon is expected to withdraw from Calcutta and the rest of the state by Wednesday. The rain has stopped. The northwesterly winds are coming into the city. The moisture content in the atmosphere is low,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Weather scientists generally consider three to four rain-free days during this time of the year as a prerequisite to announcing the withdrawal of the monsoon. A dip in the moisture content in the air is another marker of the end of the monsoon. The last three days in the city have been rainless and a clear sky and bright sunshine have been greeting Calcuttans. The minimum relative humidity — a measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — dropped to 36 per cent on Monday and stayed there on Tuesday. Till days ago, the minimum relative humidity used to hover above 60 degrees. As the moisture content in the air has dropped, people are not sweating like they had been a few days ago. The winds blowing in from northern and western parts of India are mild now. They will become stronger in the days to come, heralding the onset of winter. But a hint of chill is expected in the city in the early hours of the day, Das said. The minimum temperature slid to 21 degrees on Tuesday, a notch below normal. It is likely to remain on the lower side, said a Met official. The retreat of the southwest monsoon from the city is likely to coincide with the onset of the northeast monsoon in Tamil Nadu, the Met office has said. “The northeast monsoon activities might inject some moisture-laden winds into south Bengal, including Calcutta, but not before five-six days. The temperature will then be on the higher side because the moisture content will impede the flow of the winds from northern India. But it is unlikely to have a lengthy impact on the city,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||City loses its sweet tooth on Vijaya Dashami||Vijaya Dashami has never been so dull in the past for sweet shops in Calcutta. Almost all shops witnessed a drop of nearly 40 per cent in demand for sweets, between Monday and Tuesday, compared to previous years — something that industry veterans termed “unprecedented”. Rasogolla, sandesh and other varieties didn’t fly off the shelves like previous years, forcing several sweet shops across Calcutta to cut down on production in order to prevent wastage. “The drop in sales for Dashami was almost 60 per cent,” Dhiman Das, executive director of KC Das, said. “It is unbelievable. The customer count was so low that we could have closed our shop by 6pm. It is just that we chose to keep it open for several hours more. It’s unprecedented.” The Vijaya Dashami ritual usually involves visits to family members, relatives or others with sweet packets. Greetings end with an exchange of sweets, an event that sweet shops across Calcutta wait to cash in on. On days of Durga Puja, visits to any gatherings, big or small, would usually have guests turning up with sweet packets, at times from some of the most reputed names in the business. There has been a break from tradition this year, according to several sweet shop owners. People didn’t step out during Durga Puja and visits to families and friends were mostly without sweet packets. People have cut down on visits. And even if they did, many were unsure if carrying food would be a welcome gesture during the pandemic. The result was inevitable. Across Calcutta a large majority of around 8,500 sweet shop owners who had pinned their hopes on Durga Puja for revival of sales suffered a blow. “The overall drop in sale from Saptami has been around 50 per cent. We had to scale down our production… there is no point. The number of customers has dwindled and it has been very bad for most of us,” Partha Nandy of Girish Chandra Dey and Nakur Chandra Nandy in Hedua said. By Navami many shop owners had realised that this Vijaya Dashami won’t be like other years. “Many shops still managed some sales on Monday. From Tuesday, it has gone back to the lean phase. We don’t know when sales will pick up,” Jagannath Ghosh, the secretary of the West Bengal Sweetmeat Shop Owners Association, said. Some like Chittaranjan in Sovabazar and Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick of Bhowanipore said their tie-ups with online delivery platforms had been a saviour. “Customer count has been low. But we have not been hit, thanks to the online platforms,” Subhajit Ghosh of Banchharam said. Even the volume of corporate orders has gone down this year because of an increasing number of people shying away from offering sweet packets, several sweet shop owners said. Even politicians and others who would go for bulk purchases during Vijaya Dashami have not been keen on continuing with the tradition of gifting sweet packets this year. Some, though, have opted for online delivery platforms but that number is “not too encouraging”, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Stress on Plus-II marks for Presi PG entry||Some departments of Presidency University have decided to factor in marks of the Plus-II exams while admitting students from other universities to postgraduate courses as they are not satisfied with the way final undergraduate exams were held, a Presidency official said. The departments suspect that the results announced amid the Puja don’t reflect a prospective candidate’s merit. The eligibility criteria for the 83 seats will be announced in the first week of November, said another official of the university. At least three departments — biological science, chemistry and physics — had said in the last meeting of the admission committee that they wanted to give some weightage to the marks in the plus-II board exams a postgraduate aspirant had written in 2017. The remaining weightage can be given to the performance at the undergraduate exams. At Presidency, 20 per cent of the 417 seats (83) are open for students from other universities. At the admission committee meeting, the three departments suggested that 25 per cent weightage be given to the plus-II board exam marks, the Presidency official said. “The teachers representing the three departments said the final-year or the end-semester exams were written by students sitting at home and in the absence of any invigilation. So, the teachers are not sure whether the results reflected a student’s merit. According to them, the HS results will help them judge better the merit of a candidate,” the official told The Telegraph. Since on-campus tests could not be held because of the pandemic, all universities allowed the final-year undergraduate students to write their exams from home and send the answers through WhatsApp or email. The biological science and chemistry departments of Presidency have said they want to give 25 per cent weightage to the marks obtained in the science subjects in the plus-II board exams. The physics department has yet to decide whether they want to give 25 per cent weightage to the physics score or the marks in all science subjects in the plus-II exams. “We wanted to hold a test ourselves, considering that exams like JEE Main, NEET and the JNU entrance test have been held recently. But the proposal was struck down on health grounds,” a teacher in the chemistry department said. The state JEE board, which conducts the admission test for Presidency University, had informed the authorities last month that it would not be able to conduct any on-campus test this year, Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Soumitra’s kidneys not functioning well||The health condition of actor Soumitra Chatterjee, currently on ventilator support, worsened further on Tuesday, and efforts were being made to boost his blood platelet count, a senior doctor at the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. The 85-year-old thespian’s creatinine and urea levels have been on the rise since Monday, and nephrologists were mulling the option of providing “renal replacement therapy support”, the doctor said. The actor, under treatment for the past 22 days, is also suffering from secondary pneumonia, he said. “Mr Chatterjee is barely conscious. He is being treated for dehydration. His kidneys are not functioning well. The octogenarian's urea and creatinine levels have been on the rise. His overall condition has worsened. He is definitely critical but we have managed to stabilise his condition a bit. “Our nephrologist is taking a call on whether he may be given any support in the form of renal replacement therapy. “He is on a ventilator. His saturation is more than 95 per cent with basic oxygen support,” the doctor explained. There has been no deterioration in the mental status of the veteran actor, he said. Doctors were planning to carry out blood transfusion on Tuesday, hoping that it would improve Chatterjee’s condition to an extent. “His platelet count has not gone down from what it was yesterday. We have given him medicines to bring up that count. We are planning a blood transfusion later today; hopefully, that will improve his condition,” he said. Chatterjee was put on a ventilator with endotracheal intubation on Monday evening to protect his airways. Endotracheal intubation is a procedure in which a tube is placed into the windpipe through the mouth or nose. Describing Chatterjee’s “unconsciousness” as their primary concern, the doctor said that at the moment they will “focus on dealing with the secondary infections so that the patient can be pulled out of the ventilation support”. “We will focus on secondary infections and their repercussions. We have given antibiotics and antifungals and expect him to respond to them. Once his physiological derangements are corrected, we will focus on his neurological parameters. The main issue bothering us is his unconsciousness,” the doctor said. The critically acclaimed actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres — France’s highest civilian award — was admitted to the hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. Last week, he was shifted to a non-Covid Intensive Trauma Unit, having recovered from the viral disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||Diary of cop on duty for a Puja unlike any other||Durga Puja 2020 duty was in many ways different from other years for police, several officers said. An inspector posted in the central division of Calcutta police shares his new normal with The Telegraph Puja duty would usually mean standing for 12 hours at a stretch and not returning home before 5am the next morning. But this year I returned home before 2am every day except on Navami. On Sashthi, we were released before midnight! On other days, our duties ended some time between 1am and 2am. On Navami night and early Dashami morning, I had to oversee some immersion processions scheduled at the last minute. Although I could return home early, I failed to catch up with friends because unlike other years, my neighbourhood pandal was deserted. Despite all the awareness campaigns over the past seven months, some people were roaming around without masks. Many of the women who were without masks were reluctant to put on one when approached by women constables. One or two were prosecuted on the spot. Motorcyclists without helmets or masks or both were prosecuted without any exception. We had kept a stock of masks for those who could not afford one. We distributed over 1,000 masks to footpath dwellers from near three pandals — Santosh Mitra Square, College Square and Mohammad Ali Park — over the past five days. The Santosh Mitra Square puja committee (Lebutala Park), which had announced before the Puja that only residents of the neighbourhood would be allowed inside the pandal, had very few visitors. If one could not see the deity in the pandal, what’s the point of going to that puja? The crowd was exceptionally thin at most big-ticket pujas, such as Mohammad Ali Park and College Square, possibly because of a high court order limiting the number of people who could enter a pandal. However, there was a little rush outside pandals on Navami (Sunday). Lebutala Park, where hundreds of people sit and chat, was closed. College Square was closed to visitors, too. We had practically no crowd to manage, except a few revellers who would try to enter a pandal claiming they were not aware of the restrictions. It did not feel like a stressful Puja duty at all. We usually take turns to have a quick meal on Puja days. We mostly eat from food packets supplied by organisers or the local police station. Sitting and eating is a luxury. But this year, we had ample time to have proper meals while on Puja duty. On Dashami night, when there was practically no one outside the Mohammad Ali Park pandal, I returned to my room at the police station and had my dinner cooked at the canteen. Though I could sit and eat a proper meal, I was missing my colleagues and the rush. There were more two-wheelers on the road than cars. Maybe because a two-wheeler allows a closer view of the pandal and a glimpse of the goddess inside. We did not have to do much to push them away as most of them did not stop or park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Calcutta||HC does its part on crowd control||Faces half hidden behind masks, streets with no crowds to manage, exchange of Vijaya greetings without the traditional embrace — Calcuttans are fervently praying that the “new normal” that cast a pall on Durga Puja 2020 fades away before the deity’s next sojourn. This year’s Puja was unique in many ways — because of Covid-19 — and many felt that the uniqueness had marred the revelry. The Telegraph depicts how Calcutta’s Durga Puja looked and felt this year amid the pandemic. Far fewer people compared with previous years stepped out this Puja — the lanes leading to some of the pandals were almost empty — possibly because of a Calcutta High Court order preventing the entry of visitors into pandals. Even on Ashtami and Navami even­ings, the crowds outside pandals were barely 10 per cent compared with other years. The roads were almost empty on Sashthi and Saptami. “I think people thought after the high court order that no idol could be seen this year. In a couple of days, the word spread that some idols were visible from a distance. That drew some people to pandals,” said Avishek Bhattacharya, the general secretary of Tala Barowari. “But even at its peak, the crowd was less than 10 per cent of other years.” An organiser of Shib Mandir Sarbojonin said: “The turnout was in no way comparable with previous years”. The idols of both these pujas were visible from beyond the barricades, put up at 10m from the pandals as directed by the court. Many felt that leaders across the political divide could have done better by asking people not to step out. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was heard asking people to watch the puja parikrama telecast by TV channels, instead of visiting pandals. But many other leaders, some of who organise big-ticket pujas, expressed disappointment at the high court’s order. A refrain among most organisers was that they could not ask people to stay away from pandals. Anirban Dalui, a doctor at the Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital and a public health specialist, called out this attitude of the organisers. “Whoever felt that asking people to step out during Puja was alright was just being irresponsible. Public health measures demanded that organisers did not publicise their pujas and made it less attractive this year,” said Dalui. Many pujas installed extra loudspeakers strategically so that the Ashtami anjali mantras reached all homes in the locality. The organisers of Badamtala Ashar Sangha kept urging residents to chant the mantras from home. Maddox Square, too, asked residents to offer anjali from home. Residents of some apartment complexes logged in through Zoom links to see the priest perform the anjali rituals and repeat the mantras after him sitting at home. Most pujas immersed their idols by Tuesday, unlike previous years when most big-ticket pujas used to take part in a carnival on Red Road on the last day of immersions. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that there would be no carnival this time because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Among the north Calcutta pujas, Ahiritola Sarbojonin immersed their idols on Monday and Maniktala Chaltabagan, Hatibagan Sarbojonin, Kashi Bose Lane and Nalin Sarkar Street Sarbojonin immersed their idols by Tuesday, police said. In south Calcutta, Babubagan, Ekdalia Evergreen, Singhi Park and Tridhara Sammilani immersed their idols by Tuesday. Most of these pujas used to take part in the carnival. Immersions will be allowed till Thursday. Metro Railway ferried lakhs of revellers during previous years’ Puja. This year it did not run the usual number of trains, thereby limiting the crowd. From Saptami to Dashami, there were 64 trains every day. Last year, 244 trains ran every day from Saptami to Navami and 132 on Dashami. The passenger count was a little over 1.16 lakh on the four Puja days this year, said an official. Last Puja, it ferried close to 26 lakh passengers. Unlike last year, when the service continued through the night, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 10am and 9pm this year. Stations like Kalighat and Dum Dum, usually the most crowded on Puja days, had only a handful of passengers. The only outing for many was lunch or dinner at a favourite eatery. Around 2pm on Navami, the average waiting time outside Mocambo was over 30 minutes. Most restaurants extended the closing hours beyond midnight on the Puja days. Shiladitya Chaudhury, the owner of Oudh 1590, said people waited for lunch and dinner outside his restaurants on all four days. “The number of takeaways went up compared with last year,” he said. Finding a parking slot on Park Street was tough like good old days. A Salt Lake resident found a thick crowd outside a Kolaghat restaurant where she had gone to dine out with her family. She dropped the plan. “I would have caught Covid-19 had I stepped out in that army of people,” said one of them. Fewer people on roads meant that commuters were spared astronomical surges in app cab fares, which used to be a common complaint during the Puja in previous years. Same with yellow taxis — they only asked for “a little extra” over the meter reading. “I went to New Town from Kasba on Sashthi and came back on Ashtami. On both days, Uber charged me a little less than Rs 300. It was lesser than what I used to pay on a non-festive day during pre-Covid times,” said a Kasba resident. The number of app cabs on roads has reduced since the pandemic started as passengers dwindled. Even with fewer cabs, the fare surge was comparatively less. A taxi union leader said only 5,000 yellow taxis, out of 12,000 vehicles, ran during the Puja. From Tallah to Tollygunge, or from Behala to Salt Lake, no one was stuck in a snarl at any time of the day. “It was a smooth sail on all four days,” said a Calcuttan. Officers of Calcutta police’s traffic department, too, said vehicles were fewer compared with previous years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-259
28-10-2020||Business||Airtel reports consolidated loss of Rs 763 crore in Q2 ||Bharti Airtel has witnessed a substantial narrowing of losses during the second quarter ended September 2020 as it did not have to make provisions towards dues on account of adjusted gross revenues (AGR). Consolidated loss at the telco came in at Rs 763 crore  compared with Rs 23,045 crore in the same period of the previous year when it made provisions of Rs 28,450 crore in the immediate aftermath of the Supreme Court ruling on the statutory AGR dues. In the first quarter of the fiscal, the company posted a consolidated loss of Rs 15,933 crore. It had then recorded an “incremental provision” of Rs 10,744 crore. Telcos like Bharti Airtel have not been seriously affected by Covid-19 as data consumption has jumped with people working from home. During the second quarter, its consolidated revenue was Rs 25,785 crore, up 22 per cent over the corresponding period last year. India revenues during the period at Rs 18,747 crore showed a rise of 22 per cent over the same period last year. The company said its mobile revenues witnessed a solid growth because of it unrelenting focus on winning quality customers and the delivery of a differentiated experience. Consequently, its average revenue per user (ARPU) leapt to Rs 162 compared with Rs 128 in the same period of the previous year. In its statement to the accounts for the period under review, Airtel said the Supreme Court has directed operators to pay 10 per cent of its total dues by March 31, 2021 and the remaining dues in yearly instalments commencing April 1, 2021 till March 31, 2031, payable by March 31 of every succeeding financial year. “The group has represented to the DoT that it has already paid more than 10 per cent of the total dues as demanded by DoT and will ensure ongoing compliance with the Supreme Court’s orders.’’ The company added that during the period, it continued to garner a strong share of the 4G net additions to the market. 4G data customers increased 48.1 per cent to 152.7 million compared with the previous year while traffic increased to 77.3 peta bytes per against 48.9 peta bytes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Tata Motors posts consolidated net loss of Rs 314.45 crore ||A gradual recovery of the auto market from the clutches of the pandemic helped Tata Motors to beat analyst forecasts in the second quarter. Consolidated net loss of the company stood at Rs 314.45 crore in the second quarter of the fiscal against a loss of Rs 216.56 crore a year ago much less than analyst estimates of Rs 2,000 crore. Net revenues rose over 18 per cent to Rs 53,530 crore. Both Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) and the Indian operations witnessed strong sequential recovery during the period under review, though the commercial vehicle segment was impacted by lower volumes. Tata Motors said that during the period, Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) witnessed significant positive cash flow as sales and revenue recovered from the impact of Covid-19, though they were below pre-Covid levels a year ago. Retail sales at 113,569 units rose 53.3 per cent sequentially. It, however, added that retail sales in most markets continued to be impacted by Covid-19 and were lower around 12 per cent  compared with the year ago period. JLR revenue at £4.4 billion showed a rise of 52.2 per cent from the first quarter, though it was lower around 29 per cent from the pre-Covid levels a year ago. It generated £65 million profit before tax (PBT) compared with a loss of £413 million in the prior quarter. JLR also ended the second quarter with liquidity of around £5 billion. On the other hand, its standalone operations saw revenues coming at Rs 9,591.18 crore which was lower than Rs 9,913.33 crore in the same period of the previous year, though it was higher than Rs 2,634 crore in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||RBI sets terms for interest waiver||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday asked all lending institutions, including non-banking financial companies, that by November 5 they must implement the scheme of waiver of interest on interest for loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month period beginning March 1. The apex bank said “the rate of interest would be as prevailing on 29 February 2020”. In case the rate of interest has changed thereafter, it shall not be reckoned for the purpose of the computation. The payable ex-gratia amount shall have to be credited to the account of the borrower by the respective lending institutions as ex-gratia payment under the scheme. The lending institutions will have to credit the required payment which is the difference between the compound interest and the simple interest for the period between March 1 and August 31 to the borrowers account by November 5 — and then seek reimbursement from the government. Last Friday, the Centre had announced the operational guidelines with regard to the scheme, following the Supreme Court’s direction to implement the interest waiver scheme. The top court on October 14 had directed the Centre to implement “as soon as possible” the interest on interest waiver on loans of up to Rs 2 crore under the RBI moratorium scheme in view of the pandemic, saying the common man’s Diwali is in the government’s hands. The scheme will apply to those who have availed the loan moratorium of the RBI and also those who did not. It will cover housing loans, education loans, credit card dues, auto loans, MSME loans, personal loans to professionals, consumer durable loans and consumption loans. In a circular issued to banks, housing finance companies, NBFCs and other financial institutions, the central bank said all lending institutions are advised to be guided by the provisions of the scheme and take necessary action within the stipulated timeline. According to the scheme announced by the government, the “ex-gratia payment” will be admissible irrespective of whether the borrower had fully availed or partially availed or not availed of the moratorium on repayment announced by the RBI in March and thereafter in May. It said that the period to be reckoned for crediting the difference between compound interest and simple interest would be from March 1 to August 31. It added that “the rate of interest would be as prevailing on 29 February 2020”. In case the rate of interest has changed thereafter, it shall not be reckoned for the purpose of the computation. The payable ex-gratia amount shall have to be credited to the account of the borrower by the respective lending institutions as ex-gratia payment under the scheme. In a tweet, the office of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said “RBI advises all lending institutions to be guided by the provisions of the scheme for grant of ex-gratia payment of difference between compound interest and simple interest for six months to borrowers in specified loan accounts and take necessary action within the stipulated timeline”. It is understood that the amounts will be credited to the borrower’s loan account, which could give some relief to the latter. The scheme said that when it comes to education, housing, automobile, consumption loans and personal loans to individuals, the rate of interest to be applied for calculating the difference between the compound interest and the simple interest will be the contracted rate as specified in the loan agreement. Further, the relief will only apply to accounts that are standard as on February 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Sashidhar Jagdishan takes charge of HDFC Bank||Sashidhar Jagdishan on Tuesday took charge as the managing director & CEO of HDFC Bank. He takes over from Aditya Puri, who  retired from the country’s largest private sector bank on Monday after a distinguished career of 26 years. A statement from HDFC Bank said that Jagdishan has been a part of the lender since 1996 and he played a critical role in supporting its growth trajectory. Jagdishan, popularly called Sashi, has an overall experience of over 30 years and a deep knowledge in the fields of banking, finance, and economics. He joined HDFC Bank in 1996 as a manager in the finance division. He became business head-finance in 1999 and was appointed chief financial officer in 2008. Before donning this role, he was the group head of finance, human resources, legal and secretarial, administration, infrastructure, corporate communications, corporate social responsibility apart from being the change agent. Prior to joining HDFC Bank, he was a senior officer in the country financial control division of Deutsche Bank, AG, Mumbai. Observers said Jagdishan will have to contend with numerous challenges. He comes to the corner office at a time the banking sector and many other industries feel the pinch of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jagdishan will have to maintain the strong asset quality at the bank and also lead its next growth phase that may call for a different approach. In August, he had projected that the domestic economy will begin to see “a bit of normality’’ from October and that its first impact could be felt on the consumer or retail side of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||RBI fiscal deficit alert to states||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday warned the additional outgo of states to combat the impact of Covid-19 will significantly erode their hard won fiscal prudence achieved over the past three years. In the apex bank’s baseline projection, gross fiscal deficit of the states is expected to widen beyond 4 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 against the budgeted 2.8 per cent. The RBI said revenues are strongly related to GDP but during contraction revenues fall faster than GDP, which indicate revenues are likely to remain reduced in the next few years. The report — State Finances: A Study of Budgets —  warned that pandemic related expenses, particularly on health and other support measures for households and firms, are likely to keep these expenditures high thereby prolonging the “scissor effect” of expenditures surging and revenues collapsing. “Even as fiscal space gets exhausted the second wave of infection has either arrived or may be imminent in several economies, forcing lockdowns again,” the report said. “Overall, uncertainty remains high, and even as the quest for vaccine intensifies with no immediate relief in sight yet, the prospects for the green shoots that appeared in the third quarter of 2020 is fraught with downside risks.’’ The overall impact on state finances would be conditional upon the exposure to Covid-19, the availability of initial fiscal space and access to rainy day funds, or other reserve funds. Further, the report said, state governments’ responses by delaying or cutting down expenditures, even wages and salaries, need to be taken into account in the assessment of the pandemic’s direct effects on their finances. According to the study, some states have been impacted quicker and harder than others, depending upon indigenous demographics and epidemiological features as well as availability and accessibility of health resources. Further, supply chain disruptions have also been different depending on nature of businesses and other activities that various states specialise. “The pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years,” the study said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
28-10-2020||Business||Direct tax amnesty extended till March||The government on Tuesday extended for the third time the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute settlement scheme ‘Vivad Se Vishwas’ by three months to March 31, 2021. Under a notification of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the declaration under the Vivad se Vishwas Scheme shall be required to be furnished latest by December 31, 2020. However, only in respect of the said declarations, the payment without additional amount can now be made up to March 31, 2021. Finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey on Tuesday reviewed the progress made so far by the Income Tax Department on Vivad se Vishwas through video conferencing along with CBDT chairman and board members and all the principal chief commissioners of income tax across the country to expedite the scheme. “This is a scheme for the benefit and convenience of the taxpayers as they would get instant disposal of the dispute with no further cost of litigation besides monetary benefits in the form of waiver of penalty, interest and prosecution,” Pandey said. In the meeting, CBDT chairman P.C. Mody asked the principal chief commissioners of income tax to carry out all possible actions such as disposing pending rectifications, giving pending appeal effects and removing duplicate demands so as to arrive at a final demand for each assessee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sees revival signs||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said there were visible signs of revival in the economy but growth may contract or be near zero in the current fiscal. She said the economy saw a contraction in the April-June quarter, but demand has picked up in the festival season. Speaking at the India Energy Forum of CERAWeek, she said infrastructure, fintech and all employment generating and asset creating industries would be priority sectors for the government. Sitharaman further said recent data indicates revival in the economy, with PMI number being the highest since 2012. “Which sort of indicates that the revival is there which is going to be steady and sustainable. If that sustainable revival is going to happen between quarter three and quarter four, we expect that the overall GDP growth... (is) going to be in the negative or near zero this time,” she said. India will regain the tag of the fastest growing major economy next year, she said. The Indian economy had contracted by a huge 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, hit by the Covid-19 crisis. Sitharaman said a “very firm lockdown” was imposed beginning March 25, with the government putting lives before livelihood to contain the coronavirus pandemic. “We had a contraction which happened during the first quarter and post which the unlocking has been steadily happening and we can see the revival now,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Morgan Stanley Capital Investment index recast to boost FDI inflows||Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI) has announced that it will implement the new changes on foreign ownership limits in its global indices, which could pave the way for more inflows into some stocks. The stock markets on Tuesday reacted positively to the development as hopes of more foreign inflows saw the Sensex reversing course and ending almost 377 points higher. Ridham Desai, head of India research, and Sheela Rathi, equity research analyst, at Morgan Stanley said in a note that MSCI India Index could see passive inflows worth $2.5 billion due to the latest announcement, and its weight in the MSCI Emerging Market Index will increase to 8.7 per cent from 8.1 per cent. MSCI India’s free float factor, according to the research, will increase to 43.2 per cent from 40 per cent. They felt that Kotak Mahindra Bank, PI Industries and Ipca Laboratories could be some of the firms that may be part of the MSCI indices. Asian Paints, Larsen & Toubro, Britannia and Nestle India could witness more inflows. The government had earlier said that the statutory foreign portfolio investment (FPI) limit in domestic companies will be raised to the sectoral ceiling. For example, if an FPI investment limit in a company was 24 per cent and the sectoral foreign investment ceiling was 74 per cent, under the new framework the FPI limit would increase to 74 per cent, unless the company decides to put it lower. In April this year, both the National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services Ltd (CDSL) had revised the FPI limits for stocks listed on domestic stock exchanges. MSCI said in a statement on Monday that it welcomes the disclosure of the foreign investment limits for Indian securities by the two depositories. The changes address the concerns on the timeliness, quality and standardisation of data. It added that the changes in foreign ownership limits will be implemented in its November index review. The MSCI India index is reviewed on a quarterly basis. “The foreign ownership limits changes are resulting from the relaxation of the FPI limit of Indian companies to the sectoral limit,’’ it said. MSCI added that the foreign ownership limits for securities in the MSCI India Equity Universe would be equal to the limit under the automatic route except the cases where a higher limit is approved under the ‘government route’ or the cases where a lower limit is approved by the company's board of directors and its general body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||Business||Magma Fincorp promoters return to realty||The promoters of Magma Fincorp, the city-based NBFC, are getting back to real estate. Celica Developers, a major shareholder of Magma, has lined up at least three projects in and around Calcutta straddling residential, commercial and logistic segments. The first-off-the-block will be a high-end residential tower on Dover Road, a few yards away from Ballygunj Circular Road, where a 12 storied structure (apart from basement and garage) will come up in the next 12-18 months. Already halfway into the construction, the 18 cottah plot is going to have a G+4 bungalow too. Each unit, measuring around 2,300 square foot, will cost around Rs 4 crore. When completed, it would be the first real estate venture from Magma co-promoter Mayank Poddar’s family in more than three decades. Between 1960-80s, they built around half a million square foot of commercial and retail space on Park Street, the sunset boulevard of Calcutta. Comprising five buildings stretching between Middleton Row on the west and Camac Street on the east, the properties are home to some of the city’s well known casual and fine dining addresses, cafes and automobile showroom. It also houses Magma’s registered office apart from a host of other offices. A clean slate Is this the right time to make a comeback, especially when the real estate is reeling under the shock of Covid-19? Adarsh Tulshan, the managing director of Celica Group, believes that not having a baggage of unsold inventory like any other realtor could be a plus. “Starting with a clean slate with no loan to service will give us a headroom. We believe if a project is designed keeping in mind what a buyer wants, it should work,” Tulshan, son-in-law of Poddar, said. While the ticket size of the Ballygunj property will cast the net wider for buyers than some of the competing ones which offer bigger but more expensive units, a mass housing at Konnagar on the bank of the Hooghly will be priced to allow customers to take the benefit of a centrally sponsored home loan interest subvention scheme. Branded as Celica Residency, the 2.74 acre plot will have 4.5 lakh sq ft of built up space, having 450-odd units and a bit of retail. The company also plans to build a logistic hub on a 12-acre plot at Dankuni, where around 300,000 sq ft of leasable area will be built. Celica has had an initial dialogue with a few of the logistic park operators to co-develop the project. “Our plan is to have a bouquet of projects having a presence in different price points and usage,” Tulshan said, adding that Celica is also scouting for plots in the central business district of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-253
28-10-2020||India||Smriti Irani tests positive for Covid||Union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19. The women and child development and textiles minister asked the people who came in contact with her to get themselves tested at the earliest. "It is rare for me to search for words while making an announcement; hence here's me keeping it simple -- I've tested positive for #COVID and would request those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested at the earliest," she said in a tweet. Irani campaigned for the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday for the Bihar Assembly polls. Soon after the minister made the announcement, wishes poured in for her on Twitter. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said she will emerge stronger from this fight against Covid. "Wishing good health & speedy recovery to Smt @smritiirani Ji. There is no doubt she will emerge stronger from this fight," he said in a tweet. "You have always displayed resolute determination in fighting for the people of the nation, @SmritiIrani ji. I am sure you will use the same determination to fight against COVID-19 and recover soon. My best wishes for your well being," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal wrote on the microblogging website. Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Jitendra Singh, BJP leaders Tejasvi Surya and Poonam Mahajan were also among those who wished Irani a speedy recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Trouble brewing in BSP over Rajya Sabha elections||In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, four of 10 MLAs who had proposed the name of the party's lone candidate in next month's Rajya Sabha polls, withdrew support amid hints that they and two others may switch sides. The four accompanied two other Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs to the Samajwadi Party headquarter here and met party chief Akhilesh Yadav, said an SP MLA who did not want to be named. But the same SP leader maintained that the group of six BSP MLAs from Uttar Pradesh could also be in touch with the ruling BJP. The six MLAs earlier met the returning officer, when the four proposers submitted in writing that their signatures on senior party leader Ramji Gautam's nomination papers were forged . One of the rebels later admitted that she met Akhilesh Yadav, while the others in the group a third of BSP's total strength of 18 in the state Assembly -- expressed dissatisfaction over the way their own party treated them. Asked about their future course of action, Shravasti MLA Aslam Raini said there was a general impression that Akhilesh Yadav respects his party members. The rebels did not specifically target BSP supremo Mayawati while criticising other party leaders. Without taking names, a BSP leader also indirectly laid the blame for the dramatic development on the SP, with which Mayawati's party was in alliance during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. If the returning officer accepts the forgery claim by four of Gautam's 10 proposers, it could lead to the BSP candidate's disqualification. The BSP had on Monday fielded Gautam, its national coordinator and Bihar in-charge for the November 9 biennial elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant in the Rajya Sabha. The BSP doesn't have the numbers in the Assembly to win an RS seat on its own but party leaders had indicated that it may get the support of other Opposition parties. The four MLAs who submitted an affidavit saying their signatures were forged are Aslam Raini, Aslam Chaudhary, Mujtaba Siddiqui and Hakim Lal Bind. Along with them, two others, Hargovind Bhargava and Sushma Patel, also met the returning officer, Raini said. The scrutiny of nominations was being undertaken Wednesday. Raini and Mujtaba Siddiqui told reporters that they were unhappy with the interference of BSP coordinators. “There is no respect in the party for us. I complained about a personal problem recently to our leader Lalji Verma, but to no avail,” Siddiqui, who is the MLA from Pratapur in Allahabad, said. But the three-time legislator made clear that he had no complaints against Mayawati. Shravasti MLA Aslam Raini said when he contracted coronavirus in August chief minister Yogi Adityanath got him admitted at a private hospital. Both the CM and Akhilesh Yadav inquired about his health on phone, but no leader from his own party called, the MLA said. The BSP leaders were also upset with a video clip he made during his hospital stay, Raini said. “I was in hospital and the BSP coordinators were moving about in my constituency telling people not to meet their MLA,” he claimed. “It's the same problem with all six of us. Behenji (Mayawati) is not to be blamed, but the coordinators have acted in a manner which has depressed us and we thought what is the use of remaining with such a party,” the MLA said.There were also reports that after meeting the returning officer, the BSP MLAs drove to the SP office to meet Yadav. Later, two of them told reporters that there was no such meeting.Sushma Patel, however, admitted having met the SP chief who she claimed had called them. But she refused to elaborate.Senior BSP leader and MLA Uma Shankar Singh claimed that the nomination of industrialist Prakash Bajaj for the Rajya Sabha, filed just two minutes before the deadline Tuesday, was part of a conspiracy .Bajaj is contesting as an independent with the SP's support. “They are out to buy MLAs and felt why not get the nomination of the BSP candidate rejected,” Singh alleged, apparently referring to the SP. He said the rebels were present when Gautam filed his nomination papers. “We have sent pictures of the nomination to the Returning Officer. If they had any objection, they should have given it to the RO by yesterday. Why now?” Singh questioned. Altogether, 11 candidates, including eight from the BJP, have filed their papers for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh going to the polls. Given the overwhelming strength of the BJP in the UP Assembly, all its eight candidates, including Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, are expected to get a berth in the Rajya Sabha. Of the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant, three were earlier held by the BJP, four by the SP, two by the BSP and one by the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Modi silent on issues confronting India: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, throwing at him "chai and pakoda" jibes and accusing him of "not talking about issues confronting India” such as unemployment but speaking only about other countries. On his second round of campaigning for the ongoing state elections, Rahul addressed two back-to-back rallies -- one at Valmiki Nagar in West Champaran and the other at Kusheswar Asthan in Darbhanga -- and also assailed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over issues of unemployment, migration and poverty. At his first rally at Valmiki Nagar, the former Congress president once again criticised the three farm laws, the government’s handling of the migrant crisis and demonetisation, and alleged Modi and Nitish "control the media". Rahul said angry farmers in Punjab burnt effigies of Prime Minister Modi on the occasion of Dusshera which "pained" him. "If I tell you the truth, I did not like it. Because after all Narendra Modiji is our Prime Minister, the country’s  Prime Minister. "Usually effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghanada are burnt on Dusshera. But it is for the first time that the effigies of Narendra Modi, Ambani and Adani were burnt," he said. "I saw it for the first time (that a Prime Minister’s effigy was being burnt on the occasion of Dusshera). You did not get to see it may be because Nitishji and Modiji control the media," he told the crowd at the Darbhanga rally. He said small shopkeepers, youths, farmers and labourers are today "angry" with Modi at the national level and Kumar in Bihar. He also alleged the reason the Prime Minister’s effigy was burnt was that "what Nitishji did in Bihar in 2006, Modiji is doing in Punjab, Haryana and across the country.” He said the "pilot project" for the three farm laws -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act was run in Bihar. The Congress has been vehemently opposing the farm laws, alleging it will destroy the mandi system, end the MSP regime and leave farmers at the mercy of big corporates. All the charges have been rejected by the Centre. "In 2006, it started much earlier in Bihar. Your backbone, your farming system, MSP and procurement system were abolished. Today, the youth of the nation cannot get employment," Rahul told the gathering. As he was in the middle of his speech, talking about migration and unemployment, a person from among the crowd shouted "he (Modi) asks us to fry pakodas". "Did you fry pakodas?” Rahul responded jovially, drawing applause and cheers from the crowd. “Next time they come, fry pakodas and offer some to Nitishji and Modiji," he mockingly said. In January 2018, Modi had said in a TV interview that people earning Rs 200 a day by selling pakodas cannot be considered unemployed, a remark often ridiculed by the Congress. At his rally in West Champaran, Gandhi said, "The Prime Minister had come here a few years ago. He is again coming in the next two days. He had said it’s a sugar belt, will operationalise sugar mills and have tea prepared with local sugar on my next visit. Do you remember? Did he have tea with you? No." He said the Prime Minister and the Bihar chief minister used to raise the issue of unemployment earlier but no longer now. "Youths and farmers of Punjab and Bihar and youths of Uttar Pradesh are angry that our PM keeps making speeches with Bihar Chief Minister and talks about sugar, tea and other countries, but not about the problems confronting our country such as unemployment," he said. "Now, the PM does not say in his speeches that he would give two crore jobs. Because the people of Bihar have realized that he had lied. "I can guarantee that if the PM comes today and promises two crore jobs to youths, perhaps the crowd would shoo him away, telling him that he had lied," Gandhi said. He said the people of Bihar gave 15 years to Nitish Kumar as chief minister and six years to Modi as Prime Minister yet "Bihar is the poorest state". "I want to see the day when youth from other states come to Patna to find employment," he said. He said India today cannot create jobs and the "neighboring countries have marched ahead of us. He said the ongoing elections in Bihar was about the states future and not about "Lalu ji's family, Nitish jis or my family." “If the Congress comes to power it will be a government of all castes and religions,” he added. "We know how to run the country, we know how to stand with farmers, we know how to give employment to the youth. But there is definitely a shortcoming in us that we do not know to lie, we cannot compete with them in lying," he said. He also praised RJD leader and the mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, saying he wants to give a new perspective and talks about employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Twitter in line of fire for showing Ladakh as part of China||A parliamentary committee on Wednesday came down heavily on Twitter for showing Ladakh as part of China, saying it amounted to treason and an explanation must be tendered by the US-based parent of the social media platform in form of an affidavit, sources in the panel said. Appearing before the joint committee of parliament on Data Protection Bill, chaired by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, representatives of Twitter India "begged apology", but they were told by the members that it was a criminal offence that questioned the sovereignty of the country and an affidavit must be submitted by Twitter Inc, not by its 'marketing arm' Twitter India, sources added. They were questioned for more than two hours by the panel members, mainly on Ladakh being shown as part of China on the Twitter app. "The committee was of the unanimous opinion that Twitter's explanation on showing Ladakh as part of China was inadequate," Lekhi told PTI after the meeting. The Twitter representatives told the panel that the social media company respects the sensitivities of India, she said. "But, it is not only a question of the sensitivity of India or Indians. It is a question about national integrity and sovereignty of the country, and not respecting that is a criminal offence. And displaying Indian map improperly and incorrectly is an offence of treason and attracts imprisonment of seven years, she said. Lekhi said Twitter was also asked about its banning policy. "Shadow banning, banning policy there is no clarity about it. Such actions are very subjective... Twitter is becoming a law onto themselves and under these circumstances, they are violating Article 19 of the Constitution about the freedom of expression," she said. Sources said some members also raised questions about Twitter's transparency policy and its actions during elections, especially vis-a-vis their policies in other countries. Asked for their comments, a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement, "The recent geotagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the Government to share timely updates." Multiple sources in the panel said Twitter officials "begged apology" for Ladakh being shown as part of China on its app, but they were told by members that whatever they wanted to say on the issue should be given in writing in form of an affidavit by Twitter Inc, the parent company of the social media platform. They said Twitter India is "just a marketing arm" of US-based parent Twitter Inc, and therefore a written reply should come from them. Twitter Asia, based in Singapore, mainly deals with advertisement revenues and takes all major decisions related to the region, some members opined. Officials who deposed before the panel on behalf of Twitter India included Shagufta Kamran, senior manager, public policy; Ayushi Kapoor, legal counsel; Pallavi Walia, policy communications; and Manvinder Bali, corporate security. Officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology, and the Ministry of Law and Justice also deposed before the panel. The Indian government on October 22 had warned Twitter about its location setting that showed Leh in China, saying any disrespect towards the country's sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable. In a strongly-worded letter, Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the country's sensitivities, sources in the ministry had said. Twitter also came under heavy criticism and faced a backlash from social media users after its geotagging feature displayed "Jammu & Kashmir, the People's Republic of China" in a live broadcast from Leh's Hall of Fame, a war memorial for fallen soldiers in the Union Territory of Ladakh. At that time, Twitter had called it a technical issue that had been swiftly resolved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Nitish sings Modi praise, promises a 'developed' Bihar ||Bringing the "Modi factor" to the fore of the poll campaign, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday devoted his speech at a BJP rally here to development works undertaken by the Prime Minister for Bihar and said Narendra Modi will make it a "developed" state if the ruling NDA is voted back to power. Lavishing praise on Modi, Kumar referred to a slew of projects to assert that the people of Bihar can never forget what he has done for the state. "Listening to his (Modi's) appeal, if you give the NDA one more chance to work in the state, then you take it for sure that he will transform it into a developed state. Bihar will march ahead," he said. Locked in a keen electoral battle with the RJD-led Opposition amid a perceived anti-incumbency against Kumar's nearly 15-year tenure as chief minister, the National Democratic Alliance is banking strongly on the Modi factor to help it romp home. In the state capital and several other places, BJP's posters carrying the prime minister's photographs and its symbol, among with that of allies, have been put up prominently, assuring voters that he will bring them jobs -- a central theme of the Bihar assembly polls -- and other developments in the same way he has brought them roads and electricity. In his speech, Kumar, the JD(U) president, spoke about the Patna metro project, smart cities plan and the Ujjwala scheme among other measures to laud Modi. He has done so much for building roads and bridges in the state, the chief minister said in his brief speech. Kumar also praised Modi for his initiatives in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to the free ration scheme for over 80 crore poor in the country between April and November, the chief minister said, "This is not a small thing." The NDA has projected Kumar as its chief ministerial candidate. Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial face of his alliance, has launched an aggressive campaign around the theme of "unemployment and corruption" in the NDA government in the state and has protected himself as a harbinger of hope and change. The NDA, on the other hand, has been raking up the issue of the "15-year-misrule" during the previous RJD regime from 1990 to 2005.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
28-10-2020||India||Delhi schools to remain closed for indefinite period||All schools in Delhi will continue to be closed till further orders in view of the COVID-19 situation, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday. Parents are not in favour of reopening schools either, Sisodia said at an online press conference. The Delhi government had earlier announced that schools will remain closed till October 31. "We keep getting feedback from parents that they are really concerned about whether it is safe to reopen schools. It is not. Wherever schools have reopened, Covid-19 cases among children have risen. So we have decided that as of now schools in the national capital will not reopen. They will continue to be closed till further orders," Sisodia said. Delhi recorded 4,853 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike here till date, as the infection tally in the city mounted to over 3.64 lakh, authorities said. The previous highest single-day spike of 4,473 cases was recorded on September 16. Universities and schools across the country were closed on March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. While several restrictions were eased in different 'unlock' phases, educational institutions continued to remain closed. According to Unlock 5' guidelines, states can take a call on reopening schools in phases. Several states including Haryana, Punjab, UP and Sikkim have also begun the process of reopening schools. Schools in UP's Noida are struggling with low attendance as parents are apprehensive about sending their wards to schools yet. Earlier, schools were allowed to call students from Class 9 to 12 to school on voluntary basis from September 21. However, the Delhi government decided against it. The Ministry of Education had issued detailed guidelines for reopening of schools including thorough cleaning and disinfection of premises, flexibility in attendance, no assessment for up to three weeks and ensuring a smooth transition from home-based schooling during the coronavirus-induced lockdown to formal schooling. Schools have been advised to form task teams such as emergency care support and response teams, general support teams for all stakeholders, commodity support teams, hygiene inspection teams, among others, with earmarked responsibilities. The Maharashtra government has said it will assess the Covid-19 situation post-Diwali and till then schools will continue to remain closed. The Gujarat government has also said it is likely to consider reopening schools only after Diwali. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said a decision on reopening of schools will be taken only after mid-November. The Karnataka government has said it is in no hurry to reopen schools and will take a call on the issue after evaluating all aspects. The Meghalaya government has sought feedback from parents before taking a final decision on reopening of schools in the state. The Mizoram government has decided to shut all schools that were reopened for students of classes 10 and 12 due to the rising number of locally transmitted COVID-19 cases and also because some pupils have tested positive for the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||PM talks about other countries but not problems of India, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he talks about other countries in his speeches but not about the problems facing India such as unemployment. Gandhi, who arrived in West Champaran district for his second round of campaigning in the ongoing state elections, also attacked Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over unemployment and the issue of migration. Addressing a rally at Valmiki Nagar, the former Congress president said he was pained to see that Prime Minister Modi's effigy was burnt in Punjab on the occasion of Dusshera, and added that it reflected the "anger" of youths and farmers. "Youths and farmers of Punjab and Bihar and youths of Uttar Pradesh are angry that our PM keeps making speeches with Bihar Chief Minister and talks about other countries, but not the problems confronting our country such as unemployment," he said. He said the prime minister and the Bihar chief minister used to raise the issue of unemployment earlier but no longer now. "Now, the PM does not say in his speeches that he would give two crore jobs. Because the people of Bihar have realised that he had lied. "I can guarantee that if the PM comes today and promises two crore jobs to youths, perhaps the crowd would shoo him off, telling him that he had lied," Gandhi said. The Congress knows how to run a country, how to stand with farmers and provide employment, but "we don't know how to lie", he said. Criticising the Centre over the three recently passed farm laws, he said its "pilot project" was implemented in Bihar in 2006 when the mandi system was abolished in the state. "What Nitish Kumar did in Bihar in 2006, Narendra Modi is doing in Punjab, Haryana and across the country," Gandhi said. The Congress has fielded Pravesh Kumar Mishra for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha by-election, while Rajesh Singh has been nominated for the assembly poll from there. The bypoll to Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency has been necessitated due to death of JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto. The Lok Sabha by-poll will be held on November 7 and the results will be announced on November 10 alongside the results of Bihar assembly elections. Later in the day, Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to address a rally at Kusheswar Asthan in Darbhanga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Suspension of international passenger flights extended till November 30 ||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till November 30 amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said on Wednesday. "However, the international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Indian aviation regulator said in a circular. The scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral 'air bubble' arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 18 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) circular also mentioned that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. The scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Hong Kong bans Air India flight from Mumbai till November 10||Hong Kong has banned Air India flights from Mumbai till November 10 after a few passengers on its flight tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival earlier this week, a senior government official said on Friday. This is the fourth time that Air India flights from India have been banned by the Hong Kong government for bringing passengers who tested positive for the infection after arrival. Previous bans were on the airline's Delhi-Hong Kong flights during September 20-October 3 and August 18-August 31 and October 17-October 30. Passengers from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if they have a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done within 72 hours prior to the journey, according to rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July. Moreover, all international passengers are required to undergo a post-flight Covid-19 test at the Hong Kong airport. Besides India, a pre-flight Covid-19 negative certificate is mandatory for all passengers from Bangladesh, Ethiopia, France, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Russia, South Africa, the UK and the US, according to the Hong Kong government's rules. An airline operating a flight to Hong Kong from these countries has to submit a form before departure, stating that all passengers onboard have Covid-19 negative certificates. "A few passengers who travelled on Air India's Mumbai-Hong Kong flight earlier this week tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival at Hong Kong," the senior government official said. "Subsequently, the Mumbai-Hong Kong flights have been barred from October 28 to November 10 by the Hong Kong government," the official added. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, the Indian airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July this year. Under a bilateral air bubble pact, the airlines of both countries can operate international flights with certain restrictions. India has formed such pacts with approximately 18 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Modi calls Tejashwi the 'yuvraj' of jungle raj in second Bihar rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a stinging attack on the opposition RJD in Bihar and its chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, asking voters to beware of the "yuvraaj" (crown prince) of "jungle raj", and alleged the party had the "copyright over kidnappings". Addressing his second rally of the day in the poll- bound state, Modi cautioned the people that a return of the "jungle raj" will bring a double whammy for the state in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic' He asked the voters to view the assembly elections as "an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of darkness". "Can anything be expected from the yuvraaj of jungle raj? He ought to be evaluated on the basis of a track record about which the people know much better than I do," said Modi, without mentioning by name the RJD or Yadav, the younger son and heir apparent of party president Lalu Prasad. In an apparent reference to Yadav's alluring promise of 10 lakh permanent government jobs if his party was voted to power, the prime minister said, "Forget about jobs in the public sector. Even private companies giving jobs will flee." "Companies will shut down their offices and run away. Extortion calls will be made by those patronised by the party which has a copyright over kidnappings," he said, apparently referring to the 15 years of the RJD rule when the party in power often faced accusations of being in cahoots with criminal gangs. "The elections are an opportunity to re-elect those who pulled Bihar out of darkness. The Centre has many plans for Bihar which will bring more peace and prosperity with Nitish Kumar at the helm in the state," the prime minister said. He cautioned people against those who were responsible for kushasan (bad governance) in Bihar. "They are waiting for an opportunity to make a comeback. If jungle raj returns amid the COVID 19 pandemic, it will be a double whammy for the state." "It is a party which patronised criminals and ensured the riches of one family grew," he remarked, making a veiled reference to the corruption scandals involving Prasad and his family members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Modi rakes up Ayodhya, 'jungle raj' at first Bihar rally of the day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched the second leg of his campaign for Bihar assembly elections, raking up the Ayodhya issue and urging the people to defeat the opposition which had ushered in a "jungle raj" in the state and embezzled funds meant for development schemes. Invoking the imagery of Goddess Sita and her father Janaka, the king of Mithila of which this north Bihar town became the capital later on, Modi said those who used to taunt the BJP over the delay in construction of Ram temple were now forced to applause. "I am happy to be here, in the birth place of Mother Sita. Construction of temple at Ayodhya has also begun. Those siyasi log (political opponents) who used to taunt us with the question what is the date (for commencement of construction), have now been forced to clap in applause," Modi told the rally. The prime minister, who shared the stage with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, lavished praise on the latter, calling him the "bhaavi mukhyamantri" (prospective CM) and crediting him with Bihar's economic turnaround. "The people of Bihar have made up their mind to inflict yet another defeat on those responsible for the jungle raj where the crime graph soared to such an extent that living a normal life became difficult for the common people, our mothers and sisters," Modi said in an obvious attack on the RJD-Congress combine, without mentioning either by name. "They committed financial irregularities in the name of waiving farm loans. They took bribes in exchange for jobs. The NDA stands for development. Beware of those who are greedily eyeing the funds earmarked for progress," said Modi. He said those who were in power before the NDA government was formed were so obsessed with their "commission" that they never cared about connectivity for regions like Mithila. A project like Kosi Mahasetu could be completed only when the NDA was in power both in the state and the Centre, he added. The prime minister, who spoke at length about the measures taken by the Centre for the development of Mithila as well as those proposed for the future, sought to strike a chord with the local populace by recalling legendary Maithili poet Vidyapati and uttering phrases in the local language. He also made references to "paan" (betel leaves) and "makhaan" (fox nut) cultivated in the area in abundance. In a deft attempt at reaching out to the lower castes, Modi also paid tributes to Dalit icon Baba Chauharmal. Noting that voting was underway in several assembly segments in the first phase of elections, Modi urged the people to stay safe and take precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic while exercising their franchise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Fear in Valley as Centre unlocks land||A central notification has allowed Indian citizens living outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy non-agricultural land in the Union Territory. The notification puts in place the biggest change facilitated by the abrogation of the special status last year, igniting fears of an eventual demographic shift in the Muslim-majority tip of India and triggering outrage in the Valley and in Jammu as well as across faiths. Until now, only permanent residents were allowed to buy immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre’s notification has omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with sale of land in the fledgling Union Territory. Article 370 and 35A had barred outsiders from owning land. But the special status granted through these laws was scrapped last year. The Union home ministry’s notification said the “Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of Central Laws) Third Order, 2020 shall come into force with immediate effect and will encourage development in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir”. The new order has not been extended to Ladakh, which was carved up as a separate Union Territory when Jammu and Kashmir lost its statehood. Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha tried to play down the fears and said agricultural land was reserved for farmers. “On the areas identified as ‘industrial areas’, we want good industries to come up here, like in the rest of the country, so that there is progress, development and employment,” Sinha said. But the wording of the notification suggests even farmland can be transferred with the government’s approval. “No sale, gift, exchange, or mortgage of any land will be valid in favour of a person who is not an agriculturist, unless the government or an officer authorised by it in this behalf may grant permission for the same,” the notification says. The rules add that any non-agriculturist in whose favour land has been transferred can use it only for non-agriculture purposes and shall put the land to use only for which it has been transferred within a period of five years. The rules allow the government, on the request of an army officer not below the rank of corps commander, to declare an area as “strategic area within a local area” for direct operational and training requirements of armed forces. “The government may satisfy itself about the reasons cited for declaring the area as a strategic area and will have such area notified accordingly with such conditions as may be required,” the rules state. The seven-party alliance formed to fight for the restoration of the special status called the decisions a “betrayal” and a “massive assault on the rights of people of Jammu and Kashmir” and vowed to fight on all fronts. “The repeal of the Big Estates Abolition Act — the first-ever agrarian reform in the subcontinent, is an insult to the sacrifices of thousands of freedom fighters and farmers who fought against an autocratic and oppressive rule and a crude attempt to rewrite history. The order made in exercise of powers under Reorganisation Act, 2019, it is stated, is yet another brazen violation of the principle of constitutional propriety that is of fundamental importance to a constitutional democracy,” spokesperson Sajad Lone said. “The unconstitutional measure is clearly designed as an attempt to pre-empt the outcome of the challenge before the Supreme Court (which is hearing petitions challenging the abrogation of special status under Article 370).” The assault on exclusive property rights apart, changes in urban development laws and creation of security zones is bound to prejudicially affect the environment and ecosystem in environmentally fragile regions of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh in utter disregard of grave environmental concerns.” Kashmiri Pandit leader Satish Mahaldar called it a betrayal. “I, as a Kashmiri and a Kashmiri Pandit, feel betrayed. I and my community today fear that our land has been snatched. We are in great shock after reading the gazette notifications issued by the Union home ministry. We condemn such act,” he said. Former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, too, criticised the Centre’s decision. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said: “Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land, and transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. J&K is now up for sale and the poorer small land holding owners will suffer.” The Centre had introduced domicile laws earlier this year, allowing jobs to certain sections of outsiders. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said “such brazen measures reinforce the need of people of all three provinces of J&K to fight united.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Jobs stir to life but miles to go||Formal employment generation has started picking up in the past few months but the deficit compared to last year continues to be wide, the latest payroll data of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) suggests. The data, released by the EPFO last week, showed that the number of new subscribers, which mostly indicates new job holders, increased from 5.52 lakh in June to 6.48 lakh in July and 6.7 lakh in August. Despite the increase, the number remained far lower than that in the corresponding months of last year. The drop in new subscribers was 33 per cent in August 2020 over the corresponding month of last year. The fall was steeper in June and July 2020 over the corresponding months of 2019. After the Covid outbreak, the Centre had imposed a nationwide lockdown which continued till May-end. It was gradually lifted from June 1. The payroll data showed that the participation of women is less than 20 per cent in new subscriptions in August this year, down from 23 per cent in the same month last year. Mahesh Vyas, managing director of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), said the enrolment data of the EPFO offered a good sign about gradual recovery in formal employment in the recent months but there is still a big deficit in employment creation compared to last year. “The year-on-year comparison of enrolment data suggests the decline in generation of new jobs is gradually reducing. The data of every month shows the job creation is gradually increasing. The CMIE’s data also suggests a similar trend. The job loss was enormous in April but job generation picked up gradually in the subsequent months although the deficit remains, compared to last year,” Vyas said. “There is still a long way to go to get back to the employment situation of the pre-Covid period. It will depend on how fast economic activities are restored. In the festive season, there are always increased activities. It will be interesting to see if these activities are sustained in the lean period of January and February too. Also, much would depend on how fast the corona fear is going away,” Vyas said. He said women’s participation in labour gets affected during difficult times. Women are the first to leave the workforce and they suffer more than men. Companies are hesitant to hire women workers during difficult periods, a labour economist said. “There are social factors like more work at home that is mainly done by women. So they are likely to be more occupied at home. Second, some employers do not hire women so that they can avoid expenses on special safety, transport and possibly maternity leave,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Delhi outsources ‘China’ to US ||The Narendra Modi government’s reluctance to name China as an aggressor stood out again on Tuesday during the media interaction after the 2+2 dialogue with the US. The visitors from the US spoke out against Chinese aggression which their Indian interlocutors — ministers Rajnath Singh and S. Jaishankar — studiously avoided, preferring the usual euphemisms instead. Both US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and secretary of defence Mark T. Esper brought up China in their remarks to the media with the former making a specific reference to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash. Referring to his morning visit to the National War Memorial, Pompeo said it was to honour the brave Indian men and women who have sacrificed their lives for the world’s largest democracy, “including 20 who were killed by the PLA forces in the Galwan Valley in June. The US will stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty”. Detailing the discussions in the 2+2 format as also the one-to-one meeting he had with external affairs minister Jaishankar, the US secretary of state said: “The challenge of defeating the pandemic that came from Wuhan also fed into our robust discussions about the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Our leaders and our citizens see with increasing clarity that the CCP is no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency nor to freedom of navigation — the foundation to a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific.” Pompeo said: “I am glad to say that the US and India are taking steps to strengthen our cooperation against all manner of threats and not just those posed by the CCP.” Earlier, Esper too had brought up China, asserting that “we stand shoulder to shoulder in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific for all, particularly in light of increasing aggression and destabilising activities by China”. By contrast, the two Indian ministers avoided naming China while referring to the need for upholding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. In his remarks to the media, Jaishankar said: “The Indo-Pacific region was a particular focus of our talks. We reiterated the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in this region. As Raksha Mantri stated, this is possible only by upholding the rules based international order, ensuring the freedom of navigation in the international seas, promoting open connectivity and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states. A multi-polar world must have a multi-polar Asia as its basis.’’ Later, Jaishankar responded to a specific question on whether China was a factor for the series of engagements that India has had with the US in the past few weeks — that, too, so close to the U.S. presidential elections. Jaishankar said: “As for the factor for holding these meetings, there are two — one is called India and the other is called the United States of America. This is a relationship that serves our national interests... also Indo-US collaboration can be a force of good. In that sense, it is truly global, it is truly comprehensive, it is truly strategic and that’s the reason why we are meeting.’’ An official release by the State Department of the remarks made by the four principals at the 2+2 meeting quoted defence minister Rajnath as saying: “In the area of defence, we are challenged by reckless aggression on our northern borders.” According to the release, this is “via interpreter” and the remaining part is marked “inaudible’’. The defence ministry did not put out Rajnath’s opening remarks at the meeting even after the American release was flagged to them. Rajnath was non-committal, asked if the growing military cooperation with the US would mean India would be distancing itself from Russian weapons suppliers. “Purchases are dependent on negotiations,” the minister replied, indicating that India was keeping both options open and sidestepping the specifics of the S-400 deal with Russia that the US has opposed. The joint statement appears to have taken on board India’s apprehensions in naming China, in view of the ongoing negotiations to resolve the situation along the Line of Actual Control and also the different dynamics at play, given the geographic proximity as compared to the US. As a consequence, there is no naming of China in the statement. But it dwells at length on the Indo-Pacific that is a pet subject of the Trump administration and a crucial part of Washington’s China-containment policy. According to the joint statement, the two sides reaffirmed that closer India-US cooperation will support shared interests in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. They also emphasised that the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (SCS) should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law. The Code of Conduct in the South China Sea refers to the effort by China and Asean over the past decade to evolve a set of regional norms and rules in the SCS to avoid conflicts in disputed waters. China’s Nine Dash Line covers most of the SCS and overlaps with the exclusive economic zones of several countries including Indonesia, Malaysia, Brunei and Vietnam besides Taiwan which Beijing considers part of its territory. In defence, the last of the foundational agreements materialised with the signing of BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement), making Pompeo state that the two countries have entered into a new age of ambition. This comes on the heels of more institutionalised liaison between the two militaries over the past couple of years. According to Esper, there is a resolve to cooperate further in cyber and space and the joint statement also refers to cooperation on dealing with the pandemic in a clear desire to build on the experience of developing and distributing ROTAVAC vaccine against Rotavirus. “Recognising that bilateral engagement in the research & development and the mass production of vaccines and therapeutics plays to our respective strengths, the ministers sought to jointly promote access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments on a global scale,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||Kerala to fix floor price for vegetables||Kerala on Tuesday became the first state to introduce a floor price for vegetables, which would be 20 per cent above the production cost, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here. The scheme would come into effect from November 1, he said. Launching the scheme online, the chief minister said this was the first time the floor price was being fixed for 16 varieties of vegetables produced in Kerala. This was also the first such initiative by any state, which would provide relief and support to farmers, he added. The floor price would be 20 per cent above the production cost of the vegetables, he said. Even if the market price went below this, the produce would be procured at the floor price from farmers. The vegetables would be graded according to the quality and the floor price fixed accordingly, he said. “Farmers across the country are not satisfied... but for the last four and half years, we have supported them. The government has taken up several initiatives primarily targeted at the development of agriculture in the state,” the chief minister said. Vijayan said 16 varieties of vegetables would be covered in the first phase and there was a provision to revise the floor price on a regular basis. Local self-government (LSG) bodies would play an important role in this scheme, as they would be coordinating procurement and distribution of vegetables, Vijayan said. The scheme would benefit a farmer with a maximum of 15 acres of vegetable cultivation per season. They can register on the agriculture department’s registration portal from November 1 after insuring the crop to get the benefit of the floor price, he said. The scheme also envisages setting up the entire supply chain process like cold storage facilities and refrigerated vehicles for transporting the produce. The chief minister said vegetable production in Kerala has more than doubled in the last four and a half years, from 7lakh tonnes to 14.72 lakh tonnes. The target was to increase production by an additional 1 lakh tonnes each of vegetables and tuber crops this year, the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-592
28-10-2020||India||‘Urgent’ plea on poll bonds ||The Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), an NGO, on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the fresh issuance of electoral bonds by India’s lead banker, State of Bank of India, between October 19 and 28, just ahead of the Bihar election battle. The NGO, through advocate Prashant Bhushan, has requested “urgent” hearing since the matter relating to the validity of electoral bonds has not been heard by the court for the past nine months since January 20. In the meantime, the bonds are once again in circulation at the time of elections, it said. According to the application, which is yet to be listed, the fresh circulation of electoral bonds raises “…very significant questions concerning democratic functioning of the country…which requires urgent adjudication”. “That recently, right before the Bihar legislative Assembly elections, the State Bank of India, in the XIV Phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash Electoral Bonds through its 29 Authorised branches w.e.f. 19.10.2020 to 28.10.2020. “That even though a notification, dated 02.01.2018, stipulates sale of electoral bonds in January, April, July and October months of each year; the window was not opened in April and July, but has been opened in October, right before the Bihar legislative election,” the application said. The NGO said it was willing to argue the application through videoconferencing as the issue raised is of considerable importance to the country’s democratic polity. “…in view of passing of more than 9 months since the last date of hearing of the instant PIL and new developments relating to Bihar legislative election having taken place, the instant matter requires urgent adjudication. The petitioners herein request that the instant PIL be heard on an urgent basis. The petitioners herein consent to matter being heard through video conferencing for which purpose they will link through their own desktop/mobile,” the application said. The NGO had earlier in 2017 filed a PIL challenging the electoral bonds policy on the ground that it would lead to corruption and subversion of democracy through illicit and foreign funding of political parties and lack of transparency in the accounts of all parties. The petition had challenged certain amendments made through Finance Act, 2017, and the earlier Finance Act, 2016, which were both passed as money bills to give effect to the electoral bonds. The NGO said this had opened doors to unlimited political donations, even from foreign companies, thereby legitimising electoral corruption at a huge scale and complete non-transparency in political funding. “That the Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy. The Finance Act of 2017 has introduced the use of electoral bonds which is exempt from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, opening doors to unchecked, unknown funding to political parties,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||HC to monitor Hathras probe: SC ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered CRPF security cover to the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by four upper-caste youths in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh, on September 14. The top court also directed Allahabad High Court to monitor the ongoing CBI investigation. The girl died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. Her body was burnt by the police in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family has said they were locked up in their house by the police before the cremation. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked the high court to morph any reference relating to the identity of the girl after solicitor-general Tushar Mehta brought to its notice references to the girl’s identity in the earlier orders by the high court. Disposing of a batch of 16 petitions/applications filed on the issue by individuals and organisations for a Supreme Court-monitored probe, the bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said the high court was already seized of the issue. But the top court assured that at a later stage, it would consider the plea for transferring the trial to Delhi from Uttar Prdaesh after completion of the CBI investigation. “Though various contentions were urged, the undisputed fact is that the investigation has in fact been entrusted by the state government itself to the CBI on October 10 and the CBI has started investigation in respect of the crime on October 11. “Therefore, the apprehensions expressed by the petitioners/applicants that there would be no proper investigation if the Uttar Pradesh police conducted the same would not remain open for consideration at this stage and the grievance to that extent stands redressed.” Referring to the plea by senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for some women lawyers, to appoint a special public prosecutor for the case, the bench said the high court was free to decide on this since the case involves an offence under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||Cong goes local in Bihar campaign ||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said the Bihar government had failed to do good for any section of the society and called for a change to ensure freedom from miseries and lies for the state’s hard-working people. Sonia, who has not been campaigning in elections for the last few years for health reasons, issued an appeal to the voters, saying: “The government lost its way, both in its words and deeds. Every section — farmers, labourers, youth, women… are in distress. Both the governments of Delhi and Bihar are governments of bandi (closures). Note-bandi, lockdown and closures of businesses, industries, economy, employment, agriculture…” Asking the voters to support the Congress-RJD alliance, she said: “People of Bihar have talent, skills and capacity to work hard. They don’t deserve unemployment, migration, hunger, tears… What they suffered during the lockdown is unspeakable. Time has come for reconstruction of Bihar, for a change.” She didn’t name chief minister Nitish Kumar or Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress has altered its strategy during the campaign, focusing on local issues and concerns of Bihari voters instead of its usual critique of Modi. Probably taking a cue from RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav’s obsessive focus on jobs which has shaped the discourse of the Bihar election, the Congress has also avoided dwelling on national issues. They started attacking the BJP and Modi but the focus has now been shifted to Nitish, perceived to be the softest target in this election. Even the BJP has realised that Nitish had become a liability and has woven a new campaign theme around Modi. The Congress ran a social media campaign — Speak up for Bihar — on Tuesday which also focused on the miseries of the lockdown and the state government’s failures. Issues like Chinese intrusion, communalism and Article 370 were given a go by. A statement issued by the Congress’s election in-charge, Randeep Surjewala, also avoided dealing with Modi’s politics. The entire messaging revolved around Nitish’s failures; he was described as “Apradh Kumar” in the context of rising crimes in the state. Surjewala said: “There has been an increase of 150 per cent in crimes, with 737 crimes happening daily. Bihar is witnessing kidnapping of even children, much more than anywhere in the country.” The Congress is also laying excessive focus on the miseries of the lockdown as people of Bihar, especially migrant workers, suffered the most during that period. There is a realisation that this strategy has prevented the BJP from diverting attention from real problems and even polarising voters on communal lines. Rahul Gandhi is going to campaign in Bihar on Wednesday in Valmiki Nagar and Darbhanga. It will be interesting to see whether he too sings a different tune, discarding his usual Modi-centric rhetoric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||Allahabad High Court frowns on ‘misuse’ of cow law in UP||Allahabad High Court has said the law preventing cow slaughter in Uttar Pradesh is “misused against innocent persons” and that many people languish in jail for “an offence that may not have been committed at all”. The court on October 19 made the observation while hearing the bail plea of Rahmuddin, a resident of the Thana Bhavan area of Shamli district who had been arrested on the charge of cow slaughter, which is banned in the state. Although the police had accused Rahmuddin of possessing beef, they did not send samples of the meat for a forensic exam. Rahmuddin challenged his August 5 arrest and pointed out that there was no proof that he had been in possession of cow meat. He was granted bail. While hearing the case, the single-judge bench of Justice Siddharth said: “There is no allegation against the applicant in the FIR.” “The (Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter) Act is being misused against innocent persons. Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without getting it examined or analysed by a forensic laboratory. In most of these cases, the meat is not sent for analysis. The accused persons continue to be in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all,” the court said. The maximum punishment for cow slaughter is seven years in jail. The high court also pointed to the shoddy treatment meted out to cows in a state whose government swears by “gau mata”. “Whenever cows are shown to be recovered, no proper recovery memo is prepared and one does not know where cows go after recovery. Goshalas do not accept non-milching or old cows and they are left to wander on the roads,” the court noted. The state government claims to have opened cowsheds in every district but reports of cows being abandoned and dying of starvation are not uncommon in Uttar Pradesh. The court observed: “…The owners of cows, after milking, leave them to roam on roads, to drink drainage/sewer water and eat garbage, polythene, etc. Moreover, cows and cattle on the road are a menace to the traffic and a number of deaths have been reported due to this.” It continued: “In the rural areas, cattle owners who are unable to feed their livestock abandon them…. There are no pastures now. Thus, these animals wander here and there, destroying crops. Earlier, farmers were afraid of ‘Neelgai (antelope)’. Now, they have to save their crops from stray cows (too). Whether cows are on roads or on fields, their abandonment adversely affects the society in a big way.” The court hoped that the government would solve the problem. “Some way out has to be found to keep them either in cow shelters or with the owners, if the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act is to be implemented in letter and spirit,” Justice Siddharth said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||US help to watch China ||India and the US on Tuesday signed the long-awaited Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geospatial intelligence during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue. In the third edition of the talks, foreign minister S. Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper to expand their bilateral military relationship at a time China has been increasingly flexing its muscle in the region. Terming it a “significant achievement”, Rajnath said: “In our meeting, we shared assessment of the security situation across the Indo-Pacific. In that process, we reaffirmed our commitment to peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in this region. “We also agreed that upholding the rules-based international order, respecting the rule of law and freedom of navigation in the international seas and upholding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states are essential.” BECA for geospatial cooperation is essentially a communication agreement between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US department of defence and India’s defence ministry. It will allow India and the US to share military information, precision data and topographical imagery on a real-time basis. The agreement will also allow the US to share sensitive satellite and sensor data that would help India in striking military targets with accuracy. It will also help Delhi to keep a close eye on the movements of Chinese warships in the Indian Ocean. “BECA will help both India and the US to counter China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region. Chinese navy has been taking an assertive stance in the South China Sea and challenging India’s domination in the Indian Ocean. BECA will help India to keep track of China’s increasing presence in the Indian Ocean region,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. The UPA government had earlier raised concerns over BECA on protection of classified information and access to classified laboratories in India. “These concerns have been addressed as most of the information shared will be unclassified. For sharing classified information there is a clause in the pact with safeguards to prevent it from being shared with any third party,” the IB official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||India||First-phase elections today ||Caste, prohibition and onions made a dramatic entry into the Bihar poll campaign on Monday as the Opposition parties used them to take on the ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) and the BJP just before electioneering for the first phase of voting on Wednesday came to a halt. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav stirred up a hornet’s nest in what appeared to be a bid to divide politics on caste lines. “Jab Lalu Yadav ka raj tha to garib seena taan ke babu sahab logon ke saamne chalta tha (The poor used to move defiantly in front of babu sahab during the rule of Lalu Yadav),” Tejashwi said at a rally in Rohtas. Opposition Grand Alliance’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi is the younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is currently incarcerated in Ranchi following conviction in the fodder scam cases. “Babu sahab” is what upper caste Rajputs are generally called in Bihar. Though politics in post-Independence Bihar has always been heavily fraught with casteism, Tejashwi’s comments were seen as an attempt to reinforce it ahead of the Assembly polls scheduled on October 28, November 3 and 7. He realised his mistake and quickly talked about taking all castes together on the path of development, but the damage was done. The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) latched onto his comments to remind how Lalu, in his heydays, had given a call to remove “Bhura Baal” — an acronym for Bhumihar, Rajput, Brahman and Lala — all general category castes. It had led to much caste friction in the state. Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi, currently in hospital after contracting coronavirus, said in a video message: “The abusive statements of the leader of Opposition (Tejashwi) at a public meeting in Rohtas are condemnable. The entire politics of the RJD has been to abuse the general category castes. This is the same party that opposed the 10 per cent reservation given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to the poor among the general category castes.” However, Sushil also did not refrain from playing politics by raking up the issue of former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who quit the RJD before his death in September. He was a Rajput. “This is the same RJD whose tallest general category leader Raghuvansh babu was insulted and had to leave the party. The entire politics of this party is on removing ‘Bhura Baal’ and divide the society. The BJP condemns this,” Sushil added. Earlier in the day, Tejashwi raised the issue of inflation, including increase in onion prices, and attacked the BJP, the central government, and chief minister Nitish Kumar. “Inflation is the biggest issue right now. The BJP leaders used to wear garlands of onions. The price of onions is now about to touch Rs 100 per kg. There is unemployment all around. People are starving, small traders have been ruined and poverty is rising. The GDP is falling and we are going through an economic crisis. But why the BJP, the Centre and Nitish Kumar are silent?” Tejashwi asked. He also symbolically protested by making garlands of onions for the BJP and the JDU. On the other hand, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, who has stormed the campaign trail after completing the last rituals of his father, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, attacked Nitish, who is also the JDU president, by alleging the failure of prohibition. He has been on the warpath for the last few months. “Everybody is getting liquor in Bihar. The entire government and administrative system is complicit in this. There is no single minister in Bihar from the JDU who does not know about this. Not only I, but everyone is saying that home delivery of illicit liquor is happening,” Chirag said in his speeches and to mediapersons. Wondering why the government was not reviewing prohibition and how smugglers and bootleggers were operating in the state, Chirag asserted that people across the state were getting liquor easily. “How is it happening? The chief minister is patronising it. Prohibition cannot be done only through talking. It has to be executed. How so much liquor is being recovered in the state and from those involved in smuggling?” the LJP leader asked. Chirag had earlier tweeted that people in Bihar were becoming liquor smugglers due to the lack of employment opportunities. Nitish had implemented total prohibition in April 2016 by enacting a legislation to ban any consumption, manufacturing, trade or possession of liquor, and incorporating harsh punishments right from seizure and auction of assets of people involved in flouting the ban to life imprisonment. All parties in both Houses of the state legislature had supported it and the legislation was passed unanimously. However, this did not deter the liquor mafia in the country to make deep inroads into the state which shares borders with Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bengal and Nepal. It is a common knowledge that alcohol is easily available everywhere in Bihar due to a strong nexus of the mafia, enforcement agencies and politicians. At times liquor is seized, but it is just the tip of the iceberg. On the other hand, prohibition has also led to numerous raids leading to the registration of around 2.14 lakh cases in which around 2.75 lakh people have been booked and over 1.8 lakh have been arrested. This has overburdened the entire judicial system in the state. Nearly 40,000 bail applications are pending in Patna High Court while 40 per cent of the accused in jail have been in some way or another flouted prohibition. Bihar had to forgo tax revenue worth Rs 5,000 crore. The employment of several lakh of people engaged in selling snacks around liquor shops; cooking, serving and indulging in other works in bar and restaurants eroded. Chirag’s vitriolic remarks hit the bull’s eye and Nitish quickly reacted to it at one of the rallies he addressed at Lakhisarai. “An environment is being created against prohibition in the state by those involved in the liquor trade. They want the liquor ban laws to be removed. The liquor mafia wants to remove me somehow. I implemented prohibition to fulfil a long-standing demand of women. I had promised them before the 2015 Assembly polls that I would do so if I came back to power,” Nitish said. The chief minister pointed to the decrease in disputes and crime as the benefits of prohibition. He asserted that prohibition was a social welfare step.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-593
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Dhankar set to meet Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday  ||Amid incidences of political violence and killings in Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Thursday. Dhankhar has been vocal about the political killings which have taken place in the past few months, attracting criticism from the Mamata Banerjee government in the state. Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar would be on an official visit to Delhi from Oct 28-30. Governor Dhankhar leaves for Delhi on the evening of Oct 28 and returns to Kolkata on Oct 30. His engagements include calling on the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah on Oct 29, a Raj Bhavan communique said on Wednesday. Following this he will be on a month-long visit to Darjeeling from November 1, the sources said. Dhankhar's scheduled visit to Darjeeling will take place at a time when political equations in the hills have changed after the supremo of the undivided Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), Bimal Gurung walked out of the BJP-led NDA accusing it of not fulfilling its promises. Gurung had during his dramatic reappearence in the city after absconding for three years lent support to the ruling TMC. The TMC got a shot in the arm as he vowed to support it in the next assembly polls. "Dhnakhar will be stayinng at the Raj Bhavan in Darjeeling, the statement said. He is also scheduled to address a press conference at Siliguri on November 1. The TMC has expressed apprehension over the governor's scheduled visit to the hills. Dhankhar has been at odds with the Mamata Banerjee dispensation since assuming charge over a year ago. "He (Dhankhar) can always visit any part of the state. But we don't think it's a routine visit. We are apprehensive about his visit," a senior TMC leader from north Bengal said. The BJP came out in support of the governor and said being the constitutional head of the state, he has the right to visit any part of the state. "Why is the TMC afraid about his visit? Does it have anything to hide? The governor has the right to visit any part of the state," a senior state BJP leader said. The TMC is hopeful that the new political realignment of Gurung with the party will have "far-reaching political impact" in north Bengal, one of its leaders said. Banerjee's party had drawn a blank in the 54 assembly segments in the area in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sources in TMC said the political realignment will change several ground equations in north Bengal in the party's favour as Gurung enjoys influence in 12-14 assembly seats and holds sway over 11 Gorkha communities, who form a deciding factor in 18-20 assembly seats spread across Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar. The picturesque Darjeeling Hills have repeatedly witnessed violent agitation over the demand for a separate state for more than three decades, the latest being in June 2017 when the Hills saw a 104-day-long strike over the issue. The agitation had led to a split in the GJM, with Binay Tamang, once a deputy to Gurung, taking over the reins of the party and expelling his supremo. The Gurung faction had then continued to support the BJP, while Tamang and his group had joined hands with the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Eye on weekend Covid count in Bengal||Bengal logged 16,539 new Covid-19 cases and 238 deaths on four Puja days on one hand and 15,175 recoveries and over 1.74 lakh tests on the other as the rate of cured patients climbed up again after a two-week slump. In what the government hopes is an indication of things to come, the state on Tuesday logged a notable slump in the spike with 3,957 new cases and a drop in the total of active cases — the first since September 7. “There is a reason to be pleased. The numbers have given us hope,” said a Bengal minister. There were 58 deaths, 3,917 recoveries and 42,108 tests reported on Tuesday. “We did not expect to set new records in recoveries and a resurgence in the recovery rate during and immediately after Puja. If this trend holds for a few more days, we are looking at a turnaround,” he added. Bengal’s total cases now are 3.57 lakh, including over 3.14 lakh recoveries and 6,604 deaths. It remains to be seen whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency was effective. “The impact of the Puja days would be palpable in the Covid-19 figures from this weekend as it is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected,” said a minister. “But what we saw on the Puja days was a reflection of the week or 10 days that preceded the festival, marked by alarming disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols by the masses in the shopping and preparation stage. Given that background, the Covid numbers during the Puja days are certainly not as bad as they could have been,” he added. On all four Puja days, Bengal did log over 4,000 new cases daily. But the highest rise of 4,157, recorded on Mahasashthi, remained unsurpassed. “In a heartening indicator, the highest number of recoveries in a day were reset on all four days, with the highest being reported on Vijaya Dashami (3,889). On Tuesday, it rose to yet another new high of 3,917,” said the minister. With the Puja came a resurgence in the recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98. Having fallen to 87.43 per cent on October 20, it rose gradually to 87.64 on Vijaya Dashami. The recovery rate on Tuesday rose further, to 87.76. The national rate, far behind the state for months, is now 90.66 per cent. “Given the trends in the first couple of weeks of October, we were apprehensive of a major spike in the number of cases found daily by now. Had the damage we were fearful of taken place, we would have seen much worse numbers by now,” said the minister. Of the total 6,604 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,564 (84.3 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.84, still behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. The total of tests is over 43.82 lakh, at 48,696 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate, on the rise again since the sharp spike in new cases, is 8.16 per cent now. The state reported 35.63 per cent occupancy on 12,751 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 93 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 3.82 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made so far. The authorities of Basirhat and Taki municipalities in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning started the cleansing of the Ichhamati river following the pollution of water during immersion of idols on Dashami. Workers fished out wooden structures of the idols and other puja materials during the cleansing. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Two civic bodies plunge into river cleansing after idol immersions ||The North 24-Parganas district administration on Tuesday morning started the cleansing of the Ichhamati river following the pollution of water during immersion of idols on Dashami. The authorities of Basirhat and Taki municipalities launched the cleaning drive with workers fishing out wooden structures of the idols and other puja materials. Municipal authorities have said the paint on the idols leads to chemical pollution of the river and it affects fish and other aquatic lives. The cleaning was undertaken immediately after the immersion to reduce adverse impact on the aquatic lives, an official said. “Since we were not in a position to stop immersions in the Ichhamati, which is the lifeline of the area, we decided to remove the waste as fast as possible. The crowd was less compared to other years because of restrictions imposed by Calcutta High Court. This helped us begin cleaning the river from the early hours of Tuesday,” said Basirhat municipality chairman Tapan Sarkar. Nature activists have welcomed the alacrity shown by the administration, but at the same time demanded a complete ban on immersion in the river in compliance with the directives issued by the Centre last year that disallowed immersions in the Ganga and its tributaries. They demanded setting up temporary water tanks at designated locations for immersion of idols and discourage immersion in the river in the name of tradition. Since Monday afternoon, most of the 1,096 community puja committees in the Basirhat subdivision immersed idols in the Ichhamati. In Taki, till Monday evening, 75 idols were immersed under the supervision of the BSF and police. Attempts were made to clean the Ichhamati in Hansnabad, Hingalganj, Swarupnagar, Baduria, Haroa and Nazat also. “We remove waste every year, but we began the job early this year so that people also become aware of the problem,” Sarkar added. The idols are usually made using clay and plaster of Paris. The chemical contents of the paints are toxic and pollutes water when it dissolves in the river. “Plaster of Paris contains calcium sulfate hemihydrate that takes a long time to dissolve in the river water,” said Tanmay Sanyal, an expert in limnology and fisheries who teaches at the Krishnagar Government College. “At the same time, it reduces dissolved oxygen (DO) level in the water, causing harm to fish and other aquatic lives. The paints also contain various carcinogenic heavy metals like chromium, cobalt, lead among others that directly affects the quality of water. “Even researches indicate that flower which is a bio-degradable cause pollution because chemical fertilisers and pesticides are used to grow them. Such metals and chemicals change the chemical parameters of water affecting the bio-diversity creating food crisis for fish,” Sanyal said. President of Paschim Banga Vigyan Mancha's Basirhat zonal committee Ranjit Mukherjee said: “It is a welcome move but much cannot be achieved until the administration bans immersion in the river and makes an alternative arrangement for the purpose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||3 Bengal districts report 4 unnatural deaths||A murder and three suspected murders have been reported from three districts of north Bengal during the past 24 hours. Police have registered separate cases and initiated probes for all the incidents. In Cooch Behar, 50-year-old Ruhidas Biswas, a resident of 538 Singimari village under Brahmattar-Chatra panchayat of Sitai police station, was gunned down at home on Monday night. The police said Biswas, a farmer, was sitting in his room around 11.50pm, when some criminals entered and fired at him. A bullet hit him on the head and the criminals fled. His family members rushed him to the subdivisional hospital in Dinhata where doctors pronounced him dead. The police said his family members apparently have no inkling as to who might have killed him. Two unnatural deaths were also reported from Malda district. Though kin suspect murder in both cases, the cops are waiting for post-mortem reports. On Monday night, Hanumant a.k.a. Hanuman Rai, a railway employee, was found dead at his residential quarters in ward 22 of Englishbazar municipality. Hailing from Bairampur in Gajipur district of Uttar Pradesh, the elderly Rai was set to retire on October 31 and leave for his native place by train on November 5. He was alone in the quarters and his family had left for Uttar Pradesh some days ago, said sources. Narendranath Tiwari, former councillor of the ward, said neighbours found Rai dead in a pool of blood. The police took him to Malda Medical College and Hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. “We suspect murder because of bleeding and injury marks,” Tiwari said. In the other case, the body of a seven-year-old girl, missing since Saturday, was found near Mahananda river on Monday morning. Her family alleged murder as her body bore several injury marks. The police are probing both cases, said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief. In South Dinajpur, family members of a 32-year-old man alleged on Tuesday that his friends killed him by poisoning his drink. The police sources said Dhruba Das of Chakbhabani area of Balurghat town, who worked in a private pathological lab, went out on Monday morning with a friend. He had some drinks with his friends and fell unconscious. His family members found him at the same friend’s house and took him home. On Tuesday morning, Dhruba suddenly fell ill at home. Rushed to the district hospital in Balurghat, he was declared dead. The police have ordered a post-mortem. “We suspect that his friends poisoned his drink,” Narendranath, the victim’s father, said. A Balurghat police officer said they would speak to Dhruba’s friends and were waiting for the post-mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Devi stays back to bless farmers||The Durga Puja festivities got over across Bengal on Monday with the immersion of Goddess Durga, except for pockets of north Bengal. Every year on Ekadashi, the day after Dashami, the Rajbanshi community organises Bhandani Puja in north Bengal, including Dakshin Ulladabri of Maynaguri block in Jalpaiguri and Bholardabri in Alipurduar. The worship of Devi Bhandani, another form of Durga, is among the biggest festivals of the Rajbanshi community. According to regional mythology, while the Devi was returning to her heavenly abode, she stayed back for a day in the region on the pleas of the Rajbanshi farmers who wanted her blessings for a good harvest. “Here, the Devi’s face is of red hue. The mahishasur (demon) is not present as it is believed that the Devi returns home after destroying him... Also, the Devi does not have 10 but two hands. Her children, however, are with her and worshipped together,” said Dinesh Roy, secretary of the Bhandani Puja Committee of Dakshin Ulladabri. The puja with which he is involved is over 500 years old, he added. Social researchers working on the Rajbanshi community said it is an old practice that the community worships Devi Bhandani, believed to be an incarnation of the Durga, expecting the goddess would shower her blessings on farmers for a better harvest. “The word Bhandani seems to have been coined from the word ‘bhandar’ which means a stockyard of food grains. This also goes in consonance with the aspiration of farmers who want the goddess to bless them with good crops,” said a researcher in Jalpaiguri. As the puja brings thousands of people to different venues in north Bengal every year, fairs are held and in several places animal-sacrifice rituals are performed. “However, due to the Covid-19 crisis, we have cancelled the fair like in other venues. Also, certain restrictions have been imposed over the entry of devotees to the pandal. The puja however has been held according to the religious practices,” said Birendra Roy, one of the organisers of Bhandani Puja held in Bholardabri BFP School in Purba Bholardabri of Alipurduar-I block. In Alipurduar district, the puja is organised in four venues but this is the oldest, said Birendra. “This is our 115th year. We are following all health safety protocols at the venue,” he said.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has greeted people on this occasion. “I extend my greetings to the Rajbanshis and people of all other communities of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts on occasion of the puja of Devi Bhandani, the goddess of prosperity,” she tweeted on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Jolt death finger at Trinamul leader||An 11-year-old schoolgirl of Bagjaan in Maynaguri block died of electrocution while plucking flowers from the home of a Trinamul panchayat member on Monday, the incident sparking tension in the area. Furious residents ransacked the home of the panchayat member Asit Chandra and cremated the girl’s mortal remains on the premises of the house. Police have arrested Chandra and started a probe. Sources said Chandana Roy, a class V student of Singimari High School in Maynaguri, daughter of tea plantation worker Ratna and migrant worker in Kerala Sushil, had gone to Chandra’s house to pluck flowers where she touched a live wire and fainted. Residents rushed her to the rural hospital in Maynaguri where doctors pronounced her dead. Mother Ratna alleged that the panchayat member had earlier asserted before villagers that he had laid electric wires to prevent people from plucking flowers from his garden. “We did not think what he said was true. I lost my daughter because of him. How can he put live wires in such a manner, knowing well that it can be fatal?” she asked. Angry villagers in hundreds ransacked Chandra’s house. The panchayat member tried to escape but was intercepted. Police also arrested Chandra. Chandra initially denied his involvement. Residents, however, did not let the police vehicle leave and demanded a written undertaking from Chandra. After about an hour, Chandra apologised for the incident and villagers let the police take him away. Later, Chandana’s body reached the village after autopsy, villagers blocked NH-31 that connects Maynaguri with Malbazar, demanding exemplary punishment for Chandra. The villagers then took the girl’s body to Chandra’s home and cremated it on the campus in front of the police. On Tuesday too, the area simmered with tension. Policemen were posted at the ransacked house and elsewhere in the village. The incident also acquired political overtones. A delegation of the BJP led by district president Bapi Goswami met the girl’s family and held a protest rally in Maynaguri, demanding stringent legal steps against Chandra. “We want punishment for the accused. Our party will give all possible help to the girl’s family,” said Goswami. Manoj Roy, a Trinamul leader, said: “It is unfortunate and the law will take its own course. But the way in which the girl’s body was cremated in front of the house was inappropriate.” Vikramjit Lama, DSP (crime), Jalpaiguri, said a probe had started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Lakh witness Ravana in flames||Covid protocol and directives of Calcutta High Court were trampled upon in West Midnapore by around a lakh people and an administration that preferred to remain a bystander as Ravana went up in flames on the occasion of Dussehra in Kharagpur on Monday evening. Instances of people preferring to overlook pandemic protocol were observed in several districts in south Bengal. Wherever such violation took place, the administration has been accused of looking the other way. Sources said the tradition of Dussehra, which is locally known as Ravan Pora (burning of the effigy of Ravana), is a century-old tradition in Kharagpur and lakhs of people turn up at the Ravan Maidan every year to witness the spectacle. The festival committee had initially planned to cancel this year’s event because of the rising Covid graph in the district but later changed the plan to honour “local sentiment”. Among the lakh people who gathered at the ground on Monday were district magistrate Rashmi Kamal, who is a doctor, local Trinamul MLA Pradip Sarkar and Trinamul’s district president Ajit Maity. Sarkar, the president of the festival committee, is believed to be the man behind Monday’s show. Several residents, however, questioned the presence of the district’s administrative head and political figures. An official of the administration, however, tried to explain Kamal’s presence by saying that the annual event was held to honour the sentiments of the local people. “Primarily everyone was asked to maintain social distancing norms but the huge rush made it impossible to do,” said a police officer on duty at the event. Before the event began, Kamal said: “This festival has been organised for many years. Despite the fear of coronavirus, many people have come here but all of them are wearing masks and I am happy.” However, after the programme ended and there were murmurs of criticism of the DM for taking part in a large gathering, Kamal preferred not to take calls. Trinamul insiders said that despite knowing about the violation, the leadership did not want to risk hurting the sentiment of the people in the run up to next year’s crucial Assembly election. “The BJP would have indulged in politics if we had cancelled the programme. The Trinamul did not want to take the risk of losing its support base by not holding the event,” said a ruling party leader in Kharagpur.Trinamul district president Ajit Maity admitted that it was impossible to control such a “huge and emotive crowd”. The BJP, however, criticised Trinamul for violating Covid protocol. “Trinamul is trying to woo Hindu voters and to do that they did not care for Covid protocol,” said Samit Das, BJP president in West Midnapore. In Birbhum’s Nalhati over 1,000 people joined a procession to immerse an Durga idol on Monday night. Police sources said they had asked the crowd to vacate the place citing Covid protocol but a large number of people started to agitate. If the police were accused of inaction in Kharagpur, in Nalhati it used force to disperse the gathering. “There was no way but to disperse the mob to abide by Covid protocol. After the crowd was dispersed, a few members of the Puja committee and cops joined hands to immerse the idol,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. The promptness of the cops in Nalhati was absent in Nadia’s Kalyani where a few hundred revellers danced to popular Hindi numbers on the evening of Ashtami (Saturday) at the town’s Central Park violating all restrictive protocols imposed by the court. Local sources said the organisers allowed nearly a thousand people inside the ground and allegedly encouraged them to dance violating Covid proto. “Initially the police did not act for 30 minutes. When more people began to join the crowd and after receiving several calls from anxious citizens, the police asked the puja committee to stop the event,” a resident of Kalyani said. "It was terrible to see such violations during a pandemic. Kalyani is a small town and till date 526 persons have tested Covid positive. We do not want a spike in Covid cases and those behind the show should be punished," he added. Near Calcutta in Rajarhat's Sjikharpur a clash broke out among Trinamul Congress and BJP supporters over an immersion procession. At least seven men have been injured after the two groups who were part of two different immersion processions fought with bricks and stones. According to a Trinamul Congress supporter the csh broke out when an idol of a local club being taken for immersion was blocked by another that enjoyed the patronage of the BJP supporters. Though Trinamul leaders accused the BJP of attacking them, Sabyasachi Dutta of the BJP blamed the rivals for the incident. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri and Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Lepcha dharna on board ‘transfer’ in Kalimpong ||Members of the Lepcha community started a dharna in Kalimpong on Tuesday, demanding that the Mayel Lyang Lepcha Development Board, which is currently under the aegis of the state government, be not transferred to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. During an administrative review meeting in Siliguri a few weeks ago, the chief minister had said a monitoring committee would be formed under the GTA to supervise the activities of 16 development boards the state government had formed for different communities. Mamata Banerjee had said minister Aroop Biswas, GTA chief Anit Thapa and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang would be part of the committee. Members of the development boards interpret the monitoring committee as the transfer of the boards to the GTA. Eman Lepcha, coordinator of thoom sezoons of the Indigenous Lepcha Tribal Association (ILTA), said: “We want to request the state government not to bring the development board under the GTA.” Eman, however, added that while those participating in the dharna were members of the ILTA, the agitation was being organised by common Lepchas. The ILTA functions on a three-tier system. The lowest unit is called kqoung sezoon and is similar to a gram panchayat, followed by thoom sezoon (block level) and poom sezoon (central committee). There are 31 thoom sezoons in Bengal and Eman said “representatives” of all the thooms were present at the dharna being held in front of Kalimpong Town Hall. “The dharna will continue through the night,” said Eman. He added that the demonstrators also wanted different Lepcha leaders to come together on a common platform and work for the community. Of late, there have been allegations and counter-allegations against Lepcha leaders over various issues related to the functioning of the development board. At a time when Mamata is facing the Herculean task of balancing the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Morcha, the agitation by the Lepcha community could pose fresh challenges for the chief minister. The issue raised by the Lepcha committee resonates across not only members of other 15 development boards but also a section of Trinamul Congress leaders in the Darjeeling hills. “We could at least deliver something through the development boards which were independent of the GTA. Keeping the development boards under the GTA would mean strengthening the Morcha’s Tamang camp,” said a hill Trinamul leader. The GTA is currently headed by Anit Thapa, leader of the Tamang faction. “We had not much to offer in the hills, apart from Mirik where the civic body is with us. If we lose our grip on the development boards, our party will be further weakened,” said a Trinamul hill leader. Another hill Trinamul leader, however, tried to assuage the fears among the Lepchas and said the development board would only be “monitored” by the committee and all other decisions would be taken by the board. Development boards provide a sum of Rs 2 lakh each to construct houses, build pathways and execute drinking water schemes among others. The Lepcha board was the first to be formed in 2013 and it was largely seen as an attempt to counter Bimal Gurung who was then heading the GTA but had frosty relations with Mamata. Over the years, there have been allegations of irregularities in the execution of housing schemes by some boards. Observers believe the development boards have not been able to bring the desired political benefits to Trinamul. “These factors might have prompted Mamata Banerjee to announce the monitoring committee,” said an observer. Lyansang Tamsang, the chairman of the Lepcha development board, did not respond to calls from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||5 drown as boat with huge idol capsizes in Beldanga||Five persons drowned when one of the two boats carrying a massive idol of goddess Durga for immersion overturned in Beldanga’s Dumnidaha lake on Monday evening. The Durga idol was from Beldanga’s famed 350-year-old Hazrabari Puja, two of whose family members were among the deceased. Police said the deceased — Mohor Hazra Banerjee, 34, Somnath Hazra Banerjee, 23, Arindam Banerjee, 23, Tinkon Pal, 23 and Sukhendu Dey, 20 — had possibly gone under the weight of the idol as it had fall into the water when one of the boats, both tied together to carry the idol, capsized. The five persons were initially not even counted missing in the chaos. “Prima facie, it seems most members of the immersion party were intoxicated and the (two) boats were overloaded with revellers. The Hazrabari puja was the only one to be allowed a boat immersion on the grounds of tradition. The water was not more than 5ft deep where the incident occurred. The deaths possibly happened because the deceased persons had come under the huge weight of the idol when it fell into the water,” said a police officer. Over 30 persons of the immersion party fell into the lake along with the idol but were able to get out of the water. On returning home, puja organisers found five persons who had accompanied them on the boat were missing. They informed the cops and a search was launched in the lake. Around 9pm on Monday, all the five bodies were fished out and sent for post-mortem. District superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar has ordered a probe. Eyewitnesses, including the boatmen who survived, said the incident could easily have been averted had the police present at the time of immersion restricted the number of people who had boarded the two boats. “I have been plying boats for many years and have repeatedly told the puja revellers to keep their numbers low on the boat and not to drink, but to no avail. The boat had overturned because of overcrowding,” said boatman Atmaram Haldar, 60. Asked, district superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “This was the sole procession that was granted permission to use boats on the grounds of tradition, but such a large number of people should not have been on the boats. We are awaiting the post-mortem results.” Asked why so many people were allowed to board the boat, Rajkumar said: “Around 25 police personnel, including three officers, had been deployed on immersion duty in Beldanga. They were present on the spot when the incident happened. I have asked to hold an inquiry into how the incident took place and if there were any lapse on the part of the cops on duty.” In Nadia's Hogolberia, a third-year BA student, Bibhash Das, 20, drowned in a pond when Durga idol apparently fell on him during immersion on Monday evening. The body of Bibhash Das, 20, was recovered from the pond on Tuesday morning. The incident occurred in Nasirerepara village. Bibhash, a student of Dumkal College, was initially making a live video of the immersion procession, but later joined hands to carry the idol for immersion in the water. “Since the idol was too heavy, the carriers failed to manage its weight and we apprehend it eventually fell on Bibhash and some others,” said Sayan Ghosh, a close friend of the deceased. Police sources said the body could be retrieved only after the idol’s structure of bamboo and timber was removed from the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Facebook lesson for Trinamul in BJP fight||The Trinamul Congress launched a new campaign on social media — “Mark yourself safe from BJP” — at the start of Durga Puja to assess the ruling party’s support base, especially among youngsters. More than five lakh Bengal residents, mainly aged between 18 and 35, marked themselves “safe from BJP” in the past six days. Trinamul leaders have said the concept is along the lines of the Facebook safety check feature, activated by the social media giant of Mark Zuckerberg during natural or man-made disasters and terror-related incidents, to promptly determine whether people in the affected geographical area are safe. Sources said the drive was triggered by a remark by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the end of her rally in Calcutta against the Hathras incident on October 3 when she identified the BJP as the “biggest pandemic”. Leaders of Mamata’s party said the drive had been getting “good” response. “Nowadays, it is a social media trend for people to mark themselves safe from calamities, natural or man-made. The BJP is a man-made calamity that is finishing the country. The younger generations seem to have loved the campaign,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “During Puja, the party does not undertake full-fledged political activities, while young people spend a lot of time on social media. That’s why we picked this time,” he added. Trinamul sources said poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his team I-Pac launched a website (savebengalfrombjp.com) on October 21 for the campaign. “The site contains questions such as ‘Are you going to speak out against dictatorship?’, ‘Do you take a stand against inequality?’, ‘Are you against hatred?’…. It is a single window website and people can mark themselves safe from the BJP by one touch on the screen of their smartphones. Over 5.26 lakh people have done so already. Besides, over 82,000 registered with the Facebook page of the site,” said a Trinamul leader. The BJP’s IT cell has been running a similar campaign against Trinamul, called “Ar Noy Annay (Injustice, no more)”, for months. “The BJP uses fabricated stories, lies and a lot of deliberately misleading content in its social media campaigns. Our chief minister has been bitterly critical of this regularly. Our campaign uses no lies, nothing fake,” said a Trinamul leader. A Bengal minister said the drive would help the party get a better understanding of the areas of the support base and also identify places with a lack of response. “Leaders in all districts have asked to share the link in their local social media groups…. It would be easier for us to focus on those pockets from where the number of participants is low,” he said. “Timely repair and damage-control at those places will be very helpful ahead of the polls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
28-10-2020||West Bengal||Random drive to gauge north Bengal Covid spread||The state health department has decided to carry random tests across north Bengal from Wednesday to find out the surge, if any, in Covid-19 cases during Puja. Ahead of the festivities, doctors and social researchers had expressed fears that there would be a steep surge in Covid cases across Bengal if people did not adhere to health safety protocols. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty for Covid deputed in north Bengal by the state, said administrative officials and chief medical officers of health (CMOHs) of all districts had been asked to start random tests of both rapid antigen and RT-PCR to find out the extent of infections. “Despite repeated alerts, crowds were seen at some locations and we feel it necessary to find out if the pandemic has spread during the past few days. That is why health officials of all districts have been asked to start random tests. Every day, at least 1,000 such random tests should be conducted in each district. The exercise, we believe, will continue for two weeks or more,” said Roy. Roy said the state government had tried its best to make people avoid crowding during Durga Puja and wear masks. In north Bengal, the alerts worked to an extent till Ashtami but on Nabami, thousands came out in the streets, both in towns and villages, for pandal-hopping, sources said. “On Dashami, I was worried to see the crowd at the immersion ghat on the bank of the Mahananda river in Siliguri,” said a doctor in Siliguri. “Many were not wearing masks and intermingling freely. I later came to know that eventually police approached these people and asked them to leave.” In Alipurduar, health officials said they have initially planned to conduct such random tests for the next seven days. Every day, they will collect 600 samples for rapid antigen tests and another 400 samples for RT-PCR tests. Four places of the district, Birpara Chowpathy in Madarihat, the Jaigaon town at India-Bhutan border, Kumargram and the Birpara Chowpathy near Alipurduar town, have been identified for collection of samples. “We will initially carry out random tests for seven days. Once we receive the reports and assess the situation, random tests might continue further,” said Girish Chandra Bera, CMOH, Alipurduar. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-332
28-10-2020||Opinion||Fool’s gold: Row over Tanishq ad||Sir — It is not surprising that supporters of the political right in India, who are offended by the very idea of communal harmony, were furious with the Tanishq advertisement which depicted a Muslim mother-in-law throwing a baby shower for a Hindu woman according to the customs in her culture (“Poison ivy”, Oct 19). The response of the jewellery brand to the criticism, however, was disappointing. Secularism is still an integral part of the Indian Constitution, even though some forces are trying hard to reduce the nation to a ‘Hindu rashtra’. The notion of ‘love jihad’ — the advertisement was accused of promoting this concept — is absurd. Any two adults have the right to decide to marry one another; one wonders why a third party should be allowed to have a say in it. No political party should be allowed to polarize the nation along religious lines. Following the controversy, many interfaith couples in India decided to share the story of their lives on the internet — some of them were threatened by trolls. If the common people of India can have the courage to stand up to bullies and bigots, there is no reason why an established corporate should not be able to stand its ground.Ayesha Mehta,Calcutta Sir — One fails to understand what was wrong with the Tanishq jewellery advertisement to elicit such a strong response. Is there a problem with celebrating traditions across religious barriers in an Indian household? I found the advertisement beautiful. The company’s decision to withdraw it sends out a wrong message — as if such loving relationships as the one shown in the advertisement do not exist in reality. But that is not true. Such relationships do exist; the problem is that many do not inhabit that reality. Jubel D’Cruz,Mumbai Sir — The Tata-owned jewellery brand cannot be faulted for withdrawing its advertisement after being trolled on social media. Of course, nobody can justify the trolls threatening to boycott Tanishq or its parent company, Titan, for sending out a socially relevant message of Hindi-Muslim unity. But it was only expected that the company would put its business interests as well as the safety of its employees first. Chandan Kumar Nath,Guwahati Tall claims Sir — At a time when the entire country is facing the cruel onslaught of the coronavirus pandemic, it was quite uncharitable of the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to promise free vaccination to the people of Bihar as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s election manifesto. Of late, it seems that benefits are being considered solely for BJP-ruled states; other states are being turned a Nelson’s eye. If the BJP-ruled government at the Centre is interested in the welfare of the entire country, it should have announced free vaccines for every citizen of the country. How can a research involving taxpayers’ money be offered as an election bonanza only to a particular state with the intent of getting votes? Sitharaman should keep in mind that she is not the finance minister of just BJP-governed states but of the entire country. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement in Bihar is condemnable. Her promise involves healthcare policy and ethics. It is clear that politicians are more concerned with reaping electoral gains than moral principles. If such a proclamation had to be made, it should have been done by the chief minister of the state, not the Union finance minister. It brings to light the Centre’s lack of transparency with regard to decision-making. India has not yet released any guidelines related to the effectiveness, procurement, distribution or cost of the vaccine. In fact, vaccine trials in India are still under way. As such, the promise is premature, misleading and discriminatory. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Massive problem Sir — This month, a collision between two pieces of space junk — a defunct Russian satellite and a spent Chinese rocket part — was narrowly avoided. It could have created a cloud of debris, jeopardizing other satellites and spacecraft for decades. This is part of the larger issue of space pollution. An estimated 29,000 man-made objects are orbiting the earth already. Yet no mission to remove these has yet been launched. Further, the entry of private companies into space tourism is bound to increase littering. This must be addressed at once. Souparno Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Without love: Rekha Sharma and love jihad||Hatred, like falsehood, is hydra-headed; the myths it generates are varied. The foot soldiers of Hindutva are well qualified to execute the acts of hate favoured by their ideology, the outcome of which is destructive enough. It is far more alarming when the myths are propagated by responsible office-holders. The chairperson of the National Commission for Women, Rekha Sharma, discussed with the governor of Maharashtra ‘the rise in love jihad cases’ in the state. Love jihad is a term that claims that men from the largest minority community seduce or ‘brainwash’ women from the majority community in order to marry them and convert them to Islam. The targeted hatred in the phrase drowns its absurdity; its force was exemplified recently when an advertisement for jewellery had to be withdrawn because it implied such an interfaith union. Yet the Bharatiya Janata Party admitted in Parliament in February that there is no evidence of love jihad. That did not stop Ms Sharma from bringing it up in an official discussion. Even though the NCW Twitter handle proudly mentioned this, it offered no data. Ms Sharma claims not to be against interfaith marriages per se, but there are apparently love jihad cases that need attention. Ms Sharma is not just any office-bearer: she heads the NCW. The idea of love jihad, apart from being vicious, baseless and against a particular community, is also an attack on the rights and autonomy of women. Women are seen here as the property of communities, ‘owned’ by either this or that ‘side’, without agency and without brains, so they can be ‘tricked’ into marriage. They are incapable of love or independence. It is not merely shocking but also painful that India should have someone who propagates hatred and demeans women as chairperson of its women’s commission. The national and state women’s commissions are supposed to defend women against the misogyny of Indian society, not enhance it. The NCW chairperson is nominated by the Central government; Ms Sharma seems to be the vehicle of its ideology and prejudices. More broadly, the incident shows up the flaws of the nominating system. A body that is meant to be investigative and critical should not have office-bearers whose interests and values coincide with those of the regime in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Poll bugle: India's post-Covid elections||India’s electoral season is scheduled to begin after a hiatus necessitated by an unprecedented pandemic with the first phase of the elections in Bihar taking place today. The fate of over 1,000 candidates would be decided in the 71 seats that go to polls on this day. Some elements have remained unchanged on Bihar’s political map. Caste is the dominant factor with most political parties drawing their support from distinct ascriptive identities. Nitish Kumar, the Janata Dal (United) chief who is seeking to return to power for a fourth consecutive term, projects himself to be the messiah of Kurmis and Koeris, two communities that are also being eyed by Upendra Kushwaha of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, the JD(U)’s principal rival, continues to be powered by the Muslim-Yadav constituencies while the Bharatiya Janata Party, assured of the fidelity of the upper castes, is attempting to carve out a slice of the pie made up of other backward classes and Dalits. Apart from caste, Bihar’s politics also remains yoked to conservatism: only 114 contestants of the total number of candidates in the first phase are women. But this election is, in a sense, quite different from others. Lalu Prasad, Mr Kumar’s bête noire and a colossal and controversial figure in the state’s politics, is conspicuous by his absence. Tejashwi Yadav is leading the charge for the Mahagathbandhan and has, apparently, succeeded in creating a bit of a splash. The mantle of leadership has also passed in the Lok Janshakti Party with Chirag Paswan shepherding the outfit. This election could well be an acid test for this new generation of leaders. Another — perhaps the most striking — point of divergence has been the transformation in the relationship between the JD(U) and the BJP. In spite of repeated pledges — Amit Shah claimed that the National Democratic Alliance would form the next government with Mr Kumar at the helm — there are signs that the BJP is desperate to clip the wings of its ally. If it does perform well, as is being expected, the BJP could look at the LJP for some assistance, rendering Mr Kumar even more vulnerable. Assembly elections are an unreliable cipher for the national mood. But Bihar and India are thinking alike in one respect. Soaring unemployment, if the election manifestos are any indication, is a serious issue. Narendra Modi’s monumental economic failures at the national level has increased Mr Kumar’s burden in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||India-Taiwan: A courtship with consequences||What’s Tsai Ing-wen’s favourite Indian dish? If you’ve been following the Taiwan president on Twitter, you’ll know she loves chana masala and naan. Her favorite Indian drink? “#[C]hai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colorful country,” she wrote on the social media platform on October 15. It was neither a momentous day in India-Taiwan relations, nor a special occasion on New Delhi’s diplomatic calendar. It was a not-so-subtle cultural pinprick targeted at Beijing, meant to underscore the growing warmth between India and Taiwan at a time when both are in the midst of tense military stand-offs with China. Indeed, the past few weeks have seen engagements between India and Taiwan at an unprecedented speed, even as New Delhi continues to negotiate with Beijing for a resolution of their current border crisis in Ladakh. It’s both legitimate and understandable for India to utilize ties with Taiwan to send a message to China. But in any card game, overplaying one’s hand can prove dangerous. In recent weeks, three Taiwanese firms, including the electronics manufacturing giant, Foxconn, have announced plans to invest $900 million in India. Earlier in the year, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Taiwan was among India’s first foreign friends to offer medical assistance — even though New Delhi does not formally recognize Taipei diplomatically. Under Beijing’s ‘One China’ policy — which India adheres to — all nations must choose between China and Taiwan as diplomatic partners. New Delhi, too, has reciprocated this recent warmth from Taiwan. Ahead of Taiwan’s National Day, October 10, the Chinese embassy issued a warning to Indian media houses urging them to refrain from publicizing the occasion and asking them to desist from referring to Tsai as the president of Taiwan since Beijing considers the self-governing region as a part of China. But the Indian foreign ministry publicly defended the right of Indian journalists and media houses to highlight Taiwan’s National Day. And on October 10, the street outside the Chinese embassy was plastered with posters celebrating Taiwan’s National Day. The posters bore the name of the Delhi BJP leader, Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga. Those posters would never have been allowed in the vicinity of the embassy without the government’s tacit approval: just ask Tibetan activists who have repeatedly been barred from protesting outside the Chinese diplomatic mission. Recent reports now suggest India is contemplating a trade deal with Taiwan. Those unconfirmed reports have predictably sparked criticism from Beijing. There’s nothing wrong in India and Taiwan courting each other. Even without China in the equation, the two have complementary synergies that could benefit both. Taiwan is an advanced economy with technological advantages — especially in electronics — that India could benefit from. India is a giant market that Taiwan would love to tap into a lot more. China’s growing friction with both Taiwan and India simultaneously has further catalyzed the motivation for Taipei and New Delhi to embrace each other more tightly. Beijing’s planes have in recent months engaged in multiple Top Gun-like manoeuvres with American jets — the United States of America is Taiwan’s biggest security provider — in the Taiwan Strait that separates the island from China. Beijing has also upgraded military exercises focused on retaking Taiwan. Meanwhile, India struggles to convince China to move its troops back from parts of Ladakh that the People’s Liberation Army has grabbed in recent months. There are no signs of their border crisis easing up. But for all the confluence in interests with Taiwan, India needs to be mindful of some difficult realities. There’s nothing worse than holding out a threat, either publicly or through ‘unnamed sources’, without having the ability — and the heart — to follow through. Already, some senior diplomats within the foreign ministry are trying to distance the government from the reports of a trade deal with Taiwan. The Narendra Modi government is indeed strengthening its military partnerships with other countries unhappy with China — Australia, for instance, will join India, the US and Japan in the next iteration of their Malabar exercises. But it also knows that at the end of the day, no amount of Taiwanese trade and investment can make up for what India could lose with China, one of India’s largest trade partners. For years — whether with the Dalai Lama and Tibet in the past or Taiwan now — successive Indian governments have needled China on its political weaknesses but then backed off when push came to shove. The economics of the relationship are a central part of that equation. Is the Modi government willing to forego that economic partnership? Does it have a backup plan? Is it truly ready — and not just in terms of rhetoric — for a military escalation with China? Sure, it has banned TikTok. But Taiwan and TikTok are not comparable for Beijing: one is central to its identity as China; the other an upstart app that’s useful but replaceable. In the past, the failure of Indian governments to go through with threats issued to China has bolstered Beijing’s conviction that New Delhi is a paper tiger. New Delhi needs to make sure that with Taiwan, it doesn’t bite off more than it can chew.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Opinion||Two faces||Dena Abramowitz is outraged. The dear lady from Wisconsin complained bitterly in a letter to The New York Times that her grandson is stubbornly refusing to wear diapers. Those abominable absorbents, in the precocious young man’s reasoning, are, Mrs Abramowitz writes, an infringement on his personal liberty. The grandmother has blamed the Republican governor of Oklahoma, Kevin Stitt, for her grandson’s premature enlightenment whose luminescence has made it difficult to spot that Stitt had made this point about masks, not diapers. Mrs Abramowitz’s wily grandson, as is perhaps de rigueur in Trumpamerica, merely tweaked the fact. Stitt, however, has an alibi: he was simply obeying his boss who had mocked masks and those who wear them — Joe Biden does — even as America lost over 200,000 lives to the coronavirus under his watch. “I think wearing a… mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens… Somehow, I don’t see it for myself,” Donald Trump confessed to the journalist, Bob Woodward, in Rage. The ‘anti-maskers’— a constituency of predominantly middle-income earning men who made up 60 per cent of Americans outside New York and Los Angeles till as late as June — like Stitt, may have taken their cue from the POTUS. The prevailing discourse on the mask argues confidently that the fabric meant to conceal identity has, ironically, revealed subterranean, strange contradictions in both the West and the East. In the United States of America, liberty finds itself at war with reason — its philosophical sibling — with the anti-mask brigade invoking the principle of individual freedom to contest rational voices imploring the country to emulate, in a manner of speaking, the Phantom. The East — the twain seldom meet — has been far more receptive to the mask. But this, the pundits sneer, need not be a manifestation of virtue. That obedient Japanese, Chinese and South Koreans have chosen to hide their face is being attributed to the East’s willingness to be pliant to power. Had the framework of liberty been more robust in the East, snorts the liberati in, say, New York, there would have been, or so the argument goes, bonfires of masks in Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong. Excited propositions based on binaries — West versus East — usually suffer from blinkered vision. The West’s claim of a virile bloom in civil liberty need not be founded on cold data. In a recent article in The New York Times (“How Democrats Won the War of Ideas”), David Brooks admitted that only 24 per cent of Americans called themselves liberal, while the dominant 76 per cent were inclined to be conservative or moderates in political temperament. The East isn’t as docile as is being trumpeted. Asia, Jordan Sand argues in his fascinating and concise cultural history of mask-wearing, remained discernibly unimpressed with the mask even after Manchuria had been ravaged by the plague epidemic in 1910. Japan, he writes, took to the mask during the 1918 influenza outbreak only because the nation was eager to embrace the currents of internationalism. Of late, the inception of the date-masuku — a culmination of the desire to project the surgical mask as a fashion accessory — has been possible because of a quirky transformation of aesthetics in Japan. Cultures slipping on or taking off the mask is, evidently, never quite simple. But few discourses would contest the proposition that the mask exposes — its revelatory powers are formidable — the complicity between civilization and conflict. A brief glance at the violent purging of mask-wearing traditions around the world shows that their demise is irrefutably linked to civilizational projects powered by Empires. The Selk’nam perished at the hands of European settlers, taking their masked traditions — the subject of Anne Chapman’s illuminating book — to their graves; the advancing Mongols laid to waste much of East and Central Asia, shredding indigenous rituals as well as their intriguing masks. Contemporary civilizational enterprises have been as predatory. The ferocious masks of the Nuo, a folk opera of Southern China, were condemned as ‘counter-revolutionary’ by Mao Zedong’s China; his comrades in Stalinist Russia had cast their dreaded red eye on Slavic mask-making entrepreneurship. At times, these transgressions relied not on physical but moral — theological — depredation. Hawaii’s Polynesian warriors were made to shun their masks made of plant fibre after they embraced Christianity. Could the antagonism to the masks of subjugated cultures stem from the primitive fear of, or a guilty fascination for, the masquerade? For the mask, unlike most other cultural contraptions, is a subversive prosthetic. It can, and has been, weaponized for its ability to perform two functions simultaneously: concealment of identity and impersonation. Ingenious subcultures have found a way to confound surveillance, ancient and modern, by keeping the boundaries fluid between the two countenances: consequently, it is not always possible to tell the face from the mask or the mask from the face. There is a line of thought that argues that the Commedia dell’arte, an early form of professional theatre that began in Italy in the 16th century, lent itself particularly well to dissenting political commentary by employing masks as signifiers of identity and stratification. Little wonder then that the Establishment has always wanted to unmask such performative traditions. In a rare moment of truce, both the Church and the State — the French Parliament in this case — thought the Commedia to be a polluter of the mind and the body. Yet, the mask survives. It provokes. It confounds the powers that be that are now designing retaliation with terrifying implications. Several companies are experimenting with algorithms that can neutralize the mask’s powers of evading traditional software employed for face-detection. The objective is, apparently, honourable: one San Francisco firm says that this kind of technology would ensure public compliance during the pandemics of the future. But how long does it take for such double-edged technology to get inducted into the global security apparatus and turn rogue? Not long, if the Indian experience is any indication. In March, Parliament was informed that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government had agreed — eagerly? — to set up the world’s largest face-detection database for the Indian police. The other threat to the mask’s subversive gene comes from the virus that has, admittedly, resuscitated its popularity. As societies in the West as well as the East mask up to survive, the visor-veil-shroud is becoming a shared aesthetic, universal but also unexceptional. This gentrification could kill off the subversive mask, replacing it with a veneer on a face that, one fears, would be far more subservient. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Villager trampled to death by elephant in Chandil||A 32-year-old man was trampled to death by an elephant at a farm in Manikui village of Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Tuesday. The incident took place at around 10 pm. Mantu Majhi, in a drunken stupor, was taunting the elephant. A forest team and villagers trying to shepherd the elephant to the jungles, tried to stop the victim but to no avail. “He (Majhi) was challenging the elephant and was shouting that he would not spare the animal which had killed his brother in-law some months back. The elephant stood for a while before wrapping Majhi around his trunk and later trampled him to death,” said one of the villagers. The elephant was separated from a herd and had ventured into the farm alone. The forest team and villagers, who were armed with mashals and drums, gathered at the farm for driving away the jumbo. The herd is from neighbouring Bengal and is anchored in Chandil forest range. According to Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar, they were trying hard to inform the villagers to not tease elephants. “Jumbos generally don’t attack till they become irritated. Elephants generally catch their route and don’t harm people unless teased. Villagers tend to throw stones at the elephants which irritate them. Majhi had come dangerously close to the elephant,” he added. Majhi’s body was sent to MGM medical College in Jamshedpur for post-mortem on Wednesday afternoon. The range officer said Rs 25,000 has been given to the victim’s family for performing the last rites. A compensation of Rs 3.75 lakh will also be given.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad faces water shortage during festival ||A leakage in the water supply pipeline of Maithon Water Supply project at Barwa East area on October 24 has affected more than five lakh residents. Repair work had started on Tuesday morning and completed by Wednesday morning but minor leakages disrupted the supply of water again. Chintu Vishwakarma, a resident of Matkuria locality of Dhanbad said, “The water supply disruption has badly affected our puja celebration which has already started on dull note this year due to wide range of restrictions imposed on lighting, decoration, pandal and idol height etc.” “While everybody in other parts of district like Jharia, Sindri and Katras were getting ready for puja by performing their homely chores early in morning we had to wander from morning to late afternoon during Ashtami, Navmi and Dashmi  (October 24-26) arranging water through nearby hand pumps and wells,” said Vishwakarma. Around 20 million gallons of water is supplied every day from Maithon lake to different parts of Dhanbad after water treatment is carried out in Bhelatand treatment plant of Drinking Water Sanitation department. Rishu Pandey, a resident of Bank More area said, “I live in a rented room here at Bank More along with another trainee, a resident of Chandrapura in Dhanbad and since the over head tank of land lord had been exhausted on October 25 morning itself we had no other option than to purchase packaged  water and also fetch water from a well situated around one kilometre away  from our house.” Rahul Priyadarshi, sub divisional officer of the drinking water and sanitation department, claimed that the second leakage has been repaired on Wednesday but water supply is not likely to be restored before Thursday evening. “We have completed the repair work of the water supply pipeline and water supply is expected to restored by tomorrow morning,” said Manish Kumar,  executive engineer of Drinking Water and Sanitation Department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Poor start to Diwali sales, Dhanbad traders don’t expect improvement||The economy affected by the Covid induced lockdown has led to poor sales during the festive season. After sluggish trade of garments and footwear during Dura Puja, Diwali sales have also taken a beating. FMCG products and automobile sales mostly dominate the Diwali period. Lack of liquidity in the market, lesser supply of products and also lack of confidence among consumers are the main factors. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu who also owns Sahu Electronics said, “We are expecting sell to be less than 50% during this Diwali of usual sell of more than Rs 300 crore of last year as the market position in not good.” “Due to uncertainty in the market the shop keepers have also not added much of the new stock for the Diwali as majority of their old stocks are lying unsold and they are harping  on clearing  their old stocks instead of adding to new stock,” added Sahu. Echoing Sahu’s sentiments, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “Diwali is primarily the festival of business class and traders but since the trader, shop keepers and business class are worst hit due to Covid we are expecting the business during Diwali to be affected this year.” “Though Dhanbad has large section of service class working with various Public Sector Units, private organization and central and state government institutions like BCCL, ECL, DVC, IIT (ISM), CIMFR, Tata Steel, IIT (ISM), CIMFR, SAIL, HURL, MPL who are largely unaffected due to lockdown but given the present scenario nobody is willing to spend money and rather insisting to save the same for any upcoming exigency in uncertain times,” said Gupta. Manish Kumar, manager of Great Eastern Trading  outlet at Dhanbad said, “We are also getting lesser products from different manufacturers despite placing orders and reason might be the complete stalling of industrial activity during the initial phase and lack of complete revival of industrial production due to lack of availability of labourers etc during lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro village witnesses apple farming for the first time||A Ranchi agriculture officer has started an apple farming initiative in Dorio village in Bagodar Block of Giridih along the Grand Truck road. Rameshwar Nath Mehta, a native of Dorio, has planted around 100 apple saplings on 50 decimals of land. “The apple saplings were planted 10 months ago and now it has grown upto 5 feet.  Fruits will also start coming up by 2022. The plants are healthy,” he said. Mehta said, “I come across HRMN-99 apple variety which does not require chilling hours for flowering and fruit setting. It grows in low altitude at 1800 feet above sea level. Unlike Kashmiri or Himalayan apples, the flowering of this apple variety begins in January and it becomes ready to harvest in early June (after three years of transplanting).” Mehta ordered 100 apple grafted saplings from a Hyderabad nursery. Each sapling cost him Rs 125. He uses organic methods to maintain the farm. “Of the 100 sapling, only two died due to heavy rain while others are growing and are in healthy state,” he said. Jagdish Prasad, a teacher said, “we are very happy to see apple farming in our village. It is really a good initiative.” Villagers were initially sceptical about the saplings surviving in the hot and humid climate. The farm has become an attraction now and Mehta plans to expand it soon. Deputy comissioner of Giridih, Rahul Kumar Sinha said “It is an innovative step in farming."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Central laws not allowing us to check price of onions, pulses, says minister||The provisions of the recently passed farm acts by the Narendra Modi-led Centre are posing to be a challenge for the state government in regulating prices of pulses and onions, minister of food, public distribution and consumer affairs Rameshwar Oraon said on Wednesday. Oraon said the Centre took away the state government’s power of enforcing hoarding limits for pulses and onions at various godowns, which eventually led to the unprecedented rise in prices. “The new laws have taken away our power of enforcing a limit on hoarding of pulses and onions. This has led to unregulated hoarding of these commodities by the wholesalers,” said Oraon. “They (wholesalers) have hoarded pulses and onions and are releasing them in the market gradually at an inflated price,” he added. Oraon, who is also the finance minister in the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand cabinet, said the government was planning to regulate the prices of onion and pulses in the state, and was likely to come up with schemes to provide these essential commodities at a subsidized rate through PDS. However, he added that it was too early to comment on the modalities of the system as the plan was at an infancy stage. In Ranchi, the price of masur and arhar pulses have increased by Rs 10 per kg in the past one week. The price of onions has shot up from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 80 per kg here. On Wednesday, masur dal was being sold at Rs 80 per kg, while arhar dal was being sold at Rs125 per kg in Ranchi. The Centre's law had given the government of India the right to regulate supply of cereals, pulses, potato, onion and edible oilseeds, etc, in the eventuality of war, famine, grave natural calamities and extraordinary price rise. Recently, the Punjab government introduced a Bill seeking to restore the state’s power to regulate essential commodities and enforce hoarding limits. The Jharkhand government may follow the same steps if needed, sources said. Oraon said the state government was also planning to provide one kilogram dal against each ration card to beneficiaries in Jharkhand. He added that the government was committed to preventing hoarding of onions in the state, and thereby ensure minimal inflation in its price. Last year, former food minister Saryu Roy had provided onions at subsidised price in parts of Jharkhand. However, it was only a temporary arrangement to deal with the crisis then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to miss tallest Kali idol||The unique towering Goddess Kali at Telco will not mesmerise visitors this year. Young Boys Club, the organisers of the Puja, has decided to break from tradition and go for a smaller idol this year due to the government's guidelines in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The idol, an attraction every year, is around 22 ft tall. General secretary of Young Boys Club, Pradeep Rajwar said, "We will not skip the puja. But, because of the pandemic and the government guidelines this year, itl be organised in a low profile manner with a small idol, thus breaking the tradition of the city's tallest idol for the first time." The senior functionary said the organisation have also refused the artisans, who used to come from Balichak in West Midnapore district of Bengal for making the unique Kali idol. "Every year a team of artisans from Bengal used to come here after Dashami for making the idol mounted on a trolley, so that it helps during immersion. This year a small idol will be made instead on that same trolley, "said Rajwar. In its 45th year, the organisers have also decided to cut short the days of the celebration. "Usually we celebrate Kali Puja for six-days as it gives an opportunity for people from various parts of the city and far flung areas to have a glimpse of the idol. But, this year the celebration will be for two days- November 14 and 15, "said Rajwar. Kali Puja and Diwali will be celebrated on November 14. Last year, the puja attracted footfall of over 1 lakh people. The Kali Puja organised by Young Boys Club involves a budget of  around Rs 12 lakh. The club members informed that around Rs 1.50 lakh is spent towards making the 22 ft idol and jewelleries which is procured from Calcutta. "Our puja is known for the sheer size of the idol. The practice of making the 22-feet tall idol started in 1976 when our founder P.K. Ghosh dreamt about it. We try to maintain the tradition every year," said an executive member of the club. The organisers informed that  every year the puja is based on a  theme. Last year's puja was based on the theme 'Beti Bachao Beti Padao'. However, this year's  puja will be organised without a theme. The steel city witnesses around 10 major Kali pujas of which five to six are big-budget. Among the other big-ticket puja organisers are Jail Chowk Kali Puja Committee in Sakchi and Ranikudar Sarbajanin Kali Puja Committee in Kadma. All puja committees have decided to keep it low-key with smaller idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Martial art mentor from Jamshedpur becomes joint secretary of KAI||Steel city-based veteran martial art mentor Kyoshi L. Nageshwar Rao has been elected as the joint secretary of Karate Association of India (KAI) at the elections held in Guwahati, Assam on October 23. Rao, an employee of Tata Steel sports wing and secretary of Jharkhand State Karate Do Association (JSKA), has been instrumental in channelising the sport across the state. The KAI election was conducted in a free, fair and peaceful atmosphere under the observance of former judge of Guwahati High Court B.P. Katakey and senior advocate of Supreme Court T.T. Tara. Affiliated members of KAI from 30 states participated in the polls whuch was held as per orders and guidelines of ministry of sports ad youth affairs. “I would try my best to contribute for the development of karate across the country. I am sure that KAI will prosper and reach new heights under the leadership of the new president who has the ability to bring all karatekas under one roof,” Rao said, adding that he was happy to contribute to the cause. Rao, a black belt, has honed his skills under experienced mentors, in India as well as in Japan. He has also acted as the manager of the national team and is in coaching for nearly three decades. He has produced several karatekas who have won medals in national championship. He is a well-known figure in the city’s sports fraternity. Apart from Rao, Hanshi Likha Tara was elected as the president. Shihan Rajneesh Choudhary became the general secretary while Shihan Rajesh Agarwal and Arshad Ali Khan were elected as treasurer and technical director respectively. Participants of the national karate championship wll be provided free lodging and fooding during the event, the newly-elected KAI president announced. The dates and venue of the event would be announced in due course of time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Nine TFA graduates promoted to JFC's first team||Nine promising graduates from Tata Football Academy (TFA) have made it to Jamshedpur FC’s senior side, which will compete in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. Billu Teli, Harsha Parui, Goarchand Mardi, Gourab (all midfielders), Raj Mahato, Vishal Yadav (both goalkeepers), Manash Gogoi (defender), Manisana Singh and Sapam Kennedy Singh (both forwards) passed from the elite Jamshedpur cradle earlier this year. According to JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari, all the boys are skillful footballers and were happy to be promoted to the senior team. “The boys will get adequate exposure by training with top players and also get an opportunity to work under highly-experienced coaches,” he added. Speaking on the phone from Goa, Choudhari, however, said all the nine promoted players will not be staying with the JFC team throughout the ISL. “Head coach Owen Coyle will select some players who will stay with the senior side for the league. Rest will return home,” he informed. The nine TF graduates are currently in Goa and training with the senior outfit at Sangolda panchayat football ground. Meanwhile, head coach Owen Coyle has taken charge of the training process after completing his manadatory quarantine. The Scotland-born mentor is conducting the sessions with his deputies Alexander Sandy Stewart and Noel Wilson. The training sessions are underway in full steam. The players also worked under head physio Vivek Nigam and his deputy Arghya Basu. “Recovery is as important as training as it helps avoid injuries,” said Nigam Jamshedpur FC has unveiled the final squad for the upcoming ISL. The squad comprises 27 Indians and 7 foreigners. The 34-member squad include Pawan Kumar , Neeraj Kumar (both goalkeepers), Narender Gahlot (defender), Aitor Monroy (midfielder), Alex Lima midfielder), Amarjeet Kiyam (midfielder), Nerijus Valskis (forward), David Grande (forward), Aniket Jadhav (forward), Telem Jackichand Singh (midfielder), Issac Valsawma (midfielder), Joyner Lourence (defender), Mobashir Rahman (midfielder), Ricky Lallawmawma (defender), Bhupender Singh (midfielder), Sandeep Mandi (defender), Billu Teli (midfielder), Subhash Barua (defender), Nicholas John Fitgerald (midfielder). Harsha Parui (defender), Karan Amin (defender), Manash Gogoi (defender), Peter Hartley (defender), Vishal Yadav (goalkeeper), Rehenesh TP (goalkeeper), Jitendra Singh (midfielder), Manisana Singh (midfielder), Gourab (midfielder), Gorachand Mardi (midfielder), Sapam Kennedy Singh (midfielder), William Lalnunfela (forward), Stephen Eze (defender), Raj Mahato (goalkeeper) and Laldinliana Renthlei (defender). The technical staff comprises of Owen Coyle (head coach), Alexander Sandy Stewart (assistant coach), Noel Wilson (assistant coach), Adrian Gregory Dias (strength and conditioning coach) and  Ezequiel Gomez Leon (goalkeeping coach).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses one lakh mark in Jharkhand, 318 cases in a day||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 1 lakh mark on Tuesday after as many as 318 people, including 127 from Ranchi alone, were found to be infected in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 1,00,224 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 25,000 of them were from Ranchi. However, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection continued to decline in the state on Tuesday after at least 506 Covid patients recovered against the 300-odd fresh cases surfacing on the day. As per figures with NHM, at least 5,474 of the 1-lakh-odd people infected by the virus so far were still battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, four more Covid-19 patients died during treatment on Tuesday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 876. Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and Ranchi reported one death each on the day. While the number of Covid casualties has been on the rise in Jharkhand, the state’s recovery rate too has improved significantly. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state reached 93.66 per cent on Tuesday against the national Covid recovery rate of 90.60 per cent. As many as 93,974 Covid patients recovered from the infection by Tuesday night in Jharkhand, government data highlighted. Ranchi, which reported the highest number of fresh cases of infection on Tuesday, also saw the highest number of Covid-19 recoveries after 179 patients recovered in the district on Tuesday, bringing the count of active cases down at 1,778, which is the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum reported only 43 cases of infection on the day, which was the second highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The count of active cases in this district reached 1,310, reveals government data. Bokaro reported 28 cases, while Pakur and Deoghar districts reported 21 and 18 cases respectively. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 31.67 lakh people for Covid-19 tests and tested around 31.52 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 22,162 people and 21,844 of them tested negative for the virus. As per government figures, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 160.23 days against the national average of 118.61 days. The growth rate of the virus in the state in the past one week was 0.41 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.59 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand bypoll campaign in full swing||Campaigning for Assembly bypolls in two seats — Dumka and Bermo —in Jharkhand has reached feverish pitch. As campaign is scheduled to close on November 1 afternoon with voting on November 3, chief minister Hemant Soren and JMM supremo and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren camped at Dumka while BJP’s national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das also arrived in Dumka on Tuesday evening. Dumka is poised for a direct contest between Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren making his debut in political arena on JMM ticket and a minister in erstwhile BJP government Louis Marandi on BJP ticket. By-poll to this seat was necessitated after Hemant Soren vacated Dumka Assembly constituency and kept Barhait Assembly constituency after taking over as chief minister. “We are confident of retaining Dumka seat as people have realised the double-standards of the BJP government who are only interested in looting natural resources of Jharkhand. The people have faith in our government as we have taken up popular schemes and have taken up sincere efforts for increasing reservation in government jobs for SC/ST and OBC. We have opened 22 fast track courts for prompt justice in violence against women,” said Hemant at a meeting with women at his house in Khijuria in Dumka. Das who reached Dumka in the evening, while addressing journalists hit out at the JMM-led UPA government in the state for failure in law and order. “The people have realised their mistake of electing a government which has failed to meet any of its promises made in the manifesto,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
28-10-2020||Jharkhand||Call to Dalits, minorities to join protest ||Christian organisations and human right groups have called for Dalits, tribal and minorities to join hands with other concerned citizens and protest attempts by the central government to silence voices of dissent by misusing the anti-terror law UAPA. During a two-hour webinar named “Stand with Stan” organised by Indian Christians for Democracy on Sunday, representatives of various Christian and rights organisations said that the arrest of 83-year-old Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy by the National Investigation Agency along with other intellectuals and rights defenders in the Bhima Koregaon case has created an urgent need for the convergence of minorities, Dalits and tribal forces against the current “fascist” forces. “These arrests have shown the intent of the central government and no Indian can afford to be complacent and say that I am not affected and let anything happen. We invite all to come to the streets and oppose the sinister move of the present regime. Time is ripe for Dalits, Adivasis and minorities to join together with common and concerned citizens of the country in one struggle against the fascist forces. All religion teaches us to oppose those who are spreading hate and dividing society,” said Father Prakash Louis, founder of Indian Christians for Democracy. It was also decided to work with all the social, cultural, political and secular individuals and organisations in opposing the agenda of the present regime. “In the earlier Emergency in our country, political opponents were targeted. But now intellectuals and human right activists are being targeted and laws are being misused. The 16 people arrested in the Bhima Koregaon incident have fabricated charges levelled against them. There is an urgent need to exert pressure on the government to repeal the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act which is being blatantly misused to harass rights activists,” said author and social activist Harsh Mander. Others who attended the webinar included Kavita Srivastava, national general secretary, People’s Union for Civil Liberties, Ranjan Solomon, rights activist from Goa and member of National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation, Zoe Xavier, director of Indian Social Institute, Bangalore and Frazer Mascarenhas, former principal, St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. The speakers demanded immediate and unconditional release of Fr  and all the other accused in the Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-254
