29-10-2020||Calcutta||Immersion accident averted at Sovabazar Ghat||Two men and a woman, members of a Durga Puja organising committee, dived into the Hooghly at Sovabazar Ghat on Wednesday to save a friend who had slipped into the river during immersion. Members of the city police’s disaster management group rescued the four from the river. The accident occurred around 4pm when a residential Durga Puja committee from Salt Lake had gone to the ghat to immerse their idol. “One of the youths slipped and fell into the river. Three others who were part of the same group jumped in one after the other to save their friend,” a police officer said. Members of the disaster management group who were on duty at the ghat jumped into the river and rescued them and averted what could possibly have turned into a major accident, the police said. The city police’s immersion guidelines allow four-five members of a puja committee at a ghat for immersion. The Salt Lake committee hadn’t violated the rule but they should have been more careful, keeping in mind the high tide, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Fire destroys Salt Lake pandal before immersion||A fire gutted the puja pandal of FD Block in Salt Lake, one of the most popular Durga Puja pandals in the township, on Wednesday morning. No one was injured in the fire, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Morning walkers in the FD Block park were the first to spot flames leaping out of the main pandal around 6:15am and they alerted the fire brigade, a fire officer said. Two fire engines from the Sector V fire station doused the flames in close to 45 minutes but by that time the pandal and the idols were gutted. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose reached the spot. A forensics team visited the pandal and collected samples from the site. “We have launched an investigation to ascertain what triggered the fire. Fortunately, the guards and dhakis were not inside the pandal when the fire broke out,” Bose said. Preliminary investigations have revealed a short circuit in one of the electrical lines had started the fire, a fire officer said. “It took us close to 45 minutes to douse the flames. The fire spread rapidly as the pandal had been built using bamboo shafts, paper, plastic, and cloth,” the officer said. The FD Block Puja committee had planned to immerse the idols on Wednesday evening. The pandal had The Jungle Book as the theme with Mowgli, Baloo, Bagheera, Sher Khan and others celebrating Puja together in a fantasy jungle. As the fire spread rapidly through the pandal several members of the puja committee as well as residents tried to douse the flames by splashing buckets of water. Residents of FD Block who live near the park said they had heard small explosions as each animal model went up in flames one after the other. “The fire is heartbreaking for us. We are completely devastated,” Rajorshi Dey, a resident of FD Block, said. Banibrata Banerjee, one of the members of the puja committee, said they had dipped all pandal materials in a fire-retardant solution and had fire extinguishers in the pandal. “We are not ruling out arson. Our pandal drew a huge crowd,” Banerjee said. Ashim Das, one of the artisans who had supplied the models of Mowgli and the other animals, said he was supposed to take them back to Kumartuli and spruce them up for installation on various boulevards in the township. “The plan was to install all the animals in parks and on dividers. Sadly, we will not be able to do that,” Das said. The residents of the block completed the rituals of Durga Puja on a raised platform outside the FD Block community centre on Wednesday afternoon. “The rituals had to be completed and we did so,” a member said. Lakshmi Puja and Kali Puja will be held as planned on the ground floor of the FD Block community centre, the member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja: How immersion fared at Hooghly ghats in Kolkata||Around 3,500 sets of idols — more than 12,000 in total — are immersed at Hooghly ghats in the city. This year, around 2,500 sets were immersed on the first two days of immersion — Monday and Tuesday. Here’s what Metro saw across 16 ghats in Calcutta on the two days The tide was out for most of Monday and Tuesday evening, when a large number of idols were immersed. During low tide, the water recedes from the banks, leaving a wide patch of mudflat that makes it difficult for labourers to immerse idols in water. “During ebb tide, idols usually take a long time to immerse. So, the diffusing toxic colour and chemicals get mixed with water in larger concentrations and settle in the riverbed. They can affect the flora and fauna,” said Arunabha Majumdar, a water pollution expert and former head of the environment sanitation department at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. Majumdar pointed out that though the overall load of immersion pollution did not vary with tide, immersion during high tide was more environment-friendly because the high volume of water would dilute the concentration of the pollutants and lessened the impact. “On both days, I found the structures (of idols) got embedded in the mudflats during low tide. It was proving difficult to extricate the structures and the delay was increasing the river pollution,” said environment activist Subhas Datta. Majumdar and Datta both suggested that the immersions be scheduled in a way that they coincided with high tide. While removing flowers from idols before immersion has more or less become a norm over the years, the accessories, especially cheap metal ornaments, are a major cause of pollution, too, said state pollution control board officials. According to the National Mission of Clean Ganga, a central government agency, all accessories should be removed from an idol before it is immersed. “Removing the jewellery is difficult because of public sentiments,” said a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official. “We found in our 2016 study that the level of toxic heavy metals like lead, a component of paints, in the river water increases nearly four times, from 0.49mg per litre to 1.85mg, during immersion,” said Krishnajyoti Goswami, a professor of biochemistry who published the findings in the Indian Journal of Applied Research. CMC sources said around 12,000 idols were immersed at 16 ghats. More than 80 per cent of them were immersed at the Baje Kadamtala, Gwalior and Nimtala ghats. “The Baje Kadamtala and Nimtala ghats have good infrastructure, including cranes (used to lift the bamboo structures of idols after immersion). But the facilities are poor at the Gwalior ghat, where the maximum number of idols are immersed,” a civic official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||TV actor held on gun theft charge in Calcutta||A television serial actor has been arrested in connection with the theft of two licensed guns and 100 rounds of ammunition from the apartment of a businessman friend where he had put up before Durga Puja. Complainant M. Lakshmanan, who lives in a highrise in the Panchasayar area, has alleged that two licensed guns — a .22 bore and a.25bore — and Rs 85,000 had gone missing from his apartment when he was in Chennai and a friend had put up in his place, police said. Lakshmanan had left Calcutta on October 15 and returned on October 21. A day later when he opened one of his cupboards with the key that had been with him all along he realised the two guns, ammunition and the money were missing, he has told cops. A person with a gun licence can buy and keep with him/her up to 100 cartridges, according to the arms act. On October 24, he lodged a complaint with Panchasayar police station, specifically naming the actor-friend who has been staying in his apartment when he was in Chennai. “His behaviour made us very suspicious. He was arrested on Tuesday night based on circumstantial evidence… he has been booked for theft and under sections of the arms act,” the officer said. The actor has been remanded in police custody for three days. “We verified the gun licences. They have been issued in Nagaland,” an officer said. “We ran a forensic check on the lock of the cupboard… there were no marks of tampering. This means there is a possibility that someone had a duplicate set of keys to the cupboard.” The guns, bullets and the money are still to be recovered. “The arrested actor is now claiming he has been framed because of some personal dispute with the businessman,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||IIEST supplementary exams on campus||Final-year BTech students of IIEST Shibpur will take the final-semester supplementary exams on the campus. The institute took the decision after a survey showed many students might not be able to take the test online for want of Net connectivity. The exams will be held on November 11 and 12 “in physical mode on the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology premises”, the institute said in a notice issued on October 22. Students have to clear the exams to get the degree, an institute official said. This will be the first such test on the campus since students had vacated it in March. Parthasarthi Chakrabarti, the IIEST, Shibpur, director, told Metro: “We will hold the tests in physical mode because several students face Net connectivity problems. Students will have to follow all rules while taking the tests.” The problem of Net connectivity came to the fore during a survey the institute had carried out last month. Of the 1,830 students surveyed, at least 15.5 per cent could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced “poor Net connectivity” at home, the institute official said. As students of the institute hail from across the country and Net connectivity is often not up to the desired level, the institute felt the need to carry out the survey. “We were convinced after the survey that the supplementary exams could not be held online. They had to be held on the campus,” the official said. Students will have to declare they are not staying in any containment zone, the notice has said. The signed declaration addressed to the deputy registrar (academic) Nirmalya Bhattacharyya will have to be mailed to deanac.communication@iiests.ac.in at least three days before the exam or the day of arrival to the campus. Students who would need to stay in hostels for the exams have to write to the dean (student welfare) with a copy to the chief warden at least seven days before they reach the campus. Students who are due to write the test have to give a declaration that they would notify the institute if their locality is declared a containment zone. “In that case, the institute will decide when they can take the exams, at a later date. Second-semester postgraduate students will take the tests on November 11 and 12,” Nirmalya Bhattacharya, the deputy registrar, said. He said the decision to hold the test in person was taken at a meeting of the senate on October 22. The institute will try to hold the exams successfully as this could provide a template for holding the final semester exams for second and third-year students. “The possibility of holding exams online is ruled out because of poor Net connectivity. If the supplementary exams can be held successfully by following all safety guidelines, we can think of holding the final semester exams following this model in a staggered way,” an institute official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Dhaka flight back with 6-day-week schedule||Flights between Calcutta and Bangladesh resumed on Wednesday morning. A US-Bangla Airlines flight from Dhaka landed at the Calcutta airport with 37 passengers around 10.15am and flew back to Dhaka with 30 passengers, airport officials said. US-Bangla will operate flights between Calcutta and Dhaka six days a week, the officials said. Several other airlines, including Biman Bangladesh and SpiceJet, have applied for slots to operate flights between Calcutta and Dhaka, they said. Commercial flights from India to Dhaka had been stalled, like flights to all other international destinations, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Only a few evacuation flights had operated some months ago. Flights on the Calcutta-Dhaka route are now operating as part of an air bubble transport arrangement, which was established between India and Bangladesh on October 28 and will be in force till January 31 or till the resumption of regular international flights. An air bubble is an arrangement between two countries to operate commercial passenger flights as regular services have been stalled because of the pandemic. For 32-year-old Ruby Khan, the air bubble gave her a chance to go back to her husband and son. Khan had come to India to visit her husband’s relatives in Ghatal, West Midnapore, and got stuck following the imposition of the lockdown on March 25. “There were no trains and I could not go back. Flights had stopped, too. I will be seeing my five-year-old son after so many months,” Khan said. Wednesday’s flight proved to be “extremely helpful” for 65-year-old Jharna Roy Choudhury, who has been diagnosed with cancer. She arrived in the city with husband Nilratan Dasgupta for treatment. “Ever since doctors in Dhaka diagnosed her with cancer, we wanted to bring her to Calcutta for treatment. But we could not because flights were all suspended. The resumption of flights has been a boon for us,” said Dasgupta, who is from Chittagong. Hundreds of patients from Bangladesh visit Calcutta for treatment. A few patients have been coming by road with medical visas. Sajjad Iqbal, a passenger on the US-Bangla flight, has come to the city for treatment of gastro-intestinal problems. “We faced a lot of problems because of suspension of flights,” Iqbal said. Metro has published reports highlighting the problems faced by small and medium-scale hotels, eateries and foreign exchange stores in the absence of tourists from Bangladesh. Airline operators said that now that flights have resumed, more patients from Bangladesh would come to Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||School quiz in Kolkata: Is paying fee a priority?||Schools have been asking parents during pre-admission interaction how the Covid pandemic has impacted their income and whether paying the fee would remain a priority for them if they face a financial constraint. Many schools would always ask about the family income in admission forms but the question has become more pertinent now, conversations with a number of school administrators suggest. This year the focus is also on the ability and willingness of parents to pay, the principal of a city school said. Schools are trying to "assess the attitude of parents", one of them said. Another principal said it was important to ask the parents whether paying the school fee was a priority for them because the pandemic would not be over soon. Many families have suffered losses in businesses or pay cuts because of the pandemic and the lockdown, which was announced to contain the spread of the virus and which almost brought the economy to a halt. At a prominent English-medium school, where the number of applicants at the entry level is much more than the number of seats, the authorities have been asking parents about the impact of the lockdown on their businesses and how they managed to tide over the crisis. The principal of a Christian missionary school, where the pre-admission interaction with parents will be held later, suggested that income would become an important criterion for selection. “It will become pertinent and it will also help in assessing their (parents’) background, whether their businesses have been affected. It will reflect on how they were able to tide over things,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Ireland said that being a church-run school, their mission was always to help but there were certain limitations. “If we have 100 students, it is not possible to give concessions to all. So we have to choose those... it will not be a policy for any and everyone,” he said. Many schools put up their fee structures on their websites and it is expected that parents would make a choice accordingly, but this year schools are making an extra effort to understand the paying capacity of parents. In some schools, the scoresheet has a column for fees. “The situation now has taken the spotlight on the ability and willingness to pay. We would hate to reject a child but we have to assess and have to be practical,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. The school will also draw the attention of parents to the fee structure. “We are having a conversation with parents to understand their situation and how they have been impacted by the lockdown. Some of them described how the initial months of the lockdown were tough for them...,” said a school head. “We have to know from parents if their child’s education is their priority. We will want to know from them that if faced with a financial constraint, what would be their priority. Their child’s education or shopping or dining out?” said Nabarun Dey, the principal of Central Modern School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court stays some points but not main school fee waiver||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fees and completely waive the fees charged for services the students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. But the apex court stayed portions of the judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee formed by the high court if they did not get redress from the schools. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah issued notices to the original petitioner, Vineet Ruia, and the state for their reply on a batch of special petitions filed by organisations challenging the impugned October 13 judgment of the high court. Although various counsel appearing for the petitioners urged the court to stay the directions for waiver of fees, the bench orally declined to pass any such order but said it was issuing notice to the respondents and staying only the directions 8 to 16 in paragraph 61 of the high court order. “…Permission to file special leave petitions is granted. Issue notice. In the meantime, directions 8 to 16 contained in para 61 of the impugned judgment be not implemented,” the bench said in a written order. The next date of hearing has not been fixed. Directions 8 to 16 allowed parents to write to schools seeking further relief in terms of waiver or exemption or delayed or instalment payments. It also allowed them to approach a three-member committee if the school failed to address their concern. The apex court passed the directions while dealing with the special leave petitions filed by Association of Schools for The Indian School Certificate West Bengal Chapter and several other schools assailing the October 13 judgment on the ground that it was contrary to several Supreme Court rulings that said private unaided schools were free to manage their affairs without any interference from the State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Many minus masks, alert for North 24-Parganas||Nearly half the people of North 24-Parganas are not wearing masks and that could result in a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district, senior health department officials warned the district administration on Wednesday. Sources said health department officials told the sub-divisional and block development officers of North 24-Parganas at a meeting during the day to immediately start enforcing the mask rule with the help of police. If required, more and more people will have to be booked for not wearing masks and repeat offenders will have to be fined religiously, the officials representing the district administration were told. “The number of Covid cases is rising in the district but a large number of people are still reluctant to wear masks. This can’t go on. The district officials have been asked to ensure strict enforcement,” said Tapas Roy, the chief medical officer of health of North 24-Parganas. Health department officials said Barasat was a case in point. “The number of active cases in Barasat stood at 354 on October 17. On October 28, it was 454. In just 10 days the count increased by 100,” said an official. Public health specialists are repeatedly stressing that wearing masks, along with social distancing and frequent hand washing, will significantly bring down chances of infection. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has on several occasions appealed to people to wear masks when stepping out. Health officials said visitors’ turnout at pandals in parts of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, North Dum Dum, Baranagar, Kamarhati, Panihati, Barrackpore and Barasat had jumped on Ashtami and Navami. While most pandal-hoppers wore masks, many were spotted on roads or at stalls without one. Since a large part of the police force was busy in law and order duty, there was not enough prosecution for violation of the mask rule. “People started visiting pandals in large numbers from Ashtami,” said Asani Mukherjee, a member of the board of administrators of Barasat Municipality. “There may have been some slip-ups on the fringes and in rural pockets. But most residents of the town are aware about the utility of masks.” Health officials said irrespective of rural or urban pockets, the number of cases across North 24-Parganas has been rising steadily. More than 800 cases are being reported every day. With most Covid cases opting for home isolation, the health department has decided to meet officials from North and South 24-Parganas on Thursday to discuss how to monitor Covid patients in home isolation so they don’t develop serious complications.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||Late Diwali makes crackers more toxic||A late Kali Puja and Diwali this year means the air quality that day could be more toxic than previous years as pollutants released from firecrackers will float in cool air for a longer duration, air quality management specialists have warned. If firecrackers are burst indiscriminately this year, too, the effect on the air quality will be far more severe, the specialists said. Kali Puja and Diwali fall on November 14 this year. Last year, Diwali was on October 28 and Kali Puja the day before. Air quality management experts have urged the authorities to widely publicise the need to refrain from bursting firecrackers. If people are not aware, no regulatory body can enforce the ban on the bursting of illegal firecrackers, they said. The Covid-19 pandemic has made it all the more necessary to prevent a spurt in air pollution during Diwali, the experts pointed out. Doctors said inhaling toxic air could affect the functioning of the lungs. K. Srinath Reddy, the president of the Public Health Foundation of India, said: “The innate immunity of a person decreases in cold weather. It makes people more vulnerable to infections. Inhaling pollutants released by firecrackers can cause inflammation. If the novel coronavirus infects such a person, the likelihood of de-veloping complications is more.” Reddy, also a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management, called for “a smoke free Diwali and Kali Puja”. Anupam Debsarkar, a professor at Jadavpur University’s civil engineering department, who specialises in environmental engineering, explained why pollutants lingered in the air for a longer duration in winter. “During winter, the surface temperature is lower than other seasons. As a result, the air close to the ground is also cooler. Cool air is heavy and it stays close to the ground, instead of rising. The pollutants released by human activities remain trapped close to the ground as the cool, heavy air does not move away quickly.” During summer the warm air closer to ground rises and cooler air fills the vacuum. Because of the air circulation, the pollutants get dispersed in summer, something that does not happen in winter, said Debsarkar. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, the executive director of New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said “the levels of PM2.5 reach 10 to 15 times the permissible limit in Calcutta immediately after Kali Puja and Diwali every year”. PM2.5 are tiny particulate matters that can go deep inside the lungs and disrupt their functioning. Prolonged exposure to PM2.5 can lead to severe diseases, including cancer, doctors said. An official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board told Metro that they were not being able to raid firecracker factories like previous years because of the Covid pandemic. “The raids have been fewer this year. But we have information that firecrackers are being manufactured in lesser numbers in our state. We are not sure though about the level of production in Tamil Nadu’s Sivakashi and China,” said the official. “Apart from the locally manufactured ones, a lot of firecrackers that are sold in Bengal are made in Sivakasi and China.” Reddy said he apprehended crowding during Diwali, which could further increase the risk of the spread of Covid-19. “As cold air takes longer to disperse, crowding will mean clouds of the novel coronavirus released by an infected person would float for a prolonged period. Even in an outdoor environment, the risks of getting infected will remain,” added Reddy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Calcutta||During home isolation, timely call to doctor is a must||Many Covid patients in home isolation ignore initial signs of complications and react only when the condition turns severe, doctors involved in Covid treatment in Calcutta have said. Patients should consult a doctor immediately if the oxygen saturation level falls below 94 and they have breathlessness. Getting admitted to hospital at the right time can cure a patient quickly; late admission can even prove fatal, the doctors have said. The tendency among some people to avoid going for a Covid test despite clear symptoms should be discouraged. People should get themselves tested so that the treatment is right and they should isolate themselves from others if they test positive for Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association’s Bengal chapter held a meeting with senior health department officials on Tuesday regarding better management of patients in home isolation. “The IMA will train doctors looking after patients in home isolation and update their knowledge,” Santanu Sen, the secretary of the IMA’s state chapter, said. This is one way in which patients in home isolation can be better managed, Sen said. The state government has engaged ASHA workers and self-help groups to make people more aware of what they should do when they stay isolated at home after testing positive for Covid-19. While ASHA workers have been doing the work for months, self-help groups have been engaged in awareness campaigns recently, a government official said. “There are many patients who don’t consult any doctor when they are in home isolation. They ignore symptoms like breathlessness or dip in oxygen saturation levels,” Sudipto Mitra, a doctor and the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said. “When their condition becomes severe, they land up at hospitals. We have been encountering multiple patients reaching the hospital a week after having tested positive for the virus.” Many people don’t even go for Covid tests but take medicines based on hearsay or messages received on WhastApp, Mitra said. Rahul Jain, an internal medicine specialist at Belle Vue Clinic, urged people not to experiment at home. “There are people who despite having breathlessness are buying oxygen cylinders and taking oxygen at home. This should never be done without the supervision of a doctor. Speak to a doctor and follow their advice or visit a hospital when you feel there is any complication. Timely hospitalisation can cure people with multiple complications quickly whereas delayed hospitalisation can be fatal for someone who has ignored initial symptoms.” Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, said the hospital had received patients with oxygen saturation levels between 50 and 60. “That cannot happen in one day. It can happen only when someone has been neglecting the drop in the oxygen level in blood for many days.” An oxygen saturation level of 94-95 is fine, he said. Staying in touch with a doctor means more diagnostic tests can be done if needed. These tests will help determine the condition and prevent unnecessary hospitalisation, Bandyopadhyay said. “A doctor can recommend tests like CT-chest, D-dimer, IL6 and Ferritin to patients in home isolation. These tests help determine various parameters; knowing which can be necessary for a doctor to change medicines and treat accordingly,” he said. He cited the example of a patient who got admitted to hospital recently after spending a few days in home isolation. “The patient’s oxygen saturation level was normal but the CT-chest result was not good. The doctor advised hospitalisation. This was possible because the patient had stayed in touch with the doctor.” A lot of people are now recovering at home and this has given rise to a lax attitude among some people, a public health specialist said. “They think they will get well just by staying in home isolation.” People are getting cured by staying at home but under doctor supervision, a government official said. Several doctors said they had seen people with multiple comorbidities not consulting a doctor while staying in home isolation. When complications arose, these people landed up at hospitals, the doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-258
29-10-2020||Business||Shapoorji group submits plan in SC to end association with Tatas||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group on Thursday said it has submitted a plan to Supreme Court to end its seven decades-old association with the Tata Group. The Mistrys have valued their holding in the Tatas at Rs 1.75 lakh crore, it informed the apex court, which is hearing the long-drawn legal battle between the two groups that began after the Tatas in a boardroom coup on October 28, 2016 sacked Cyrus Mistry as the Chairman. "Tata Sons is effectively a two-group company, with the Tata Group comprising Tata Trusts, Tata family members and Tata companies holding 81.63 per cent of the equity share capital, and the Mistry family owning the balance 18.37 per cent," the Shapoorji Pallonji Group said in a statement quoting from its submission to the apex court. The group has submitted a plan for separation from Tatas to the Supreme Court. Tata Sons is the core investment company and is the holding company for the Tata Group and its value arises from its stake in listed equities, non-listed equities, the brand, cash balances and immovable assets. The value of 18.37 per cent stake of the SP Group in Tata Sons is over Rs 1,75,000 crore, it said. In their scheme of separation, the SP Group said disputes over valuation can be eliminated by doing a pro-rata split of listed assets (share price value is known) and pro-rata share of the brand (brand valuation already done by Tata and published). A neutral third-party valuation can be done for the unlisted assets adjusted for net debt. As a non-cash settlement, the SP Group sought pro-rata shares in listed Tata entities where Tata Sons currently owns stake. For example, while Tatas own 72 per cent of TCS, the SP Group's ownership of 18.37 per cent in Tata Sons translates to 13.22 per cent shareholding of TCS, which is worth Rs 1,35,000 crore at present market capitalisation, as per the statement. Pro-rata share of brand value adjusted for net debt can be settled in cash and/ or in listed securities, the statement said. For the unlisted companies, an expedited valuation can be done with a valuer selected by both sides. This can be settled in cash and/or in listed securities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Gold demand drops by 30 per cent during 3rd quarter||Gold demand in India dropped by 30 per cent during the July-September quarter to 86.6 tonnes compared to the same period last year due to Covid-19 related disruptions and ruling high prices, World Gold Council (WGC) said in a report. The overall demand stood at 123.9 tonnes during the third quarter of 2019, according to WGC's Q3 Gold Demand Trends report. In terms of value, gold demand declined by 4 per cent during the quarter under review at Rs 39,510 crore compared to Rs 41,300 crore in the same quarter of 2019. India's Q3 2020 gold demand fell by 30 per cent to 86.6 tonnes on the back of Covid-19 related disruptions, bleak consumer sentiment and high prices accompanied by volatility, WGC Managing Director, India, Somasundaram PR said. This is, however, higher than Q2, which at 64 tonnes was a 70 per cent drop and the second lowest in our quarterly series. This has been partially due to easing of lock down and some low prices in August that provided a small window of buying opportunities for the discerning, Somasundaram said. Meanwhile, the total jewellery demand in India decreased by 48 per cent to 52.8 tonnes compared to 101.6 tonnes in the same quarter last year. Similarly, in terms of value, jewellery demand fell 29 per cent to Rs 24,100 crore from Rs 33,850 crore in July-September 2019. However, total investment demand during the third quarter surged by 52 per cent to 33.8 tonnes compared to 22.3 tonnes in the same period of 2019. Similarly, in value terms, gold Investment demand was Rs 15,410 crore, up by 107 per cent from Rs 7,450 crore in the corresponding period of 2019. The third quarter tends to be relatively low generally due to seasonal factors like monsoons and inauspicious periods like Pitru-Paksh and Adhik Maas. Jewellery demand fell by 48 per cent as jewellery purchases did not have any support of festivals or weddings, Somasundaram added. Moreover, he pointed out that buying jewellery in the country is an experience and the restrictions including social distancing, wearing masks have kept consumer footfalls to the retail stores low. On the other hand, he said gold's safe haven attributes and an anticipation of price rise paved the way for an increase in investment demand for gold bars and coins by 51 per cent to 33.8 tonnes, he said. One interesting development during these months of lockdown has been the rapid rise in digital engagement with several tech initiatives by top jewellers to woo buyers. Digital platforms selling allocated gold through wallets also recorded sharp rise in volumes, along with significant activity in gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) following a prolonged period of quiescence, he pointed out. Total gold recycled in India in the third quarter was 41.5 tonnes, up by 14 per cent compared to 36.5 tonnes in the same quarter of 2019. Due to higher prices, recycling increased by 14 per cent to 41.5 tonnes, though inventory rationalisation by jewellers and steep discounts in the market did impact full price recovery for sellers, he observed. Meanwhile, he said, imports resumed in anticipation of festival demand as supply chain-related restrictions were eased, growing from 9 tonnes in the previous quarter to 90.5 tonnes, he said. Looking ahead, we typically witness an upswing in gold demand in the fourth quarter on account of Dussehra, Dhanteras and other festivals coupled with a busy wedding season post-harvest. This year, a good monsoon notwithstanding, price and Covid-19 shadow will affect sentiment, though we can reasonably expect at least a part of the pent-up demand to surface, Somasundaram said. As weddings and festivities become low-key affairs, savings on other spends could be channelised into gold, he added. A sense of cautious optimism has returned among the trade stemming from the fact that the society is gradually learning to live with Covid-19, he said. However as we are still reeling under the impact of the pandemic and fear of second wave of infections without clear sight of many variables on consumer behaviour, volatile prices or length of the disruptions, we will not be able to quantify the impact on the full year gold demand in India other than to say that demand could be multi-year low, he added. But, post Covid-19 demand is likely to surge like post-2009, when demand was 642 tonnes and rose sharply to 1,002 tonne in 2010 and continued to be high in 2011 and 2012, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Calcutta becomes most affordable city for buying property||Calcutta has toppled Hyderabad to become the most affordable city for buying property in the country even as doubts persist if this will be an incentive enough for homebuyers to come out and shop. A study by JLL shows that properties in all the major seven cities have become more affordable in 2020 than before as a marginal dip in house prices along with the lowest mortgage rate in 15 years blunted the effect of impairment in household income that many families experienced this year. The study considered a household income that is enough to buy a 1,000-square-feet apartment by taking up loan from public sector banks for 20 years. To deduce the eligible household income, it was assumed that 80 per cent of the property value will be taken as loan and the loan value will be 40 per cent of the gross total family income. The study finds Mumbai to be the only city which continues to be out of reach for many homebuyers even as the affordability has more than doubled from 2014. Calcutta, in contrast, is twice more affordable than Mumbai. (see chart). However, the overall affordability has not translated in higher sales so far. These seven cities recorded sales of 14,415 units during July-September compared with only 10,753 units in April-June, but less than half of what was witnessed in the same period of 2019. A previous JLL study, which only focused on the Calcutta Municipal Corporation area and Rajarhat, showed a sequential decline in sales in the previous quarter. “It is indeed heartening to note that Calcutta is now the most affordable city to buy a property. But will people buy? Are there enough drivers in this city? I’m afraid not yet,” Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research at JLL, asked. Cities such as Pune and Hyderabad, having less population than Calcutta, registered more sales in residential apartments, he added. Harsh Patodia, chairman of Unimark, the company which is building Trump Tower in Calcutta, said the requirement of office space is directly proportional to the demand for residential units. “If we see the office space absorption numbers, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune scores many times higher than Calcutta. New office space would translate into new jobs, creating also a demand pull for residential property,” Patodia explained. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the city is still not on the radar of global investors or fund managers. During a recent meeting with a property consultant, a fund manager specifically asked Calcutta to be left out of the consideration while examining investment in the real estate sector, citing the urban land ceiling act that limits agglomeration of land parcels to an individual beyond 7.5 cottah in cities. The global investor also suggested that the Bengal “ecosystem” was not conducive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor to launch multiple PRO service centres||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Wednesday  announced the launch of multiple PRO service centres to cater to the increasing number of customers in smaller cities and towns. The newly set up PRO Service Centres, which are dedicated service facilities but have no sales operations, are coming up in cities and towns that did not have Toyota service centres so far. The PRO facilities are equipped to service any Toyota car, ranging from free service to regular paid periodic maintenance, minor general repairs and minor body and paint repairs. Besides, the PRO service workshop owners will also service non-Toyota cars. Some of the PRO service centres are now operational in Narnaul (Haryana), Nagaur (Rajasthan), Jorhat (Assam), Kharagpur and Asansol (West Bengal), Morbi, Patan and Palanpur (Gujarat). The company proposes to have them in 80 more locations by the end of the year. At present, Toyota has 396 outlets and 79 dealer partners across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Axis Bank reports consolidated profit of Rs 1,849 crore||Axis Bank on Wednesday reported a consolidated profit of Rs 1,849 crore for the second quarter ended September 30 against a consolidated loss of Rs 18 crore a year ago despite setting aside a higher quantum of money for potential reverses in loans. On a standalone level, the third-largest private lender had a post-tax net of Rs 1,682.67 crore against a loss of Rs 112.08 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s total income (standalone) rose marginally to Rs 19,870.07 crore in the second quarter of 2020-21, from Rs 19,333.57 crore in the same period last year. During the reporting quarter, it downgraded over Rs 4,000 crore of assets into "BB and below" taking the total quantum of such assets to over Rs 14,800 crore, and attributed three-fourths of the additions to estimated restructuring and the rest to internal reviews. Total provisions carried for the low-rated book is over Rs 2,600 crore. The bank’s chief executive and managing director Amitabh Chaudhry, however, said it has only received a “negligible” amount of requests for loan restructuring under the new scheme formulated by the RBI and asserted that there has not been any restructuring. He added that borrowers have time till December 31 to make the recast requests. During the moratorium period, the bank had not admitted all the requests. It has set aside an additional provisioning of Rs 3,143 crore during the September quarter, and the size of the buffer beyond the mandatory provisions now stands at Rs 10,839 crore. The overall provisions during the quarter stood at Rs 4,580 crore as against Rs 3,518 crore in the year-ago period. Overall slippages stood at Rs 931 crore for the reporting quarter and the same would have been higher by Rs 648 crore if not for the benefit extended under the Supreme Court directions on asset classification, its chief financial officer Puneet Sharma said. RBL Bank Private sector lender RBL Bank on Wednesday reported a 165 per cent jump in its September quarter net at Rs 144 crore on a lower base and guided towards some pressure in margins in the next quarter as interest from some stressed advances may not accrue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||Direct tax professionals write to Sebi to extend stock option settlement dates||Direct tax professionals have written to Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi requesting the regulator to extend the dates of the one-time settlement scheme for entities that have executed trade reversals in the stock options segment on the Bombay Stock Exchange. In an analysis of the stock options segment of the BSE between April 1, 2014 and September 30, 2015, Sebi observed an anomaly where several entities were consistently seen making significant losses on their trades, which were reversed by the same counterparties either on the same day or the next day. Of the 21,652 entities that executed trade on BSE stock options segment, a total of 14,720 entities were involved in the generation of artificial volumes by executing non-genuine/reversal trades on the same day. Accordingly Sebi came out with a settlement scheme in July against those entities that had executed trade reversals in the stock option segment during the period against whom any proceedings are pending. The scheme commenced in August 2020 and could be availed till October 31, 2020. The Direct Tax Professionals Association have urged the regulator to extend the date till March 31, 2021. “Considering the pandemic and the large number of cases, the dates of the scheme should be extended,” said Narayan Jain, chairman of the DTPA representation committee. Mamta Binani, former president of the Institute of Company Secretaries and co-chairperson of the DTPA representation committee, said the three parameters considered by Sebi to determine the indicative settlement amount are artificial volume, number of non-genuine trades and number of contracts resulting in creation of artificial volume/non-genuine trades. The association has urged the regulator that the settlement amount should not be based on the volume of transactions, but on the net profit/loss resulting from the alleged transactions. Stocks recoil The Sensex crashed 600 points while the Nifty slumped below the 11750-mark on Wednesday, in tandem with a deep global selloff as a second wave of coronavirus cases in Europe and the US stoked fears of another round of lockdowns. After hitting a low of 39,774.60 during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 599.64 points, or 1.48 per cent lower, at 39922.46.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
29-10-2020||Business||SBI signs  $1 billion loan agreement with JBIC||State Bank of India (SBI) on Wednesday said it has signed a loan agreement of up to $1 billion with The Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). The loan will facilitate the operations of Japanese car companies in India. While $600 million will be financed by JBIC, the rest will come from other participating lenders which include the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, MUFG Bank, , Mizuho Bank, Shizuoka Bank  and Bank of Yokohama. JBIC will provide a guarantee for the portion co-financed by the participating banks. A statement from JBIC said the the loan was intended to provide, through SBI, funds necessary for the manufacturing and sales business of suppliers and dealers of Japanese automobile manufacturers and for the provision of loans for the purchase of Japanese automobiles. The Japanese financial institution said  India, the world’s fifth largest automobile market in 2018-19 in terms of units sold, is expected to grow further.  Japanese automobile manufacturers account for the majority share in India. The country is thus an important market for them.. It however, added that economic activities in India have been stagnating because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and this is expected to hinder the automobile market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Future group may challenge Singapore-based arbitration centre award ||All eyes are now on the next steps of Kishore Biyani’s Future group after the retailer hinted it may challenge the award of the Singapore-based arbitration centre before Indian legal forums. One of the options being speculated is that it may file an objection to the award in the country under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. Amazon had won an interim award against the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Reliance Industries and the Future group after a Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel put the transaction on hold. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated a contractual agreement. Subsequently, Future Retail Ltd (FRL) had said that it has been legally advised that actions taken by its board, which are in full compliance of the relevant agreements and in the interest of all stakeholders, cannot be held back in arbitration proceedings initiated under an agreement to which it is not a party. More importantly, the company added that according to the advice received by it, all relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act for all intents and purposes It is felt that FRL could look at invoking Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, and challenge the award in an Indian court. However, the section only pertains to the setting aside of an arbitral award and is silent on such emergency interim orders. On the other hand, it also remains to be seen if Amazon approaches the Indian courts to enforce the award. A CNBC TV-18 report said that one option available to the Future group is to challenge the award in Singapore for which it will have to wait for the setting up of an arbitration tribunal. However, this process could take time. Last year, Amazon had bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future’s unlisted firms, Future Coupons Ltd, with the right to buy into flagship FRL after a period between 3 years and 10 years. Future Coupons owns a 7.3 per cent stake in Future Retail. In the interim order that was passed in favour of Amazon, V.K. Rajah —  the sole arbitrator — had asked the Future group to put the deal on hold and said that the deal cannot go through until it finally decides the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Rajesh Nambiar named Cognizant chairman and managing director ||IT major Cognizant has named Rajesh Nambiar as the chairman and managing director of its India operations and a member of its executive committee effective November 9, 2020. Nambiar will join Cognizant from Ciena, a networking, systems and software company, where he served as the chairman and president of Ciena India, said a late-night statement on Tuesday. Nambiar, succeeds Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, who retired in July this year. “In the repositioned and elevated role of the India chairman and MD, Rajesh will strengthen our brand positioning in India and enhance our relationships with relevant Indian government agencies, chambers of commerce, universities, the media, and key policy-making bodies, including Nasscom,” Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries said.  Nambiar will also serve as the executive committee representative of Cognizant’s nearly 200,000 associates in India, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||International passenger flights remain suspended till November 30||The suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till November 30 amid the coronavirus pandemic, the directorate general of civil aviation said on Wednesday. “However, the international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the Indian aviation regulator said in a circular. The scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23 because of the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 18 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The circular by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) also mentioned that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it. The scheduled domestic passenger flights resumed in India on May 25 after a gap of two months amid the pandemic situation. Domestic schedule The DGCA said it has approved 12,983 weekly domestic flights of airlines for the winter schedule that begins on Sunday and ends on March 27 next year.  In last year’s winter schedule, the aviation regulator had approved 23,307 weekly domestic flights The DGCA has approved 6,006 weekly domestic flights of IndiGo for this year’s winter schedule. SpiceJet and GoAir have got 1,957 weekly domestic flights and 1,203 weekly domestic flights approved, the regulator said. At present, airlines in India are allowed to operate a maximum 60 per cent of pre-Covid weekly domestic flights. Hong Kong ban Hong Kong has banned Air India flights from Mumbai till November 10 after five passengers on its flight earlier this week tested positive for Covid-19 post arrival, the airline said on Wednesday. This is the fourth time that Air India flights from India have been banned by the Hong Kong government for bringing passengers who tested positive for the infection after arrival. Previous bans were on the airline’s Delhi-Hong Kong flights during September 20-October 3, August 18-August 31 and October 17-October 30. Passengers from India can arrive in Hong Kong only if they have a Covid-19 negative certificate from a test done within 72 hours prior to the journey, according to rules issued by the Hong Kong government in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||Business||Larsen & Toubro declares special dividend of Rs 18 per share||Engineering & construction major Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Wednesday declared a special dividend of Rs 18 per share as it looked to distribute a part of the proceeds from the Schneider Electric deal to its shareholders. However, the dividend amount came at the lower end of analyst estimates. L&T which declared its results for the quarter ended September 30 saw a 45 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit to Rs 1,410.29 crore compared with Rs 2,551.67 crore in the same period of the previous year. While this number was slightly ahead of analyst estimates, L&T said the bottomline was impacted by the pandemic in terms of lower revenue, higher credit provisions in the financial services business and disruption of the metro services. It, however, pointed out that labour at various project sites have reached near pre-Covid levels that led to project execution gathering momentum compared with the preceding three months. Investors were more eager about the special dividend from L&T, with the stock  under-performing over the past few months. L&T had announced last Friday its plan for a special dividend that led to the counter rallying on the bourses. In May 2018, Schneider Electric along with Singapore’s state investment firm Temasek Holdings had announced an all-cash buyout of L&T’s electrical and automation business for Rs 14,000 crore. Analysts had estimated the net proceeds to the company would be around Rs 12,000 crore (post tax) and a part of this would be distributed to shareholders. Estimates on how much of this will be paid as special dividend ranged from Rs 18 per share to 38 per share. At its meeting on Wednesday the board of L&T declared a special dividend of Rs 18 per share — or 900 per cent on face value of Rs 2 each. The dividend outgo is estimated at Rs 2,500 crore. “The special dividend could be a long awaited trigger for the stock. It addresses a key capital allocation issue as it effectively rules out large one-time equity infusion for the Hyderabad Metro,” Nomura had said. The brokerage had estimated a payout of Rs 35 per share. During the period, the company recorded consolidated gross revenues of Rs 31,035 crore. It added that revenue declined 12 per cent over the same period last year because of the lingering impact of the pandemic during the quarter. International revenue during the quarter at Rs 12,148 crore constituted 39 per cent to the total revenue. According to L&T, cash generation from operations was robust during the quarter which was strongly supplemented by proceeds from the divestment of the electrical & automation business. The company bagged orders worth Rs 28,039 crore at the group level in the period registering a sequential improvement of 19 per cent over previous quarter, but a decline of 42 per cent over the previous year, on account of deferment of award decisions largely caused by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-252
29-10-2020||India||Mayawati suspends seven rebel MLAs||BSP leader Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven of her party's rebel MLAs who had opposed the nomination of its official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Amid speculation that the MLAs could switch sides in Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati also said that to ensure defeat of Samajwadi Party candidates in future MLC elections, her party will vote for BJP or any other party's candidate. The former UP chief minister said as soon as the rebel MLAs join any party, the BSP would take action against them under the anti-defection law. She said the party organisation has been informed that the suspended legislators should not be invited to any party function. Mayawati said that her party will leave no stone unturned to defeat SP candidates in the future even if it means voting for candidates of BJP or any other party. Any candidate who dominates over SP's second candidate will get BSP MLAs' vote, she said in a statement. In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, six party MLAs reportedly met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and later threw hints that they may switch sides. Four of the group of rebels also filed an affidavit, saying their signatures on the party candidate Gautam's nomination for the Rajya Sabha polls had been forged. The move turned out to be futile with the Returning Officer still accepting Gautam's nomination as the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate for the November 9 biennial elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
29-10-2020||India||Almost 50,000 cases in a day, Covid tally crosses 80 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload surpassed the 80-lakh mark on Thursday, 18 days after it had gone past 70 lakh, with 49,881 new cases while the recoveries surged to 73.15 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 90.99 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 80,40,203 and the death toll climbed to 1,20,527 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 517 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.49 per cent. There are 603687 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 7.5 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,65,63,440 samples have been tested up to October 28 with 10,75,760 samples being tested on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. The 517 new fatalities include 91 from Maharashtra, 60 from West Bengal, 55 each from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 40 from Delhi, 35 from Tamil Nadu and 27 from Kerala. A total of 1,20,527 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 43,554 from Maharashtra followed by 11046 from Karnataka, 11,018 from Tamil Nadu, 6,958 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,643 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,664 from West Bengal, 6,396 from Delhi, 4,158 from Punjab and 3701 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||One lakh tonne onions released in market||Amid the soaring prices of onion, Union Agriculture Minister has said one lakh tonne of buffer stock of the key kitchen staple is being released by the government to provide relief to people. He was talking to reporters on Wednesday after taking part in a rally in Dharampuri town of Indore district ahead of the November 3 bypolls to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. "The government has already taken cognisance of the issue of rising prices of onion and its one lakh tonne of buffer stock is being released through NAFED," Tomar said. "We had imposed a ban on the export of onion from the country well in time and opened routes for its import," the minister said. NCP chief and former Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Wednesday blamed the central government's policies for the rising prices of onion, and said he would speak to the Centre about the stock limit imposed on the commodity traders. Referring to Congress's protests on the new farm laws, Tomar accused the opposition party of having double standards. In its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto, the Congress promised to make trade free of regulations, he said. The Congress had also said it would encourage inter- state trade, discontinue the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), give encouragement to contract farming and end the Essential Commodities Act, he said. "But it was unable to do these things because of pressure from middlemen," the minister claimed. "The BJP-led government framed new laws for agriculture reforms. Therefore, the Congress is now suffering from stomach ache," he added. The Union minister was in Indore to address a rally in support of the state's water resources minister Tulsiram Silawat, who is contesting the bypoll from Sanver Assembly seat here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Suspension at DU helm takes wraps off mess||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday suspended Delhi University’s absentee vice-chancellor, Yogesh K. Tyagi, on the charge of “misgovernance” but several teachers of the varsity alleged the government was equally to blame. Tyagi — whose attempts last week to ambush the executive council’s decisions from outside had embarrassed the university — will face an inquiry over “dereliction of duties and lack of commitment and devotion to duty”, the education ministry’s suspension order said. Pro-vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi will continue to discharge the vice-chancellor’s responsibilities for now. Tyagi, appointed in March 2016, was to end his tenure next March. The President is the Visitor, or head, of all central universities. An apparently ailing Tyagi, absent from the campus for over two months without officially taking leave, had on October 21 foisted an acting registrar on the university just before the executive council was to appoint a regular registrar. His appointee P.C. Jha hijacked the registrar’s office for a whole day and later issued orders negating earlier orders by Joshi, who had been filling in also as acting registrar. Tyagi had issued another order replacing Joshi with Geeta Bhatt. Eventually, the education ministry intervened to clarify that Tyagi’s orders appointing Jha and Bhatt were invalid. Wednesday’s suspension order repeated the point. The suspension order accused the VC of “not administering the university in accordance with the provision of the act, statutes and ordinances of DU, which has caused misgovernance and malfunctioning of DU”. It cited a series of lapses, including inaction or very little action on the pending appointments of teachers, chairpersons of college governing bodies, and key university functionaries. It cited how the post of pro-VC had been vacant from June 2016 to June 2020 till Joshi was appointed after great “pursuance by administrative ministry”. The posts of registrar and finance officer had been vacant since March before the executive council filled them both last week. The university has lacked regular controllers of examinations for the past six years. Many colleges have lacked principals and chairpersons of their governing bodies. Besides, several vigilance and sexual harassment complaints have been pending for more than two years without any action. Delhi University has about 4,500 ad-hoc teachers, who make up half the teacher strength. The government has from time to time asked the university to fill the posts but only a few were filled during Tyagi’s tenure. Earlier this year, the university had written to its affiliated colleges to hire guest teachers, threatening the jobs of the ad-hoc teachers. The ministry had to intervene and ask the university to continue with the ad-hoc teachers as a stop-gap arrangement. The suspension order mentioned Tyagi’s long absence from office without formal leave from the executive council. At least half-a-dozen teachers of the university, however, told The Telegraph that the education ministry and the University Grants Commission had allowed the mess to continue. “DUTA (the university’s teacher association) submitted a white paper in June last year on the inactions and misgovernance. But the government and the UGC allowed the malfunctioning to continue. They share the responsibility for the present situation equally,” former executive council member Abha Dev Habib said. The teachers feared that the inquiry was mainly the outcome of a power struggle within a BJP-backed teachers’ group and had little to do with correcting the university’s affairs. WhatsApp messages and a phone call to Tyagi went unanswered. An email to the education ministry on the teachers’ allegation about the government ignoring the white paper evoked no response, either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||An app to trace Aarogya setu’s creator||At 7.25pm on Tuesday, 16.23 crore Indians were using the Aarogya Setu App but the departments concerned in the Narendra Modi government have claimed in writing that they do not have any information on who created the app and they do not possess files relating to this “mandatory” tool to fight Covid-19. Three wings of the central government — the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY), National Informatics Centre (NIC) and the National e-Governance Division (NeGD) — turned away an RTI activist seeking this information. The Central Information Commission (CIC) on Tuesday described the departments’ response as “extremely preposterous” and issued a notice asking why action should not be initiated against them for “obstruction of information and providing an evasive reply”. The CIC’s interim order was issued after Saurav Das, RTI activist and member of the National Campaign for People’s Right to Information, requested an urgent hearing. He took the plea that the Aarogya Setu App — designed as a contact-tracing mechanism — would be rendered useless once the pandemic was over. Das had applied to all three entities but each passed it on, claiming it lacked the required information. In the order, information commissioner Vanaja N. Sarna said: “The commission observes that it is a current issue and it is not possible that there was no file movement while creating this app, a citizen cannot go round in circles to find out the custodian. The CPIO, NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the app is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MeITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, then it becomes more relevant to now find out how an app was created and there is no information with any of the relevant public authorities.” Das had in his RTI applications sought information on the origin of the proposal, approval details, companies, people and government departments involved, file notings related to the app, comments on the files by various officers, and copies of communications between private people involved in making/ developing the app and the government departments concerned. He had also sought copies of the requests for collaboration with people from the industry who had helped create the app, all communications received from all the contributors/ advisers relating to the app, internal notes, memos, file notings, the correspondence carried out while making the app and finalising it, and the minutes of the meetings held while creating the app. Forced on the back foot by the furore over the departments claiming ignorance in writing, the government came out with a detailed response from the telecom ministry that provided the background to the mobile app’s development but left specific questions asked by Das unanswered. “AarogyaSetu App was launched by Government of India in public private partnership mode to bring people of India together in its fight against Covid-19. The AarogyaSetu App was developed in a record time of around 21 days, to respond to the exigencies of the pandemic with lockdown restrictions only for the objective of building a Made in India contact tracing app with the best of Indian minds from industry, academia and government, working round the clock to build a robust, scalable and secure app,” the statement said. Stating that the ministry would respond to the CIC’s notice, the statement added that the names of all those associated with the development of the app and the management of the app ecosystem at various stages had been shared when the code was released in the public domain and that they were published widely in the media too. “The same can be accessed on https://github.com/nic-delhi/AarogyaSetu_Android/blob/master/Contributors.md. On all such occasions, it has been clearly mentioned that the AarogyaSetu App has been developed by NIC in collaboration with volunteers from industry and academia. AarogyaSetu app has been developed in the most transparent manner and all details and documents including privacy policy and AarogyaSetu data access & knowledge sharing protocols issued on 11th May 2020 (have) been uploaded on the AarogyaSetu portal – aarogyasetu.gov.in.’’ Responding to the ministry’s clarification, Das tweeted: “Not an ounce of word on the file related to the app, communications between private players and ministry, file notings, etc. Nothing is being put on record apart from these unsigned press releases! But yeah, go to their website & see ‘Why one should use @SetuAarogya’.” Reacting to NeGD CEO Abhishek Singh’s claim that there was no confusion on who had created the app, Das said: “Oh is it Mr Abhishek Singh? Then why was your officer mum during the hearing? Couldn’t he say that to the commission? Govt should stop this whataboutery and furnish the information on affidavit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||NIA raids cross-section of civil society in Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has raided a cross-section of the civil society in Kashmir, including human rights defenders and journalists, on a day resistance seemed to be crystallising against the new land purchase policy notified by the Centre. Officials of the NIA, which reports to the Union home ministry, said searches were carried out on 10 premises in Srinagar and Bandipora in the Kashmir Valley and on one locality in Bangalore in connection with a case involving NGOs and trusts raising funds at home and abroad. The officials claimed that funds were raised in the name of charitable activities and subsequently used for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in Jammu and Kashmir. An NIA spokesperson said raids were conducted “on the residence and office of Khurram Parvez, co-ordinator of J&K Coalition of Civil Society (CCS); his associates Parvez Ahmad Bukhari, Parvez Ahmad Matta and Swati Sheshadri; Parveena Ahanger, the chairperson of Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons (APDPK), and NGO Athrout and GK Trust, among others.” GK Trust publishes two most widely read newspapers, the Greater Kashmir and the Kashmir Uzma. The CCS and the APDPK are human rights organiations. Bukhari is a journalist who has contributed for the Time magazine and Al Jazeera among others and now works for the France-based news agency AFP. Sources said there was also a raid on the residence of a senior journalist. Athrout, a charity, has been at the forefront of assisting the needy during crises in the Valley for more than a decade. Khurram and many others had expressed outrage on Tuesday against the new land law that lifts the bar on those living outside Jammu and Kashmir from buying non-agriculture land in the Union Territory. The change, facilitated by the abrogation of the special status, was notified by the Centre on Tuesday. “Abrogation of (the special provision in) Article 370, India had claimed that it was being done to ensure development, creation of jobs, women empowerment and transparency. Kashmiris knew that the real reason for abrogation was land grabbing and demographic changes. It can’t be anymore brazen and violent,” Khurram had tweeted on Tuesday. Disquiet against the new land rule is brewing in Jammu’s Hindu heartland, too, with several Dogra leaders claiming that the Dogra  identity was under assault. Jammu’s Hindu hub is a BJP stronghold where the Dogras, who are Hindus, form the  majority. The raids coincided with a break by separatists from their long slumber since Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status and statehood last year. The separatists called for a shutdown on October 31 against the new “imperial” land laws. On the searches, an NIA spokesperson said:  “A case was registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967 on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds at home and abroad through donations and business contributions, and are utilising these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K.” Politicians, journalists and people from other walks of life called the raids a crackdown on dissent and an assault on people who refuse to fall in line. “The NIA raids on GK office and HR defender Khurram Parvez’s house are attempts to impose silence even on our whispers (and they’re scared of even that). This comes a day after the disempowering land laws. Can this be just a coincidence?” tweeted Anuradha Bhasin, editor of the Kashmir Times. Bhasin’s office and residence- — allotted by government — in Srinagar and Jammu were recently sealed. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said the raids was yet another “example of GOI’s vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent”. “Sadly, the NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate & browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” she tweeted. “At a time when J&K’s land & resources are being plundered, GOI wants media publications to write op-eds about diabetes & yoga. In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media is targeted.” Sajjad Lone, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a seven-party alliance to fight for the restoration of the special status, said NIA raids have added to the “environment of fear”. “GK essentially was one institution which struggled its way to the top. The institution now stared helplessly as fear and slander take over. Hoping against hope that sanity prevails,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Shift to government schools in villages||Enrolment in government schools has risen at the expense of private schools in the villages over the past two years, reversing the previous years’ trend, a survey has found. The finding suggests that the financial stress caused by the pandemic may be prompting parents to choose public-funded education for their children. Although physical classes have been closed since the lockdown began in March, school enrolment has taken place. The Annual Status of Education Report 2020, published by the NGO Pratham, is based on a 10-day telephone survey of 59,251 children, aged 5-16, in September. The children were from 52,227 households in 16,974 villages across 584 districts. The ASER report of 2018 had found 62.8 per cent of schoolboys and 70 per cent of schoolgirls enrolled in government schools in the villages, while the rural private schools accounted for the remaining 37.2 per cent among the boys and 30 per cent among the girls. The 2020 report on rural school enrolment found 66.4 per cent of the boys and 73 per cent of the girls on the rolls of government schools — a rise of over three percentage points. “There has been a clear shift from private to government schools between 2018 and 2020, in all grades and among both boys and girls,” the report said. “Reasons may include financial distress in households and/or permanent school shutdowns among the private schools.” Parents’ failure to pay fees during the pandemic has forced many private schools to shut down across the country. The pandemic seems, however, to have also increased the percentage of children not enrolled in schools, from 4 per cent in 2018 to 5.5 per cent in 2020. The increase has been the sharpest among boys aged 6 to 10, from 1.8 per cent in 2018 to 5.3 per cent in 2020. One possible explanation is that with the schools closed and classes being held entirely online, many among the very young children have not bothered to secure admission to Class I. The survey found that 80.5 per cent of the schoolchildren had textbooks. The figure was higher — 84 per cent — at government schools where textbooks are distributed free to all, compared with 72 per cent at private schools. As for smart phones, the ASER 2018 had found that 36.5 per cent children — 29.6 per cent at government schools and 49.9 per cent at private schools — had access to these devices. This year’s survey, however, recorded a leap to 56.4 per cent in government schools, 74.2 per cent in private schools and 61.8 per cent overall, implying the shift to online education had prompted parents to invest in smart phones for their children. Sixty-one per cent children in both the government and private schools have access to educational programmes on television. The latest survey also showed that regardless of the parents’ education level, families were putting in significant effort to support their children’s learning. Almost three in four children were receiving help, in some form or other, from their family members as they tackled online classes and homework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Mayawati faces split threat over BJP||A threat to the Bahujan Samaj Party candidate’s prospects in the November 9 Rajya Sabha elections seemed to blow over on Wednesday evening but the party faced the spectre of a split over Mayawati’s alleged bid to seek BJP support for her nominee. Five rebel MLAs from the BSP had met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav twice on Wednesday, and in between visited the Assembly to claim they had never signed on BSP candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination form as proposers. They told the returning officer their signatures had been forged during Tuesday’s nomination. Each candidate needed 10 proposers. “Mayawati didn’t consult us before seeking BJP support for Gautam. We are not her property, and we never signed Gautam’s nomination form,” Hakim Lal Bind, one of the rebels, told reporters. Mayawati has recently appeared to have softened towards the BJP, offering token criticism over the Hathras atrocity and tacit support on the citizenship amendment and the abrogation of Article 370 last year. Apart from the five rebels — Bind, Aslam Rain, Aslam Ali, Muztaba Siddiqui and Hargovind Bhargav — a sixth party MLA, Sushma Patel, was present at the day’s second meeting between the BSP dissidents and Akhilesh. Late in the evening, however, the returning officer handed Mayawati a boost, clearing Gautam’s nomination and rejecting that of his main rival, Independent candidate Prakash Bajaj, who has threatened to move court. With only 10 candidates left and 10 Rajya Sabha seats up for grabs from the state, each nominee is expected to win uncontested barring a court order in favour of Bajaj. With 11 candidates in the fray originally, and the Assembly’s current strength being 395, each candidate had needed 36 votes to win. The BJP, which has 304 members, had fielded 8 candidates and therefore had 16 spare votes. The Samajwadis, who have 48 members, had fielded Ramgopal Yadav and had 12 extra votes. Mayawati had only 18 members and needed a further 18 votes. There was speculation that the BJP had promised her its spare votes as well as votes from ally Apna Dal (9 members) and three friendly Independents. With the 8 BJP candidates and Ramgopal assured victories barring massive cross-voting, the fight for the last seat till Wednesday evening seemed to be between Gautam and Bajaj, an industrialist and political rookie whose proposers included several Samajwadi members. BSP lawmaker Uma Shankar Singh accused the rebels of being “lured” by Bajaj. Bind said: “Mayawati doesn’t care for us. The party’s district coordinators misbehave with us. But Akhilesh calls us and enquires about our well-being. Even chief minister Yogi Adityanath helps us on occasion. But our own party ignores us.” Samajwadi lawmaker Udai Veer Singh said the BSP rebels had told him they were unhappy because Mayawati “was trying to get closer to the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||SC bins plea against activist bail||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed Delhi police’s appeal challenging the bail granted to JNU activist and Pinjra Tod member Devangana Kalita in a case related to the communal violence in Northeast Delhi in February this year. The top court rejected the probe agency plea that she would tamper with the evidence. “It is only a grant of bail. How can you say she will tamper evidence? She is not going to run away,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah observed. Additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju, appearing for Delhi police, in the plea claimed that the activist was highly influential and she would tamper with the evidence. “How can influence of a person be a ground to deny bail to an accused?” Justice Shah asked. The court, however, said the investigating agency was free to approach it for cancellation of bail, if at a later stage the police gather any information about her tampering of evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||ED takes Sivasankar into custody in gold case ||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday took senior bureaucrat M. Sivasankar for interrogation in a gold smuggling case minutes after Kerala High Court dismissed his anticipatory bail pleas. ED officials reached an ayurvedic hospital in Thiruvananthapuram where Sivasankar was undergoing treatment for disc prolapse within five minutes of the high court pronouncing its verdict. The court had earlier stopped the ED and customs department from arresting Sivasankar until October 27 pending the hearing of his bail pleas. A bench of Justice Ashok Menon on Wednesday dismissed the bail pleas and removed all obstacles to any further action, including arrest, by the ED and customs department. The court considered the ED’s contention that Sivasankar was in constant touch with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, and it was possible that he knew about her activities. “Probably there may not be sufficient evidence at present collected by the ED to implicate the applicant as an accused, and there also may not be sufficient evidence to suggest that he is guilty of the offences alleged. But they have sufficient materials to interrogate him,” the court stated in its order. Sivasankar was driven to the ED office in Kochi, around 200km away, where he would be questioned by the central agency that is probing a money-laundering angle in the gold smuggling case. Customs officials met their ED counterparts, suggesting that they too might want to interrogate Sivasankar. On July 5, the Thiruvananthapuram airport customs had busted the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore inside a diplomatic bag addressed to the attaché of consulate-general of the United Arab Emirates in the Kerala capital. The state government had quickly removed Sivasankar from his duties and later suspended him from service as more details emerged about his links with Swapna, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair — the three accused in the case. Sivasankar had in his bail pleas argued that he was neither an accused nor a witness in any of the cases filed in connection with the smuggling. Senior lawyer P. Vijayabhanu, who appeared for Sivasankar, highlighted how the ED, National Investigation Agency and the customs department had questioned him for over 90 hours but could not find anything to incriminate him. The ED had opposed the anticipatory bail plea and cited Sivasankar’s closeness with Swapna whom he introduced to chartered accountant P. Venugopal and helped open a bank locker, allegedly to launder the unaccounted money. The ED had contended that Sivasankar knew Swapna was trying to launder her share from gold smuggling when he sent her to his chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||Land ache in Hindu belt too ||Tensions are flaring up in Jammu’s Hindu heartland and BJP stronghold against the Centre’s decision to allow sale of land in Jammu and Kashmir to outsiders, with several Dogra leaders claiming that their identity was under assault. Jammu’s Hindu heartland is a BJP stronghold where Dogras, who are Hindus, form a majority in the region. The BJP always banks on the support of Dogras in Assembly elections and because of them they have won both Jammu Lok Sabha seats during the last two consecutive terms. Protesters belonging to Jammu-based Panthers Party and People’s Democratic Party hit the streets in Jammu city against the new land laws. There is massive anger in the Valley against the decision, but there have been no street protests here so far. Panthers Party leader Harsh Dev Singh, in a video appeal, said the decision will turn Jammu residents into slaves of outsiders and the region was staring at big trouble. “Anybody can buy land here without PRC (Permanent Resident Certificate) and domicile....Big sharks will settle here and usurp the land of poor people,” he said. Singh said the BJP-led government at the Centre has not introduced such laws in Ladakh due to the unity of the (Buddhist) leadership there and the BJP was taking advantage of the disunity in Jammu. Kathua Bar Association president Ajat Shatru Sharma said many Jammu residents had welcomed the decision to scrap Article 370 but the new notification had “befooled” them. “Everyone knew that very few will purchase land in Kashmir Province (they are already de-facto immune) and influx would be in Jammu Province where people from rest of India can purchase agricultural land on the fake or forged agricultural certificate without actually residing for a minimum period. The day is not far away when maximum agricultural land from Jammu Province may be sold away to outsiders on just the basis of mere false certificates,” he said. PDP leader Surinder Choudhary claimed that the outsiders’ influx will increase rapes in Jammu. “The Dogra culture is under threat,” he said, referring to rapes in “Hathras and Faridabad”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-590
29-10-2020||India||ABVP chief in fresh storm||The Union health ministry has appointed ABVP national president Subbiah Shanmugam to the board of the new AIIMS coming up near Madurai, prompting condemnation from Opposition MPs who have cited how he faced charges of harassing an elderly woman neighbour in July. Dr Subbiah, a surgical oncologist, was accused in a police complaint of urinating outside the widow’s flat to intimidate her in an alleged attempt to grab her parking slot at their apartment complex in Chennai. Subbiah had denied the allegations, and the complaint – made on behalf of the neighbour by a relative – was later withdrawn. Several Opposition MPs from Tamil Nadu on Wednesday slammed his appointment as a member of AIIMS Madurai’s 17-member board and said it reflected the BJP’s lack of respect for women. “I am shocked by the appointment of Dr Subbiah Shanmugam, who stands accused of harassing his elderly woman neighbour, as a board member of AIIMS,” tweeted DMK parliamentarian Kanimozhi. “Is this an endorsement of his indecent behaviour and also an incentive for other BJP cadres to follow suit?” The controversy comes just as the BJP was claiming the moral high ground over VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan’s recent criticism of the Manusmriti, during which the Dalit MP made certain remarks that the BJP has construed as insulting to women. The BJP had on Tuesday launched a state-wide protest, led by new entrant and actor Khushboo, against the remarks. On Wednesday, Thirumavalavan hit back. “Is this the respect they show to women?” he told reporters, flagging the harassment charges against Subbiah, professor of surgical oncology with the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital in Chennai. Thirumavalavan threatened an agitation if Subbiah’s appointment to the AIIMS Madurai board was not revoked. Among other MPs who criticised Subbiah’s appointment were D. Ravikumar (VCK), Su. Venkatesan (CPM) and Manickam Tagore (Congress). After the harassment complaint was lodged, Subbiah had alleged “slander and character assassination” by Congress student wing NSUI and claimed the controversy stemmed from “misunderstandings emanating from the parking issue”. Dr V.M. Katoch, president of Jipmer, Pondicherry, has been appointed chairman of the AIIMS Madurai board. The members include Dr Sudha Seshaiyan, vice-chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. The board is to have three MPs as members, but these slots are yet to be filled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in January 2019 laid the foundation stone for the institute, being built at an estimated cost of Rs 1,264 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
29-10-2020||India||PM talks of ‘jungle raj’ in three rallies in Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the spectre of “jungle raj”, describing Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as its “yuvraj” (crown prince), in three back-to-back rallies in Bihar on Wednesday. Modi’s rallies at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna coincided with the first phase of voting in the Assembly elections. Seventy-one seats spread across 16 districts voted to decide the fate of 1,066 candidates on Wednesday. The Prime Minister also tried to tap into the fear of the coronavirus as he sought votes for the National Democratic Alliance. “There is a coronavirus pandemic on one side and the people of jungle raj come to rule on the other. This will be a two-fold blow for the people of Bihar. You can imagine what they will do with the coronavirus funds if they come to power. What else can the public expect from the ‘yuvraj of jungle raj’ on the basis of the previous track record?” Modi said in Muzaffarpur. “This is not a time for those who speak about lofty things. This is a time to choose them again who have experience and have extricated Bihar from darkness to here,” he added. Tejashwi, 31, is drawing huge crowds at his public meetings and has touched a cord among the youth by promising jobs. The RJD leader has not used photographs of his parents — former chief ministers Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi whose 15-year rule from 1990 to 2005 came to be branded “jungle raj” after Patna High Court used the phrase in a case in the context of governance — during his election campaign in an attempt to start on a clean slate. But Modi, in his entire speech in Muzaffarpur, kept the focus on the past by talking of “jungle raj and its side effects like closure of industries, fleeing of investors, poverty, migration of workers, anarchy and poor governance. The Prime Minister spent only a few minutes taking about the work done by the NDA government and praising chief minister Nitish Kumar. “The people of Bihar will not forget their (those in power) behaviour towards those who had their own work and business. Those who will give rangdaari (protection money, extortion money) will survive; else the copyright of the kidnapping industry is with them. Therefore we should remain alert about them,” he said. Modi also sought to counter the promise of RJD and its ally Congress to provide 10 lakh jobs by saying: “Leave aside the government jobs, even the private companies will run away from Bihar if they come to power.” Speaking at Darbhanga earlier, the Prime Minister touched on the issue of corruption and blamed the 15-year-rule of the RJD as an era of gobbling up development funds and taking commission in projects. “The people of Bihar have once again decided to defeat the powers who brought jungle raj in Bihar. They have decided to again defeat those who looted the state. People who have been trained to divide and rule the society, and indulge in taking commissions can never think of the welfare of Bihar,” Modi said. The Prime Minister also touched the topic of the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya and taunted the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
29-10-2020||India||Rahul promises a government of every caste, religion, region, and district||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday gave a personal “guarantee” to the people of Bihar that the RJD-Congress-Left coalition government would look after the interests of every section of the society, countering the BJP-JDU combine’s desperate attempt to revive the memories of excesses committed by the Yadavs against the so-called upper castes during Lalu Prasad’s regime. Addressing rallies in West Champaran and Darbhanga, Rahul said, “I have come here to give you a guarantee that our government will be a government of every caste, every religion, every region, every district. Our government will work for education, healthcare, jobs and women’s safety. This election is not about the family of Tejashwi or mine. That talk is rubbish. This election is about the future of people of Bihar.” While there is a realisation among the coalition partners that Tejashwi’s job-centric discourse had set the agenda of the election, placing the incumbent government on the defensive, the strong push by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar to revive the fears about “jungle raj” has generated some concerns. There is no denying the fact that Tejashwi’s politics has been entirely different, it is difficult to completely disconnect from the legacy issues as many sections of the society nurture a strong dislike for Yadavs’ dominance. Tejashwi has talked about “sarv jan,” committing himself to inclusive politics and now Rahul is explicitly offering assurances in the form of guarantee to blunt the efficacy of fear-mongering. Though youths attracted by the job promise haven’t experienced the misrule of Lalu’s regime and aren’t ready to alter their priorities on the basis of an imperfect past, Rahul’s intervention is important as he has shown a tendency of fighting against injustice. Rahul took care to explicitly back Tejashwi as a leader who intends to bring new vision. “Modi and Nitish don’t have the decency of talking about your problems. Modi promised two crore jobs every year. Does he even refer to jobs now? It is not only Bihar, Modi’s policies have ensured youth won’t get jobs anywhere in India. Note-bandi and lockdown destroyed economy. Modi and Nitish are leaders of past, you have tested them,” he said. Realising that the people are too distressed to hear about issues unrelated to their wretched existence, Rahul avoided dwelling on national issues; skipped even his pet theme of Chinese intrusion. He kept his focus on the miseries of lockdown. “Millions of Biharis were walking home during the lockdown announced without adequate notice. We kept asking for giving financial help to the poor, to the small businesses, to the migrant workers. But Modi was not fighting corona, he was at war with the poor,” he said. As there is a perception about Nitish becoming a liability and the entire burden of salvaging the NDA’s campaign falling on Modi, Rahul tried to create an impression that the Prime Minister’s credibility has gone down. He said: “Farmers of Punjab burnt Modi’s effigies on Dussehra. Not Ravan’s. I didn’t like it as burning Prime Minister’s effigy is wrong. But the farmers are angry. The Prime Minister works for the interest of a few capitalists. The farmers also burnt the effigies of Ambani and Adani along with Modi’s.” Rahul’s campaign reflected a perfect synergy with Tejashwi’s as they seemed to be complimenting each other at a time the relationship between the BJP and JDU is marked by suspicion and distrust. This was made possible by the surge in Tejashwi’s popularity at the initial stages of the campaign, forcing the Congress to shed whatever inhibitions they had about his leadership. Now the Congress leaders hail him as the future chief minister in every meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
29-10-2020||India||BCG boost found in Covid fight  ||Medical researchers in India have found that the BCG (Bacille Camerin Guerin) vaccine which is used to protect children from tuberculosis can also enhance in the elderly multiple arms of the immune system that might protect them from the coronavirus disease. A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has found that the BCG vaccine enhanced innate and adaptive components of the immune system, including memory elements, bolstering evidence for arguments that this familiar vaccine could be tool against Covid-19. Innate immunity relies on cells already present in the body such as dendtric cells while adaptive immunity involving so-called T-cells and B-cells is triggered by the body’s exposure to microbes. Scientists at the ICMR-National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, who conducted the study have cautioned that whether their findings translate into protective immunity against SARS-COV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is yet to be determined. But their findings add new evidence to show that the BCG vaccine boosts immune responses in elderly populations just as they do in children and might train the immune system to fight infections other than TB. “This is very encouraging – it lends support to ongoing clinical trials to assess the efficacy of the BCG vaccine against Covid,” said Seyed Hasnain, a senior biologist, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology and now vice-chancellor at Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi. “But it’s not surprising given what we know about BCG,” Hasnain told The Telegraph. We believe BCG works through a process called immune training,” Hasnain said. “Exposure to BCG trains the immune system to fend off attacks from other microbes.” Several studies over the past two decades have suggested the century-old BCG vaccine not only protects children from severe TB, but also lowers the risk of sepsis in newborn and the risk of other respiratory infections in young children. The ICMR-NIRT study is part of an ongoing nationwide six-city clinical trial in which 1,450 persons aged above 60 years will be administered the BCG vaccine to determine whether it is able to reduce mortality from Covid-19 infections. In the coming weeks, doctors involved in the trial will measure differences in the incidence of the infection itself and severity of the infection among vaccinated volunteers and unvaccinated volunteers to determine if BCG will protect people from severe Covid-19. In August this year, doctors in Germany, Greece, and the Netherlands had jointly published a study that had found that BCG was able to decrease the incidence of respiratory tract infections in elderly patients. The doctors had presented their data collected between 2017 and 2019 and suggested that clinical trials should assess the efficacy of BCG vaccine to protect people from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
29-10-2020||India||Bihar stone sculptors struggle for survival||Sounds of hammer and chisel indicate the Patharkatti village of stone sculptors, surrounded by hills and paddy fields in Bihar’s Gaya district, is close by. Once upon a time traders from all over the country would wait here with their vehicles to buy and take away the stone statuettes and idols, especially of Lord Buddha and Hindu gods and goddesses, grinding bowls, pestles, glasses, bowls, plates and coasters crafted by the sculptors. Though its election time in the state, none of its buzz could be seen or felt here. Some people are working on stones, giving them the desired shapes. Others are just squatting here and there or loitering around. “There is virtually no work and no sale since the lockdown. Marble from Rajasthan is not coming. Orders for various objects are just a trickle of what we used to get before. Some of us, you can say around 20 per cent of the craftsmen, are enough to fulfil the orders. We are just surviving somehow,” said sculptor Pramod Kumar. The sculptors blame the government and officials for ignoring them during the lockdown and the ensuing months. The politicians also did not come to the village to take stock of the situation. “We know that polls are here, but no big politician of any party has come here. Kaun munh lekar aayega yahan? (With what face will they come here?). They must be ashamed of approaching us after neglecting us completely after the coronavirus outbreak. None of them were bothered whether we survived or not. Our livelihood stands almost wiped out,” said another sculptor Bijendra Prasad. Patharkatti is around 100km south of state capital Patna. Stone sculpting tradition in the area dates back to Mauryan, Gupta and Pala dynasty periods. But Patharkatti came to prominence when Maratha ruler Ahilyabai Holkar (1725–1795) of Indore decided to reconstruct the famous Vishnupad Temple at Gaya. She is said to have brought around 900 Gour Brahmin artisans from Rajasthan for the purpose. The artisans camped at Patharkatti, around 35km from Gaya, in the vicinity of the hills of black granite rocks that were found suitable for the temple. The stones were carved according to the temple’s design, taken to Gaya and assembled to form its structure in 1787 without the use of any mortar. A large number of the artisans decided to settle down at Patharkatti. In the coming years they trained people from the village and the surrounding areas in stone craft. Neighbouring villages like Khukhari, Deay and others also now excel in the craft. Patharkatti comes under Atri Assembly constituency. Altogether 11 candidates are in the poll fray, but the main contest is expected to be between Manorama Devi of the ruling Janata Dal United (JDU) and Ajay Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Though the battle may swing one way or the other, the villagers do not seem very happy with governance. “Many of us found it extremely difficult to make both ends meet during the lockdown. But no help came from the government. We did not get foodgrains also. We will vote for the candidate who works for our welfare; who encourages and promotes our art,” another sculptor Satyendra Choudhari said. Meanwhile, one of the settlers from Rajasthan — Rabindra Nath Gour, a well-known stone sculptor who has trained several villagers in the craft — threw light on the economy and the crisis being faced by the village and its inhabitants and the role of politics in it. “Marketing is a huge problem for us. Traders from other states used to come here and take truckloads of statues and other stone objects from here till three decades ago. They would give us money in advance, place the order and take away finished products. However, things deteriorated after 1990 when Lalu Prasad came to power. The buyers were harassed, looted, kidnapped and even killed in that period. So they stopped coming here,” Rabindra said. “We then started taking our stonework to sell in states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and others but the traders there stopped making full payments. This was a reversal of the previous trend. Law and order improved and peace prevailed after Nitish Kumar became the chief minister in 2005, but the traders did not return,” he added. Many of the families that had come from Rajasthan went back during this period. The sculptors say that there is a high demand for black stone Buddha idols among the foreign tourists because of benevolent emotions on their faces. These idols have become a brand and are known as Magadh Buddha. The artisans have demanded that the state government provide raw materials, purchase the finished objects and also open its outlets at various tourist spots to perk up the sales. But nothing much has happened on the front. The state government did arrange for advanced training of some of the sculptors in Odisha and Tamil Nadu, but the skills are yet to be used due to the lack of raw materials and marketing. The sculptors and their families at Patharkatti have now started wondering whether it would be viable for their children to carry on the tradition in the coming years. They cite government apathy for their pessimism. However, all is not lost. Some young men want to take the stone-sculpting art of the village to a wider horizon. “We want to give it an international exposure. We cannot rely only on the government for this, but it could certainly help us in the initial stages,” said Shubham Gour, Rabindra’s son and an MBA aspirant. Atri constituency, including Patharkatti, voted on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-591
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Amit Shah, discusses 'state of affairs and affairs of state'||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed with him the "state of affairs and affairs of state". During the hour-long meeting, the governor apprised the home minister about various issues concerning the state. Addressing reporters later, he alleged that the police and bureaucracy were being politicised in West Bengal and they were working as "foot soldiers" of the state government. "West Bengal Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar called on the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah today at his residence. Governor Dhankhar was with the Union Home Minster for over an hour and state of affairs and affairs of state in West Bengal were traversed," read a post on the official Twitter handle of the West Bengal governor. The meeting bears significance as the governor is known for often expressing his disagreement on various matters in West Bengal, inviting sharp reactions from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government. Last month, Banerjee and Dhankhar were at loggerheads over the latter summoning the state's Director General of Police and calling the state "home to illegal bomb-making" in a following note. Dhankhar had also alleged in the note to the DGP that the police "overlooked rampant and open loot in PDS distribution, cyclone 'Amphan' relief funds, and criminal negligence by officials during the COVID-19 pandemic". Addressing reporters after the meeting, Dhankar said that while he could not go into the specifics of the meeting, he discussed the "status of democratic institutions and issues of public interest" with the home minister. "I have witnessed continual decline of democratic governance. Political violence, vendetta is a daily affair. Target killing being seen very often. As constitutional head I have witnessed it. "The greatest challenge is that the police and bureaucracy are being politicised. They are working as foot soldiers of the state government. I have time and again appealed to them that what you are doing is beyond your Constitutional rights... It has become a police state," he said. The governor asserted that government officers are accountable and they must remember it. "No arm of law will spare anyone." "I sent an input to the DGP apprehending threat perception for an association with an MP. But after the Manish Shukla was murdered. The chief minister took a stand on behalf of the DGP after it through a letter. How can a constitutional head have a sound sleep sound when violence, vendetta is taking place," he posed. Manish Shukla, who was a close aide of Barrackpore's BJP MP Arjun Singh, was shot dead in front of the party's office in North 24 Pargana's Titagarh on October 4. The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has so far arrested three persons in connection with the killing. Dhankar further said, "I am committed to ensure a free, fair, fearless atmosphere... My concern is not who is being elected but my concern is how the election is taking place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||BJP activists clash with cops over taking out protest rally in Howrah||Bengal BJP activists clashed with the police in Howrah district's Bagnan on Thursday after they were prevented from taking out a protest rally against the killing of a saffron party worker in the area. The BJP had called a 12-hour bandh in the Bagnan assembly constituency area against the killing of its worker Kinkar Majhi, who succumbed to his gunshot injuries on Wednesday. Majhi was allegedly shot at by a TMC worker, also his neighbour, over a land dispute on October 24. He was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Calcutta. BJP Yuva Morcha state president and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan went inside the Bagnan police station to talk to senior officers after the saffron party was denied permission to take out the rally. However, even as Khan was speaking with the senior officers, BJP workers attempted to scale the closed gates of the police station, leading to a scuffle with the deployed personnel. "Our party worker was killed but we are not being allowed to take out a rally and our activists have been beaten up by the police and arrested, while TMC leaders were allowed to take out a rally today," the BJP MP told reporters. The police said the BJP workers were denied permission to take out the rally as it could have created a "law and order problem in the area". The area has remained tense since Wednesday evening following Majhi's death, with reports of violence and arson, even as police personnel patrolled the area. The TMC leadership has claimed that miscreants had shot at Majhi due to a family dispute and accused the BJP of trying to "politicise the issue".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's condition still critical, says doctors||With little improvement of his consciousness level on the neurological front, the condition of veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained critical on Thursday though he is responding to treatment, the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a statement. The 85-year-old Chatterjee, who has been under ICU support for 22 days, is little stable now than in last 4 days, the statement by one of the attending doctors said. "His blood pressure level is holding on. Oxygen saturation 95-100 per cent with ventilation support, with 40- 50 per cent Oxygen given," the doctor said. He said to improve renal functioning of the octogenarian, there was already a first session of dialysis and three consecutive dialysis was being done. "There was little improvement in the neurological condition of the legendary actor", the doctor said, adding that he is opening eyes in response. "But 22 days of ICU support and Covid encephalopathy are taking a toll," he said. Chatterjee's haemoglobin count has gone down and there was blood transfusion, the statement said, adding that there has been no external bleeding and he was being given all antibiotics. "There has been no fever, no shooting up of BP and other functions are within acceptable range," he said. While Chatterjee's "prolonged stay in ICU and little improvement in consciousness state shows he is definitely critical, he is also responding to treatment," the doctor said. Chatterjee has been "unconscious" since last week. The ace actor, the first Indian film personality to be awarded the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres -- France's highest civilian award -- was admitted to hospital on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Malda railway employee strangled||Police investigating the death of the murder of Hanumant a.k.a. Hanuman Rai, a railway employee found dead at his railway colony quarters here on Monday evening, confirmed on Wednesday that he was strangled. Rai, who was to retire later this month and leave for his native home in Uttar Pradesh on November 5, was found lying in a pool of blood by neighbours. “The autopsy report confirmed he was strangled. Primary probe suggests some monetary transactions might be the reason for his murder,” Alok Rajoria, Malda superintendent of police, said on Wednesday. “The probe is in progress and we are exploring some other angles,” he added. Sources said Rai doubled as a moneylender. A youth has been detained in this case. Sources said that the police have ascertained that there were at least four persons at Rai’s room when he was murdered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Firearms haul in Sunderbans ||The Sunderbans coastal police seized a huge cache of firearms from a house in Radhanagar area of the Baruipur police district, South 24-Parganas, in the early hours of Wednesday. Police have also arrested two persons in connection with the illegal stockpiling of arms in the house. The duo were apparently waiting to hand over the consignment to members of a suspected arms racket active in the area. Though senior police officers of the Baruipur police district refused to disclose the exact details of the recovered arms, an officer of the coastal police station said the haul include five long-range guns, three one-shooters, at least nine pistols and various types of ammunitions. Sources said that acting on tip-off, a team of the coastal police station searched the house one Muchhakali Mollah in South 24-Parganas’ Radhanagar village early on Wednesday and seized the arms. “We had information that the house had a huge stockpile of arms and ammunition waiting to be supplied to members of an arms racket. The house owner had been under scanner for a long time for his suspected activities. During the raid we found the cache of arms and nabbed Muchhakali Mollah along with one of his close aides. They are being interrogated,” a police officer said. An investigating officer said it was not yet clear if the arms were being readied for sale to the racket or would have been handed over for use in subversive activities. A case against Muchhakali and his aide was filed under the Arms Act, he added. The police began a combing operation in the area suspecting there could be a stockpile of more such arms. However, till Wednesday evening no further recovery of arms was reported, said an official of the Baruipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Jamuni tour site opens||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration partially opened a tourist site that had been lying in utter neglect for the past three years at Jamuni near here on Wednesday. The opening was facilitated by local people who had voluntarily cleaned up the spot. The GTA had already invested Rs 50 crore in the project whose foundation had been laid by Subash Ghisingh as the chairman of the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council with the inauguration of Happy New Year Bridge on January 1, 2006. As the GTA chief executive, Bimal Gurung pursued it as the hill body’s pet project. On Wednesday, boating was launched on the lake on the site. Asked about the general feeling of neglect of the place, Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism, GTA, said: “The area had been closed since 2017. No regular staff had been appointed at the facility. During the agitation (in 2017), a lot of things were stolen and damaged.” The lake apart, a lodge, children’s park and a Shiva temple make up the tourist site. The GTA official said even though the boating and children’s park had been closed for the past three years, the hill body did carry on with development works. “We completed a lodge with 22 rooms. Four riverside cottages with 12 rooms were also completed in March but they could not be made functional because of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sharma. These lodges will be inaugurated soon. Such was the state of the tourist spot that local people volunteered to clean up the place. “Yes, around 100 Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha members and local people started a cleanliness drive and they worked for three days. Without their support, the reopening would have been difficult,” said Sharma. However, the children’s park still needs maintenance. Lamps, fences and benches, too, have to be revamped. “Maintenance of the park is our primary focus, after which we will think of other components,” said Sharma. The GTA on Wednesday introduced four boats at Jamuni, which is 15km from Darjeeling town. “We will charge Rs 50 per person for a ride, apart from Rs 20 as the entry fee,” said Sharma. The area also falls on the route between Darjeeling and Jorethang-Pelling in Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Two injured BJP workers die, party blames TMC||Two BJP workers, one from Howrah and another from North 24-Parganas, died of injuries on Wednesday, prompting the party to blame Trinamul for the murders and the ruling party to deny the charges. BJP worker Kinkar Majhi, shot at on Sunday in Howrah’s Bagnan, died at NRS Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta. Blaming Trinamul for the murder, the BJP called a 12-hour bandh in Bagnan from Thursday 6am in protest. Trinamul’s Bagnan MLA Arunava Sen dismissed BJP’s allegation and said the police had been asked to bring the culprits to book. “The incident has no political link and is a fallout of an old rivalry,” Sen said. Another BJP worker, Milan Halder of Chanditala area of Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas, allegedly thrashed by suspected Trinamul workers on Saturday night, died at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. Speaking to the media on Halder’s alleged murder, BJP MP Arjun Singh said: “Trinamul, afraid of losing in the Assembly elections, has unleashed terror across Bengal. The ruling party’s sole objective is to eliminate our party activists with the tacit support of police”. Trinamul’s observer for Jagaddal Assembly segment Somnath Shyam called it “a fallout of BJP’s internal bickering”. No one has been arrested in both the murders as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Lakshmi Puja Covid safety alert in Darjeeling ||Preliminary data on Covid-19 cases during the past few days has made health officials ring an alert in Darjeeling district ahead of the upcoming Lakshmi Puja and advise priests to undergo Covid tests before they move out and perform puja in various households. Lakshmi Puja will be celebrated on October 30. According to senior officials of the health department, there has been a rise in the number of cases in Darjeeling district during Durga Puja days. From October 15 to 21, 722 people in the district got infected with the pathogen among whom 393 were from Siliguri, said a health official. However, during the five days of Durga Puja, that is, from October 22 to 26, the total number of new Covid patients was 593 in the district. Among them, 335 were from Siliguri, the official added. “The numbers are an indication that people should stay away from crowded areas and public places. Random testing (to assess the spread of Covid) has started from Wednesday and we are waiting for the reports to know more about the trend,” the official added. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty (OSD) deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said he was aware of the numbers. “It is high time that people in this district, particularly Siliguri, strictly adhere to the safety protocols during the upcoming Lakshmi Puja,” Roy said. “This puja is held almost in every second household. Markets get crammed with people ahead of the puja and there is always a risk of infection. People should take all safety measures while going to markets,” said Roy. On Lakshmi Puja day, hundreds of priests go to multiple households to perform the puja, which is also a matter of concern this year, Roy said. “Those calling priests for the puja at home should ensure that all health safety protocols are maintained. Also, we would like to advise the priests that before puja day, they should get themselves tested to confirm that they are Covid negative. Otherwise, they can be prospective transmitters of the contagion,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Farmer spots crack on tracks, stops train in Birbhum||Four farmers ran for over 500 metres on railway tracks waving a red towel to stop a train from the opposite end and avert a derailment after one of them spotted a crack on tracks near Birbhum’s Ahmedpur station around 9am on Wednesday. A railway official said the special train had been carrying railway staff from Birbhum’s Rampurhat to Burdwan. There were around 300 passengers on board. Sources said Pradip Sarkar, a farmer from Kusumjatra village in Birbhum’s Sainthia, was walking on the road along the tracks when a good train passed him by with what seemed to the farmer an “unusual sound”. The farmer checked the tracks closely and spotted a gap of around 5 inches on the tracks. Sarkar immediately called three other farmers and they started walking towards a level crossing, around a kilometre away, to inform the gateman about the crack. On their way, they saw a passenger train speeding on tracks. “Fearing an accident, I asked my friend Jibon Das (one of the farmers) to wave a red towel as we ran towards the train to draw the driver’s attention. After we had run for about 500 metres, the driver saw us and stopped the train,” Sarkar added. Railway officials admitted that had Sarkar and his friends not intervened on time, the passenger train could have met with an accident. “The passenger train was travelling at a good speed and the crack was enough to derail it. After the train stopped, a team of railway staff repaired the tracks. The train was delayed by an hour,” an official said. Another official said a change in temperature around this time of the year could account for the crack. “We thanked villagers for their timely effort in preventing an accident,” he said. “This crack was either missed by the inspection team or it happened after the last inspection,” an official of the railway inspection team said. Nikhil Kumar Chakrobarty, the chief of public relations officer of Eastern Railway, said the crack was repaired immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Diwali bonus at closed tea garden ||Around 750-odd permanent workers employed at the Jateswar division of Birpara tea estate of Alipurduar district — a garden owned by the Duncans Goenka Group and closed for months now — are each set to receive a festive bonus of around Rs 3,000 ahead of Diwali. Though the garden is closed, the informal cooperative that these workers run earn by selling tea leaves of the garden. This cooperative has decided to disburse a part of the sale proceeds among the workers, a move considered rare in the tea industry because the garden is officially closed. Mahadeb Bagwar, a panchayat member from Jateswar division of the garden, said they had paid a similar bonus to workers ahead of Durga Puja. “We checked the available funds, basically sale proceeds of tea leaves that we have managed to accumulate after paying wages to workers, and found that a portion of the money can be distributed among workers again. That is why we intend to pay them an ex-gratia of Rs 3,000 or so ahead of Diwali,” said Bagwar. Senior tea planters have pointed out that many times even open tea gardens negotiate on bonuses and arrive at a lower rate than the one fixed in the industry agreement. Also, there are instances that such open gardens pay bonus in tranches and even falter in clearing the dues on time. “Also, in case of closed gardens, charges of misappropriation of funds are often raised at the committees. It is nice to see that in Jateswar, there is transparency and workers are being provided with ex-gratia out of the profits,” said a planter based in Siliguri. The cooperative in Jateswar, sources said, plans to keep aside a fund for pruning and other maintenance work during the lean seasons. “In the winter months, we need to carry out maintenance work in a proper manner to ensure a good yield next year. We will engage workers so that their earnings do not dry up during lean months. That is why a part of the proceeds have been kept aside. We also plan to distribute woollens among the workers and their families,” Bagwar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Visitors make Bijoya sweets sweeter in Hooghly’s Goghat||Vijaya Dashami, which marks the victory of good over evil, is also a time for guests and mishti mukh. In Hooghly’s Goghat, this tradition received a unique twist on Wednesday. A group of imams and muezzins visited 300 homes, including those of Hindu priests, with sweets and roses to spread the message of social harmony. The eight-hour-long event, an initiative of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad’s Goghat unit, had a political intent as the ruling party’s student wing wanted to stem the impact of the “religion card” allegedly played by the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls. The imams and muezzins distributed 2,000 laddoos and 500 roses among the families as they wished them on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. “As our area has been touched by BJP’s divisive politics, we thought of the need to send across the message that Bengal celebrates festivities irrespective of religion. A dozen Muslims, mostly imams and muezzins of local mosques, visited 300 families to wish them on Vijaya Dashami,” said Syed Ashik Hossain, the president of Trinamul Chatra Parishad in Goghat I block. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP had made considerable inroads in Hooghly. The district sent BJP’s Locket Chatterjee to Parliament. The BJP also set up organisations in various pockets of the district, including Goghat in Arambagh subdivision. “In the Goghat Assembly segment, Trinamul had lagged behind the BJP by 8,000 votes (in the Lok Sabha elections). In the adjoining Pursura Assembly segment too, our party had trailed behind the BJP. This emboldened the BJP to push its divisive agenda in the area. We feel the need to combat it,” said a Trinamul leader. At every home, the visiting group of imams and muezzins enquired about the health and welfare of the families amid the prevailing pandemic. After taking part in the event, Sheikh Abdul Malek, a muezzin of the local Sanbandhi mosque, said it was for the first time that he took part in such a project. “I felt overjoyed,” said Malek. “The members of the families, including the priests that we had called on, thanked us for wishing them on the occasion of Vijaya Dashami. Such efforts are needed at a time certain forces are trying to create divisions among people,” the  muezzin added. Sajal Goswami, a priest and a clerk at the local block land reforms office, was pleasantly surprised when a group of Muslims knocked on his door to wish him Subho Vijaya. “I was really happy when our Muslim brothers came to wish us on Vijaya Dashami. It is normal that people from my community would wish me Subho Vijaya, but now our Muslim brothers came as well. The sweets of Vijaya turned sweeter with their presence,” said Goswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul banks on Gurung in north Bengal||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the BJP and extend support to Mamata Banerjee has rekindled hopes among a section of Trinamul Congress leaders in north Bengal, who believe a majority of Gorkhas will support the ruling party and help its turnaround. According to Trinamul insiders, the organisational support extended by Gurung had helped the BJP win thrice the Darjeeling Parliament seat. “Even in 2019, when the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha had backed our party, the BJP had managed to win the seat. Gurung’s recent decision has, however, changed the political landscape. We feel Trinamul can get more support in the hills as both the factions of the Morcha, the strongest political forces here, are with us,” said a Trinamul insider. He added that Gurung’s assertion that he was miffed with the BJP, which had time and again promised to look into the demand of separate statehood to secure support of the hill population, would impact the saffron party’s support base. While extending support to the chief minister and her party, Gurung had also mentioned that in the 2024 Parliament polls, he would support the party that would meet the principal demand of Gorkhaland. “Through this statement, we believe, he has tried to send a message to Gorkhas that the BJP has failed to meet their aspirations. It is evident that his remarks would also have an impact on his supporters, many of whom are already disenchanted with the BJP. This can also turn things in our favour as our party or the state government has never made any false promises to the hill people like the BJP,” the Trinamul leader said. Some Trinamul leaders in the Dooars think Gurung dumping the BJP would work to Trinamul’s advantage. Delivering on the expectations of the Trinamul leadership, however, would not be easy for Gurung, as he has to re-establish himself in the hills, where he had been missing for over three years. This is because after asserting that he would support Trinamul, protests have been witnessed in different corners of the hills, particularly by the Binay Tamang faction of the  Morcha. “Gurung’s decision to ally with Trinamul has also drawn ridicule from a section of the hill population...So, one should not expect that he can produce a miracle,” said a political observer. The fact that the road ahead for Gurung is not simple became clear again on Wednesday as local people held protests and shouted slogans against him. “Trinamul’s hopes can only be fulfilled if Bimal Gurung manages to regain his support. It is going to be a tall order as he will have to reach out to people,” the observer said. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop for two days on trot in Bengal||Total number of active Covid-19 cases dropped for the second consecutive day in Bengal on Wednesday in what was being deemed as a “major positive”. The state’s total number of active cases, which were 37,190 on Monday, fell to 37,111 on Wednesday. The continuous decline is the first since a 15-day spell of such drop ended on September 7. Since Thursday, the state reported six consecutive days of decline in the daily count of new cases which were 3,924 on Wednesday. The death toll rose by 60. More importantly, for the ninth consecutive day, the highest recovery count in a day was reset on Wednesday with 3,925. The last time, prior to Wednesday, the state reported more recoveries than new cases in a day was September 6. “This is a major positive. We were so apprehensive of what the figures would look like after Puja. We could not have been more pleasantly surprised in the first two days,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98, rose again to 87.9 on Wednesday. The national rate is 90.84 per cent now. It remains to be seen whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention to keep unbridled revelry from turning the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency was effective. The impact of the Puja days would be seen in the Covid-19 figures from this weekend. “The new patients are largely people who got infected in the weekend before the Puja when shopping rush and a near-total disregard for safety protocols were witnessed. That’s what prompted the judiciary to step in,” said the minister. “In that context, these numbers make us very hopeful…. We will cautiously wait to examine the numbers over the next few days. But if this is the onset of a new trend, we are looking at a remarkable turnaround, which nobody had anticipated,” he added. Bengal’s total cases now are over 3.61 lakh, including nearly 3.18 lakh recoveries and 6,664 deaths. With 42,553 tests on Wednesday, Bengal went past 44 lakh tests, to touch 44.25 lakh, at 49,169 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.17 per cent now. Of the total 6,664 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,610 (84.2 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.84, still behind the national rate of 1.5 per cent. The state reported 35.57 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals. Besides, 3.85 lakh telemedicine consultations have been made so far for the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-330
29-10-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s right hand shifted, hint of RSS hand||The central leadership of the BJP removed Subrata Chatterjee as the general secretary (organisation) of the party’s Bengal unit and appointed Amitava Chakraborty in his place — a shuffle that bore the sign of the RSS’s growing assertiveness ahead of the Assembly polls. A press communiqué issued by BJP national general secretary Arun Singh on Wednesday evening said party president JP Nadda had appointed Chakraborty as the Bengal general secretary (organisation), the most important post in the state unit. Chakraborty, who was serving as one of the two joint general secretaries (organisation), has been asked to take charge with immediate effect. There was no mention of the future role of Chatterjee. “There were a lot of complaints of various natures against Subrata-da... His removal was just a matter of time,” said a BJP insider. Over the past few months, the discontent against Chatterjee, who enjoyed the support of state president Dilip Ghosh, was almost open in the state BJP circles. “Subrata-da and Dilip-da were running the party’s affairs according to their whims. Even the Sangh (RSS), from where Subrata-da came to the party, had problems with him,” said a source. In the BJP, the position of general secretary (organisation) goes to people inducted into the party from the Sangh. Chakraborty is also an RSS man and had served as an ABVP activist and a joint general secretary (organisation) of the party in Odisha. Multiple sources in the BJP said Chattarejee’s removal was “a decision of Nagpur (the RSS headquarters)”. “A change in the post of general secretary (organisation) just six to seven months ahead of the Assembly polls is an indication that Sangh will assert itself more and more in the affairs of Bengal,” said a source. A section in the BJP thinks the change is significant as there is a message for Ghosh as well, who along with Chatterjee, formed “a syndicate of sorts” in the Bengal unit of the party. “Dilip-da has become a face of the party, and hence, he cannot be removed... But there is a message to him with this change,” said a senior state BJP leader. According to him, as the party’s central leaders are confident of wresting the seat of power in the state, they didn’t want to keep someone like Chatterjee at the helm as complaints were pouring against him. “If someone is not liked by most of the leaders, he has to go,” a BJP source said. One of the major allegations against Chatterjee and Ghosh has been their reluctance to involve those who had crossed over from other parties in the affairs of the BJP. Besides, Chatterjee was also accused of having disregard for meritocracy and promoting only those who were close to him. The sources said Chatterjee had testy ties with not only BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy but also junior Union minister Babul Supriyo and MPs Locket Chatterjee and Jagannath Sarkar and the central leaders were aware of the growing discontent against him. “The last straw was the absence of Subrata-da and Dilip-da from the puja organised by the party and inaugurated by the Prime Minister himself,” said a source. Many believe the removal of Chatterjee indicated more power for Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for Bengal, who is believed to be the man behind Roy’s elevation to the post of national vice-president. Chatterjee couldn’t be contacted, but he put out a tweet congratulating Chakraborty. BJP national president JP Nadda will be in Bengal on November 6 and 7 — his second visit to the state in a month. He had visited north Bengal ahead of Durga Puja on October 17 to meet BJP workers. “Naddaji will be in Bengal on November 6 and 7. He will meet workers from two zones,” said state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. On the first day, Nadda will meet the workers from Birbhum, East Burdwan, Asansol, Purulia and Bankura districts that form the BJP’s Burdwan zone. The following day, he will meet the members from the Midnapore zone that includes the districts of East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly. “We are yet to finalise the venues,” Ghosh said. “He might address a core committee meeting in between,” a source said. The party has also requested home minister Amit Shah to visit Bengal. “We have sent a list of dates to his office and asked Amitji to choose according to his convenience,” this person added. If things go as planned, Shah might come to Bengal sometime in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-331
29-10-2020||North East||Mizoram records first Covid death||Mizoram recorded its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday afternoon, 219 days after the state recorded its first positive case. So far it had been the only state in the country without any fatality from the virus. DIPR Mizoram was the first to tweet about the demise of a 66-year-old man with “existing comorbidities” around noon at Zoram Medical College, a dedicated Covid hospital, where he was “undergoing treatment for more than 10 days”. Mizoram chief minister Zoranthanga also tweeted the development. “#Mizoram records our first Covid-19 related mortality... We are shocked, pained and will continue putting up our guards against this pandemic #TogetherWeCan #MizoramAgainstCovid19 @HMOIndia,” he said. The patient, who tested positive for Covid-19 on October 19, was from the Dawrpui locality of state capital Aizawl, which is under strict lockdown since Tuesday morning till November 3 to check the surge in cases. As on Wednesday evening, 2,607 positive cases have been detected, of which 368 are active cases. Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma, state nodal officer of the integrated disease surveillance programme and health department spokesperson on Covid-19, told The Telegraph that the patient suffered a heart attack. “Sooner or later it (death) was expected because the patient was in a very bad shape. He had comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes and liver disease. He suffered a heart attack today,” he said. The doctor said the people of the state have to strictly follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour because there has not only been a surge in positive cases but also most of them are symptomatic. The first case in the state was recorded on March 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
29-10-2020||North East||Winged guests return after 29,000km flight||Irang, one of the five Amur falcons radio-tagged in Manipur’s Tamenglong district in 2019, has returned back to the state after completing its 29,000km migratory route, a feat the ministry of forests and environment described on Tuesday as a milestone in bird conservation. Amur falcons are pigeon-sized migratory birds originating in Siberia where they breed in the summer. At the onset of winter, they fly to India, especially to the Northeast, where they rest for about two months before leaving for South Africa where they stay for about four months. On October 31 and November 1 last year, five Amur falcons — named Puching, Chiulon, Phalong (named after Manipur villages), Irang and Barak (named after Manipur rivers) — were radio-tagged as part of a collaborative project between the Manipur forest department and the Wildlife Institute of India. The project is funded by the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change for the conservation of migratory birds, especially Amur falcons. Radio-tagging helps track the travel history, the route and the stay of the migratory birds during their journey helping prepare appropriate conservation measures. “We are very happy that two of the birds — Chiulon and Irang — have returned after one complete circle of 361 days. Chiulon reached Puching village, one of the eight resting sites in Tamenglong, on October 26, while Irang reached today (Wednesday morning). We will be getting valuable information. These birds are sensitive to cold, a reason for the flight from Siberia at the onset of winter,” Tamenglong divisional forest officer Kh. Hitler told The Telegraph. Irang reached Chandel on October 25, about 200km from Tamenglong, but the forest department had lost contact with the bird. However, worry turned to joy as Irang returned to Puching on Wednesday. Tamenglong is around 100km from state capital Imphal and around 30km from Puching. The ministry announced the arrival of the birds in a tweet, “A milestone has been achieved in the conservation efforts of birds, as an #Amur named Irang, tagged in #Manipur has returned back to the state after completing its migratory route full circle & covering 29,000km. Another Amur named Chiulon has also arrived in the state yesterday.” In another tweet, it said, “The people of #Manipur particularly in Tamenglong district where the... Amurs were tagged in Nov 2019 had been anxiously awaiting the arrival of the tagged #Amurs and this has now come true...” The anxiousness, locals said, stem from the fact that contact was lost with two of the birds three-four days after they left for South Africa and with the third one — Barak — on May 29 this year. “We lost contact with Barak near the Meghalaya-Bangladesh border, one reason for our anxiousness. Though it is yet to be confirmed, a lifespan of an Amur falcon is said to be about five-six years. We want that they at least complete four-five cycles,” Hitler said. Amur falcons are hunted for their meat but things have changed in Manipur and Nagaland after conservation efforts were launched. “The conservation initiative in Manipur was launched in 2015 with the Amur falcon festival but still there may be people who are hunting along the migratory routes. The bird is still vulnerable,” Hitler said. An Amur falcon weighs about 170 grams when it reaches the Northeast but its weight goes up to about 270g when it resumes its journey to South Africa. “It usually feeds on harmful insects like termites and locusts. When they arrive people expect a good harvest. An Amur falcon used to fetch around Rs 30 to Rs 40 before 2015 but with growing awareness things have changed,” Hitler said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
29-10-2020||Opinion||Dirty secret: India's 'filthy' air||Donald Trump’s remark about India’s air quality — he called it “filthy” — has evoked two kinds of reaction. Critics of Narendra Modi have said that Mr Trump’s statement is a testament to yet another of the prime minister’s ‘friendships’ gone sour. However unpalatable Mr Trump’s words might be to Mr Modi’s admirers, it cannot be denied that they convey a bitter truth borne out by data. The State of Global Air 2020 report, to cite just one example, indicates that air pollution led to the deaths of 16.7 lakh Indians, with over a lakh of the victims being less than a month old. Worryingly, research has also found a link between long-term exposure to poor air and Covid-19 mortality. India’s fight against air pollution is floundering on a number of fronts. The reasons for this failure vary from region to region but the principal concerns — unchecked industrial emissions, vehicular pollution and construction activity — remain unaddressed. In Calcutta, where 70 per cent of the residents were found to be suffering from some kind of respiratory disease according to a study, vehicular pollution has acquired lethal dimensions because public transport’s reliance on green technology remains negligible. This is only a part of the problem. North India’s air is seasonally poisoned by stubble burning in spite of an order by the Supreme Court to make seeders available at subsidized prices. It must be pointed out that in this case the availability of technology is not enough; the technology must also be made accessible. Debt-ridden marginal farmers — they form a large chunk of India’s agrarian workforce — cannot afford to either rent or buy seeders given their meagre resources. The absence of an affordable alternative to stubble burning has hardened the attitude of the agrarian constituency, facilitating the malpractice. This only goes to show that India and other developing economies need a consensual framework for the transfer of funds and technology from the developed world to improve air quality. Ironically, such a transfer is allegedly being resisted by Mr Trump’s country, stalling progress on climate negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Unfriendly jibe: Trump calls Asian countries 'filthy'||Sir — It was shocking to hear the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, refer to the air quality of several Asian countries, including India and China, as “filthy” during the final presidential debate at Nashville, Tennessee (“Trump labels India ‘filthy’, puts ‘friend’ in a spot”, October 24). There have also been instances of the American media speaking ill of the environmental condition in India. While there is certainly much to be done to improve conditions in the country, it is nonetheless appalling to hear respected statesmen as well as foreign media speak with such malice. I have been writing in several Asian newspapers for the last two decades on various issues plaguing countries across the world. While strongly worded comments are welcome, as they should be, there is still a line between constructive criticism and blatant xenophobia. While one cannot expect much from Trump, it is hoped that American media houses, at the very least, would desist from making sweeping generalizations about developing countries.P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — Over the last few years, living in north India has become quite a health hazard. Delhi and its surrounding areas, including Faridabad, are covered in smog for the better part of the year. Environmentalists have been warning the government about the long lasting damage it is doing to the health of citizens, but not much has changed. Thus, while the comment by the American president, Donald Trump, that the air in India is filthy is in poor taste, it is not completely off the mark. The question is, will this ridicule spur the government into action? For years there have been cries by common citizens to put in place an effective but environment-friendly method of burning stubble. Unless the government acts on this problem, it should not be surprised if more such comments come its way. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Given that Donald Trump and Joe Biden represent starkly different political ideologies, it should not be difficult for American voters to make a choice between the two. Ultimately what matters is not the individual occupying the Oval Office, but the party that manages to get a majority. The Democrats, with all their problems, are still the best hope the US has. Perhaps it is too soon to rejoice, but this time it seems that the 2020 presidential elections might not end in disappointment for the liberal constituency. If the popular mood in America is anything to go by, a repetition of 2016 seems highly unlikely. It is becoming increasingly clear from Biden’s strong lead over Trump in the final stretch that the voters have made up their minds. Given his broader vision and inclusive politics, it is understandable that Biden has a strong support base among the black, Hispanic, Asian and other minority communities. Moreover, the Trump administration’s mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis has proved costly for the Republicans in the election year. Trump makes his aversion to religious minorities and women’s rights very clear. He is equally unconcerned about the welfare of the white American working class. Trump’s ascent to power in the US has been one of the biggest blunders in American history. And yet, the working classes continue to rally behind a man whose politics is far from being rooted in positive action. He has made innumerable objectionable comments over the course of his presidency. In a display that was deemed racist and misogynistic, he had called Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate and Biden’s running mate, a “monster” and a “communist”. Is it then a surprise that Trump has labelled the air in India “filthy”? It is the second time in less than a month that he has been critical of India. Trump had earlier questioned the veracity of Covid-19 statistics released by the Indian government. It is high time he were voted out of power. Sanav Saha,Calcutta  Bleak future Sir — Five months after the death of George Floyd caused by police brutality, thousands of ‘Black Lives Matter’ demonstrators in the United States of America have been arrested, with many facing serious charges, including deportation and threats of life sentences. The BLM protests have brought out the failures of American democracy, with Donald Trump deriding peaceful demonstrations as a “symbol of hate”. The 2020 presidential elections will be greatly significant. Unless the US elects a president who is committed to democratic ideals, the country will descend further into anarchy. Rashi Gupta,Delhi Parting Shot Sir — The devastating fire in Moon House on Ganesh Chandra Avenue that killed two people is deplorable but not surprising (“Meter box blaze cuts off exit, kills 2”, Oct 18). Similar incidents had occurred earlier as well. The raging inferno at Stephen Court back in 2010 is just one case in point. Many buildings in the city stand right next to each other with hardly any gap in between. On top of that, electric meter boxes are more often than not crammed under staircases and have decades-old wiring. This is the situation in most of central Calcutta. There are hundreds of such buildings that violate basic safety norms. The administration has time and again failed to ensure that the situation is remedied. Khokan Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Gagging Google for using marketing muscle||Regulatory authorities around the world have been deeply troubled by the concentration of economic power in private hands. They are uncertain about how influence peddling arising out of gigantic pools of wealth impacts policy-making in countries. The United States of America — the so-called land of opportunity and incredible wealth creation — has, on occasion, played the role of an iconoclast by breaking up giant corporations that garnered so much wealth and power that they stifled potential rivals and posed a threat to the spirit of free enterprise. The latest move by the US department of justice to file a lawsuit against Google for illegally using its marketing muscle to hobble rivals has raised the prospect of a possible break-up of the technology giant worth $1 trillion. It is still too early to say whether the lawsuit will succeed but it marks the first major crackdown on a big technology company since the unsuccessful attempt to carve up Microsoft back in 1998. Google accounts for nearly 90 per cent of all general search engine queries in the US. The justice department’s lawsuit contends that no one can realistically challenge Google’s dominance in search and search advertising. The question is whether that dominance is justification enough for breaking up the corporation. The US justice department is going down a very slippery course. It must be said that American regulators have achieved some success in the past when they sought to limit the power of corporations. In 1911, John D. Rockefeller’s Standard Oil was accused of using predatory pricing on the strength of its monopoly in the oil business. The oil behemoth was eventually broken up into 34 entities. But the irony is that two of the largest parts of the old Rockefeller empire — Exxon and Mobil — eventually merged in November 1999 and became one of the largest oil companies in the world. Similarly, Bell System was broken into seven regional companies — called Baby Bells — in 1982 after it agreed to a consent decree to settle a lawsuit that charged it with predatory behaviour. Google has been locked in a range of lawsuits around the world for anti-competitive practices and has had to fork out billions of dollars in penalties. The European Union fined Google $1.7 billion in 2019 for stopping websites from using Google’s rivals to find advertisers. There is one interesting development that comes out of the Google lawsuit. Reports suggest that Apple has started to show its own website search results when iPhone users tap queries on their home screen when using iOS 14. Google is the default search on an iPhone. If the lawsuit against Google blows up into something big, Apple may be ready to pick up the pieces from a fragmented, but hugely lucrative, search engine market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
29-10-2020||Opinion||Storm season in Bollywood||A lot has been written about the Mumbai-based film industry vis-à-vis the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. What got completely ignored is the crisis faced by lakhs among the industry workforce. Production activities were brought to a complete halt on March 19 itself. Not less than three to five lakh workers from Mumbai’s film and television industry are now battling for survival. It is a matter of pride that Indian cinema has impressed hundreds of thousands of viewers all over the world. There are psychological, social and emotional reasons for identifying with Indian cinema. But these bonds have nothing to do with the harsh realities in the life of the industry’s workers. Since the lockdown was clamped, there has been no concrete word from those in power — be it the Central or the state government — on how to bring the industry back to pre-Covid productivity. The film industry is not a part of the organized or the unorganized sector. The majority of the nearly three to five lakh workers — only counting those in Mumbai — are at the mercy of their colleagues or fate. There is no reliable data on how many people work in Mumbai’s film and television industry; it has been estimated that as many as two million people depend on this unaccounted workforce. The Mumbai film and television industry comprises 32 trade bodies. They include associations of directors, producers, writers, technicians and support staff. Nominated representatives from these associations form the Federation of Western India Cine Employees, a sort of an apex body of workers. This is a platform meant to raise issues or grievances collectively with formal bodies of the state or with Central agencies. There are similar industries in many other Indian cities; they, arguably, are facing the same crippling crisis. A few production houses have shown courage in trying to resume work. But there are conflicting reports that they are facing intimidation from the authorities in the name of flouting Covid-19 guidelines. The daily output is another concern on the scale of the cost-benefit ratio. The veteran Marathi and Hindi film actor, Ashalata Wabgaonkar, succumbed to Covid-19, having caught the infection on the sets created outside Mumbai. Several members of the unit showed signs of being Covid positive. These developments have added to the alarm. The well-crafted noise of spectators’ shouts and hurrahs that have been seamlessly merged with live commentary during the Indian Premier League matches may be an example of the technological brilliance and the talent in the trade but these are aberrations at best. There seems to be no solution to the crisis at the moment. It is absurd to call this sector an ‘industry’. It is, in fact, a mix of fragmented creative determinations based on an ingenious amalgamation of talent from different fields in order to sell dreams for those who put money in them and want to make much more out of these dreams. The rest is a by-product of an illusion. Astonishingly, the process is perpetual in nature and the products churned out are equally astounding. What has been the hallmark of this trade — at least this was the case till the recent past — was the consolidation and the fusion of diverse passions and perceptions in a manner not seen in any other section of society. Neither caste nor creed is a concern here. This is a homogeneous society composed of versatile talents absolutely devoted to their cause and craft. It is pertinent to point out that the film industry — I am excluding the television industry deliberately — was and, to a great extent, still is the most secular entity to have emerged in post-Independence India. It was also one of India’s most cordial workforce. How many of industry disputes are languishing in Indian courts? I doubt if the figure will go beyond the two-figure mark. Alas, of late, the matrix has started showing signs of change. The harbingers are ironically being selected from the most vulnerable segments within this industry in collusion with those who have ulterior motives. The motive, in other words, is a subtle and clever imposition of a particular marque. It has taken more than a century to make Mumbai the Mecca of the Indian film industry. The annihilation of the soul of Mumbai’s film industry may not take that long. The allegations of drug abuse, nepotism, and nasty designs to kill budding talents are a sign of things to come.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
29-10-2020||Opinion||Battle stations||In less than a fortnight, by the afternoon of November 10 to be precise, the outcome of the Bihar assembly election will be known. There will be the usual flurry of momentary excitement as the political pundits assess the results and speculate on the likely consequences of the verdict both regionally and nationally. Without anticipating the mood of the electorate in a state which once had a reputation for violence and election irregularities — but has since redeemed itself quite dramatically — it would be tempting fate to suggest that the consequences of the assembly election may not be far-reaching. Yet, however routine, every assembly election is significant in a number of ways. The Bihar vote, too, will be no different and may offer some pointers to the next round of assembly elections in the summer of 2021, at least in the eastern state of West Bengal. The most significant aspect of the Bihar election that will impact national decision-making is centred on the poll process during the Covid-19 pandemic. With the vaccine still awaited, the health protocols are centred on the principle that human contact should be minimized as far as possible. This principle by its very nature goes against the functioning of electoral democracy that involves optimizing contact of political workers with voters. Additionally, unlike the West where campaigning has become more focussed on media and doorstep contact, Indian elections are conducted in a carnival atmosphere. Mass meetings, for example, have a significance not merely to communicate political messages to voters but the scale of attendance is also treated as a measure of public support, not least to entice undecided voters anxious to be on the winning side. In attempting to evolve fresh guidelines to cope with the challenges of Covid-19, the Election Commission had attempted to balance mass contact with social distancing. This was always going to be an impossible task and its success depended substantially on public awareness and political restraint. The experience of the campaign so far suggests that the faith in online meetings substituting outdoor mass meetings has been totally misplaced. Nearly all the political parties that had banked on virtual rallies have revised their plans and reverted to organizing carnivals. The images of public meetings addressed by the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav and the Lok Janshakti Party’s Chirag Paswan, for example, suggest that the fear of the virus has been subsumed by the desire to demonstrate the quantum of public support. Predictably, this has worked to the disadvantage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief campaigner for the National Democratic Alliance in the state. As the host of the prime minister, the state Bharatiya Janata Party has had to make a more visible show of social distancing than its rivals. Consequently, in visual terms, Modi’s rallies which, in earlier years, have been the high points of election campaigns have been less spectacular. The BJP has had to compensate with rallies by Bhojpuri stars such as the Delhi parliamentarian, Manoj Tiwari. The next few weeks will indicate whether the widespread fears of religious and political festivals leading to a spike in Covid-19 infections are legitimate. Going by the experience of post-Onam Kerala, the concerns seem real and explains why the prime minister addressed the nation to advise utmost care and restraint as long as the pandemic persisted. In political terms, what will be significant is the impact of the pandemic on voter turnout. If, as is being suggested, the fear of the deadly virus becomes a deterrent to voters in the 50-plus age group, will that be inimical to the NDA or its opponents? Moreover, anecdotal evidence argues that Muslim communities are relatively less inhibited in the conduct of normal public life during the pandemic than other communities. If this principle translates to queueing before polling booths, there is a possibility that the strategic Muslim vote in Bihar will be far greater than its population share. This does not augur well for the NDA. A second feature of the Bihar election that has a larger bearing is the voters’ attitude towards incumbency in extraordinary situations. In the past, during elections held in moments of great national stress, such as conflicts with foreign powers, voters have been inclined to give resolute support to the governments of the day. In the recent past, as happened in the Uttar Pradesh assembly election of 2017, even an extraordinary measure such as demonetization led to voters supporting the move. This support was contrary to media reports that suggested a groundswell of anger against the economic dislocation caused by demonetization. In this Bihar election, interest will be centred on the way in which the economic hardships suffered by migrant workers — a very large number are from Bihar — will play out. Going by media reports, many of the development initiatives undertaken by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, in the past 15 years are being overshadowed by the anger of migrant workers over difficulties experienced in the wake of the 21-day national lockdown in March and April this year. This is also borne out by opinion polls indicating that the NDA’s possible tally is being pulled down by a tide of anti-incumbency against the chief minister — as happened in Rajasthan in 2018 and in Jharkhand in December 2019. Certainly, the anger against the man who was in the past lauded for his sushasan (good administration) has created an awkward situation for the NDA and the BJP at the Centre. LJP’s Chirag Paswan has, for example, walked out of the NDA in Bihar but remains a committed supporter of Modi at the Centre. On the ground, a very large number of the LJP candidates contesting against the Janata Dal (United) nominees happen to be BJP rebels. The bush telegraph would have people believe that Paswan has been intentionally promoted by the BJP to bring Nitish Kumar down by a few notches and ensure that the BJP’s final tally exceeds that of its senior coalition partner. If this indeed happens and there is a fractured verdict, Bihar could be plunged into political uncertainty. Any possible uncertainty, in turn, could have an impact on political alignments at the Centre. After the Shiromani Akali Dal walked out of the NDA over the legislation on agricultural marketing reforms, there has been some gloating in Opposition circles over the systematic truncation of the ruling alliance at the Centre. If the NDA secures a clear majority in Bihar and Nitish Kumar resumes his role as chief minister, the impact is certain to be minor and manageable. At best, the induction of Paswan in the Modi ministry may be confronted by a JD(U) veto, leading to the LJP looking for other openings. However, in the event of a fractured verdict, the NDA is certain to experience a significant churning. Finally, the Bihar verdict is likely to have some impact on neighbouring West Bengal but only if the NDA registers a conclusive victory. The BJP is on an expansionist spree in its fight against Mamata Banerjee and needs powerful defectors from the Trinamul Congress to bolster its clout in south Bengal. An NDA victory could begin a rush to embrace the BJP before the year is out, a development that will leave the ruling TMC beleaguered and desperate to cling on to power. In Bengal, unfortunately, political realignments are invariably accompanied by violence on the ground. Unknown to him/her, the voter in Begusarai and Samastipur could, therefore, mould political behaviour in East Midnapore and Howrah districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-126
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Food prices soar in Dhanbad||Vegetable prices are skyrocketing in Dhanbad due to lack of sufficient supply from outside the state and lesser availability of local stock. Onion is being sold at Rs 70 per kg, white potato (old) is priced at Rs 40 per kg and red potato is being sold at Rs 50 per kg and white potato (new) is being sold at Rs 60 per kg. Ujjwal Kumar, a potato and onion retailer of police line area of Dhanbad said, “The delay in arrival of onion stock from Nasik is mainly responsible for the high prices of onion and the situation is likely to continue for one more month as the stock from Nasik will take around a month to arrive.” Regarding the high prices of potato he said, “potato prices are also high due to lack of sufficient supply from Bengal while the old existing stock is not usable and has rotten.” Ramesh Kumar, a vegetable seller of Police line area said, “Though the prices of green vegetable are high since the last two months and lack of sufficient stock at local level and non arrival of supplementary stock of from other places like Bengal is mainly responsible for the high prices.” “I don’t know the reason for high prices of vegetables but can say that the common people are worst sufferer as these are essential items affecting everybody,” said Joseph K.A., principal of De Nobili School, Dhanbad. Chatra deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha ordered a polytechnic building to be converted into a 300 bed covid care centre due to rise in cases. The college is situated in Kathotia under Paradih panchayat of chatra block. At present the town has a 100 bed covid care centre running in a newly constructed subdivisonal office building. Chatra subdivsional officer Mumtaz Ansari visited the college to oversee the preparations and ensure the facility is ready within a week. Chatra district administration auctioned paddy crops grown on government land sending a clear signal to land grabbers that such acts will not be tolerated. Auction took place in Dhebro village under Kanhachatti block where paddy crops from 33 acres of land were auctioned. Block officials reached the village on Wednesday and organised the auction participated by seven farmers. The government rate was fixed as Rs.1,01,000. During auction, the final rate reached Rs.2,05,000 paid by one Yugesgwar Yadav. Officials on Thursday handed the ownership of paddy to Yadav. Land grabbers had refused to vacate the land despite several warnings from officials. The auction was a necessary action taken to send a message that they won’t be mute spectators anymore. Ramgarh Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Singh on Thursday reviewed the work being done to develop the Chinnamastika Siddha Peeth Rajrappa as a religious and tourism place. Executive Engineer JSBCCL informed the Deputy Commissioner on the progress made so far under the first phase.The DC sought information from Forest Divisional Officer Ved Prakash Kamboj about the problems of land in construction works and held a detailed discussion to execute the cases at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries inch towards 95,000||The number of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand drew close to the 95,000 mark on Thursday after at least 461 more patients tested negative for the coronavirus, figures compiled by the health department stated. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of the infection on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state close to 94 per cent. As many as 395 people, including 78 from Ranchi and 61 from East Singhbhum, were found infected across Jharkhand during the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the number of active cases dropped to 5,294 after Thursday’s findings, the number of casualties further rose to 883 after three more patients breathed their last in 24 hours, the NHM bulletin stated. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. Ranchi reported the highest number of cases among all the districts in the state on Thursday. As per government records, there were around 1,700 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on Thursday, while around 1,300 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 31,564 people and 31,169 of them were found to be negative. As per government records, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of around 32.46 lakh people and tested around 32.33 lakh of them. Of the 883 Covid victims in Jharkhand, at least 333 were from East Singhbhum and 175 from Ranchi, which means that nearly 60 per cent of the fatalities reported in the state so far occurred in these two districts. At least 669 of the 883 victims were older than 50 years, while 173 were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years. At least 38 Covid victims were younger than 30 years. Barring Dhanbad, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the districts in Jharkhand reported less than 50 fresh cases of infection on Thursday. The count of active cases was below 1,000 in all the districts apart from Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As per government records, Jharkhand’s Covid-19 doubling rate was 168.19 days against the national average of 126.11 days. The growth rate of the infection in the state was 0.36 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.59 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Road blockade after fatal accident on Bhuiyandih, traffic disrupted for hours||Traffic on Bhuiyandih road remained disrupted for more than two hours after a 45-year-old man was run over by a trailer near Patel Nagar under Sitaramdera thana area on Thursday morning. The accident took place when the victim was pedalling through the congested road toward Sidhgora. The Bhuiyandih road is being widened hence there is very little space for the vehicles to pass through. The victim identified as Gurdeep Singh was grievously injured and was rushed to MGM Medical College Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries in an hour. The residents of adjoining Bhuiyandih set up a blockade at the accident spot causing the traffic to come to a standstill. The trailer driver had managed to escape with his vehicle after the accident which angered the local residents. The residents claimed fatal mishaps caused by heavy vehicles on Bhuiyandih road is a regular phenomenon and needs to be curbed. The police seized the trailer and arrested the driver shortly after the accident. "A fatal mishap took place near Patel Nagar on Bhuiyandi road at 11 am today. A 45-year-old man Gurdeep Singh who was a resident  of Tuiladungri in Golmuri was killed in the mishap.  We have seized the trailer that caused the mishap and also arrested the driver.  We are looking into the exact cause of the mishap," said the Sitaramdera OC, Anjani Kumar Singh. The blockade was lifted Singh convinced the protesters that the administration will take necessary steps to prevent such accidents on that road. The road blockade started at 11.15am and was lifted after 1.30 pm. An eyewitness said, "the trailer was moving at a moderate speed given the inadequate space on the road.  Beside very close to the trailer was the victim who was also pedalling his cycle.  But at a point near the Patel Chowk, there was a sharp up as a portion of the road was recently constructed.  The cycle rider failed to negotiate the mounted road and tumbled down on the right side.  As he was coming very close to the trailer, the rear wheel of the heavy vehicle ran over the victim, causing him to sustain grievous injuries." The police have seized the body and sent it to the MGM Medical College Hospital for Covid test in process of shifting it to the medical college in Dimna for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to host archery selection trials for Olympics ||A three-day archery selection trial for the Tokyo Olympic Games is set to be held in Jamshedpur. The trials will be organized by the Archery Association of India (AAI) with logistical support from the Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) and Tata Steel. Some of the country’s top-bracket recurve archers (men and women) will be in the city for the selection trials. The criteria for inviting the archers are yet to be finalized. However, an agreement has been worked out to invite the archers who had scored 650 points (men) and 630 points (women) during the trials held before the pandemic. It is expected around 40 men and women to attend the selection trials along with senior functionaries from the national archery outfit, scorers and judges supervising the activities. AAI joint secretary Sumanta Kumar Mohanty confirmed that Jamshedpur will host the selection trials, dates of which will be fixed in due course of time. “Jamshedpur has the required infrastructure for efficiently hosting the trials. The city has played host to such engagement earlier,” he added. The AAI has selected JRD Tata Sports Complex as the venue for the trials. The trial dates have not been fixed yet but it is expected to be scheduled from November 23 to 27. Mohanty informed that they were awaiting a go-ahead signal from the Indian Olympic Association for conducting the trials and would have announced the dates subsequently. “But we have already fixed Jamshedpur as the venue for the trials,” he added. Sports Authority of India (SAI) was supposed to conduct the trials but they backed out as the trial was scheduled in the open category. As an open trial would have gathered several archers, the authorities were against taking any risk during this pandemic. Later, the AAI took the responsibility of conducting the trials with due permission from the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the Sports Ministry. Keeping in mind the pandemic, required social distancing will be maintained during the trials and the participating archers will be accommodated at city hotels. The Indian men’s team has already qualified for the Olympics while ace archer Deepika Kumari is the lone woman to have made it to the big event. The steel city had played host to the selection trials in the run-up to the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Deepika Kumari, L Bombayala Devi, Laxmi Rani Majhi, Rimil Biruily, veteran Dola Banerjee, Reenan Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee and Mangal Singh Champia were among the top archers who had tried their luck at the trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get two new CNG stations by November end||Dhanbad will have two new CNG stations by November end. Installation work of one of the stations, Gupta Petroleum, an outlet of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) has almost been completed while the installation at another station at Aditya Multicom of HPCL at Barwaddah Topchanchi road is also under progress. Pipeline installation work for home delivery of natural gas is also under progress in some colonies of Dhanbad including at Koylangar colony of BCCL Colony, Jamadoba and Digwadih Colony. Tapan Palai, Deputy General Manager of GAIL India, said, “Though we have fixed the deadline of November end for commissioning of both the stations but it may be earlier than that as installation work of one of station at Putki Road has almost been completed while the installation  work of another station is also in advance stage of progress.” “Though initially CNG will be available for three wheelers and four wheelers only but gradually it will be available for all the vehicles,” said Palai. Asked about the availability of CNG vehicles in Dhanbad Palai said, “Such vehicles are already available in Ranchi and gradually it will be available in Dhanbad also with the installation of more stations and increasing popularity of CNG as an effective fuel.” GAIL India has been authorised for natural gas supply in 7002 square kilometer of Dhanbad and Giridih district as per the 9th bidding of Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). On GAIL’s future plans Palai said a total 15 CNG stations will be set up and 51000 households will be connected through the Natural Gas supply pipeline. “We will be installing two more stations in Dhanbad apart from the two stations to be launched by November end”, said Palai. Home delivery of natural gas will take some time and will be available during first quarter of next year. Palai said the rate has not yet been decided but it will be almost similar to Ranchi. CNG at present is being sold at around Rs 65 per kilogram in Ranchi area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Plans to monitor noise, air pollution during Diwali||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) will monitor noise pollution in as many as 11 places and ambient air quality in three places over two days beginning November 13, a day before Diwali. Officials at JSPCB’ regional office in Adityapur said they had received a formal circular in this regard from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), New Delhi. "The noise pollution survey would be carried out in 11 residential, commercial and silence zones while air quality will be monitored at Bistupur, Adityapur and Golmuri," said Suresh Paswan, regional officer of JSPCB. According to the regional officer, teams would be constituted for carrying out surveys on both the days. In order to monitor ambient air quality the pollution watchdog will use respirable dust sampler which helps in monitoring total suspended particles in the air apart from other pollutant gases like sulphur-dioxide and nitrogen-dioxide. While the decibel check will be carried out at usual survey points in Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Adityapur, including Tata Main Hospital (in Bistupur) and new civil court premises in Bhuiyandih. Portable noise meters would be used for monitoring noise pollution. Paswan said the findings of the survey would be sent to its Ranchi headquarters, which would then forward it to CPCB. The regional office of the board would also publish a decibel directive in local vernacular dailies in the next couple of days. It will ask people not to burst crackers beyond 125 decibels and refrain from bursting crackers after 10 pm. Last year's survey revealed that Sakchi roundabout, a crowded commercial centre,  topped the decibel limit with 130 decibels (dB) on Diwali night while respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) was a shocker at another commercial hub _  Golmuri which recorded 205 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3). Under CPCB norms, the permissible noise level in a commercial zone is 55dB between 10pm and 6am and the prescribed RSPM in ambient air is 100µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bypolls to test JMM’s popularity as BJP tries to regain lost ground||The November 3 byelections in two Assembly constituencies of Jharkhand are significant in that they are a test of popularity of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, 10 months after it came to power ousting the BJP even though the saffron combine was able to offer the state its first full-term government since the formation of Jharkhand two decades ago. Faced with a depleting state exchequer amid a raging pandemic, it is crucial for the Hemant-Soren-led alliance to win in Dumka and Bermo and cement its position as a government that’s here to stay. For the BJP, it is an opportunity to regain lost ground. Of the two, a victory in Dumka — a seat reserved for scheduled tribes and considered a JMM bastion _  would open doors for it to expand its base among tribal voters, majority of whom turned hostile towards the former government of Raghubar Das for its attempts to amend age-old land laws (CNT/SPT) that safeguarded adivasi rights. As a result, of the 28 ST seats in the 81 Assembly segments, BJP could win only two in 2019 compared to its best ever tally of 11 in 2014. With less than a week left for the byelections, both camps have stepped up campaigning, the JMM’s adivasi-moolvasi asmita (pride) vs the BJP’s legacy. The ruling alliance’s campaign, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, is centred around issues of tribal and indigenous pride to safeguard “jal and jameen” and targeting the Narendra Modi-led Union government for “trying to destabilise Jharkhand” by creating resource foadblocks. It is also blaming the former government of Raghubar Das for having damaged the state’s fiscal health by lavish spending at the cost of real, on-ground development. “Because of the BJP’s faulty policies, like the local residents’ policy, youths are unable to get employment. Now, it (BJP) is going all out to block our pending dues, impose financial penalties for the mistakes of its past government (DVC) to destabilise us,” Hemant remarked at rallies in Dumka and Bermo on Wednesday. The BJP on other hand is accusing the ruling coalition of promoting dynasts over governance, claiming how since the change of guard, the state was heading towards lawlessness. “The safety of women and children in Dumka and entire Santhal Parganas is under threat because of spate of rapes and sexual assaults. Rebel hit Santhal Parganas used to have better roads; but today roads are bad because of illegal sand and stone mining and transport by one single party. For them, development of the family is more important than welfare of people,” BJP leader of the Opposition Babulal Marandi said referring to the JMM. In Dumka, JMM has fielded chief minister Hemant’s younger brother Basant Soren and in Bermo, the Congress has fielded Kumar Jaimangal, son of the grand old party’s former MLA Rajendra Singh. BJP on the other hand is banking on old war horses — Louise Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto Batul in Dumka and Bermo respectively — both lost their sitting seats in 2019. The BJP’s campaign is primarily led by three former chief ministers — Marandi (Dhanwara MLA), Arjun Munda (Khunti MP and Union tribal affairs minister) and Raghubar Das (BJP national vice president). The saffron camp is also upbeat after winning over estranged allies AJSU-P and JDU for the two bypolls. “Marandi, a Santhali, is mainly camping in Dumka, overseeing the electioneering from there. Das, an OBC, is concentrating in Bermo, which has a considerable chunk of OBC voters. Even though Das campaigned in Dumka, we are keeping Marandi in the limelight for largescale canvassing to strike a chord with tribal voters,” said a state BJP veteran. The Dumka Assembly segment, part of the Dumka Lok Sabha constituency, covers Dumka town, Muffasil and Masalia blocks. The segment has a population of around 3,35,339 as per the 2011 census. Of this, 78.21 per cent is rural. Scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) comprise 6.55 per cent and 43.41 per cent respectively. In an electorate of 2,46,712, the turnout in the 2019 Assembly polls was 67.2 per cent. The JMM got 48.86 per cent votes compared to the BJP’s 40.91 per cent. Bermo in Bokaro district is a part of Giridih Lok Sabha constituency. The Assembly segment has a population of 4,36,764, of which 63.79 per cent is urban. Scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) comprise 13.79 per cent and 15.8 per cent respectively. Besides, Bermo has a considerable population of Mahtos, Rajputs, OBCs among its close to 3 lakh voters. By virtue of being in  the coal belt, a sizeable number of colliery workers play a crucial role in the final verdict. The 2019 Assembly polls saw a turnout of 60.99 per cent. The Congress bagged 46.88 per cent votes while the BJP got 33.61 per cent. Of late, the BJP is trying to impress upon the electorate that the outcome of the bypolls would ultimately pave way for a change in the government, but not immediately. Party insiders believe that victory in either seat would open avenues to woo disgruntled MLAs from the ruling alliance. “During polls for the two Rajya Sabha seats of Jharkhand this year, we got 31 votes, three more than our cumulative MLA strength. This indicates that cracks exist in the ruling camp. Going by the current strength of the House, which has been reduced to 78 after the death of Haji Hussain Ansari (Madhepur), the majority mark stands at 39. The BJP-AJSU-P combine has 28 MLAs and, taking in account the trend in RS polls, three Independents will back us. If the BJP bags Dumka and Bermo, followed by Madhepur, then the tables can turn. Nothing is impossible in politics,” said a BJP leader to explain why they were harping on a “change of guard” slogan while campaigning. This somewhat aggressive strategy of the BJP’s is playing in the mind of the ruling alliance. For instance, chief minister Hemant, in poll rallies in Dumka and Bermo, has been stressing on completing a full five-year term, appealing to people to vote for the state’s “asmita (pride)” against the power-hungry BJP. “The BJP is aware that it can never win the trust of voters after duping people of Jharkhand in the last five years and even prior to that. That is why it is offering fake threats of toppling the government after the bypolls. But this is your government that has been formed to safeguard and fight for the rights of adivasis, moolvasis and the people of this state,” Hemant said in Dumka on Tuesday and iterated in Bermo on Wednesday. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee maintained that both seats would remain with the alliance. “In Dumka, we are winning with an even larger margin compared to 2019 as the real face of the BJP has got exposed after it lost power in Jharkhand. People are aware how the Modi government is now trying to financially destabilise Jharkhand by violating all norms of a federal structure even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon added that the bypolls would be a referendum on the good work done by the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government in the last 10 months. But the Opposition BJP is hoping against hope. “The bypolls will mark the end of dynasts both in Dumka and Bermo where JMM and Congress are only interested in furthering a particular family’s political legacy rather than improve governance. This bypoll will also be a mirror to the incumbent government on how a change of regime led to a fall in standards of governance, transparency and law and order in the state,” remarked state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash. The bypoll results, out on November 10, will ultimately prove who is right.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Potters optimistic but sales yet to pick up for Diwali ||Potters in steel city are preparing earthen lamps (diyas) for Diwali but with little hope of sale during the Covid pandemic. "We have been making earthen lamps for over half a decade now, however, demand is very low this year due to the pandemic," said Anil Kumhakar , a potter at Kumhar Para in Baradwari. Already hit by the pandemic, potters who failed to do business during the just concluded Durga Puja complained of minimal sale, business loss and meagre profit margin during the Diwali festivity too. Dhanbad potters on the other hand are expecting better business during this Diwali since people are focusing on clay made articles including idols and diyas. Jitendra Pandit, a potter of Kumharpatti locality said, “the recent turn of events like call of prime minster to light diyas during the initial phase of lockdown on April 5 and also for lighting earthen diyas during the Bhumi Pujan of Ram Temple at Ayodhya has brought the focus on earthen diyas and we hope that the situation will be better this year for us as people are expected to  celebrate Diwali with traditional spirit.” “Our profession was on the down since the last two three decades due to the arrival of Chinese lights in the market but the situation has slightly improved this year,” said Jitendra who works at a school dress making unit. “Nobody can survive with the sole income of clay pot making which is a declining trend,” he said. The Covid-19 protocols have restricted the scope of celebrating Diwali like previous years in order to curb public gathering and maintain social distancing to prevent new cases of infections. "We are taking risk by investing our money for making products for sale during Diwali. These earthen lamps would usually be sold days ahead of the festival but this time the sale looks difficult in the pandemic. Everything is in God's hand," said another potter. Officials of civic bodies like Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC ) have started visiting places in Sakchi, Mango and Sonari where members of the potters community reside to keep a check on whether they are following Covid-19 protocols while preparing the earthen lamps. A Potter in Sonari pointed out, "People  are hesitant to  visit us to avoid any infection so that's why we're  keeping fingers crossed and not hoping for a bumper sale like previous years during Diwali." Rajendra Pandit, from Dahuatand locality of Dhanbad, said, “We have procured two trucks of clay this year instead of only one truck during the last year as we are expecting better business this year.” “We have also received some orders for the clay idols of Laxmi and Ganesh but the clay toys and Gharonda orders are yet to come,” said Rajendra. “We would request the administration allow us to sell our products on the road side  for two three days ahead of Diwali as we can afford to have permanent set up for sell of such articles which have only seasonal demand” said Rajendra. Surendra Pandit of Kumhar Patti locality said, “we are optimistic about good sell this year and therefore working with full potential and one of reason for the our expectation is also the trend of all festivals being celebrated with simplicity this year due to impact of lockdown and pandemic and the best way to celebrate Diwali should lighting earthen diyas rather than insisting flamboyance spending lot of money on crackers etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Over 100 Bokaro youths held captive by TN firm, say kin||Over 100 youths of a Bokaro village, who had gone to Chennai after being promised work and a good pay, have now complained that the contractor who took them there a month ago had held them hostage. The contractor has, however, claimed that while some workers had left without informing him, others had returned and were with him on their own accord. Nevertheless, the family members of the youths have approached the MLA of Gomia, Lambodar Mahto, for help after some of the youths managed to call them and tell them about their plight. On Wednesday, Mahto informed Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh, who assured him of all possible help to bring back the youths of Chando village of Petarwar block. The MLA said, “The villagers here told me that the contractor has held the youths captive and was mentally and physically torturing them. They youths have told their families about being forced to work for 12 hours. The contractor has refused to pay them the promised amount.” Mahto said he had also spoken to the labour secretary of Jharkhand and requested his help to bring the workers back from Chennai. Family members of the youths say that many of their phones weren ow switched off. Logesh R of Astrotech Steel, Chennai, who took the workers there, said over the phone that about 50 workers had left on Saturday without informing him, but 30 of them had returned on Tuesday. They were “happily working”, he claimed. “We brought them to Chennai from Bokaro, spending Rs 5 lakh on buses. We got them tested for COVID-19 in Chennai and met other expenses. We have spent almost Rs 15 lakh on them but they refused to work and returned without informing us. What we can do?” he said. During the lockdown, as many as 27,000 migrant workers returned to Bokaro while other districts also recorded a huge number of arrivals. Months later, several companies began searching for manpower to run their businesses. In September, the sub-contractor of the Chennai company came to Bokaro in search of skilled and semi-skilled workers. He got in touch with the youths of Chando and nearby villages, offering them jobs in the packaging industry. He also showed them labor licenses and other documents pertaining to the company, Astrotech Steels. The workers were offered free lodging, food and a good remuneration. As no buses were plying then, the contractor hired two buses and took 104 workers to Chennai. But after reaching Chennai, many of them found that the nature of the job and the facilities were not as promised. The workers expressed their wish to go back but the contractor did not pay heed. Bokaro labor superintendent Harendra Kumar Singh said, “We have informed the state control room which deals with problems of migrant workers. They will coordinate with the authorities of Tamil Nadu and help bring the workers back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Heightened vigil on border as Bihar Assembly elections begin||The Chatra border with Gaya was sealed on Wednesday till the evening to keep a strict vigil on vehicles entering the Bihar border. The first phase of the Bihar Assembly Elections took place in Gaya on Wednesday. Policemen were deployed in large numbers. Inspector B.P. Mandal said they stayed there till 5 in the evening when polling came to an end. Mandal said roads leading to Gaya including Huntergunj-Imamgunj, Pandeypura-Imamgunj, Huntergunj-Dumariya Barachatti, Huntergunj-Sherghati and Huntergunj Lenjwa were sealed from 7am to 5pm. Pathalgadda police in Chatra arrested two Maoist informers in the district who aided in the killing of a woman on October 18. Police claimed that both had done recce of Nageshwari and passed information about her to subzonal commander Deepak Yadav after which she was gunned down. The arrested youths have been identified as Niranjan Kumar Bhokta, resident of Mudhesa Tola of Koranbe in Payhalgadda and Jogendra Ganjhu resident of Urub village in Simaria block. Maoists had called Nageshwari a police informer and blamed her for passing information about them to police. Police had lodged an FIR against Maoist’s subzonal commander Karu Yadav and four others under sections 147, 148, 149, 449, 341, 302 of the IPC and17CLA act. The other three extremists named in the FIR are Mithilesh alias Duryodhan Mahto, Binod Munda, Chandan and Ramkhelawan Ganjhu. Three masked men looted a customer service point at Ketat Kalan under Rehla police station of Rs two lakh twenty four thousand on Wednesday. Sources said this is the first robbery in day time just weeks ahead of Diwali. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said SDPO Surjit Kumar is looking into this day light robbery. SP said digital recording of the three miscreants was not recorded as there were no CCTV cameras at the service point. SDPO Surjit Kumar said a case has been lodged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
29-10-2020||Jharkhand||Amitabh Choudhary appointed as new chairman of Jharkhand Public Service Commission||Former acting secretary of the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI), and former president of the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA), Amitabh Choudhary (60) has been appointed as the new chairman of Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC). A veteran cricket administrator and ex-IPS, Choudhary will hold the office for two years, a notification issued from the state personnel department on Wednesday stated. tHE JPSC chairman’s office was vacant since September this year after retired IAS SudhirTripathi’s tenure ended. Considering Choudhary’s expertise in handling difficult situations both as an IPS and cricket administrator, his appointment is seen by many as the right move to put the controversial recruitment body on track, which since its inception after formation of Jharkhand had run into several scams and court litigations. Government sources, however, hinted that Choudhary’s sudden role reversal is linked to his new found bonhomie with the chief minister Hemant Soren. Reacting to the appointment, a senior bureaucrat in the state government said, “It is beyond doubt that Amitabh Choudhary has the potential to crack tough nuts on his own terms and handle crisis situations. He has been there and done that many times during his service and also as the head of the state cricket body when he almost single-handedly took on a big corporate shift of state cricket’s epicenter from Jamshedpur to Ranchi. He was also the main force behind the iconic JSCA stadium in Dhurwa. However, the key reason behind his appointment follows the CM making him the chief patron of JSCA and his close aides life term members.” Choudhary also tried contesting Lok Sabha and assembly elections in Jharkhand in the past but didn’t succeed. In last year’s JSCA polls, Choudhary, who was then acting BCCI secretary, couldn’t contest due to the cooling off period clause enforced by the Supreme Court in the wake of Lodha committee recommendations to improve the affairs of BCCI. Thereafter, new office bearers led by former India captain Sourav Ganguly filled BCCI administrators posts too, leaving Choudhary unoccupied. Choudhary was unavailable for comments on his appointment as his phone remained switched off. We will update the story as and when we are able to reach him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-253
