30-10-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja 2020: Gainers and losers||In a departure from other years, the puja week wasn’t a happy time across the board. Most people stayed away from pandals and so the ancillary industries around them were left high and dry. Then again restaurants and food delivery outlets recorded way better sales than they had expected from an ill-fated year like this. The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to various stakeholders to spot the winners and losers of October fest 2020. CD Block’s biryani outlet Oudh  1590 would open doors for dinner at 6.30pm but on Navami evening the first customers would be a college-going couple waiting outside from 4.30! “On other years I visit pandals every day of the pujas but this time I only visited my neighbourhood one,” said the girl who had come from Baguiati. Instead the friends had been coming over to Salt Lake every day to dine. “We ate at Darjeeling, Momo I Am and today at Oudh. Restaurants are safer than pandals as I’m sure they’re careful about sanitisation,” said the student of mass communication. Oudh had a seating capacity of 68 but manager Swarup Dutta said they had laid out 90 chairs in a make-shift waiting area under a shamiana outside. “Two to three hours was the standard waiting time but no one complained. It was as if they had shifted the adda from pandals to the waiting lounge,” he said. Hatari, that opened its sit-and-eat space in CF Block in mid-October, said footfall exceeded their expectations. “Ashtami and Navami were jam-packed and we got lots home delivery orders too,” said manager Purnendu Patra. 6 Ballygunge Place near City Centre had to go in for one-hour slots for diners and though footfall was less than previous years, it matched what they estimated this time. “I was shocked to see people drive in in Jaguars and BMWs, perch their six-month babies on the boot and eat dinner,” said Goutam Karmakar, owner of the Goutam’s outlet on EM Bypass. “They said they were fed up of staying locked up at home and so were going on long drives instead of pandals. On the way, they wanted to grab a bite. I thought I would have to shut shop at 1.30am during the Pujas but I was forced to stay open till dawn.” But caterers who serve meals at community pujas had to be disappointed. “We got just one puja contract this year in New Town and that too for a measly headcount of 50 or 60 people. This is not a patch on the contracts of over 1,000 diners we usually get during the Pujas,” said Nilanjan Brahma of Dui Burir Hesel in FC Block. Megha Kapoor, who had gone pandal-hopping to AE (Part 1) on Navami, looked longingly at the phuchka, roll and chaat stalls near the exit but then turned away. “We’re not taking a chance this year. In fact, not just me, even the kids traveling with us are not pestering us for a bite of anything on the street. We only want hygienic food this year,” said the lady who had come from Dunlop. In other years, the phuchka seller outside the swimming pool has to hire at least two helping hands to manage the Puja rush. This year, he sat fidgeting with his phone as The Telegraph Salt Lake approached him on Navami. “Few are stepping out of home this year and even fewer are eating street food. Sales are down to half,” said Umesh Prasad. “I’ve been here 30 years here and every puja has been great for business. Every puja except this.” Moirul Islam sells candy floss outside the BJ Block puja every year, “but on other years I run out of stock and have to call home asking for more. This year I am taking home unsold packets every night,” he said, sitting morosely on the footpath. Amulya Mondal, who runs a stall selling cigarettes, soft drinks and paan near Karunamoyee bus stand with his father Radheshyam Mondal, had stocked up on bottles of soft drinks, packets of chips and biscuits for  the Pujas. According to Mondal, they did not even manage to sell 30 per cent of the stock that he had picked up. “There were hardly people outside. Even those who were out seemed reluctant to make purchases,” said Mondal. Hawkers selling toys, hair clips, accessories had dwindled in number and so had their sales. “Many customers are scared to touch the products but I have a sanitiser bottle ready for them. Still, so few are coming,” said Archana Mondal, selling hair clips on the footpath of BJ Block. Raja Molla at FD Block had brought toys, “but there are so few children coming this year,” he complained. Some hawkers had to relocate. “I usually put up my stall outside the AJ Block puja but this year the block went for a simple pandal. I knew crowds would be thin so I switched over to BJ Block,” said Kanai Chauram, who sold toys and accessories of idols. “I used to make money selling at fairs but that’s a distant memory. And now the Puja season has also let me down. We’re all but ruined.” Shedding copious tears are auto and rickshaw drivers who would make a fortune ferrying pandal-hoppers across the township. “Most Salt Lake residents either dislike crowds or travel by cars and bikes. Eighty per cent of the Puja footfall comes from outside,” said Dipankar Mondal, an auto driver cooling his heels on Navami at the Tank 4 stand. “The visitors get off at Bidhannagar railway station, head to Sreebhumi and cross over to Salt Lake. This year, none of that was possible without trains.” It used to be common for passengers to reserve autos by the hour and be shown around the best pujas of the township. “Only one among the 22 vehicles at our stand got reserved for such a tour this year. In other years, each of us makes up to Rs 1,500 a day during the pujas and this time we are struggling to earn 200,” said another driver, Ajoy Mondal. “In other years we don’t get time to eat during the pujas; now we have time but have nothing to eat. We could have jolly well stayed home during this week but are unable to face our children who keeping asking for new clothes.” Rickshaw-pullers  have the same grouse. “Often people come and ask us which pandals are worth visiting and we take them around. Those trips would take hours. This year I can count on one hand the number of beautiful pandals erected. They can be covered in no time,” says Ashok Mondal, a rickshaw-puller at the City Centre stand who got only one such passenger. Panchanna Das, who has been ferrying passengers around Salt Lake for the past 15 years, said that he could not remember a time when there were no takers for his rickshaw to go pandal-hopping like this year. Many residents as well as visitors to the township often hire rickshaws and autorickshaws to go around the township and visit pandals to avoid the hassle of finding parking spots near top-draw pandals. “This puja was a complete dampener,” said Das, while adding that his daily earnings during Durga Puja dipped to less than Rs 300. Time was when customers would book cars to go pandal-hopping as early as Mahalaya. “We would get 50 to 60 bookings every night,” says Ripon Das of New First Driver Service and Travels in AA Block. “This year bookings are down to 40 per cent. Some people hired cars and headed to their ancestral homes or to Digha and Mandarmani instead.” Dreams Driver Service in Kestopur didn’t get a single pandal-hopping booking this year. “The handful of bookings we had got cancelled after the high court order banned visitors from entering pandals,” said Kanu Raul, who runs the service. “Also missing were airport pick-up and drops for NRI visitors coming to see the pujas or of residents leaving for vacations.” Many have hopped on to the Covid-safety items bandwagon this season. At BJ Block, an ice cream stall was selling hand sanitisers. “And the santisers are selling more than ice creams!” said the vendor, himself in disbelief. “My company has sent these pocket-sized bottles and I’ve given them prominent display.” But while the pujas required repeated sanitsation, the market wasn’t kind to all. “The sanitation market is huge but competition is even greater,” says Sayak Ghosh, whose IA Block travel agency switched gears some months ago to Unimax, a Covid-specialty store. “Everyone whose anyone has entered this market and many are using inferior products so as to offer cheaper rates,” says Ghosh. Their company won the contract to sanitise a Behala puja. Youth Merchant is another sanitising company that won a contract in Purbachal 2R and another one opposite Apollo Hospitals. “Both were thanks to personal contacts. We lost a third contract as a rival company offered to sanitise the place at Rs 20,000 less than us. I don’t know how that’s possible keeping in mind the price of genuine chemicals,” said one of the founders Sagnik Das. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Three Durga idols to be kept in state-run gallery||The idols of three Durga puja committees in the city, including the one which depicted the goddess as a migrant woman carrying her child, will be kept at a gallery run by a state government agency. The three Durga idols will be kept at the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority gallery in Rabindra Sarobar area of the city. The fibreglass idol of the migratory woman, on the road trail during the lockdown carrying her child and three other children trailing her, drew crowds to the Barisha Club Puja pandal to watch the deity during the puja days and the image went viral on social media triggering both praise and criticism from netizens. A section of people had felt the traditional look of the goddess cannot be experimented in a puja where all rituals are being followed while many others hailed the work of art. The idol, inspired by a watercolour painting by Bikash Bhattacharya and sculpted by craftsman Rintu Das, would be kept at the "Phire Dekha" (Looking Back) gallery where some Durga idols of previous years have already been kept, a puja committee spokesman said on Friday. Bengal minister Firhad Hakim said "the idol will be kept in the gallery for the time being. It was liked by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during the inauguration and it is an amazing work of art." Similarly, the beautiful Durga idol of Santoshpur Lake Pally made of paper and the idol of 74 Pally, Khidderpore have also been taken to the gallery, the organisers said. "We are happy that our idol, which could not be viewed by revellers due to Calcutta High Court order prohibiting entry of visitors 10 metre from the pandal entrance, can now be seen by everyone at the art gallery - from morning walkers in the lake compound to tourists," Santoshpur Lake Pally General Secretary Somnath Das said. The Santoshpur Lake Pally idol has been made of paper pulp. A KMDA official said some Durga idols are being displayed in the gallery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Bust breast cancer myth: city oncologist at webinar||The fear of biopsy prevents many from consulting a doctor even if they feel a lump in the breast, said a city oncologist at a webinar to raise awareness on breast cancer. “When early breast cancer arises in a female commonly and rarely in male, they will feel a lump… they do not want to come to the doctor because of the fear of biopsy. Because there is a myth that if you do a biopsy or operation on a cancer, it will spread,” said Shibashish Bhattacharyya, the head of the department and professor of medical oncology at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “So this myth has to be busted by social workers… healthcare providers, rural practitioners, general physicians and gynaecologists.” Bhattacharyya said women should be encouraged to go for investigation because all breast lumps are not cancer. “Even before a biopsy there is an investigation called mammogram,” he said. He was addressing an international symposium on breast health organised by the NGO Sanjeevani Life Beyond Cancer. “Women often put themselves last on the priority list because they think treatment will entail expenditure and expenses on other things will get compromised. But eventually the cancer reaches an advanced stage, it becomes painful and they have to approach a doctor and the expenditure rises and treatment gets delayed,” said Ruby Ahluwalia, the founder of Sanjeevani. The webinar was organised mostly for students in the age group of 20 to 30. “Earlier, it was believed that cancer is a disease of the old but now a lot of young people are getting it. And if young girls or boys are aware, they will be able to handle both their and their parents’ health better,” said Ahluwalia. Pankaj Chowdhary, the president of Darjeeling Oncology Trust, spoke about lack of data and  called for increased awareness. Sucheta Paul, the head of the social work department at St Xavier’s University, said it was important to talk to students on these issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Second full moon of this month,  or blue moon on Saturday||Many eyes will be set on the evening sky on Saturday, the second full moon of this month, dubbed as the “blue moon” by some sky watchers. The moon is not going to look blue, Debiprosad Duari, the director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium, said. “In modern parlance, a blue moon is the second full moon in a calendar month. The time between one full moon and the next is close to the length of a calendar month. So, the only time one month can have two full moons is when the first full moon happens in the first few days of the month, in this case on October 1.” But the original concept of a blue moon is part of folklore and practices of the medieval agrarian society, Duari said. “If a season has four full moons, the third full moon maybe called a seasonal blue moon, according to the old Maine Farmer’s Almanac.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||October rise in dengue numbers in the city||Several hospitals in the city have admitted more dengue patients in October than in previous months this year, and CMC officials attributed the rise in numbers to more people stepping out of their homes. Since human beings act as carriers of the dengue virus, their movement increases the chance of the disease spreading, an entomologist of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said. “An Aedes aegypti mosquito carrying the dengue virus can infect a human being through its bite. And an uninfected mosquito can pick up the virus by biting the infected human and then spread the virus to other human beings through its bite,” the entomologist said. When more people keep moving, it means an infected person can pass on the virus to an uninfected mosquito, which can then infect a human being, the entomologist said. The CMC’s vector-control work has not been adequate in the couple of weeks before and during the festive season, several people in the city said. “There is a vacant plot outside our apartment. Discarded home items, earthen cups, paper cups have been lying there. I did not see any CMC team cleaning the plot or spraying larvicide there in the past couple of weeks,” a Kasba resident said. At least 750 people have been infected with dengue so far this year in the Calcutta municipal area, a CMC official said. The number was 2,500 in the corresponding period last year, he said. “Our surveillance work has continued in full force.” A doctor at the Institute of Child Health in Park Circus said 80 children had been admitted with dengue to the hospital in October. An official of Peerless Hospital said 15 people had been admitted with dengue to the hospital in October. The chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital said the hospital had noticed a spike in dengue admission in October. All three, however, said the numbers were lower than last year. “Eighty dengue patients have been admitted to our hospital in October. In September, it was 65,” Prabhas Prasun Giri, a doctor at the Institute of Child Health, said. Sudipto Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said 15 dengue patients had been admitted to the hospital in October. The number was 10 in September, he said. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said they had 16 dengue patients in October and 12 in September. A spike in the number of dengue cases is seen every year around October and November, a CMC official said. “Last year, we were able to keep dengue infections under control till September but the numbers had seen a sharp spike in October and November. Going by experience of previous years, I would say the numbers can keep rising for another couple of weeks.” The bamboo poles used to erect pandals during Durga Puja are “good breeding places” for mosquitoes, according to CMC doctors. “Bamboo poles have a cavity on the top. When it rains, water accumulates inside the cavity. The Aedes aegypti mosquitoes find them suitable as breeding  grounds because they remain undisturbed,” a CMC doctor said. Also, people throw cups and containers here and there and they remain undisturbed for long. The World Health Organisation website says the Aedes aegypti mosquito “lives in urban habitats and breeds mostly in man-made containers”. The low rainfall during October and November helps in the breeding of mosquitoes, a CMC official said. Heavy and frequent rain during the monsoon washes away mosquito eggs. But the occasional rain in October helps the water to remain stagnant for more than seven days in a container, the official said. And it take seven days for an Aedes egg to complete the life cycle stages and turn into an adult. So, it is necessary to clean all open containers once every seven days, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||White cockatoos rescued from Bangladesh border||More than a dozen White cockatoos were rescued on Thursday while they were possibly being smuggled into the city from Bangladesh, the BSF said. Border Security Force officers posted along the India-Bangladesh border near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas rescued the birds. The BSF had received information that several birds would be smuggled into the city from Bangladesh near the Pipli border outpost in Bongaon, a BSF officer said. A patrol posted at the border outpost spotted a few men moving suspiciously with two large gunny bags on their heads, the officer said. Asked to stop, they dropped the bags and ran into the forested area. “On closer inspection, our men found the birds crammed into two wooden boxes,” the officer said. The BSF contacted the forest department who identified the birds and advised them to give the birds some fruits and water. The birds have been handed over to Alipore zoo. A zoo official said the birds were “extremely traumatised and dehydrated”. “We have given them oral rehydration salts as well as some fruits.” The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days. The Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, bans wildlife trade but wildlife trafficking has emerged as a multi-billion dollar trade. Southeast Asia is the largest market for wild animals, birds and products from India and Calcutta the preferred corridor of smugglers, a forest official said. “Consignments change hands multiple times before reaching the final destination,” the forest official said. A week ago 54 Lorikeets had been rescued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Fire breaks out at garment shop-cum-godown off VIP Road||A fire broke out in a garment shop-cum-godown on the ground floor of a four-storey building near the Joramandir bus stop off VIP Road on Thursday morning. Residents were asked to evacuate the building as firemen tried to douse the flames, a fire officer said. It took two fire engines and about 30 minutes to bring the fire under control. Police said no one was trapped or injured in the fire. Traffic on VIP Road near the Joramandir bus stop was held up for some time to give fire engines an easy access. As the building is in a narrow lane, the first fire engine that responded to the distress call had to turn back and a small engine arrived a few minutes later, the fire officer said. Residents of the building were the first to spot dense black smoke billowing out of the shop and they alerted the fire brigade. “We reached within 10 minutes. But we faced problems as our fire engine was too wide to enter the narrow lane… we had to call in another small fire engine. The fire was doused within 30 minutes,” the fire officer said. The fire broke out a few minutes after 11am, Srikumar Majumdar who stays on the second floor of the building said. “We saw dense smoke coming out of the shop and ran out.” Almost all residents of the building had been experiencing electrical problems and they had had a local electrician check out the lines. He had suggested a complete overhaul of the wiring system, Majumdar said. “We were supposed to discuss this in our next meeting but the fire broke out before that.” Birendra Sharma, the owner of the shop-cum-godown, said he had kept his shop closed for the past eight days because of low stock. “We did not have much stock left; so, we had kept the shop closed. We were waiting for a fresh consignment of goods before opening the shop,” Sharma said. Preliminary investigations showed a short circuit in a meter box inside the shop triggered the fire, a fire officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake FD Block puja committee files pandal arson complaint ||The puja committee of Salt Lake’s FD Block whose pandal and idols were destroyed in a fire on Wednesday has lodged a complaint with Bidhannagar South police station alleging arson. A member of the FD Block Sarbojanin Durgotsav Committee said they lodged the complaint as they felt somebody had started the fire deliberately. “We have demanded a thorough probe… we strongly believe someone set fire to our pandal. There are people in this block who are trying to seize control of the puja… since they have failed they decided to do this,” Banibrata Banerjee, the president of this year’s puja committee, said. A group of residents of the block have been trying for the past couple of years to take over the puja committee, he said. “These people wanted to undermine our capabilities and when all else failed they started a fire. A short circuit could not have triggered the fire as the decorators had snapped the main electric line on Tuesday night.” An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said cops had spoken to the guards and dhakis and recorded their statements. Police are going through footage of the CCTV camera installed on top of the FD Block community centre to ascertain the sequence of events. “So far we haven’t found anything to suggest someone started the fire,” an officer said. Most of the people cops have spoken to have said they tried to douse the flames with buckets of water the moment they saw the pandal on fire. “They could not do much as the flames spread rapidly throughout the pandal,” the officer said. Another officer of the commissionerate said the police were still to receive the forensic test report. The report might give an idea what triggered the fire, the officer said. The police have started a case under various IPC sections, including 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage). “We have collected the charred remnants of a meter box and some cables from near the pandal. We are examining them to understand if a short circuit had triggered the fire,” a state forensic sciences laboratory official said. An official of the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd said organisers had asked for electricity supply till Wednesday evening. The committee had planned to immerse the idols on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, the entire ground was cleared of the remaining installations of animals, trees and caves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||RKM to test English Masters aspirants via home assignments and viva voce||The Ramakrishna Mission Residential College (Autonomous) in Narendrapur will test aspirants in English Masters through home assignments and viva voce this year. Science aspirants will have to appear for viva voce in physics and computer science through video call/audio call/ WhatsApp call. For chemistry, graduation marks will be considered. The college, till last year, selected students based on their entrance test scores and graduation marks. “This year, we have introduced an alternative mechanism to screen candidates because admission tests cannot be held under the prevailing circumstances,” Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, said. The selection procedure for English says “there will be an online home assignment test of two hours carrying 50 marks”. The test will be held on November 18 and candidates will have to answer two questions of 25 marks each. The college has worked out the model as it will help teachers get an idea about a candidate’s command over the language, a teacher of the English department said. The college will send the home assignment to the email id provided by a candidate, the college has said in its admission notification. Candidates will have to mention their name, application number and phone number at the top of the answer script. The test will start from 11.30am. Once candidates are through with writing the answers, they will have to send the answer script in PDF format to admengndp@gmail.com. The test will be for two hours and candidates will get a buffer of 15 minutes to send the answer scripts. Candidates will be shortlisted based on marks obtained in BA English Honours (converted to 50) and marks scored in the home assignment test (50). Shortlisted candidates will have to appear for viva voce of 30 marks. The final selection will be based on a weightage of 130. For physics and computer science, the viva voce dates will be announced later. The final selection will be based on marks obtained in BSc Physics Honours (converted to 100) and marks obtained in viva voce (30). The screening is not based solely on graduation marks because the college is not satisfied with the way the final semesters exams had been held early this month, a teacher of the physics department said. Students took the final semester exams from home following a UGC directive and there was no invigilation involved. “So, we are unsure whether the results reflect a student’s merit. The viva voce will help us get an idea about that,” the teacher said. This concern has prompted some departments of Presidency University to factor in Plus II marks during postgraduate admissions. If Net connectivity problems come in the way of a video call/WhatsApp call for viva voce, the college will screen candidates through marks alone, a teacher of the chemistry department at the Narendrapur institute said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta film festival deferred to January||The Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), which was scheduled to take place from November 5 to 12, has been postponed to January. The festival will be held from January 8 to 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Twitter on Thursday. “We had cut down the scale of the event drastically. No delegates would have been allowed. In place of 350-plus films, we were about to screen just 80. Instead of a clutch of cinemas halls across the city, just six government venues would have been used for screening, that too with 50 per cent attendance…. Outstation delegates would have attended virtually. Now we are getting two more months to scale up. Hopefully, the (Covid-19) situation will improve by then,” festival chairman Raj Chakrabarty told Metro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Slow data upload delays comorbidity analysis||The uploading of data on the prevalence of comorbidities among Calcuttans, which was supposed to be done before Durga Puja, is far from complete, government and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. Only 67 per cent of the data collected during a survey in September from households across Calcutta have been uploaded on the server of the civic body, the officials said on Thursday. Once the entire set of data of more than seven lakh people is uploaded, experts will do an analysis and deduce the number of Calcuttans suffering from comorbidities. “We have uploaded 67 per cent of the collected data, which is the data of a little more than five lakh respondents,” a CMC official said. The CMC had initially targeted to finish the uploading before Durga Puja but the deadline was extended to October 31, said an official. It is unlikely that the remaining 33 per cent of the data would be uploaded by Saturday (October 31). The survey was conducted to find out how many people are suffering from comorbidities like renal failure, hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The findings will help the government further fine-tune its Covid response. On Thursday, 61 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 died across Bengal, taking the death toll from the coronavirus disease in the state to 6,725. Around 84 per cent of those who died had comorbidities, according to the state health department. Officials said that once the people suffering from comorbidities are identified, the government would be in a position to monitor their health on a regular basis. If such a person tests positive for Covid, he or she will be asked to get admitted to a healthcare unit to prevent the condition from turning critical. A state government official said they had requested the CMC several times in the last couple of weeks to complete the uploading of the data so the analysis could start. “The data uploading process is very slow. Only four to five per cent of the data is being uploaded daily,” said an official of the state government. The comorbidity survey had taken place between September 7 and 30, during which data of nearly 7.5 lakh people were collected against the target of 8 lakh. “One reason for such fast collection of data was that several agencies were involved in the survey,” an official said. But the data is being uploaded from each CMC ward by data entry operators. “Each ward has one operator,” said an official. “The operators have numerous other tasks like entering the data on Covid patients in their respective wards, entering the data on distribution of medicines to family members, uploading data on dengue surveillance and Covid-19 surveillance programme. So it is taking some time,” said a CMC official. “Also many of the operators got infected with Covid-19 and work got stalled. Others filled in for them but the pace got delayed by two weeks or so,” said the official. A health department official said the CMC should have deployed more people or hired some agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta schools to come up with revised fees||Schools are calculating what fees they can charge after the Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s order to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees and completely waive the fees for services students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. Long meetings are on to fix the heads under which the schools could charge fees. Some schools that had given parents the choice of seeking further relief in accordance with a high court order are in the process of removing that clause from their notice after the Supreme Court put a stay on it. After working out the arithmetic, a  New Town school decided that the fee for Class V will be Rs 4,800 a month, instead of Rs 6,000. At Indus Valley World School, the fee for Classes IX and X is Rs 22,134 for October and November, instead of Rs 27,667. At Delhi Public School Ruby Park, the tuition fee for Classes XI and XII (science) will be Rs 3,880 a month, instead of Rs 4,850. The session fee for Classes I to XII at DPS Ruby Park will be Rs 16,000, instead of Rs 20,000. Indus Valley and DPS Ruby Park had communicated to parents the revised fees days after the high court order. South Point, Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School, Birla High School Mukundapur and The Newtown School will issue notices about the reduced fee structure soon. The eight unaided Loreto schools in the state are uploading the information in compliance with the high court order. “We are complying with the high court order and it is being uploaded on the websites,” said a member of the Loreto Education Board. “We will be ready with the notice by Friday. We have provided concessions to parents during the pandemic and are working on the additionalities (according to the court order) and those additionalities will be provided,” said Brigadier (retd) V.N. Chaturvedi, the secretary general of Vidya Mandir Society, which runs Birla High School, Sushila Birla Girls’ School and Birla High School Mukundapur. Schools have to put up the revised fees on their websites or notice boards by October 31. “The special leave petition (against the high court order) has been admitted by the Supreme Court and the court has granted interim stay on certain points. We will await the final outcome in the Supreme Court and until that time we will comply with the high court order,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. Some schools have told parents to keep paying fees at earlier rates if their financial situation does not merit any reduction in amount. “The fourth quarter will be painful for schools because we will have to offer the concessions and also make adjustments,” the head of a school said. The stay on certain points of the high court order by the Supreme Court has led the managements of a few schools to believe that institutions would no longer be sympathetic to parents hit hard by the pandemic. “Since schools have to give the option of waiver across the board and there is a stay on the point of individual application, schools might not want to offer more concessions. This will impact some parents who are distressed,” a school head said. The 11 schools under the Church of North India have filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the high court order. They include the La Martiniere schools, St James’ School and Pratt Memorial School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Senior citizens pull off own puja in New Town||In a pandemic-plagued Puja season, when the elderly are being advised to stay home, a puja took place in Swapno Bhor senior citizens’ park cum club in Action Area 1, New Town. The organisers were exclusively senior citizens. This was the second year of what is described in the banner at the gate as Prabinder Sarodotsav. “Because of the situation, the administration was initially hesitant to allow the puja. Later they relented when we agreed to abide by all rules and regulations they would set,” said Bhaskar Sardar, the puja secretary. A major change suggested by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen was shifting the puja out from the Snehodiya hall to the verandah of Swapno Bhor just across the road from the senior citizens’ home, to conform with the state government’s guideline of keeping three sides of the venue open. In fact, the decision to go ahead was taken as late as September 30. “Some suggested ghot pujo. But we were bent on getting an idol,” said treasurer Bibhas Krishna Palit. But as a precaution, they decided not to venture out all the way to Kumartuli like last year and sourced the idol from nearby Beleghata. The organisers do not collect subscriptions from the neighbourhood, nor do they approach offices for sponsorships. “In this situation, that would not have been advisable anyway. What we raise is purely from our members,” the treasurer added. Even then, many were staying away over the recent months. “Of our 700-odd members, about 110 subscribed. Some mustered courage and came after Puja started, even as late as Navami, only to pay the chanda,” said Prabhas Chandra Mahanta, a member. With the source of income so limited, individual members pitched in — some sponsoring the idol, some the bhog on specific days, some picked up the priests’ or the dhaki’s tab — over and above the Rs 500 subscription for individual members. Another challenge was the lack of helping hands for the priest. “Every year, we enthusiastically take part in cooking bhog and arranging cultural programmes. In fact, during this period, our age seems to reduce, we get so involved in making naru, preparing Sree, chopping fruits, drawing alpona… But barring a few, none could step out this time because of the heightened risk of infection due to various age-related comorbidities,” said Purabi Basu, one of the active members. One such braveheart was Pratima Singha. The resident of AD Block is a cancer survivor but nothing could keep the ever-smiling retired bureaucrat away from the puja. With her husband Mahesh Kumar Singha, who is also the puja president, she was present on every single day. Some residents of Snehodiya also came over. This was Uma Dasgupta’s first puja here. “I came to Snehodiya last October, just after Durga puja got over. I am enjoying the ambience here,” she said, seated in the sun on one of the socially distanced chairs placed in front of the idol. The only young presence was Jennia Paul. “My father is involved with the puja here. I like it better here than in our own block. So we come here daily,” said the IT professional from CE Block who was seen recording video clips of the rituals and clicking selfies on the lush lawn. In the absence of helping hands, the priests took up a Herculean task.  “They agreed to cook the bhog and chop the fruits themselves. Otherwise, we couldn’t have managed,” said Palit. Samiran Chatterjee may be just 27 but he already has 11 years of experience in performing Durga puja. The full-time priest at Nistarini temple in Sheoraphuli is camping here with his assistant Palash Chatterjee. “We are waking up at 3am to get the arrangements ready in time,” they said. Bhog is being offered twice a day. At mid-day, there’s anna (steamed rice) on Saptami, khichudi on Ashtami and pushpanno (pulao) on Navami. At night, we are offering sital bhog — luchi, pithe etc,” Samiran said. And if there is no cultural programme by members this year, that gap in the schedule too is being filled by the duo. “Palash is a professional singer and a student of veteran artiste Pramita Mullick,” informed Sanat Chatterjee, a resident of Sankalpa 4 who has been getting coached by Palash for two years now. “Our class happens online now,” he smiled. All those in the audience vouched for the Tagore and Dilip Kumar Roy songs that Palash presented as also the Chandipaath and agomoni songs by Samiran. The icing on the enjoyment cake was the impromptu dhunuchi dance by the members in front of the goddess, one or two at a time, to the beat of the dhak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Jubilee anjali to coronasuranashini||One of my earliest memories of offering pushpanjali during puja at Vidyasagar Niketan is the rush my friends and I would be in to stand in the first row of residents, barely a foot away from the stage where Ma Durga and her children would be housed in the finery of daker saaj. The idea was to be able to accurately lob our devotions at the feet of our chosen idol using the bunch of phool-belpata in our palms once the priest finished chanting the mantra. As is customary, we would get three turns: Ma Durga was the anointed recipient of our offering the first time, Ma Saraswati came next, and the third was for Lord Ganesh, for some reason my favourite. The ritual concluded with prayers led by the purohit, who would often get emotional enough to allow his voice to break while shedding a tear. It was a moment. For us, anjali would start off as a joyous offering, a rite of passage among friends every year during Puja, but culminate in this heady feeling of goodness mixed with accomplishment; an awakening of sorts, no doubt heightened by the welcome thought that soon prasad would be on way and our palates, dry from fasting, would finally be satiated. This year, Vidyasagar Niketan is celebrating 50 years of hosting Ma Durga. It is the oldest community puja in Salt Lake, and, therefore, a grand commemoration was planned, until of course a certain virus changed everything. The idol was shorter in height, the pandal distinctly small. Bhog, usually a four-day lunch spread of familiar puja delicacies, was on offer only on Ashtami, but home-delivered in use-and-throw containers. Anjali too had to be socially distanced. Most of my anjali compatriots have moved on. But the ones that are in town, do make it a point to come to Vidyasagar, even if for a day, during Puja and join the ones who are still living there. There was only one friend with me this time during anjali. The others had chosen to complete the ritual from their respective apartments. After all, the priest was on loudspeaker. We were a handful of people, with the young brigade of organisers urging us to spread out. There would be no pushpa in the day’s anjali. So, no flowers and bel leaves to clutch in our palms. It was left to thakurmoshai to do the honours for us. That meant no customary, round-arm, over-the-shoulder throw of our offering. Standing way back from the stage to be socially distanced, but with a clear view of Ma Durga, we began: Om namoh. Om Jayanti, Mangala Kali, Bhadrakali, Kapalini. Durga, Shiba, Khama, Datri, Swaha, Swadha Namostute. Esha sho chandana, gandhapuspa, billo patranjali, om, r`hing Durgaoi namoh... It was a moment. But there was no dawn mist breaking. Yet, I think I had a fleeting sense of that heady feeling of goodness mixed with accomplishment when the priest signed off on prayers by invoking the goddess as “coronasuranashini”. Or maybe it was just me, daring to be hopeful. Between Navami and Dashami, new coronavirus infections through the country had dropped below 50,000. That’s meant to be good news!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Calcutta||Women help families get back on track in the Sunderbans||Thousands of families in the Sunderbans, ravaged by the twin blows of the Covid pandemic and Cyclone Amphan, are inching towards a marginally better life because of a campaign led by women of the area. The women are also spreading awareness about the threat of human trafficking — the delta, already infamous as a hotbed, saw a sharp spike in the number of women trafficked in the aftermath of Cyclone Aila, which struck in 2009. The efficacy of the anti-trafficking drive will be tested after the resumption of trains, said Sankar Halder, the founder of Mukti, the NGO funding and mentoring the women. A network of women self-help groups, which counted around 5,000 members before the pandemic, has now reached out to over 20,000 people, said a Mukti official. The groups are spread across eight blocks — Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Mathurapur I and II, Joynagar I and II, Basanti and Canning. Mukti is funding the first phase of small businesses started by many women — raising chickens, organic farming and making a variety of products from incense sticks to pickle and papad. A woman each from at least 4,000 families has been getting 10 chicks every month for the past four months. Starting the fifth, a woman has to return one adult chicken every month. One chick grows into a chicken of around 2.5kg in four months. The price of one adult chicken is equal to 10 chicks. “The wholesale price of country chicken is around Rs 160 per kilo. If a woman sells 10 adult birds (each around 2.5kg), she earns Rs 4,000 every month. Raising free-range chickens does not need investments associated with farming of broilers like cages and regular feed,” said Raghunath Bairagi, one of the Mukti volunteers overseeing the project. The NGO tries to train women in things they are not entirely unfamiliar with. “For someone who used to be an agricultural labourer, organic farming is a natural progression. We give the members assistance — from production to market sale,” said Mahamaya Bhowmick, 36, the president of a committee of 10 women in the Patharpratima block. There are 25 such committees, each with 10 members and mentoring close to 1,000 women in their area. The NGO started with involving women in the distribution of ration and other relief materials in the wake of the twin blows of Covid-19 and Amphan. Help and donations had come in from various quarters, including the German consulate in Calcutta. The distribution camps were helmed by local women, who were also recipients of the relief. “This gave the women a sense of ownership and empowerment. There was not a single allegation of any wrongdoing,” said Halder. As for earning a livelihood, not every woman has started doing something but many have realised that the fightback has to start somewhere. “We cannot sit back and watch, weak and hungry,” said Bhowmick, who lives in Dakshin Kashinagar village in Patharpratima, over 110km from the heart of Calcutta. Tens of thousands of houses in the Sunderbans were damaged, many of them grounded, by Amphan. The invasion of saltwater has rendered swathes of farmlands infertile. Bhowmick’s home had its roof blown away. A stationery shop run by his husband was also damaged. Both are now repaired, with money earned by Bhowmick. She has been supplying incense sticks to retailers and wholesalers for over two years now and makes around Rs 5,000 a month. Close to a million people in the delta were said to have been displaced or affected by Cyclone Alia in 2009. A lot many of them were trafficked to other cities and forced into prostitution. The women of Mukti are desperate to prevent a rerun. The 250 representatives — 10 members each of 25 such groups — are being provided with smartphones by the NGO. They are also being tutored on how traffickers look for vulnerable girls, what are the “baits” and how a simple message or missed call can lead to grave danger. Each woman is then spreading the word by holding informal chat sessions with other women in her neighbourhood. They are also keeping an eye on teenage girls. Many families have landed in abject poverty because of the pandemic. An offer of a job is irresistible for many young women. Many parents are considering getting their minor daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are always on the lurk for such vulnerable girls. “In many cases, a trusted neighbour or relative turns out to be a trafficker. We are telling these things to the women as well. Caution is the best defence,” said Manasi Halder, the leader of another committee in Raidighi in the Mathurapur II block. Halder, the founder of Mukti, said women were the worst sufferers of any economic crisis. “In the aftermath of Aila, there was a huge spike in trafficking cases. We are determined not to let the same thing happen again,” he said. “Economic empowerment is the key to combat the threat of trafficking. We are trying to do that. But our real test will start when the train services resume,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-257
30-10-2020||Business||Apple posts record revenue of 64.7 billion dollars for September quarter||Tech giant Apple has posted a record September quarter revenue of USD 64.7 billion, with strong performance across markets including India. "Geographically, we set September quarter records in the Americas, Europe and Rest of Asia Pacific. We also set a September quarter record in India, thanks in part to a very strong reception to this quarter's launch of our online store in the country," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in an earnings call. In September, Apple launched its first online store in India - a market that is dominated by Android smartphones. Apple, which competes in the premium smartphone segment in India with players like Samsung and OnePlus, has been aggressively ramping up its presence in the Indian market. The US-based company, in collaboration with partners like Wistron and Foxconn, had recently started assembling iPhone 11 in India. According to research firm Canalys, the tech giant's renewed focus on India paid off with a double-digit growth to nearly 8,00,000 units in the region during the July-September 2020 quarter. A Counterpoint report had noted that Apple led the premium segment (over Rs 30,000) surpassing OnePlus even before its flagship launch, driven by strong demand for its iPhone SE 2020 and the iPhone 11. Its latest offering, iPhone 12 will further strengthen its position in the December quarter, it had noted. India's smartphone shipments in the premium segment (priced above Rs 30,000) was one of the least affected segments and reached its highest-ever share in the overall India smartphone market, contributing more than 4 per cent in total smartphone shipments, as per Counterpoint. Apple, in its statement, said international sales accounted for 59 per cent of the revenue (USD 64.7 billion) for the fourth quarter ended September 26, 2020. "Despite the ongoing impacts of COVID-19, Apple is in the midst of our most prolific product introduction period ever, and the early response to all our new products, led by our first 5G-enabled iPhone lineup, has been tremendously positive," Cook said in the statement. He added that Apple capped off a fiscal year defined by innovation in the face of adversity with a September quarter record, led by all-time records for Mac and Services. "We also achieved new September quarter records in the vast majority of countries that we track, including among others the US, Canada Brazil, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Turkey, Russia, India, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam, Apple CFO Luca Maestri said on the investor call. Apple's products revenue was at USD 50.1 billion, while services set an all-time record of USD 14.5 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||Pidilite Industries to acquire Indian subsidiary of Huntsman Group||Pidilite Industries, the makers of the popular Fevicol brand of adhesives, is acquiring the Indian subsidiary of Huntsman Group for Rs 2,100 crore. The acquisition will give it well-known brands such as Araldite, Araldite Karpenter and Araseal. Pidilite will be acquiring Huntsman Advanced Materials Solutions Pvt Ltd (HAMSPL), which makes adhesives, sealants and other products. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, Pidilite said while the acquisition will be done in cash, it excludes customary working capital and other adjustments, subject to certain preconditions being met prior to the closing of the transaction. The deal also includes the company’s Indian subcontinent business, apart from a trademark licence for West Asia, Africa and Asean countries. Huntsman will receive around 90 per cent of the cash consideration at closing and the balance under an earn-out within 18 months if the business achieves sales revenue in line with 2019. The transaction is expected to close by next week. Huntsman had a revenue of around Rs 400 crore in 2019, from its operations here. “Araldite will add to the already very strong portfolio of our adhesives and sealants and will complement our retail portfolio,” said Pidilite managing director Bharat Puri. Shares of Pidilite closed with gains of around five per cent at Rs 1,590.35 on the BSE on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||France’s LVMH to acquire US jeweller Tiffany & Co||France’s LVMH will pay slightly less to acquire US jeweller Tiffany & Co after the two companies agreed to end a bitter dispute triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic and salvage the luxury sector’s biggest-ever deal. The new takeover price was set at $131.5 a share, down from $135 in the original deal, the companies said in a statement on Thursday, bringing the total price tag to about $15.8 billion. That represents an overall discount of $425 million for LVMH, which is led by billionaire businessman Bernard Arnault, a consummate dealmaker who is betting the French giant can restore Tiffany’s lustre by investing in stores and new collections. “We are as convinced as ever of the formidable potential of the Tiffany brand and believe that LVMH is the right home for Tiffany and its employees during this exciting next chapter,” Arnault said in the statement. Other key terms of the deal, initially agreed last November, remain unchanged, the companies added. The transaction, which has received regulatory clearance, is expected to close in early 2021, subject to Tiffany shareholder approval. Under the revised deal, Tiffany will pay its regular quarterly dividend of $0.58 per share on November 19. “Tiffany and LVMH have also agreed to settle their pending litigation in the Delaware Chancery Court,” the statement from the companies said. War of words The new deal, whose main details emerged on Wednesday, brings to an end an acrimonious and public war of words between two of the luxury industry’s best known groups. The initial deal ran into trouble last month when Louis Vuitton owner LVMH said it could no longer complete the transaction by a November 24 deadline. It cited a French political intervention asking it to delay completing the acquisition until January 6 because of a threat of new US tariffs on French products, and also decried the jeweller’s “dismal” performance during the coronavirus crisis. Tiffany in return sued LVMH in a Delaware court, seeking to force it to honour the original deal. The case had been scheduled to be heard in early January. However, a source close to the matter told Reuters on Wednesday that Tiffany had recently approached LVMH with a more conciliatory tone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||Gold demand in India  drops 30 per cent in July-September||Gold demand in India has dropped 30 per cent in the July-September quarter to 86.6 tonnes compared with 123.9 tonnes in the corresponding quarter of 2019. Covid-19 related disruptions and high prices of the yellow metal have dampened demand, according to the World Gold Council. Although a marginal recovery is expected in the October-December quarter, driven by festive demand, the overall demand for the year is likely to remain under pressure given the current situation and market volatility. Jewellery demand was down 48 per cent in volume terms and 29 per cent in value terms during the quarter. Unlike jewellery, investment demand was up 51 per cent in volume terms and 107 per cent in value terms, representing a shift in consumer preference for bars and coins. “In the third quarter of 2020, gold demand fell 30 per cent because of Covid related disruptions, bleak consumer sentiment, high prices and volatility. This is, however, better than the second quarter where there was a 70 per cent drop. This has been partially because of the easing of lockdown and some low prices in August,” said Somasundaram PR, managing director, India, World Gold Council. “Looking ahead, we typically witness an upswing in gold demand in the fourth quarter on account of Dussehra, Dhanteras and other festivals along with a wedding season post-harvest. This year, a good monsoon notwithstanding, the price and Covid shadow will affect sentiment, though we can reasonably expect at least a part of the pent-up demand to surface,” he said, adding that as weddings and festivities become low key activities, savings on other spend could be channelised into gold. World Gold Council further said global gold demand has dropped 19 per cent to 892 tonnes in the third quarter compared with the year-ago period. This was the lowest quarterly total since the third quarter of 2009. Even as the overall demand declined, the quarter saw significant growth in investment demand, which rose 21 per cent. Investors globally bought 222.1 tonnes of gold bars and coins and an additional 272.5 tonnes through gold-backed ETFs. “Focus right now is on the US presidential elections although increasing virus numbers is again posing a threat to global growth. Market participants will keep an eye on the ECB policy meeting and also on the Q3 GDP data expected from the US, which could keep the volatility high. Broader trends on Comex could be in the range of $1865-1895 and on domestic front prices could hover in the range of Rs 50,120-50,750,” said Navneet Damani, vice-president-commodities research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||RBI announces another open market operation of Rs 10,000 crore||After a successful auction of state government bonds a week ago, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday announced another open market operation (OMO) of Rs 10,000 crore on November 5. The auction will see the central bank purchase bonds that were issued by 15 states, including Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tripura, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Punjab and Odisha. These bonds have maturities of up to 10 years. Earlier this month, the central bank had announced that it will conduct OMOs on state development loans (SDLs). The step was expected to improve the liquidity of these bonds and reduce the spread over government securities, thereby helping states in their borrowing at a time revenues have taken a hit because of the pandemic. In the first such auction held on October 22, the RBI received a positive response. Against the notified amount of Rs 10,000 crore, it received bids of Rs 15,475 crore. On October 27, 15 state governments and Union Territories had raised Rs 17,700 crore through SDLs. According to an Icra note, the SDL issuance was a substantial 60.7 higher than the year-ago level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||Core output dips for seventh consecutive month||The output of the eight core infrastructure sectors contracted for the seventh consecutive month, dropping 0.8 per cent in September, mainly because of a decline in production of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and cement. The production of the eight core sectors had contracted 5.1 per cent in September 2019, data released by the commerce and industry ministry showed on Thursday. The decline in output during the month under review was the lowest since March. Barring coal, electricity and steel, all sectors — crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertiliser and cement — recorded negative growth in September 2020.  During April-September, the sectors’ output dropped 14.9 per cent compared with a growth of 1.3 per cent in the same period of the previous year. The output of crude oil declined 6 per cent, while production was down 10.6 per cent for natural gas and 9.5 per cent for refinery products. Fertiliser output fell 0.3 per cent and cement production contracted 3.5 per cent. Deficit at 115% of budget estimate The government’s fiscal deficit rose to Rs 9.14 lakh crore, about 114.8 per cent of the annual budget estimate, during the first six months of the current financial year, mainly on account of poor revenue realisation. In absolute terms, the deficit was Rs 9,13,993 crore. The deficit at the end of the first six months of the previous financial year was 92.6 per cent of the annual target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||Government hikes sugarcane-extracted ethanol price||The government on Thursday hiked the price of ethanol extracted from sugarcane for doping in petrol by up to Rs 3.34 per litre as it looked to ramp up the programme that has benefited farmers and also helped to cut down the oil import bill. The cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the price of ethanol extracted from sugarcane juice to Rs 62.65 per litre from the current Rs 59.48 per litre for the supply year beginning December 2020. The rate for ethanol from C-heavy molasses has been increased to Rs 45.69 per litre from Rs 43.75 per litre and that of ethanol from B-heavy to Rs 57.61 per litre from Rs 54.27 per litre, I&B minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here. India, which is 85 per cent dependent on imports to meet its oil needs, allows doping of up to 10 per cent ethanol in petrol with a view to cutting oil import and vehicular emissions as also offer a remunerative source for sugarcane farmers to sell their produce. The steady rise in the price of ethanol paid by oil marketing companies has led to ethanol procurement jump to 195 crore litres in 2019-20 (December 2019 to November 2020) from 38 crore litres in 2013-14. Oil marketing companies Indian Oil Corp, Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd will bear the GST and transportation cost on the ethanol procured for doping in petrol, he said. Jute packaging The government has extended the norms for mandatory packaging of 100 per cent food grains and 20 per cent sugar in diversified jute bags. Union textiles minister Smriti Irani said  the decision will benefit 3.7 lakh workers and 40 lakh farmers, especially in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
30-10-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea reports significant narrowing of losses||Vodafone Idea has reported significant narrowing of losses to about Rs 7,218 crore for the September quarter, and said signs of recovery were visible with gradual improvement in economic activities. The company’s losses in the second quarter of the previous fiscal had been at a staggering Rs 50,921.9 crore after it provisioned for Supreme Court mandated statutory dues. The gross revenue for the quarter ended September 30, 2020 came in at about Rs 10,791 crore, marginally lower than the same period of the previous year. Revenue was, however, 1.2 per cent higher when compared sequentially IndiGo hit hard Interglobe Aviation Ltd, which runs India’s largest airline IndiGo, has reported its steepest quarterly loss at Rs 1,194 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. It had posted a net loss of Rs 1,062 crore in the September quarter of the previous fiscal. BPCL profit up 58% Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) on Thursday reported a 58 per cent jump in September quarter net profit at Rs 2,589.52 crore on the back of inventory gains and a rise in refining margin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
30-10-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki India posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,419.6 crore for Q2||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Thursday swung back to profits in the second quarter ended September 2020. The country’s largest car maker posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,419.6 crore in the July-September period against Rs 1,391 crore a year ago on the back of higher sales. In the previous April-July quarter, the company had reported its first quarterly loss since listing in 2003 after the coronavirus-led lockdown stopped sales. However, the company missed analysts’ profit estimates in the second quarter as the carmaker was hit by higher costs of raw materials and tax expenses. Maruti, which sells every second car in the country, saw an 18.6 per cent jump in domestic car sales to 370,619 units. But total expenses rose 7.8 per cent and tax expenses spiked 76 per cent. MSIL chairman R.C. Bhargava feels though the company expects “good” sales for the three months ending December, it was hard to predict demand after that as the impact of people wanting personal vehicle will be over by then.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
30-10-2020||Business||Personal guarantor cases shifted to the Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday transferred to itself petitions for an authoritative pronouncement on the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 and the amended rules in 2019 by which personal guarantors are made liable for the payment of debts owed by the promoters. Various guarantors had challenged in different high courts an IBC provision relating to personal guarantors of loans to insolvent companies on the ground that they cannot be fastened with the liability for the repayment of debt that promoters have failed to repay. One of the petitions has been filed by Anil Ambani in the Delhi High Court. In view of the multiple petitions filed before different high courts which may throw conflicting judgments, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) through additional solicitor-general Madhavi Divan had approached the apex court to transfer all the cases before the different high courts to itself for  obtaining a clarity on the issue. However, several petitioners before the high courts had opposed the transfer plea of the board. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta representing the Centre also urged the apex court to lay down the law on the issue. Allowing the board’s appeal, a three-judge bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi transferred to itself the petitions. The top court asked the high courts to not entertain any fresh writ petitions on the issue and said all interim orders passed by the courts would continue till further orders. Hearing on Dec 2 The  bench listed the batch of petitions for further hearing on December 2 and asked the parties concerned to complete the pleadings by then. The top court had on Wednesday reserved its verdict on the plea by the IBBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
30-10-2020||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji Group submits Tata separation plan in Supreme Court||The Shapoorji Pallonji Group (SP Group) has submitted a separation plan to the Supreme Court that will sever its 70-year-old ties with Tata Sons. The estranged 18.37 per cent minority shareholder in the holding company of the $113 billion Tata group is, however, seeking a pro-rata shareholding in 16 listed Tata entities along with a share of the Tata brand value. It has also asked for an independent, third-party valuation of the 31 unlisted companies in which Tata Sons holds a stake. In all, the Mistrys are seeking a payout of Rs 1.75 lakh crore in lieu of their minority stake in Tata Sons. The Tata group has not commented on the separation plan proposed by the SP Group. After its bitter four-year legal battle with the Tatas in the wake of the ouster of Cyrus P. Mistry from his position as the chairman of Tata Sons, the Mistrys last month said they wanted to exit Tata Sons. In a statement on Thursday, the SP Group said that it has formally sought separation from the Tatas in the Supreme Court. It added that Tata Sons is effectively a two-group company, with the Tata group comprising Tata Trusts, Tata family members and Tata companies holding around 81.6 per cent of the equity share capital, and the Mistry family owning the balance 18.37 per cent. The Mistry family has proposed that the dispute over valuation can be eliminated by doing a pro-rata split of listed assets and a pro-rata share of the Tata brand. As part of the non-cash settlement, the Mistry group is eyeing a stake in listed Tata group firms linked to its holding in Tata Sons. For instance, while Tata Sons holds 72.05 per share in Tata Consultancy Services, the SP Group’s ownership of 18.37 per cent would mean a 13 per share shareholding of TCS. At the current market prices, this would translate to over Rs 1.30 lakh crore. The Mistrys said that for the unlisted companies, an expedited valuation can be done with a valuer selected by both sides and this can be settled in cash or in listed securities. In its affidavit filed with the top court, the SP Group has said that the valuation should be determined by a competent expert and both parties should have the same right of access to information about the company. It suggested a “selective reduction” of capital by extinguishing the shares of Tata Sons held by the minority shareholders and swapping them with the shares of listed firms. The SP Group observed that the key benefits of its separation scheme against a buyout is that there will be no valuation dispute since the price of the main assets (listed companies) price is quoted daily and the brand has already been valued by Tata Sons. Further, Tata Sons would continue as the promoters of group companies and enjoy a control premium on its shareholding. “In case, Tata group does not want to dilute its stake in certain companies, the SP Group could either accept the value in either cash or in TCS stock’’ it added. Experts point out that there could be complications . For instance, there are cross-holdings within the Tata group with even some of the unlisted firms (categorised as promoter) holding stake in some of the listed companies. For instance, Tata Steel and Tata Power hold a small equity stake in TCS. If the Mistry family is allotted shares of these two companies and TCS, the possibility of its effective holding in Tata Sons going above 18.37 per cent cannot be ruled out. If there is a proportionate separation of assets, barring TCS, the stake of the Mistry family would be less than 10 per cent, the analysts said. But the Mistry family said in its affidavit that in a proportionate separation of assets, barring TCS, their stake would be less than 10 per cent. It further pointed out that the scheme of separation that it has proposed through reduction of capital with consideration paid through shares in underlying listed firms could also be used to provide much needed liquidity to other Tata group companies, thereby unlocking value in them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-251
30-10-2020||India||EC censures Kamal Nath, revokes ‘star campaigner’ status||The Election Commission revoked the "star campaigner" status of senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Friday for repeated violations of the model code while campaigning for bypolls in 28 Assembly constituencies in the state, criticising the former Madhya Pradesh chief minister for breach of "ethical and dignified behaviour". In an order, the commission said, "...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh." It said no permission was to be granted by authorities to Nath as a star campaigner. "However, if any campaign is done by Kamal Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure related to travel, stay and visit will be completely borne by the candidate in whose constituency he carries out campaigning," it said. While the political party pays for the expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. The EC said it has carefully considered the matter and has observed with "displeasure that Kamal Nath despite being a leader of a political party is repeatedly violating the provisions of Model Code of Conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour". The Commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally. The Congress's Madhya Pradesh unit said it would challenge the decision in court, ndtv.com reported. Byelections are being held on November 3 to fill 28 vacant seats in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly. Most of these fell vacant when Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia rebelled earlier this year and defected to the BJP, taking along 22 MLAs. Kamal Nath's Congress-led government fell and the BJP returned to power. The BJP needs to win at least eight of these seats to stay in power. If at all the Congress manages to win all 28, it can make a comeback attempt. On the campaign trail, the Congress has been ranged against its own, with Kamal Nath lashing out at former party men who are now contesting as BJP candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||25,000 tonne of onions to be imported before Diwali to curb price-rise ||In an effort to boost domestic supply and check price rise, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said private traders have already imported 7,000 tonnes of onion and another 25,000 tonnes are expected to arrive before Diwali. Cooperative Nafed will also start importing onion, he said. Besides, 30,000 tonnes of potato is being imported from Bhutan in order to improve the local supply and control prices of the key commodity, he added. "Retail onion prices have stabilized in the last three days at Rs 65 per kg. The government has taken proactive measures to check price rise. Exports were banned timely and took steps for import," Goyal said at a digital press conference. The government relaxed fumigation norms for import of onion till December. So far, 7,000 tonnes of onion has been imported by private traders, he said. "Another 25,000 tonnes of onion is expected to arrive before Diwali," he said, and added along with imports, the arrival of a new kharif crop in mandis from next month will help improve the supply situation and ease pressure on prices. The minister said that onion is being imported from countries like Egypt, Afghanistan and Turkey by private traders. Even Nafed will import on its own capacity. The government has relaxed fumigation norms for import of onion and export of onion seeds have been banned, he added. Among other measures, stock limits have been imposed on traders to curb hoarding and black marketing and Nafed, which is holding buffer stock of onion on behalf of the government, is offloading stock in the open market. So far, Nafed has offloaded 36,488 tonnes. In case of potato, Goyal said its prices have been rising and the average retail price in India has been stable at around Rs 42 per kg for the last three days. However, the government has taken steps to import potatoes. About 30,000 tonnes of potatoes are arriving from Bhutan in the next couple of days, the minister said. "We are going to import about 10 lakh tonnes of potato and bring prices under control," he added. Kharif onion is expected to hit mandis from next month. Onion production from kharif and later kharif season is expected to be lower by 6 lakh tonnes to 37 lakh tonnes in the current year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||India-US relations: quiet, out-of-the-box approach||With only days before the American elections, India is adopting out-of-the-box tactics to stabilise relations with the United States post the November 3 polls. Across the board, India’s political leadership and its diplomats are using the space created by electioneering in America to tap hitherto little used sources of support for the Indo-US relationship which are to be leveraged once a new establishment occupies Washington. The nature of US elections is such that every politician is not involved to the same degree in the campaign. If neither of the two Senators from a state is up for re-election, that state’s governor can breathe easy in an election year -- especially if it is not a toss-up state he may even have time on his hands. The pace of engagement between New Delhi and, say, Phoenix or Indianapolis, both less cultivated state capitals previously, or with think tanks that are outside the Beltway environs of Washington, could create a new momentum in Indo-US relations. The expectation is that in the coming months, offshoots of the new approach will show, just as Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao’s landmark decision 25 years ago to break with tradition and appoint lobbyists for India in the US broadened his government’s American outreach. Where America’s long-time allies are reaching for the moon, as it were, in anticipation of a change in Washington next week, and largely failing in that effort, India’s goals are more modest. New Delhi is using the current phase to consolidate past gains and course-correct its policies on the ground. There is a populist impression about the “Howdy-Modi” extravaganza in Houston that is far from the truth: that it was all about the Indian Prime Minister and the US President, standing shoulder-to-shoulder declaring an arrangement of mutual admiration. What is not well-known is that Donald Trump did not have a clue about the Houston reception for Narendra Modi until a few weeks before the actual event. Howdy-Modi: The truth about Trump The White House representative at the Howdy-Modi programme was to have been Mick Mulvaney, then the President’s Chief of Staff. Trump injected himself into the reception after he heard about it from Modi at one of their bilateral meetings. Being a smart politician, Trump did not want to miss the crowd-waving opportunity or an outreach to Indian Americans. With or without Trump hotfooting to Houston, Modi would have gone to America’s energy capital last September. There has been a whopping 93 per cent rise in the hydrocarbons trade between the US and India in the last two years. The business was worth $9.2 billion in 2019-20. Demand for energy will double in India in the medium term. In the skyscrapers that dominate downtown Houston, oil and gas executives are living an Indian dream, the COVID-19 downturn notwithstanding. In part, Modi chose Texas as his destination last year because he was impressed that the state’s Governor, Gregory Abbott, undertook a gruelling nine-day visit to four Indian cities with a high-end business delegation in spite of having to permanently use a wheelchair. Abbott has been re-elected to lead Texas until 2023. India: robust link-ups Modi’s visit to the US South, rare for Washington-New-York-centric Indian leaders, had a spill-over effect on states neighbouring Texas. Today, India’s link-ups with Arkansas and Colorado, both neglected in the past, are robust. The governors of both these states have visited India. Howdy-Modi and Trump’s presence on the stage with the prime minister got all the media attention, but the proof of the pudding has been in the eating. Big countries, even America’s close treaty allies, have been baiting the big fish, as it were, in Joe Biden’s waters once the former vice president’s fortunes began to rise. India’s goals being more modest are, therefore, realistically more achievable than those of more powerful or richer nations. The reality, which is rarely acknowledged publicly in New Delhi, is that India is a bit player in Washington, Indian TV’s hype notwithstanding. There is absolutely no comparison between US-French relations going back in history to American independence or the British-US umbilical cord to Indo-US ties, which are, in substantive terms, only 20 years old. Until Bill Clinton’s presidency, India and the US only talked at each other. For 52 long years, New Delhi and Washington rarely talked to each other. Three men working as a team Whether it is Trump or Biden, who will occupy the White House in the next four years, the priority of the next US administration will be trans-Atlantic ties, its own neighbourhood, Russia, China, Japan, the Middle East and the like. Not India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, both former ambassadors in Washington, know this. Their successor and incumbent, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, a battle-hardened veteran of multiple US postings, knows this only too well. As a team, the three men have worked towards what is possible as Trump’s fortunes receded and Biden’s stars became ascendant. Sandhu’s diary in the final weeks of the US election campaign is instructive. It shows a laser-sharp focus with eyes not only on the White House, but also on both chambers of the US Congress, which are likely to be controlled by Democrats, come January. In the second week of October, while the Germans and the British and the Canadians were all chasing after the top guns in the Biden campaign – and failing to meet them – Sandhu went South. Those who know the intricacies of today’s racially polarised America and the interplay between the legislative and executive branches of government will grasp the true significance of why the Indian Ambassador met Bennie Thompson. He is serving his 13th term in the US House of Representatives and chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security, which legislates on immigration. Thompson, the only Democrat in the Mississippi Congressional Delegation, is a powerful voice in the Congressional Black Caucus, and equally important for India, in the Progressive Caucus. An influential Congressman living in small town Bolton is more amenable to diplomatic persuasion in his backyard than a freshman legislator on the outskirts of Washington or San Francisco. A day after Michael Bloomberg ploughed $20 million into the campaigns of environment-friendly Democrats this week, Sandhu had extensive discussions with the former New York Mayor on environment, sustainability initiatives and smart cities development. Most people wrote off Bloomberg after his miserable show in the Democratic primaries. But he is spending $100 million in Florida to help Biden win the critical state. Bloomberg will most likely be included in a presumptive Biden cabinet. Arizona Governor Doug Ducey made a public commitment about future tie-ups with India after Sandhu discussed film and digital media collaboration as well as aerospace and defence technology business prospects between Phoenix and New Delhi. Because India’s political aims in election-bound US are modest, its diplomats in Washington have used the campaign season hiatus to reach out to American corporate honchos. Milind Pant, CEO of Amway, Jaimie Dimon, Chairman of JP Morgan, Arvind Krishna, CEO of IBM and Alex Holmes, CEO of MoneyGram are just a few business leaders who are looking at post-COVID opportunities in India after structured dialogues with the Indian embassy in Washington.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections 2020: Nitish attacks Lalu over women's welfare schemes in state||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday attacked Opposition party RJD by appealing to people to not "get misled" by those who "ignored" women and backward classes during their rule. Addressing an election rally at Parbatta here, he said, "They are talking today, but how was the condition of women earlier? They were ignored, nobody paid attention to their issues." Attacking his bete noire and jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad, without naming him, Kumar said, "When he was sent to jail, he installed his wife (Rabri Devi) on the chair, but did nothing for the welfare of the women otherwise." Lalu, who became chief minister of Bihar in 1990, had anointed his wife on the chief minister chair after he was sent to jail in 1997 over the multi-crore fodder scam cases. Nitish said when he had the opportunity, he gave reservation to women in panchayats and urban local bodies, besides providing quotas to SC, ST and backward classes. "If Bihar has progressed today, the biggest reason is womens’ participation. Promoting women is our commitment," said the JD(U) chief. Talking about economic empowerment of women, he said his government started the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project (BRLP), locally known as JEEViKA, by taking loan from the World Bank and the initiative has expanded today. Trying to connect to the women voters in the constituency, he mentioned prohibition and asked them to cast their votes first and cook later on polling day and also encourage others in their family to vote. Nitish declared Bihar a dry state in April 2016. On several occasions he had said he took the step on the demand of the women. He said his government has ensured development by taking along the SC, the ST, Backward Classes, Extremely Backward Classes and Mahadalits "whom nobody cared about earlier". He said, "Earlier even cities did not have electricity, but now we have ended the lantern era and every household gets power now." Lantern is the poll symbol of the RJD. "Everybody knows who says what and indulges in what kind of misdeeds. They (the Opposition) neither have the experience to work nor do they want to work. They just indulge in useless talks," he alleged. Speaking about the cooperation between the state and the Centre, he said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given several projects for the development of Bihar. If you give us another chance to work, we will take Bihar forward and make it a developed state." He also slammed the RJD over its record on law and order, education, health, jobs and other development parameters. He said if voted to power, he will take irrigation water to every field and provide solar street light in every village. The constituency goes to poll on November 3 in the second phase. Nitish, who heads the JD(U), also addressed public meetings in Sheohar and Runi Saidpur in Sitamarhi district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Modi pays tribute to late Gujarat CM Keshubhai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to the late Gujarat Chief Minister Keshubhai Patel and also met with grieving family members of Gujarati film legends Kanodia brothers, who died a few days ago. Patel (92), a BJP stalwart, died on Thursday. Soon after his arrival in the morning at the Ahmedabad airport for a two-day Gujarat visit, Modi directly reached Patel's residence in Gandhinagar and offered floral tributes to the veteran politician, who headed the first BJP-led government in the state in 1995. The PM spent some time with Patel's kin and consoled them. "Modiji recalled his long association with Keshubhai and asked us about his last moments, a family member told reporters after the PM left Patel's residence. Modi had on Thursday paid rich tributes to Patel, saying he had mentored many BJP workers, including him. Modi had remembered Patel through a series and tweets and shared some old photographs with the former Gujarat CM. "Our beloved and respected Keshubhai has passed away. I am deeply pained and saddened. He was an outstanding leader who cared for every section of society. His life was devoted towards the progress of Gujarat and the empowerment of every Gujarati," Modi tweeted on Thursday. After meeting Patel's kin in Gandhinagar, the Prime Minister visited the grieving kin of Gujarati cinema superstar Naresh Kanodia and his music composer-brother Mahesh Kanodia, both of whom died recently, at their residence in the state capital. Naresh Kanodia (77) died on October 27 at a hospital while undergoing treatment for coronavirus, just two days after his elder brother Mahesh (83) died due to age-related ailments. Both brothers were associated with the BJP. While Naresh Kanodia was a former MLA, Mahesh Kanodia had served as a BJP MP. Modi paid floral tributes to the famous duo and spent some time with their family members, including Naresh Kanodias son Hitu Kanodia, a sitting BJP MLA. Modiji fondly remembered my father and uncle. He told us that both the brothers loved each other immensely and now they have became immortal. "He also regretted not coming earlier to meet them," Hitu Kanodia told reporters. This is Modi's first visit to his home state after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. During his two-day visit to Gujarat, the PM would inaugurate a host of projects near the Statue of Unity, a monument dedicated to Sardar Patel, at Kevadia in Narmada district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||More than 48,000 Covid cases in a day||India saw 48,648 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 80,88,851, while active cases fell below 6,00,000 and the national recovery rate crossed 91 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The Covid-19 death toll in the country climbed to 1,21,090 with 563 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 73,73,375 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far pushing the national recovery rate to 91.15 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.50 per cent. There are 5,94,386 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 7.35 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16,60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,77,28,088 samples have been tested up to October 29 with 11,64,648 samples being tested on Thursday. The 563 new fatalities include 156 from Maharashtra, 61 from Bengal, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 45 from Karnataka, 35 from Tamil Nadu, 27 from Delhi and 26 from Kerala. A total of 1,21,090 deaths reported so far in the country including 43,710 from Maharashtra followed by 11,091 from Karnataka, 11,053 from Tamil Nadu, 6,983 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,725 from West Bengal, 6,659 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,423 from Delhi, 4,168 from Punjab and 3,705 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
30-10-2020||India||Delhi's air quality in very poor category, says govt agency||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the very poor category on Friday morning, while a government forecasting agency said some improvement is likely due to favourable wind speed. On Thursday, the city's air quality index (AQI) touched severe levels for a brief period before slipping back into the very poor category. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitoring agency, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was 36 percent on Thursday -- the maximum so far this season. Delhi recorded an AQI of 380 at 9:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 395 on Thursday. It was 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday, 353 on Monday, and 349 on Sunday. Several monitoring stations, including at Shadipur (417), Patparganj (406), Bawana (447) and Mundka (427), recorded air quality in the severe category. An AQI between 0and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. On Thursday, PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR peaked to 424 microgram per cubic meter ( g/m3) at 10 am -- the highest this season so far, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 g/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores. The levels of PM2.5 finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream were 231 g/m3. PM2.5 levels up to 60 g/m3 are considered safe. NASA's satellite imagery showed a large, dense cluster of fires that covered most parts of Punjab and some regions of Haryana. According to SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 36 percent on Thursday. It was 18 percent on Wednesday, 23 percent on Tuesday, 16 percent on Monday, 19 percent on Sunday and 9 percent on Saturday. SAFAR said accumulation of locally generated pollutants and increased external intrusion due to north-north westerly boundary level winds from regions where stubble is burnt were the major factors for the increase in PM2.5 levels. Extremely calm surface and boundary layer winds along with the low night time boundary layer height resulted in low ventilation practically stagnant, no dispersion condition has resulted in the current situation, it said. An increase in surface wind speed and better ventilation conditions are likely to "significantly" improve the situation by Saturday, SAFAR said. According to the India Meteorological Department, the predominant wind direction was northerly and the maximum wind speed was 10 kilometers per hour. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13.1 degrees Celsius. It was 12.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday the lowest in October in 26 years. Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion. The city's ventilation index a product of mixing depth and average wind speed is likely to be around 7,000 meter square per second on Friday favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants. On Thursday, the Centre introduced a new law through an ordinance that put in place a powerful oversight body to curb air pollution. Under the ordinance released by the Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday, the 22-year-old Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) has been dissolved and replaced by a powerful commission comprising 18 members. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas will specifically look at Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas only and it will be binding on the states to follow its directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Sikkim dharna on transport lifted||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) on Thursday night called off its over week-long dharna in support of the demand for the restoration of the pre-Covid public transportation arrangement after an understanding was reached with different drivers’ associations at a meeting called by the East Sikkim administration. The agreement was preceded by a day-long drama after some hundred-odd drivers descended in front of the East District collector’s office in Gangtok to oppose the SPYF dharna. The drivers under the banner of the Joint Action Committee of All Sikkim Drivers’ Association accused the SPYF of besmirching their reputation by raking up the issue of Covid protocol-induced fare hike. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs), both shared taxis and government-run buses are allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their original capacities, but at double the old fares for taxi commuters and at 30 per cent premium for bus passengers. Besides, two-wheelers are also not allowed to ride pillion. The SPYF, which espouses various political and social issues, wanted the restrictions to be lifted and old fare structure restored because the new arrangement hurt the common people and was fundamentally not in sync with scientific advice on ways to contain the contagion. Speaking to reporters after Thursday’s meeting, Shankar Sharma, a member of SPYF, said the issues raised by the forum were discussed and it was agreed in principle to arrive at an amicable solution by the first week of November. “Following which we are calling off our dharna now, but if the demands are not fulfilled, we will take the agitation path if the need arises,” he said. Sharma said on the main issue of lifting of passenger restriction in taxis and buses, the drivers’ body had agreed to comply with whatever decision the transport department and the State Task Force on Covid-19 take. A representative of the drivers’ association said both the parties had agreed to find an acceptable solution. “We have also decided not to go ahead with the chakka jam from October 31 that we had been contemplating since the issue has now been resolved,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Jail for air pollution in National Capital Region||The Centre on Thursday issued an ordinance to combat air pollution in the National Capital Region, mandating an end to stubble burning and a maximum punishment of five years’ jail and a Rs 1-crore fine for any violations. The ordinance allows the Centre to escape having to answer for air pollution to a former Supreme Court judge who had passed security-related verdicts unpalatable to the Narendra Modi government and, after retirement, condemned misuse of the sedition law. Its promulgation prompted a Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde to adjourn till November 6 the hearing of a public interest petition on air pollution in Delhi. It’s in connection with this petition that the court had on October 16 appointed Justice Madan B. Lokur as a one-man committee to ensure the prevention of stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbourhood, ignoring objections from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. On October 26, however, the court put the order “in abeyance” after Mehta conveyed a promise from the Centre for an ordinance that would provide an alternative mechanism to check pollution. The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, applies to Delhi and adjoining areas in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. It seeks to “implement a consolidated approach for monitoring, tackling and eliminating the causes for air pollution” not limited to “stubble burning, vehicular pollution, road dust and urban construction”. It sets up a commission that can close any industry or establishment and cut their power supply. It will have search and seizure powers similar to the police’s. “Any non-compliance or contravention of any provisions of this ordinance, rules… or any order of direction issued by the commission shall be an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to five years or with fine which may extend up to one crore rupees or with both,” the ordinance says. “Where any offence under this ordinance has been committed by a company, every person who at the time... was directly in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished.” Offences under the ordinance have, however, been made non-cognisable, which means arrests will require a court warrant. The commission’s orders can be challenged only before the National Green Tribunal. During Thursday’s hearing, Justice Bobde told Mehta: “We would like to look at the ordinance before passing any order.” Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing petitioner Aditya Dubey, said the hearing need not be adjourned as “the situation will get worse by next week”. But the bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said it would hear him and Mehta in good time. Citing experts, Justice Bobde observed: “It is not only stubble burning that creates pollution. All of you should also stop using the beautiful cars. All of you start using bicycles now.” The commission’s members will include bureaucrats from the Centre and the affected states. It will function under the overall control of the Centre and “under the oversight of the elected representatives with regular reports to the Parliament”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Win or lose, Tejashwi makes a mark in Bihar||To emerge from the looming shadows of Lalu Prasad is a tough task; to begin to cast your own even tougher. Tejashwi Yadav of the RJD, anointed heir to Lalu Prasad, has debunked punditry and prediction and given the lie to his own default lassitude to make a phenomenon of his campaign charge in Bihar. Win or lose, this election Tejashwi has made himself the man to watch in Bihar beyond the conclusion of the current contest. There’s a mandatory caption to the images of Tejashwi amid rapturous throngs wherever he goes: Lalu remains a force to reckon with even from his continued banishment in jail. Paradoxically, this also makes the RJD’s run on the ballot double-edged. The more Tejashwi is seen to be the aggressor-trailblazer, the more likely it is to consolidate the ranks of his adversaries. The BJP might, in fact, be not too displeased to see a surging Tejashwi; a section believes it can feed off a revived RJD by fanning fears of a return to “Lalu raj”. The BJP remains Bihar’s largest single force, the most resourceful and the most adept at twisting the course of the campaign to suit its ends. Tejashwi’s feisty barnstorming across the state has forced hectic revision of how he was earlier assessed by ally and adversary alike; suddenly, in the turn of a few weeks, there is no Bihari leader able to match his ability to pull crowds and swing them. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been put deep in the shade with paltry pickings, unable to contain the vexation at the manner he is being thwarted. Tejashwi’s only real competitor at the hustings is a man not in the contest for Bihar --- Prime Minister Narendra Modi. To many, Tejashwi’s abandon of manner on stage and the energy he is bringing to crowds is a reminder of Lalu in his heyday --- in a marked change of mien, he isn’t delivering speeches any more, he is conducting a dialogue, his meetings have become raucous gigs. But there is more to Tejashwi’s challenge than merely his pied-piper spell on audiences. He is playing to --- and being paid for --- a strategy designed to sidestep the classic electoral pitfalls of the RJD. Tejashwi has deliberately dodged the sectarian themes spun by the BJP to avoid getting button-holed on the “minority appeaser” card. Equally, and outspokenly, Tejashwi has made to widen his political appeal and embrace --- he isn’t talking the Mandal tongue, he is foregrounding “sarvajan” politics, a platform that does not mark out any caste, least of all the upper castes, as adversaries. “Tejashwi has made a crossover from merely social justice (the war cry of Lalu-era Mandalism) to economic justice as well,” Manoj Jha, MP and top RJD strategist, told The Telegraph. “We are defining a new, larger politics aimed at all sections of Bihar and addressing the fundamental issues of unemployment and deep economic stress that all Biharis have suffered.” A couple of factors are characteristic of the new Tejashwi campaign. He is keeping strictly to local issues, mindfully spurning the temptation of getting looped into the BJP’s ultranationalist or Hindutva discourse. He has responded neither to junior home minister Nityanand Rai’s rhetoric that the gathbandhan’s victory will encourage “terrorists to come from Kashmir”, nor to Modi’s invocations of victory for the cause of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He is also refusing to get riled by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s recurrent personal attacks on his father and family. “Whatever Nitishji says, even if he curses me, I accept as a blessing,” has been his stock response. “We are aware of the regulation rhetoric of the ruling alliance,” said a close aide to Tejashwi’s. “We want to neutralise them by simply not getting into extraneous issues. We want to emphasise our own issues, we want to set the agenda for this election.” The RJD deems it a success that Tejashwi’s hard-driven campaign on opening 10 lakh jobs and taking governance to people through improved education and healthcare has forced the BJP to mimic the promise. “Tejashwi has triggered a new imagination and hope with his job promise,” the aide said. “He has put his signature on the issue, the others will be seen as copycats.” One phase of polling done, RJD strategists remain ebullient about their prospects, even claiming the status of “runaway campaign leaders”. Tejashwi’s electric turn on the campaign apart, they are also savouring the overt manoeuvres of the BJP to cut Nitish Kumar down to size. The fielding and spurring of Chirag Paswan of the LJP, they believe, will not only hurt Nitish but also sunder votes in a manner that could help the gathbandhan. They are, however, privately cognisant of obstacles --- internal and external --- that could trip the RJD’s bid for power, arguably the strongest without Lalu to helm the troops. They must contend with Lalu raj --- “jungle raj” in the lexicon of the NDA --- being an embedded psychological issue with many voter segments, especially upper castes and non-Yadav backward communities. The prospect of Tejashwi getting close to power could create a counter-consolidation. Tejashwi’s inclusive “sarvajan” chant and Rahul Gandhi’s “personal guarantee” that a future gathbandhan government will belong to all communities are attempts to blunt the NDA’s emerging narrative. That begs another wonderment: has Tejashwi been able to expand his appeal beyond the RJD’s Muslim-Yadav constituency and breach sections of other backwards, Dalits and upper castes? Tough to tell, but critical to his ambition. RJD insiders also admit that they may have tactically erred in giving away as many as 70 Assembly seats to the Congress, an emaciated force in the state. “We were offering the Congress much less but in order to keep the integrity of the alliance, we had to pay the price we did. We hope it does not cost us as heavily as some say,” an RJD leader conceded. He quickly added, in undisguised hope: “But if a mood for change sets in, as we think it has, the electorate can often makes winners of rank losers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Mayawati signals BJP; Congress can’t wait to twist knife||Mayawati on Thursday expressed her willingness to support the BJP in the upcoming legislative council elections. “I want to say today that in the next MLC election, our party will ensure the victory of the BJP candidate and will do anything to defeat the second candidate of Samajwadi-Akhilesh, whose conspiracy has been defeated,” Mayawati said in Lucknow, referring to Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. The Samajwadi Party had partnered Mayawati in last year’s general election. “It will weigh heavy on them. In the next MLC election, whenever it is held, we will respond to yesterday’s development. We will use our full force, even if it means voting for the BJP; we will defeat their second candidate,” the BSP leader added. Mayawati said a “false rumour” was being spread by her rivals that she was getting closer to the BJP. The Congress saw in Mayawati’s declaration a public confession of a secret deal with the BJP, decisively pushing her out of the Opposition frame. Priyanka Gandhi, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, offered a terse remark on Mayawati’s announcement: “Iske baad kuchh baki hai (Any doubt left after this)?” Priyanka had earlier described the BSP leader as an “undeclared spokesperson for the BJP”. Mayawati had softened towards the BJP since the general election, offering token criticism over the Hathras atrocity and tacit support on the citizenship amendment and the abrogation of the special provision in Article 370 last year. At the same time, the BSP leader had bitterly attacked the Congress and accused Priyanka of “dramabazi” in Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka too burnt her bridges with Mayawati, unlike Sonia Gandhi who had adopted a conciliatory attitude towards the Dalit leader. That the Congress has decided not to have any association with the BSP became clear when Uttar Pradesh unit chief Ajay Lallu followed up Priyanka’s sarcasm with an acerbic jibe. “Hathi ab sarkari ho gaya/ Dalit-vanchit samaj ka daman kar rahi sarkar ka saathi ho gaya (The elephant -- the BSP’s symbol — has now turned sarkari, becoming friendly with the forces that oppress the downtrodden),” Lallu tweeted. Many senior Congress leaders pounced on Mayawati, underlining how she had been dancing to the BJP’s tune for the past several months. Although Mayawati linked her readiness to support the BJP to her desire to defeat the Samajwadis in the legislative council elections, arguing they had betrayed and insulted her party, the Congress portrayed the remark as an alliance with the BJP. Defending Priyanka’s combative posturing, party general secretary Tariq Anwar told The Telegraph: “We have accommodated Mayawati for far too long despite her deep ties with the BJP and a clear understanding that her ideology and principles mean nothing in her lust for power.” Anwar added: “Mayawati has been using politics for personal positioning. She brazenly strikes compromises with her secular commitments. Her consistency is manifested best in her opportunism. She cannot be trusted. She has gone so far as to campaign for Narendra Modi in the Gujarat elections. She has fielded candidates with the sole purpose of harming the Congress’s prospects in many states. Her alliance with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM in Bihar is part of the same sinister game. Both Owaisi and Mayawati have been tasked to harm the Congress-RJD alliance in Bihar.” Asked if the front that includes Owaisi, Mayawati and Upendra Kushwaha would significantly dent the Congress-RJD’s prospects in Bihar, particularly in Muslim-dominated Seemanchal, Anwar said: “Their job is to create confusion and mislead the voters. Owaisi has played this game in Maharashtra. But the people of Bihar can see through the game. Where was Mayawati when the Hathras incident happened? While Owaisi may harm us in a couple of seats, overall their vote percentage will be negligible.” Owaisi has blamed the Congress and the RJD for the BJP’s return to power in Bihar. He says Nitish Kumar defected to the BJP because the Congress and the RJD could not hold him in alliance. He describes the Congress and the RJD as “vote thieves” who sought Muslim votes to install the BJP in Bihar. The Congress and the RJD hope the voters will not buy this logic. Mayawati’s untimely declaration of willingness to support the BJP may further dent the chances of her front, and Owaisi and Kushwaha will find it difficult to explain her decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Bombay High Court  to expedite Varavara’s bail hearing||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Bombay High Court to expedite the bail hearing of 81-year-old revolutionary poet Varavara Rao in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence as it expressed surprise that a matter relating to personal liberty of a person was last heard on September 17. A bench headed by Justice U.U. Lalit while asking the high court to take up the matter at the “earliest”, however, declined to pass any orders on the bail plea of Rao, represented by senior advocate Indira Jaising. The court was dealing with a petition filed by Pendyala Hemalatha, wife of the poet who has been held as an undertrial prisoner in a Maharashtra jail for two years on charges of sedition. He was arrested on August 28, 2018, in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence at the Elgaar Parishad meeting of December 31, 2017. The petition sought his immediate release on bail citing multiple health disorders, including Covid infection and neurological problems, and being sustained on diapers and bladder catheterisation. Advocate Jaising submitted that there is a violation of right to health of the prisoner and, as such, the court must direct his release on humanitarian grounds. “Cognisance has been taken so we cannot say detention of the man is illegal. The issue of bail is before the high court. The bail could be on merits or on medical grounds,” the bench said. The bench at one point wanted to send Rao back to Nanavati hospital for treatment but the same was opposed by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the National Investigation Agency. Mehta said this would open the floodgates for other prisoners to seek similar concessions. However, the other judge on the bench, Justice Ravindra Bhat, said: “Health of all prisoners is important for the State. Why should this not be extended to all prisoners?... Question is who would want a death in jail?” While expressing concern that the matter had not been heard after September 17, the court noted that already two judges had recused from the matter. “The Nanavati Hospital report is before the high court. It is bothering us that two judges recused and the matter was not being heard,” the bench said. The counsel argued that “precedence exists on the issue of when undertrials have died due to insufficient medical facilities”. But the bench was not convinced and said: “…We can direct for the matter to be heard by the HC in two weeks.” Jaising argued that prisoners have a right to health in custody and the same has been held to be so by the Supreme Court. She stated that the petitioner’s right to life and dignity is being violated. “We need to see if the jail hospital has all the facilities or not. If they have, then you can’t say there is better facility in England or Nanavati. If its available, then treatment will be in jail hospital,” the bench said, while directing the petitioner to approach the high court which shall deal with the issue at the “earliest”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Test for Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Jyotiraditya Scindia ||Along with Bihar, the stakes are high for the BJP in the byelections to 28 Assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh that will decide the survival and stability of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. In Bihar, the central party has hurled all its strength to retain an NDA government, preferably led by the BJP, and in Madhya Pradesh the state leadership has been asked to go to any extent to ensure victory on at least half of the 28 seats. The BJP has 107 MLAs in the 230-member Assembly. It needs at least nine more to cross the halfway mark. The party, however, would like to win at least half of the 28 seats to have a comfortable majority and reduce dependence on Independents and BSP MLAs. The bypolls in Madhya Pradesh are scheduled for November 3 and counting of votes will take place along with Bihar on November 10. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is campaigning in Bihar but not Madhya Pradesh since he wants to stick to his record of not canvassing in bypolls. So, it’s entirely up to the state leadership, particularly chief minister Shivraj, to perform. Polls are being held on seats that were won by the Congress in the November 2018 Assembly elections. Later these MLAs resigned and joined the BJP. This change of colour by the Congress MLAs had led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in March this year. Most of the BJP candidates on these seats are the ones who had contested as Congress nominees two years ago. An acrimonious campaign is on in Madhya Pradesh with Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia pitted against the stalwart Congress duo Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh. More than half of the 28 seats are located in Jyotiraditya’s area of influence — Gwalior-Chambal region — and so his worth is also at stake along Shivraj. The BJP’s performance would also play a role in deciding what ministry the former Congress leader gets in the Modi government. Jyotiraditya’s rebellion had propelled the bunch of Congress MLAs to embrace the BJP along with him to bring down the Congress government. Both Kamal Nath and Digvijaya are accusing Jyotiraditya of “betrayal” and “trading” with the BJP and urging the voters to teach him a lesson. In the middle of this fight between the old warhorses of the Congress versus a former young face of the party, Jyotiraditya, Shivraj is campaigning tirelessly to prove to the current party regime that his popularity was intact. Shivraj, who is into his fourth term as the chief minister, is widely believed to be not the first choice of the Modi-Shah combine and he has to prove his worth to keep ticking. The Congress has 88 MLAs and would have to win all the seats to cross the halfway mark, a daunting task. The Congress leadership, however, wants to teach a lesson to Jyotiraditya by winning a good number of the seats. The Congress is also trying hard to win 20-21 seats that will help them cross the BJP’s individual tally and then it can put the Independents into play.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav does not take my calls: Mayawati||Mayawati, who has announced her willingness to support the BJP in the legislative council elections, has accused Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav of trying to split her party to prevent its candidate Ramji Gautam winning a seat in the November 9 Rajya Sabha polls. She announced she had suspended the seven rebel MLAs who had allegedly met Akhilesh on Wednesday, and five of whom had tried to scuttle Gautam’s candidature by telling the returning officer their signatures on his nomination form had been forged. Mayawati’s comments came at a news conference a day after the returning officer had cleared Gautam’s candidature and scrapped that of industrialist and Independent candidate Prakash Bajaj, allegedly propped up by Akhilesh to defeat Gautam. The suspension of the seven rebels deepens the threat of a split in the BSP, which has just 18 members in a currently 395-strong Assembly. The rebels had alleged that Mayawati had sought BJP support to get Gautam elected, and that they didn’t want any truck with the “communal outfit”. The BJP was assured of eight of the 10 seats up for grabs on November 9, while the Samajwadis were assured of one. The battle for the last seat was to be between Gautam — who needed the BJP’s spare votes — and Bajaj, who would have expected the spare Samajwadi votes. With Bajaj now out of the fray — barring a court petition and a favourable order — the remaining 10 candidates are all expected to win unopposed. Mayawati said she regretted having listened to Akhilesh after the tie-up for the general election and withdrawn her case against the Samajwadis over an attack on her in 1995. The BSP and the Samajwadis had contested 38 and 37 of the state’s 80 Lok Sabha seats, respectively, and won 10 and 5 seats. “Akhilesh stopped receiving my phone calls after the elections. (BSP general secretary) Satish Chandra Mishra tried to contact him recently but he didn’t take the call. Nor did his secretary respond to our satisfaction,” Mayawati said. “Mishra then called (Samajwadi leader) Ram Gopal Yadav, who said he would be his party’s lone nominee for the Rajya Sabha. It was in this context that we fielded Gautam. Our rivals would have tried to buy our MLAs if we didn't have our own nominee.” She recalled that Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav had engineered a split in her party in 2003, and accused Akhilesh of a similar attempt now. Mayawati appeared to be wooing Brahmins, whose support had helped her win the 2007 Assembly elections. “Whatever Akhilesh did was an insult not only to Mishra but to the entire Brahmin community. The Samajwadis are essentially anti-Brahmin; the Brahmins will give them a fitting reply,” she said. Mayawati added that “members of religions or castes” from which the seven rebels came shouldn’t worry about losing her favour. The suspended seven are Aslam Rain, Aslam Ali, Muztaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargav, Sushma Patel and Vandana Singh. Mayawati’s decision to support the BJP in the legislative council elections, due early next year, stems from her lack of numbers to get a BSP nominee elected and her desire to stop the Samajwadis getting a second candidate through. State parliamentary affairs minister and BJP politician Suresh Khanna told The Telegraph that Bajaj’s candidature had been scrapped because one of his proposers was not an MLA. “The name of his third proposer was Nawab Shah. There is none by that name in the Assembly. His affidavit had other errors too,” Khanna said. “It was found that all of Gautam’s proposers were present when he submitted his nomination papers to the returning officer on Tuesday. The five MLAs’ allegation that their signatures had been forged was found untrue.” Samajwadi spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary accepted his party was supporting Bajaj. “We are studying the returning officer's objections and will plan a strategy soon,” he said. The BSP rebels had visited the Samajwadi office twice on Wednesday and again on Thursday, but Akhilesh claims he never met them. Bajaj was seen in Akhilesh’s chamber for about two hours on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Three BJP leaders shot dead in Kashmir||Three BJP leaders were killed on Thursday evening in one of the deadliest militant attacks on politicians in the Valley in months, triggering panic. A police spokesman said militants opened fire on Fida Hussain Itoo, Umar Rashid Beigh and Omar Ramzan Hajam in Y.K. Pora village of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. They were declared dead on arrival at the hospital. The BJP said all three were office-bearers of its youth wing. A spokesman condemned the “barbaric terror attack on BJP leaders” and said those “responsible for this will not be spared”. BJP activists have borne the brunt of militant attacks since last year’s abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. In July, militants killed BJP leader Wasim Bari, his father Bashir Ahmad and brother Umar Bashir in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. Several BJP activists subsequently announced their resignation from the party. BJP sources said the fresh attack has triggered panic among its men, many of whom have been accommodated in safe locations away from their homes. A BJP leader said the three men killed on Thursday had earlier sought security. The Resistance Front (TRF), which is believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Toiba, has claimed responsibility for the killings. In messages in English and Hindi on its social media account, the TRF threatened that “crematoriums will get overbooked”. BJP’s J&K president Ravinder Raina condemned the killings by “Pakistani cowards”. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said he “unequivocally condemns” the killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Pakistan minister brags about Pulwama terror attack||A senior Pakistani minister on Thursday admitted that Pakistan was responsible for the Pulwama terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 that had killed 40 CRPF personnel. “Humne Hindustan ko ghus ke maara (We entered India and attacked it). Our success in Pulwama is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan,” science and technology minister Fawad Chaudhry said in the National Assembly during a debate. When some of his fellow lawmakers objected to his mention of “success in Pulwama”, the minister said that “after the Pulwama incident, the way Pakistan went inside Indian territory to target it, the entire media in India was ashamed of it.” However, he did not retract his claim of “success in Pulwama”. Chaudhry, a close aide of Prime Minister Khan, made the remarks a day after Opposition leader Ayaz Sadiq said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had in an important meeting pleaded for the release of Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was captured by the Pakistan Army on February 27, 2019, after his MiG-21 Bison jet was shot down in a dogfight with Pakistani jets. “Legs were shaking and forehead perspiring, and the foreign minister told us, ‘For God’s sake, let him (Abhinandan) go back now because India is attacking Pakistan at 9pm in the night’,” Sadiq said, adding the meeting was attended by army chief Gen. Qamar Javed Bajwa. Pakistan Army spokesman Major General Babar Iftikhar said Sadiq’s statement was an attempt to “distort history”. “Pakistan first demonstrated its capability and resolve and the actions taken on February 27 were from the position of strength,” he said. On Thursday, Sadiq in a video statement said that he was being “misquoted”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-588
30-10-2020||India||Saudis keep Jammu and Kashmir out of  India and Pakistan in map||In a move that has left everyone guessing, particularly given the bromance between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Saudi Arabia has chosen to place the entire state of Jammu and Kashmir outside the territorial contours of both India and Pakistan in the world map imprinted on the new 20 Riyal-note issued earlier this week to commemorate the kingdom’s presidency of the G20. The erstwhile undivided state has been shown as a separate entity almost as if the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is batting for its independence from both India and Pakistan; drawing a strong protest from New Delhi over the cartographic distortion. According to external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, India has conveyed “our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side for taking urgent corrective steps in this regard’’. Srivastava was responding to questions at the weekly briefing on the issue of the misrepresentation of India’s territorial contours on the banknote issued by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority. He, however, sidestepped a specific question on whether Saudi Arabia had explained why it had chosen to distort the map of India and what action New Delhi was contemplating for this cartographic distortion. MBS is among the chosen few world leaders who was accorded a tarmac welcome by Modi when he visited India last year; the others being US Presidents Barack Obama and Donald Trump, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyau, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and UAE Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The distortion was first noticed by Pakistanis who saw it as another instance of Saudi Arabia displaying its displeasure with Pakistan for foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi’s criticism of Riyadh’s refusal to call a special meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Countries to discuss the situation in Jammu and Kashmir on the first anniversary of the constitutional changes in the erstwhile Indian state. The Right-wing in India lapped it up with glee as did several of their friendly television channels; seemingly unmindful of the fact that J&K had been removed from Saudi Arabia’s depiction of India too on the map.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||NIA raids Amit Shah accuser in Delhi||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday raided several premises in Kashmir and Delhi, including those of former Delhi minority commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan, in connection with a terror-funding case. Under Khan, the commission had in July accused Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and some other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches before the February riots in Delhi. Its report had also alleged that “police were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and arrested victims rather than the people they had accused. Khan said his home and offices were raided from 7am to 11am, with the sleuths scaling “the wall to enter my house like they did with (Congress leader P.C.) Chidambaram”. “They took many papers, all laptops, hard disks of all desktops, cash found, etc. They showed me an order on their mobile, issued by one Yadav of NIA to conduct the raid linking me and my NGO with Kashmir terror,” he said. Denying any links to Kashmiri militants or secessionists, he said: “It seems there is an attempt to implicate me in some terror or riot case.” As Delhi minority panel chairman, Khan had taken a stand against the police rampage at the Jamia Millia Islamia last December, and helped secure the release of several students. On Wednesday, the NIA had raided journalists and activists in Kashmir and Bangalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Fear and force freeze Kashmir protests ||Security forces on Thursday foiled the first demonstration by any mainstream political party in the Valley since the August 5 clampdown last year, amid speculation that the National Investigation Agency’s renewed crackdown was aimed at scaring the usual suspects off protesting the new land laws. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti taunted the Centre after protesting leaders and activists of her People’s Democratic Party were rounded up from Srinagar’s streets, challenging it to take on China and not the “helpless people of Kashmir”. Many in Kashmir suspect that the Centre has unleashed the NIA to prevent protests against the new laws that allow land sale to “outsiders”. The anti-terror agency’s past raids and arrests are believed to have averted large-scale protests against the scrapping of Article 370 last year. Now, with tensions flaring across Kashmir and Jammu after the Centre sanctioned the new land laws on Tuesday, the NIA is back in action. On Wednesday, it carried out raids on journalists, human rights defenders and charities. On Thursday, it raided nine Valley premises including those of charities and trusts such as the Falah-e-Aam Trust, Human Welfare Foundation and the J.K. Yateem Foundation. The agency claims some organisations are collecting terror funds locally and abroad. When the PDP tried to protest the new land laws and the NIA’s “intimidatory tactics” — breaking a 15-month lull in political agitations — the security forces arrested the participants and sealed the party office. “People in Jammu are free to protest but no protests are allowed here. We wanted to (stage the demonstration) so that people gave up their fear,” a PDP leader said. Protests have hit the Hindu heartland in Jammu where many believe the new laws are an assault on the Dogra identity. Mehbooba was prevented from visiting the Kothi Bagh police station, where PDP leaders had been detained, prompting her to say the Centre had turned the Valley into a jail but was unable to fight the Chinese. “Every day the BJP says the situation is normal and they don’t even allow a former chief minister to visit a police station,” she said. “Go and get the land occupied by China, which has killed so many of our jawans. No, the BJP can’t and won’t do this because it can’t overpower China. It is instead suppressing the helpless people of Kashmir.” Mehbooba accused the BJP government of looking to “rob” Jammu and Kashmir of its resources and wage cultural aggression against the Kashmiris and Dogras. “Kashmir has been turned into a jail. They don’t allow anybody to express himself. Neither journalists nor civil society members are allowed to talk. Voices of dissent are curbed,” she said. “People in Bihar demand jobs and food from the BJP and this party tells them to go to Kashmir and purchase land there. The BJP can’t think beyond elections. It is fooling people and using Kashmir in every election.” Former chief minister Omar Abdullah, addressing National Conference workers, said the Valley parties had united to fight for the restoration of the special status. “Cursed is anyone who is fighting for power…. We are not counting seats any more. This fight is not for power or chief ministership. It will be shameful if we go after power,” he said. Seven Valley-based parties have floated the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to fight for the restoration of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Enforcement Directorate cuffs on Kodiyeri son, heat on CPM||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday arrested Kerala CPM secretary’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in a case linked to financing a drug peddler who was arrested earlier in the city. Bineesh, the younger son of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was quizzed by the ED on October 6, but failed to appear when summoned for a second round of questioning on October 21. After he appeared at the ED zonal headquarters here on Thursday, the agency produced him before a magistrate who granted four days’ custody to facilitate detailed interrogation. The development has pushed the CPM-led Left Democratic Front into further trouble, just a day after the ED arrested M. Sivasankar, former secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in connection with a gold smuggling case. Bineesh was questioned over his links with Anoop Mohammed who was arrested in August in a drug case that eventually netted two top film actresses, among others, in Bangalore. The Narcotics Control Bureau had unearthed a huge cache of party drugs that Mohammed and his accomplices — D. Anikha and Rijesh Ravindran — allegedly peddled to film stars. All three have since been arrested and sent to judicial custody. The NCB eventually linked Bineesh to Anoop based on a money trail. While Bineesh had admitted to having provided financial assistance of around Rs 6 lakh to Mohammed for starting a restaurant in Bangalore, he had claimed ignorance about his friend’s involvement in drugs. But that argument did not cut ice with the ED that unearthed details about 20 others, allegedly known to Bineesh, paying a total of Rs 30 lakh to Mohammed. Sources said the ED’s immediate objective was to examine the source of the money that Mohammed and his accomplices allegedly used to procure drugs that were sold to high-profile party networks in Bangalore. Many of the 20 account holders have already been questioned in connection with the payments made to Mohammed. But it was not immediately known if they had made any incriminating statements against Bineesh. Sources said the ED was likely to approach a court seeking custody of Mohammed to interrogate him along with Bineesh. Following the August drug bust, the central crime branch of the city police had arrested actresses Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani and others in September. The arrest of the CPM secretary’s son provided more fuel to the United Democratic Front and the BJP to attack the Left Democratic Front government that was already under fire after Sivasankar’s arrest. Leader of the Opposition in Kerala, Ramesh Chennithala, said the Bineesh’s arrest would force “Malayalis to hang their head in shame”. “The culprits will be brought before justice irrespective of what the chief minister will do to protect them,” he added. However, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said the party had nothing to do with Bineesh. “Bineesh is not a CPM leader. Kodiyeri (Balakrishnan) is our party secretary and we will be responsible only if he commits a mistake,” Vijayaraghavan told reporters. “He (Balakrishnan) has already distanced himself from this and made it very clear that law should take its course,” he added. Soon after Bineesh’s name emerged in the case Balakrishnan had said: “Let action be taken if Bineesh is involved in any illegal activity. Let him be punished. No one is going to provide any protection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Delhi University to investigate administration spat||A day after suspension of Delhi University’s absentee vice-chancellor Prof. Yogesh K. Tyagi for “misgovernance”, the varsity authorities set up a fact-finding committee to inquire into the recent spat between two groups in the administration and acted against his associates. The Executive Council, the top decision-making body of the university, met here on Thursday and decided to set up the panel to investigate the sequence of events after October 21 when Tyagi and a section of faculty members tried to take over the administration, two EC members said. The EC decided to issue a memo to Geeta Bhatt, who was appointed pro-VC by Tyagi. It also decided not to give any administrative responsibilities to Prof. P.C. Jha, appointed in-charge registrar by Tyagi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Centre U-turn on MPs’ Ladakh visit||The defence ministry has changed its mind and opposed a parliamentary committee’s proposed visit to Ladakh to see how well the soldiers deployed in high-altitude forward areas have been clothed and equipped for the biting winter. In a letter on Wednesday, the ministry said “it may not be advisable” for Parliament’s public accounts committee to visit Ladakh early next month given the continuing standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control. A day earlier, however, the ministry had expressed no such reservations in its letter to the committee, which had said the MPs would need acclimatisation before travelling to the forward areas. The House committee, headed by the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had last month received Speaker Om Birla’s clearance for the trip. It had also discussed the visit with the Chief of the Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. Originally, the visit was slated for October 28-29 before being rescheduled to November 8-10. The House panel wants to get a sense of how adequate the winter clothing and high-altitude equipment given to the troops are. The committee is examining a CAG report that has flagged shortages of snow goggles and multi-purpose boots for the soldiers deployed in high altitude in Siachen and Ladakh. Defence ministry sources said the committee had been told that the situation along the LAC was tense and volatile, with troops from both sides still in close proximity, which made it inadvisable for the MPs to visit the forward areas. The letter said that once there was a degree of de-escalation and disengagement, a fresh date would be communicated to the parliamentary delegation for a possible visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Odisha zoo offers virtual tour ||Nandankanan Zoological Park, located on the outskirt of Bhubaneswar, is offering a virtual tour of the park to animal lovers. The animal lovers, who are unable to visit the park because of the pandemic, can see the captive menagerie of the zoo sitting in their homes through this programme. Though the zoo has been opened to general public since October 4, it failed to attract sufficient number of visitors who prefer to keep away for the fear of the pandemic. The park authorities in a tweet said, “Now you can make a virtual tour of Nandankanan staying at home. Go to nandankanan.org-tour or nandankanan.org for an incredible experience.” Deputy director of the zoo, Bimal Prasanna Acharaya, said: “We have already uploaded the activities of each animal, their movement and habitats on the net. One can get the same feelings by watching it on the mobile and on their computer sets. We have also uploaded pictures of the adjoining botanical garden.” The zoo has 3,700 animals, birds and reptiles belonging to 158 species. They are all open for adoption. “The adoption programme was launched in 2008 and we made it online in 2019. It has got a good response. But, this time the adoption programme has also been hit because of the corona induced lock down,” said an official. At Rs 2.5 lakh per year elephant is the costliest animal available for adoption in the zoo. The adoption programme has contributed Rs 21 lakh to the zoo’s kitty so far. The zoo that generates around Rs 15 crore as revenue every year on an average. But it has failed to make any substantial earning this year because of its closure for nearly six months. “ We are hopeful that tourist footfall will increase in November and December. However, those visiting the zoo will have to abide by the guidelines of the COVID 19,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Bhubaneswar AIIMS OPD to open on November 2||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, on Thursday announced it will resume its OPD (outpatient department) services from November 2. The OPD has been closed since July 10 because of the rising number of Covid-19 cases among AIIMS staff. AIIMS Bhubaneswar said in a release: “Because of the growing demands and cater to patients’ needs, it has been decided to start the OPD services from November 2. Initially, the number of registrations will be restricted to 30 patients per department per day until 8th November; from 9th November onwards, the number will be increased to 50 patients per department day for a week. After that, an assessment for an increase in number will be made.” “The OPD was closed from 10th July, due to Covid crisis except for day-care services, radiotherapy, dialysis, trauma and the emergency and lifesaving surgery, and IPD (inpatient department) services. However, the telemedicine consultation and ‘AIIMS Bhubaneswar Swasthya’ app is continuing,” it added. The house of a professor working at Odisha University of Agriculture Technology (OUAT) here was burgled. Sources said the thieves entered the house by breaking the lock and looted valuables. They also ransacked the house. he professor and his family were not present when the theft took place. “We will detect the culprits soon,” said police inspector in-charge Padmanabha Pradhan. This is the latest burglary in the city which has witnessed a series of thefts and dacoities during the last few months. Several cases of chain snatching have taken place. Recently, a young engineer was attacked with a sword by miscreants early in the morning near his house. The city also witnessed the murder of a sweet shop owner but the killers were later caught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||India||Fury at Munger firing explodes ||Munger town on Thursday witnessed mob violence against the administration in retaliation for Monday’s alleged police firing on a Durga immersion crowd, prompting the Election Commission to remove Munger district magistrate Rajesh Meena and superintendent of police Lipi Singh. Monday’s firing had killed a young man and left dozens injured from the shooting, the resultant stampede, and follow-up police beatings in the town, about 200km east of Patna. The police have denied firing and alleged the shots were fired by criminals from within the crowd. The poll panel has ordered a probe. Several videos and photographs posted on social media claim to show the police brutally beating up people who had been sitting peacefully on the ground around an idol. “The EC has ordered immediate removal of the SP and DM of Munger,” additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Singh said. “It has also ordered an inquiry by Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao, which has to be completed within the next seven days.” SP Lipi Singh, a 2016-batch IPS officer, is the daughter of R.C.P. Singh, a Rajya Sabha member from the ruling Janata Dal United and a former IAS officer. Lipi’s plum postings have long prompted murmurs in the police. Thousands hit Munger town’s streets around noon on Thursday and attacked the SP’s office. They vandalised the residence of the sub-divisional officer and went on the rampage at Purabsarai police station, in whose area Monday’s alleged police atrocities happened. Soon, several other police stations too faced attacks. Government buildings were stoned by people chanting slogans against the administration. Several vehicles, including some belonging to the police, were torched. Reinforcements were sent to control the situation and a flag march was held. Local people said the protesters were demanding justice for the young man killed in the firing and for the peaceful devotees beaten up by the police. “They waited three days for justice, refraining from disturbing Wednesday’s voting. Then they lost patience,” a source said. A Munger resident blamed Monday’s violence on the police’s decisions. He said the force had kept prodding a group of devotees, who were carrying the town’s celebrated “Badi Durga” idol on their shoulders for immersion, to move faster. “The devotees got tired, put the idol down, and sat down around it to rest. The police kept pressuring them to resume the journey but they were too exhausted,” he said. “At this, the police ordered other immersion processions to overtake the Badi Durga.” Such overtaking of the Badi Durga was a breach of tradition and triggered an argument, prompting the police to fire into the crowd and set off a stampede of sorts, the Munger resident said. “The police then caned the devotees,” he said. “The idol was eventually immersed without the traditional rituals.” Some of the Badi Durga organisers said the district administration had earlier refused their request to allow the immersion on Thursday after the voting had ended. The Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress have criticised the administration, saying better management would have averted Monday’s violence. The police action has been trending heavily on various social media platforms since Monday, with some netizens comparing the Munger SP to Brigadier General Reginald Dyer who had ordered the Jallianwala Bagh firing in Amritsar in 1919.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-589
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Alpona to welcome Devi Durga ||Some New Town housing complexes take pride in the alpona they draw during Durga puja. The Telegraph Salt Lake puts the spotlight on two of the best. All footsteps headed for the covered space housing the goddess were stopping at the four-point crossing on the approach to the puja venue. It is here that a beautiful circular alpona about 22ft in diameter was drawn. Some took pictures while others clicked selfies with the street art as backdrop. “The alpona is a speciality of our complex’s puja,” said Mrinmoy Biswas, secretary of the housing complex in Action Area IID. “We are doing it from 2011, which was the third year of our puja. There was a break of two or three years in between but otherwise we do it every year.” The credit goes to Tapas Debnath, an artiste from Birati, who takes on the responsibility every year guided by Jyotibindu Choudhury, a resident. “He gives Tapas ideas but because of the pandemic, we discouraged him as well as other residents from coming down this time,” Biswas said. Debnath started work on Tritiya and completed early on Panchami. “He must have worked all night!” said vice-president Arpan Pal. The committee members are full of praise for the artist. “It is more his passion than profession. He drew another alpona in front of the goddess, about 17.5ft in diameter. But because the colour of the columns was not matching with his alpona colour scheme, he painted the columns on his own,” said Subrata Dasgupta, joint treasurer. Enamel paint, used for wall painting, is applied for the alpona. “The colour usually stays till the next monsoon. The remnants are washed off with soap water before the Puja and a fresh alpona is drawn,” added Pal. The complex touched up last year’s alpona but the effect was no less stunning. “A brother-sister resident duo  had drawn it last year,” said Subho Dasgupta, treasurer of Moonbeam Apartment Owners Association. “It was in good condition so some resident teenagers retouched it.” Moumita Saha, who has completed a six-year art course from Rekhachitram in Salt Lake, had drawn two huge peacocks on the road with a traditional circular motif in between. “I had painted it in acrylic paint over five days with the help of my brother Bhuban. It was a great experience. This year, we were not at Moonbeam during Puja.” If the pandemic situation improves next year, she plans to draw a fresh set of motifs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||This Month, That Year  ||2017: The 2017 FIFA U-17 World Cup tournament kicks off at Salt Lake stadium on October 6. This is the first time India hosts a FIFA event. Games are held in six cities and attendance is a record 13,47,133. The final match, won by England, is also held in Salt Lake. 1911: Social reformer Sister Nivedita breathes her last in Darjeeling on October 13. Born Margaret Noble, also in October of 1867, the Irish lady moved to India and was a disciple of Swami Vivekananda, who renamed her. Nivedita worked tirelessly on girls’ education, plague relief work and even for the Indian nationalistic movement. Her epitaph at a memorial in Darjeeling reads: “Here lies Sister Nivedita who gave her all to India”. 1932: The Indian air force is founded on October 8 as an auxiliary of the British air force. It is formed with the mission of securing Indian airspace and conducting aerial warfare when required. The force goes on to rank fourth in the world in its complement of aircraft assets and personnel. 2014: A diamond merchant from Surat stuns the nation by offering his 1,260-odd employees a Diwali bonus worth Rs 3.06 lakh. They are asked to choose between a flat, car and jewellery. Chairman of Hari Krishna Exports, Savji Dholakia, is known for his generosity and says the bonus is simply the employees’ reward for hard work and an attempt to wipe off memories of the 2008-09 recession. 1553: October 1 marks the coronation of Mary, the first de facto regnant queen of England. To come to power, Mary I had her rival Lady Jane Grey beheaded and her five-year reign is remembered for its violence. The queen has hundreds of Protestants burnt at the stake, for instance, earning her the epithet of “Bloody Mary”. 1910: Dwarkanath Kotnis is born in Maharashtra on October 10. He grows up to become a doctor and is sent to China to provide medical assistance during the 1938 Sino-Japanese War. He earns much respect for his tireless work. He marries a nurse and has a son whom they name Yinhua, meaning India and China. At the age of 32, in 1942, Kotnis dies of epileptic seizures and the nation, led by Mao Zedong, mourns his loss. 1950: Indian mathematician Shakuntala Devi appears in a BBC show in London on October 5 where she is asked to solve a complex sum mentally. Her answer, however, does not match that of the computer and she is dismissed. Upon cross-checking Shakuntala is found to be correct. She is henceforth labeled ‘human computer’ and becomes a household name. 1975: Boxer Muhammad Ali takes on arch rival Joe Frazier in a fight dubbed as “Thrilla in Manila” (picture above before a different bout between the two). The bout takes place on October 1 in the Philippines, in what is remembered as one of the most exciting and brutal fights of the sport. The game is watched by a record audience of a billion TV viewers and Ali wins by technical knockout. The contest got its name from a boast by Ali, that the fight would be “a killa and a thrilla and a chilla, when I get that gorilla in Manila.”  1978: Cricketer Virender Sehwag is born on October 20. An aggressive batsman, he sets several records like scoring the highest runs by an Indian in Test cricket (319 against South Africa in Chennai in 2008). This was also the fastest triple century in the history of international cricket (off 278 balls). Sehwag retires from international cricket in October 2015. 2001: Apple launches the iPod on October 23 and changes the way the world listens to music.  The compact devices play music using the iTunes software and are quickly accepted by the market where alternatives are big and clunky or small and inefficient with poor interface.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Nihar Naturals’ #ThirdEye campaign enables a safer pandal experience this  Pujo||Durga Puja this year was a markedly unique experience. The usual five-day long festivities were muted in light of the covid-19 pandemic, dampening pandal-hopping plans for a number of Calcuttans. Pujo committees across Bengal had to bear additional responsibilities and undertake extra efforts to ensure a safe pandal experience for devotees. A part of these responsibilities has been ensuring women’s safety at pandals. While Pujo is a time of joy for many, it is also a time when women have to be on guard against unscrupulous activities in crowded and uncomfortable pandals. In a bid to make Pujo safer for everyone, Nihar Naturals partnered with select pandals across Kolkata to set up a network of surveillance cameras disguised as Maa Durga’s #ThirdEye, to watch over pandal-hoppers and keep them safe. The cameras were outfitted in Maa Durga installations across a cluster of pandals. Live feed from the cameras were streamed to LED screens in prominent locations, in addition to being monitored by pandal security. Through these cameras, Maa Durga’s #ThirdEye watched over the crowded pandals and adjoining streets, enabling women to freely and confidently partake in the festivities this Pujo. This emotional digital film around the campaign showcases the impact that such a positive, practical and grass-root initiative can have on women’s safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Woman falls prey to cyber fraud||A woman residing in the Manikchak block of Malda district has fallen prey to a cybercrime racket and has lost around Rs 30,000. She filed a complaint at the cybercrime police station in Malda, following which a probe was ordered. Juthi Basak, who is a health worker by occupation, said she had recently purchased a power bank from a popular online shopping company by paying Rs 2,500. “It turned out to be a faulty one and I returned it to the company through the delivery boy. As my money was not refunded within the stipulated time, I collected the customer care number of the shopping company from a popular search engine and called up. The person who took the call asked for my bank account details and my debit card number and promised a quick return,” said Basak. What left her surprised is that, instead of getting the refund, money started getting deducted from her bank account. By the time she could block her debit card, around Rs 30,000 was withdrawn from her account, she said. The woman then went to the cybercrime police station and filed a complaint. “It had never occurred in my mind that the helpline number that was displayed on the internet was a fake,” the health worker said. Police officials, who are probing the case, said this is a new trend of cheating. “This is a new sort of trap used by the fraudsters. They mostly furnish false contact numbers of popular and well known concerns in search engines. Once someone makes a call in these numbers, they are asked for details of their bank accounts and debit and credit cards and then the data is used to draw the money. People should be on alert and should not get exposed to such monetary victimization,” said Ajay Singh, an official of the cybercrime police station. He also hinted that recovering the lost amount may take time. “We suspect that the bank account, to which the money was credited from the complainant’s account, might also be a forged one. The enquiry and the technical investigation is not an easy process,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Fall in active cases, rate of recovery rises again||Bengal for the third consecutive day on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases with another new high in daily recoveries at 3,945, taking its recovery rate past 88 per cent for the first time. Though its total active cases — 37,094 on Thursday, down from 37,190 on Monday — account for over 6 per cent of the national total, Bengal has not seen such a spell of fall since the 15-day streak that ended on September 7. The state on Thursday also reported 3,989 new cases and 61 deaths. The total Covid-19 cases in Bengal went past 3.65 lakh, including nearly 3.22 lakh recoveries and 6,725 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, which had fallen to 87.43 on October 20, became 88.02 on Thursday, inching towards the national rate of 90.98. “Much depends on the numbers we get over the next seven-10 days. But if these immediate post-Puja numbers are indicative of a trend, we are looking at an incredible turnaround for the state,” said the minister. He added that even if the turnaround happens, Bengal had to cover a lot of the ground it lost for over a month till Durga Puja. Bengal is fourth among states with the most active cases, after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Delhi is fifth. These five states have 59 per cent of India’s active cases. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Extra space for security check at Bagdogra ||The Airports Authority of India opened an extended portion of the security hold area of the Bagdogra airport for passengers on Wednesday. Arvind Singh, the chairman of the AAI, inaugurated the facility, which would accommodate 300 more passengers, via video-conference. “So far, the security hold area could accommodate 600 passengers. With the extension, the capacity has increased to 900. It will help passengers,” said a source at the AAI. The terminal at Bagdogra is inadequate to meet the rush of passengers. “On one hand, the AAI pressured the state for additional land so that a new terminal and some ancillary infrastructure could be developed. On the other hand, we explored options to make optimum use of the existing building and create space for more passengers. The extension of security hold areas was one such initiative,” the source said. The AAI had already received land for the terminal upgrade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Hard life for Kulgam victims’ kin||A year on, the sleepy hamlet of Bahalnagar off NH12 in Sagardighi wears a forlorn look. The place, where mainly Muslim families live, was home to five migrant labourers who were gunned down by militants in Kashmir’s Kulgam on October 29, 2019. Kamruddin Sheikh, Mursalim Sheikh, Rafikul Sheikh, Rafiq Sheikh and Naimuddin Sheikh were the five youths from this village whose murders put paid to the long tradition of Murshidabad youths spending winters picking apples in Kashmir’s orchards. The attacks took place after the Narendra Modi government on August 5, 2019, revoked the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir. The labourers used to earn Rs 15,000 to Rs 17,000 each month in Kashmir. Breadwinners gone, survival is the main concern of the bereaved. But their fates are not the same. A relative of Kamruddin said they spent all day (Thursday) in prayers. Kamruddin’s wife Roshanara Biwi is jobless, he added. At the home of late Rafiq, who is survived by three married daughters, at the end of prayers there came a din of thanks for minister Suvendu Adhikari, who reportedly secured jobs in the transport and irrigation departments for all three daughters. Each now earns Rs 12,000 every month. At Mursalim’s home, wife Saira Biwi led the prayers. Saira works in the same role as Parvin, one of Rafiq’s daughters, with Kulgam attack survivor Zahiruddin Sarkar now back on his feet after months of treatment. Sources, however, said that Kamruddin’s wife Roshanara and Rafiqul’s wife Maria Biwi had been “overlooked” for jobs as they had not completed schooling. Jangipur MP Khalilur Rahaman helps both the women with Rs 3,000 every month. “Though these families have been paid large amounts by the government and NGOs, some of them are still jobless owing to their lack of qualifications,” said a source, pointing to an air of existing discontent. “These two women are not middle school graduates and so have been overlooked. This should be rectified,” a source added. Asked about the two women, Sagardighi BDO Subhajit Kundu pointed out that their lack of educational qualification was a roadblock to a job. The tragedy that had struck the five Bahalnagar families in 2019 led to a steady stream of VIPs, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, visiting the village soon after the incident. These days, however, no visitor comes to enquire about the families. But villagers are grateful that at least the roads built for VIPs are permanent. Sources said a Rs 29 lakh tender for fortifying the concrete road leading into the village was currently underway and would be completed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP agog over ‘tweaks’||The sudden removal of BJP state organisation (secretary) Subrata Chatterjee, also seen as state party unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s right hand, is being seen in state BJP circles as the outcome of discontent with Chatterjee’s “style of functioning” and has left many curious on other tweaks in the party before the 2021 Assembly polls. BJP national president J.P. Nadda replaced Chatterjee with Amitava Chakraborty as the state unit’s general secretary (organisation). Till Thursday evening, no official party communiqué had arrived on Chatterjee’s future role. On Thursday evening, Ghosh told mediapersons: “It (Chatterjee’s removal) is an organisational decision. I’ve worked with Amalenduda (Chatterjee, Subrata Chatterjee’s predecessor), then Subratada and will continue the teamwork with Amitavada.” Over the past few months, many high-profile Bengal BJP leaders such as Babul Supriyo, Swapan Dasgupta, Arjun Singh and Jagannath Sarkar had accused Chatterjee of “favouritism”. “Subratada ruined the careers of many party workers by promoting others. What happens now to leaders who enjoyed power by virtue of their proximity to Subratada will be keenly watched,” a senior state BJP leader said. Chatterjee had bypassed Chakraborty, then joint general secretary (organisation), in key organisational decisions, the source said. “Though Amitavada was in-charge of Calcutta and Nadia zones, Subratada would appoint people close to him in the district committees of the two places. Amitavada wasn’t even consulted,” the source said. According to multiple sources, Chatterjee’s removal was only a matter of time and yet Wednesday’s decision was a surprise as it was sudden. “None of us had any clue till the notice was uploaded on our party’s website,” a BJP leader said. “We did not expected a change in such a key position with Assembly polls a few months away.” Sources at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the state BJP headquarters, appeared to be divided on Chatterjee’s future. A senior leader told this correspondent that Chatterjee had been asked to report to the RSS, his parent cadre. “Subratada has been asked to report to the Patna office of the RSS,” the senior leader said. Sources close to Chatterjee denied this. They said Chatterjee spoke to RSS leaders over phone and is waiting for orders on the way forward. “Subratada will be in Calcutta for a few more days. It is unlikely that he will be asked to hold any position in the state unit any longer,” a source said. In BJP’s scheme of things, the post of general secretary (organisation) goes to people loaned from the RSS. Once their tenure in the party is over, they usually return to the RSS. “Amalendu Chatterjee, who held the post before Subratada, had quietly gone back to the RSS after his removal. What happens to Subratada next is completely the Sangh’s prerogative,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Tiny hamlets now tourism focus||The Bengal tourism department has drawn up a plan to promote rural tourism in the new district of Kalimpong and promote it as a model district in rural tourism. The decision comes in the wake of homestays, private resorts and other accommodations mushrooming across the district’s rural areas. As a part of the plan, Gautam Deb, the state tourism minister, has started paying visits to prospective destinations and places already known but are yet to gain popularity among tourists visiting the region. During the past few days, he visited Nokdara and Rishop, tiny hamlets of the hill district located within 35km  of the district headquarters of Kalimpong. Officials of the district administration and his department accompanied him. “I have visited a couple of destinations in Kalimpong district where rural tourism can be developed with proper planning. We are exploring all possibilities to develop such facilities and will assess the potential of new destinations in the district. If rural tourism is promoted properly, it will also create employment for local residents,” said Deb. Rishop’s idyllic hilly landscape is picture-postcard peaceful and also useful for short-distance nature trails. Nokdara, the other location, is a new site that can be developed into a destination for tourists. An official who was with the minister on the trip, said that Nokdara has a lake where boating can be introduced. “The serene location is surrounded by lush green forests. Also, visitors can enjoy a majestic view of the snow-capped Kanchenjungha, along with fabulous sunrises and sunsets. It is just 34km from Kalimpong town,” he said. Raj Basu, a veteran in the tourism industry in the region who is assisting the department to conduct the survey, pointed out that the growth of rural tourism in Kalimpong district was encouraging more and more people to come up with accommodations in newer or less-known locations. “The entire Kalimpong district has huge potential for village tourism,” Basu said. “In a number of places, local residents have developed facilities for visitors along with some private tour operators. What we now need is concrete planning from the state’s side to create more sites and also promote the locations,” added Basu, who is also the convener of the Association for Conservation and Tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Goons injure do-gooder||A 55-year-old tailor from Nadia’s Santipur is battling for his life at a private hospital in Calcutta after goons attacked him with an axe and rods on Monday night when he tried to save a teacher from them. The government school primary teacher, Kuntal Sinha Roy, 38, had become the target of the goons’ ire for protesting against gambling on his residential premises. When the goons came to attack him, Kuntal called up tailor Chanchal Sinha Roy, who happens to be his neighbour too, for help. According to Kuntal’s complaint with Santipur police, Chanchal immediately rushed to the teacher’s residence and asked the criminals to leave. Angry goons then attacked Chanchal on the head and broke his leg. In his complaint lodged with Santipur police, Kuntal said he had called up tailor and neighbour Chanchal Sinha Roy for help when the goons had come to attack him on Monday night. “Around 10am on Monday I asked some youths to leave when I found them gambling and creating a nuisance in the backyard of our residence,” he said. “They left then but returned in the evening in a big group armed with sharp weapons and iron rods. They tried to barge inside by breaking the door of my house,” Kuntal said. “Fearing a ghastly attack, I called up the police. Since they were taking time to arrive, I sought Chanchal kaku’s  help. I thought that as an elderly man, his intervention would help. The goons, however, struck his head with an axe, injuring him critically outside the door of our house,” Kuntal said. The goons also attacked Chanchal with iron rods and broke his left leg, Kuntal said. He said the goons left only when other neighbours had rushed to their rescue. The police have started a case of attempt to murder against 27 persons on the basis of the complaint lodged by Kuntal. A police officer said two prime accused in the case were arrested on Wednesday night. An investigating officer of Santipur police station said: “We have arrested two prime accused who led the attack. However, the other accused  are on the run ever since the condition of the victim started deteriorating.” Chanchal is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit at a private hospital in Calcutta where he was shifted from Kalyani’s JNM Hospital. His condition has taken a turn for the worse since Wednesday evening. A doctor said he suffered heavy bleeding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Comorbidity priority for vaccine||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to prepare a complete list of persons with comorbities in Bengal to ensure that they get the Covid vaccine after frontline workers, once the injection reaches the market. “The comorbidity list will help us identify people who would require the Covid vaccine on priority basis. As we had started the work about three months ago, Bengal could be the only state that would have a full list of vulnerable people by the time the vaccine arrives in the market,” a senior bureaucrat told The Telegraph. The Centre asked the state during a meeting last week to keep a list of Covid frontline workers for vaccination in the first phase, which could start latest by March 2021. Frontline workers include doctors, nurses, other health workers like lab technicians of government and private hospitals, and municipal workers engaged in garbage disposal and cleaning of hospitals or similar establishments. Sources said the state government’s stress on vaccinating persons with comorbidities on a priority basis comes from their vulnerability to infection. Of the total 6,725 Covid-19 deaths reported till Thursday, the state government attributed 84.1 per cent to comorbidities. Sources said the survey of health parameters of nearly 10 crore people is complete and the data are being compiled now. “It is a Herculean task as we are trying to prepare the list on the basis of the degree of comorbidities. Those more vulnerable will be given the vaccine first,” said an officer. But other officials said the uploading of comorbidity data in Calcutta was lagging behind schedule. Bengal Assembly’s deputy Speaker Sukumar Hansda breathed his last on Thursday. He was 66. The two-term Jhargram MLA was suffering from cancer. Mamata Banerjee, in a tweet, said she was “deeply grieved”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Chilahati-Haldibari rail link eyes Dec, March hope for Siliguri-Dhaka||The Sheikh Hasina government in Bangladesh intends to start train services along the Haldibari-Chilahati route from December 2020 as well as a passenger train service to connect its capital  Dhaka with Bengal’s Siliguri from March 2021. The route between Cooch Behar’s Haldibari and Bangladesh’s Chilahati is likely to open on December 16, which both countries celebrate as Bijoy Dibosh or Vijay Diwas to mark the day in 1971 when Pakistani troops surrendered to the allied forces of India and Bangladesh, ending war of liberation for Bangladesh. The Dhaka-Siliguri route is likely to come up on March 26, Bangladesh’s Independence Day. In 2021, Bangladesh will celebrate 50 years of independence. Trains used to run through this route over five decades earlier — Bangladesh was East Pakistan then — but had stopped in 1965 during the India-Pakistan war. During the past few years, governments of both India and Bangladesh had taken the initiative to lay railway tracks and put up ancillary infrastructure to run trains along the route. Work is almost over on both sides of the border. Last week on October 21, Bangladesh railway minister Nurul Islam Sujon met Vikram Doraiswami, the new high commissioner of India at Dhaka’s Rail Bhawan. After the meeting, an official release issued by the Bangladesh government the next day stated that the railway minister said the tracks for the Haldibari-Chilahati route would open this December. “The railway minister said the railway line from Haldibari in India to Chilahati in Bangladesh will be launched in December,” said the release. In an official post, the High Commission of India in Bangladesh said that at the meeting, Doraiswami and Sujon had discussed “ways to further enhance #IndiaBangladesh connectivity.” The news release issued by Bangladesh press information department stated that its government was also mulling another plan, that is, introduction of passenger train services between Dhaka and Siliguri. “….Besides, there are plans to run a passenger train from Dhaka to Siliguri on March 26 next year, the minister added,” reads the release. Across north Bengal and in Bangladesh, there has been a steady demand to introduce train and air services. Thousands of Bangladeshi nationals visit Siliguri and nearby areas for education, healthcare, commerce and other reasons. Many Bangladeshi tourists visit the hills every year, including Sikkim. As of now, there are four rail routes that connect Bengal with Bangladesh, Petrapole-Benapole, Singhabad-Rohanpur, Gede-Darshana and Radhikapur-Birol. Bus service is available from Siliguri to Dhaka via Changrabandha of Cooch Behar. Trial runs have been conducted to run buses along the Dhaka-Siliguri-Kathmandu route as a part of the transport agreement signed among the neighbouring countries but the service is yet to start. “A passenger train service linking Bangladesh will give a major boost to the regional economy of north Bengal. We are eagerly waiting for the day,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. Sources associated with the Haldibari-Chilahati route rail project said that chances were high that the route opens on December 16. A trial run by the Bangladesh Railway two days back has cheered the residents of Cooch Behar’s Haldibari. “It was nice to see the locomotive of the Bangladesh Railway approaching the border after years. On both the sides, work is on in full swing and it will be great if the track is finally commissioned in December,” said Satish Dutta, an elderly resident of Haldibari. Officials of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the zone of Indian Railway that has been working on the rail project, said tracks have been laid till the border. “Some ancillary works at Haldibari station are in progress. We do not have any information as to when the rail route will open but we have instructions to finish the work by December,” said S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR. Additional inputs by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Beach guards demand Covid-safe gear||Teams of civil defence workers or nulias, who supervise safety and rescue operations at tourist beaches in East Midnapore’s Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur, have complained about the alleged neglect by authorities in helping them stay Covid-proof amid the pandemic. These beach guards are deployed in the sea and on crowded beaches and respond to any emergency that a tourist might encounter while bathing in the sea. On Monday, members of the civil defence team rescued a seven-year-old Howrah boy from drowning in Digha. Around 56 nulias, who report to civil defence authorities in Digha have alleged that since March they had not been provided proper PPE or new life jackets by the police or district authorities. “We are wearing years-old life jackets and are using poorly made masks purchased with our own funds. We expect better treatment from the government and police when we are behind the vital tourist revival over here,” said a nulia in Digha. He added: “We have to frequently come close to victims of near-drowning or beach accidents. Then, obviously, we can’t afford to think of social distancing norms. Tourists often come drunk to the seaside and create problems that require us to save them or pull them out of the sea. We are risking our lives in a pandemic and the least we can expect is good protection that includes proper masks, gloves and sanitisers. We are poor and cannot afford costly essentials to keep ourselves safe from Covid.” Sources said teams of nulias had already petitioned Digha police and the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority a couple of months ago for required essentials to stay Covid-safe. “We have not even heard from them (the authorities), let alone get proper gear,” said another nulia as he kept a keen watch on revellers in the sea at Digha. He added that his own life jacket had to be sewn together by his wife after three years of constant use. District disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar said his office would be sensitive to the needs of nulias. “We are responsible for their salaries but we have not received any equipment requisitions yet. We will certainly look into it and route their demands through the BDO,” he said. “We have given civic workers equipment last in March, and they can always come to us with their needs,” added officer-in-charge, Digha police station, Krishnendu Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Sylee tea garden to reopen||Gates of the Sylee tea estate in the Malbazar block of Jalpaiguri will reopen from Friday. The decision was made at a bipartite meeting held here on Thursday. Sources said at the industry wide agreement on bonus that was held in September this year, it was decided that the management would pay a bonus at 15.5 per cent. The workers did not agree to the proposal and demanded a bonus at 20 per cent, that is, the rate fixed for most other gardens. They resorted to demonstration at the garden from September 22 and even held protests in Malbazar town. On October 5, the management had announced suspension of work, citing lawlessness in the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||West Bengal||Watch over Covid patients at home||The West Midnapore district administration has set up specialised teams of admission committees at gram panchayats to regularly supervise Covid-19 patients in home isolation and help them get admitted to hospitals if their health worsens. The official, preferring to speak anonymously, added that at least 50 per cent of the 184 coronavirus-induced deaths in the district till Tuesday occurred because patients in home isolation couldn’t be admitted to hospitals on time. Nimai Mondal, the district chief medical officer of health, broadly concurred. “Several patients in home isolation couldn’t be saved because they weren’t brought to the hospitals on time,” he said. “In case the patient is suffering from some other ailment or has suddenly fallen seriously ill, the admission committee will arrange for his or her admission to the hospital.” Till Tuesday, 12,564 persons of the district contracted the infection. There are 1,750 active cases here. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concerns over the rising number of active coronavirus cases in the district at the administrative review meeting held on October 6 in Kharagpur. Mamata had asked the district administration to keep an eye on the conditions of patients in home isolation. Though the decision to form admission committees at panchayat levels had been taken before the chief minister’s visit to the district, it was only after her strict directives that the plan was quickly executed. The district health department shares a list of Covid-19 patients in every block with respective block officials every day. This list — which comprises phone numbers of patients — is in turn shared with members of the admission committees to facilitate transfer to hospitals in case of an emergency. Each of these committees comprise the secretary of the respective village panchayat, ASHA workers, auxiliary nurses, midwives, civic volunteers and village resource persons. The ASHA workers monitor the households and enquire about the patient’s health over phone twice a day. “There is a format specified by the district health department. ASHA workers have to follow it and take down the details of the patients’ health,” another source at the district administration said. Abhishek Mishra, the BDO of Chandrakona-1 block, hoped that supervision of these committees minimise the risk of patient’s succumbing to the virus. “In our experience, patients in home isolation have a tendency of not reporting at hospitals unless their condition is critical. Some families are to be blamed for the same reason,” he added. Kamalkrishna Samanta, the chief of the Nandanpur-1 panchayat of Ghatal block, said patients under his administration were being regularly monitored. “With the help of admission committees, anyone whose condition gets serious can promptly be admitted to the hospital,” Samanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-329
30-10-2020||North East||Arunachal Internet bar to curb cheating||The Arunachal Pr­a­desh government will temporarily suspend Internet ser­vices in 15 out of its 25 districts to “check” any possible online malpractices during the state civil services exam on Sunday. The Arunachal Pradesh Pu­blic Service Combined Co­mpetitive (Prelims) examination is conducted by the Aru­nachal Pradesh Public Service Commission. Those who clear the exam are appointed to the most coveted posts in the state civil services, including deputy superintendents of police and circle officers. Commission chairman Ni­po Nabam told The Telegra­ph that they requested the st­a­te government this month to bl­ock Internet services in the 17 examination centres under the 15 districts to rule out the use of unfair means during the exam. There will be two papers of three hours duration on Sunday, from 9am to noon and from 1pm to 4pm. “Nowadays technology has become so advanced that frisking alone cannot detect the sophisticated gadgets that are in the market. These may be used to scan the question papers and send it online to experts who may revert with answers. To check the use of unfair means, were requested the home department to block the Internet services during the duration of the exam on Sunday since we don’t have resources to install jammers,” Nabam said. The home department has on the commission’s request an­nounced temporary suspe­nsion of Internet from 8am to noon and from noon to 4pm on Sunday to check transmissi­on/sharing of exam-related information through telecom services. The districts where Internet services will be suspended on Sunday are Lower Subansiri, Upper Subansiri, Lower Dibang Valley, Lohit, Tirap, Changlang, Itanagar Capital Region, Papum Pare, Tawang, East Kameng, West Kameng, East Siang, West Siang, Leparada and Upper Siang. All the 15 deputy commissioners have been asked to coordinate with the telecom ser­vi­ce providers and implement the order, sources said. They said this may soon become the norm in other states too to ch­e­ck exam-related malpractices. This is the second time si­nce 2017 that Internet services will be suspended in the state. The commission had on Thursday briefed the governor on the preparations for Sunday’s examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
30-10-2020||North East||Police hunt for coaching institute owner and IT employee next in JEE scam||After arresting the topper of the JEE (Mains) examination in Assam and his doctor father for allegedly using an impersonator to write the test, the state police is looking for an owner of a coaching institute and an employee of a leading IT company in connection with the fraud in the country's prestigious engineering entrance exam. Five persons have been arrested in the case so far and taken into police custody for five days, a senior officer said on Friday. "The police are searching for an owner of a city-based coaching institute and an employee of a leading IT company," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West), Guwahati Suprotive Lal Baruah told PTI. Many people are suspected to be involved in the malpractice and the investigation is on to unearth the racket, another senior police officer said. The state police approached the National Testing Agency, which has conducted the examination across the country, and sought information related to the JEE (Mains) exam to help them in their investigations. The NTA had outsourced the infrastructural and human resources support to an IT company for conducting the examination, the police officer said. Baruah is heading a special investigating team, set up to probe the scam, which came to light on Wednesday after an audio recording of the candidate's purported telephonic conversation with one of his friends went viral on social media. The candidate admitted the fraud to a friend during a phone call which was recorded, police said. The examination was held on September 5. An FIR was filed by a person, identified as Mitradev Sharma, on October 23 in Azara police station here, alleging that the candidate, who scored 99.8 per cent in the JEE (Mains), had used an impersonator to appear for the test on his behalf. Sharma alleged that on the day of the examination, the candidate entered the specified centre at Borjhar area, but came out after completing the biometric attendance with the help of an invigilator and another person wrote the exam. The complainant also alleged that the parents of the candidate had paid Rs 15-20 lakh to the private coaching institute in Guwahati to help him in the examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
30-10-2020||Opinion||Fixed time: Fundamental right to bail||Bail seems to have become the exception rather than the rule in newsworthy cases. But the Supreme Court has said that the failure to produce a chargesheet within the stipulated period of 90 days — 180 days in the case of special laws — cannot be a reason to deny bail to an accused who has applied for it and fulfilled its conditions. This is one of the most important of recent rulings; it upholds the fundamental right to personal liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution. The court makes this connection. The law for bail was formulated under the umbrella of the Constitutional right, so the right to bail is not just statutory. In cases where the investigation is not complete, default bail, if applied for, would be permissible by virtue of the relevant section of the Criminal Procedure Code. This is the procedure of the law: if the prosecution cannot complete the investigation on time, the accused cannot be punished for it. The ruling came in the context of an appeal by a person accused of murder, whose application for default bail had been dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The Supreme Court set aside the high court’s ruling. By emphasizing that an accused has an indefeasible fundamental right to bail, the ruling implicitly holds up to question the authorities’ habit of refusing bail. Recently, this has been blatantly displayed with regard to persons accused of offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and other laws: anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters, for instance, and activists, teachers, lawyers and writers arrested on suspicion of engagement in the Delhi riots or the violence at Bhima Koregaon. The Supreme Court’s ruling puts a damper on the delay of investigative agencies and the prosecution, which are sometimes believed to be complying with the wishes of the government. For example, the court put aside the Delhi police’s attempt to cancel the bail granted by the Delhi High Court to the anti-CAA protester, Devangana Kalita, who had been arrested for allegedly instigating violence through a speech. But will the ruling help the huge numbers of other undertrial prisoners? The poorer prisoners need awareness and lawyers, which will remain elusive unless the State shows a commitment to right the wrongs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||New twist: Bimal Gurung resurfaces||Sir — The resurfacing of Bimal Gurung, the founder of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, and his decision to extend support to the chief minister of Bengal may have serious ramifications for the politics of the state as a whole and, in particular, for Darjeeling (“Bimal back, supports Mamata”, Oct 22). Gurung had been absconding since September 2017, after the Trinamul Congress-led government slapped a number of criminal charges on him — including those under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — following a prolonged violent agitation in the hills for a separate state of Gorkhaland. Snapping ties with the National Democratic Alliance, Gurung has claimed that Mamata Banerjee always kept her promises. This exposes his duplicity. In 2017, when the government gave a short shrift to the GJM’s demand for a written assurance that it would not impose the teaching of Bengali in Darjeeling, Gurung had claimed that the TMC government had made a number of promises to the residents of North Bengal when it came to power in 2011 but none of them was remotely near completion. Interestingly, when Gurung was on the run, the GJM broke up. The faction led by Binay Tamang allied itself with the state government and established itself at the helm of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Now that the ruling party in Bengal has welcomed Gurung’s support, it remains to be seen how the two warring factions of the GJM will be reconciled. Gurung, however, has emphasized that his party is not moving away from their demand for Gorkhaland; he has pledged to support the party which takes that demand forward. The question is whether Banerjee will yield to the demand and withdraw all cases against him in the hope that Gurung’s support will reverse the political fortune of the TMC in the hills. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The dramatic appearance of Bimal Gurung after three years of hiding has created quite a stir. Gurung was not arrested as an offender. Rather, he was allowed to hold a press conference in Calcutta. Gurung’s proclamation that the NDA has not fulfilled the aspirations of the hill people — he has vowed allegiance to the TMC — shows that the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has been working to secure her position in the state ahead of the 2021 assembly elections. It is likely that there was a secret deal between Banerjee and Gurung, with eyes on upcoming polls. But the people of the hills, including Siliguri, are still unsure whether the demand for a separate state has been given up by the Gorkha leader or the chief minister has given him any assurance on the matter. Speculation on social media seems to suggest that the hill people are not ready to accept Gurung as a ‘surrendered’ leader. But the ultimate question is this: between Banerjee and Gurung, who has actually surrendered? Birkha Khadka Duvarseli,Siliguri Sir — After a prolonged disappearance, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader, Bimal Gurung, has suddenly arrived in Calcutta and proclaimed to join hands with the TMC to bring back Mamata Banerjee to power in the 2021 assembly elections. Gurung has also stated his intent to continue his struggle for the creation of Gorkhaland. However, Banerjee has time and again asserted that Bengal will not be bifurcated. If Gurung knows that his demand for Gorkhaland will not be met, then his support for the TMC could simply be a bid to have the cases against him and his associates withdrawn. He must also have seen through the political games played by the Bharatiya Janata Party, which have now jeopardized his political career. It now remains to be seen how the TMC tackles him. Mrinal Kanti Kundu,Howrah Lessons unlearnt Sir — Only a few months ago, people were rejoicing over the fact that one positive effect of the lockdown was the stark decrease in pollution levels, particularly that of water bodies. Some of us were even hoping that given this second chance, people would live more responsibly — they would refrain from polluting lakes and rivers with effluents, garbage or plastic. But this appears to have been wishful thinking. With the recent festivities — Navratri, for instance — all awareness has clearly been forgotten. This year, once again, devotees dumped puja offerings into the Yamuna, making its condition worse. Urgent and systematic government intervention is necessary to prevent people from polluting the waters before it is too late. Reshmi Chakraborty,Delhi Step forward Sir — After expressing support for migrant communities and refugees as well as same-sex unions, Pope Francis has taken yet another progressive step: he has appointed Wilton Gregory, the archbishop of Washington, as cardinal, making him the first African American person to hold the position. This is an unprecedented decision, and must be appreciated by all, regardless of one’s faith or ethnicity. At a time when political leaders across the world seem to be trying to polarize the world along the lines of religion, race or gender, the pope’s gestures might go a long way in spreading the message of harmony and tolerance. Soumik Hazra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Pandora’s box: Land-rule change in the Valley||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government is on record stating that the abrogation of Article 370, which provided the former state of Jammu and Kashmir with special provisions, was necessary because of two reasons. First, it would facilitate greater integration between the region and the rest of the country. Second, it would generate momentum for industry and development by doing away with provisions — only permanent residents were permitted to purchase land earlier — that the BJP deemed exclusionary. Integration as a principle is certainly a desirable objective. There can be no objections, at least in theory, to the idea of Indian citizens purchasing land or residing in any part of the country. But this right cannot ride roughshod over the anxieties of local communities concerning ownership. This is the reason why special provisions are in place in the Constitution to grant protection to the rights of property of local or indigenous people not only in Kashmir — always the focus of the BJP’s divisive narrative of privileges — but also in other states. Article 371(A) honours Nagaland’s customs on land transfer and ownership; Article 371(G) extends similar privileges to Mizoram; sale and purchase of land and property is regulated by Article 371(F) in Sikkim as well. This protective armour goes to show that the founders of the Constitution were sensitive to the need of integration being predicated on collective consensus rather than unilateralism. Of course the BJP’s comprehension of such wisdom is inadequate. This ignorance — an ideological wart — has been exposed, once again, by the Central notification permitting outsiders to purchase non-agricultural land in Jammu and Kashmir. The Valley, expectedly, is up in arms against the proposal, viewing it as an attempt on the part of the BJP to engineer a demographic shift. The absence of consultation with the people and their political representatives on such a sensitive issue has amplified their concerns. Interestingly, Hindu-dominated Jammu — a steadfast source of support for the BJP — is equally indignant: the Dogras are of the view that their identity is under threat. The resultant political churning, while being inimical to the BJP’s prospects, could be a rare occasion where Jammu and Kashmir are speaking in one voice. These developments reiterate the need for the framing of a national policy that would create uniform, equitable conditions for purchase of land while securing the rights of affected communities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Price of farm reform||The prime minister, Narendra Modi, believes that the three bills on agricultural reform are essential for doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Some industrialists have compared the legislations with the liberalization of the Indian economy. It may, therefore, be useful to examine the experience of other countries that attempted to liberalize the agricultural market. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act gives farmers the license to sell their produce to anyone they like. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farms Services Act facilitates contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance removes the cap on agricultural commodity stock piling. Countries in East Asia, Europe and Africa had done something similar three decades back. Liberalization in agriculture led to a higher share of the private sector in these countries with some variations. While liberalizing the agriculture, these governments took such steps as intervening in price settings, reducing interventions through taxes and subsidies, and ending government monopoly on the produce market by allowing private traders to engage in trade. Indonesia was the first country in South Asia to experiment with liberalization in 1968. Other East Asian countries followed suit. In the context of OECD countries, the World Bank and the International Food Policy Research Institute point to evidence of enhanced trade liberalization accompanied by a fall in agricultural support leading to a decrease in capacity — cotton being one example. This, in turn, led to heightened poverty because the rise in production was followed by a fall in prices. Neither were the results of liberalization favourable in sub-Saharan Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. However, East Asian nations witnessed a corresponding increase in GDP. China embraced the liberalization of agriculture in 1978 in a series of steps. China’s reforms reduced control over farm prices while maintaining a grip on institutions that supplied farm inputs and purchased output. Its success resulted from a sequential rolling out of liberalization in which price and market reforms were key components. Before liberalizing the market, China initiated baby steps with price and market reforms, setting up Rural Credit Cooperatives in the late 1970s to raise farm prices. Between 1980 and 1997, the ratio of agricultural export to agricultural GDP increased from 4.6 per cent to 9.1 per cent while the ratio of agricultural import to agricultural GDP barely changed. The liberalization of the agrarian sector led to income growth and a sharp rise in inequality in China. The latter, however, stabilized in the 2000s and is currently lower than that in India. Contrastingly, India’s economic liberalization has resulted in massive inequalities. The weakening of public sector institutions along with enhanced privatization has resulted in extreme commercialization and deep inequality. Market failures are not unknown in developing economies. The disinterest and inefficiency of private players when it comes to focusing on the complex grid of development based on labour welfare, poverty reduction, and the eradication of inequalities cannot be ignored. Hence, any endorsement of liberalization must be accompanied by unbiased reflections on the cost of such ‘reforms’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Opinion||Unusual season||“Every evening our heartfelt desire was to sit around Thakurda and listen to stories. The whole day would be spent in studying, running small errands for our mothers and grandmothers, in school and in games. At dusk, we would spread a shower of learning all through the house by reciting our lessons very loudly... But for how long?... A little into the evening, all our uncles would leave... for their clubs or card games. That was our chance. We hurriedly put by our books. Now the head of the house was — Thakurda.” The translation is mine, from a story in Bengali in one of the Puja annuals for children from Dev Sahitya Kutir that constituted one of the many joys of the autumn festival in the past. They spilled over with stories, poems, plays — Bidhayak Bhattacharya’s plays about Amaresh were a must, even if you did not always like them — articles, adventures, historical episodes, discoveries, inventions, sporting achievements, myths, legends, fables, even picture tales or comics. Each hard-covered brick-like volume was a treasure trove, carrying something for everyone, from the child who has just learnt to read stories to the curious or dreamy older teenager. The thrill of receiving one was indescribable; it even had a special gift page where the loving aunt or grandfather could write your name. Each year’s annual had a different name and cover, every time a surprise. The contents on its glossy pages were meticulously detailed: first came a list of writers, and then the works themselves, under heads such as ‘Unpublished poem’, ‘Unpublished essay’, ‘Life story’ — one could be “Sri Ramakrishna and Michael” — or ‘Story’, ‘Long story, ‘Comic story’, ‘Comic poem’, ‘Animal story’, ‘Ghost story’, ‘Mystery story’, ‘Travel story’, ‘Thrilling story’, ‘Robber story’, ‘Devotional story’, ‘Hunting story’, ‘Magic’, ‘Science’ and so on, endlessly, leaving the young reader glowing in anticipation. That was one of the deepest pleasures of those Pujas forty or fifty years ago, the ‘heartfelt desire’ for new experiences even if from the pages of a book. Some of the greatest and most well-known writers of the time wrote for children, so adults were encouraging, maybe indulgent. I was unaware then that I was reading many works that I would later find were modern classics. The style of the contents seems delightfully quaint now, yet it offered a kind of basic idea of genres and moods although most children now would find such black-and-white compartments obsolete. The pictures would seem old-fashioned too, but the illustrators were quite brilliant, creating images and dramatic moments that would remain impressed on young minds. Who can forget the woman stretching out her arm through the kitchen window to a lime tree at the end of the yard while cooking for a visitor who faints as he realizes that she is a spectre? (A foreign hand? Behind the tale, that is.) The pictures, too, with their story title and caption — “The Skeleton”: “Hariharbabu said, ‘How did you know all this?’” — had their own contents column under heads indicating the number of colours: three, two or one. These volumes were clearly intended to delight and teach together; the enjoyment smoothed the way for the carefully woven moral values to sink in. Much of the material would be considered politically incorrect today: Thakurda longs for his hubble-bubble even after death, and Mukulrani, the narrator, is his favourite granddaughter because she dresses his tobacco exactly the way he likes it. The ghost’s repeated appearances overcome his son’s scientific incredulity and he goes to Gaya for the ritual to quiet the restless spirit. Gender roles are usually problematic, but surprisingly, not always so. In those decades following Independence, historical narratives and biographical sketches were also informed by nationalistic feeling. Stories and accounts of developments taken from the West opened up fresh horizons for the reader, while the fillers were substantial. One series of fillers, titled “Amar bani anlo jaara” or “Those who brought immortal words”, selected anecdotes from the lives of writers ranging from Homer, Chaucer and Shakespeare to Bjørnson and Tagore to present their works and times. “Golden accounts” described works such as “Walden”, Jane Eyre, Doctor Zhivago or the Mowgli stories, while “Gems and Pearls” offered quotations from ancient Indian texts with context and explanation. Meanwhile, there were other Puja numbers, too, of children’s periodicals such as Shuktara, Rang Mashal or Sandesh. No child could be blamed for believing these to be limitless riches even if she did not read them all. An addiction had begun. Pleasures keep changing even when the occasion for them remains the same. Not that the baroari Durga Puja has remained the same in spirit, presentation and funding sources ever since, supposedly, 12 young men, the baro iyars, began worshipping the deity outside the family home in the public arena. That was in the second half of the 18th century; there is a disagreement about the exact year. The pleasures then were probably rambunctiously different, even if Hutom of Hutom Pyanchar Naksha is taken with a fistful of salt. If fun fairs, jatras, ‘cultural programmes’ and the gorgeous array of street food during the Pujas nowadays hark back to the noisy carnivals of the earliest public pujas that, according to Hutom, bustled with jesters and buffoons, resounded with half akhrai and kabigan competitions, he sharpened his wit most on the absurd conduct of intoxicated patrons, their pride in masses of animal sacrifice and their grotesque taste in apparel. The Pujas allow many kinds of enjoyment even today. Aesthetic ingenuity — individual talents blossoming within tradition — created images made of buttons or nails or bottle caps for a time, leading on to ‘theme’ Pujas with their incredible pandals, amazing crafts and lighting, and marvellous illusions. Seniors unable to leave home have matched younger people in pandal-hopping courtesy their television for many years, and this time, with the pandemic forbidding crowds, it was even possible to offer anjali digitally. That apps offered all-round tours of each venue is a sure indication that the deity smiles on technological advance. Yet this time it was almost like a touch on a pause button. The Calcutta High Court’s strictures combined, possibly, with some apprehension of the damage Covid-19 can cause as well as the scarcity of transport thinned down crowds for most of the festive days. Defiant exceptions notwithstanding, the general impression was of a kind of sadness, so lacking in the usual uproarious goodwill that sweet shops had to scale down production. A sudden silence muffled the addictive frenzy — a mix of worship, pleasure, togetherness, dressing to the nines, competitive social media representation and admiration of idols, pandals and lights — that the festival generates nowadays. Even the dhaks seemed muted. Yet even in the pause, some other addictions tend to cling. In the misty past, there would come a season when the youngster graduated from the children’s Puja annual to the grown-ups’, the mysterious sharadiya number of adults’ periodicals. It was a joyful rite of passage, the perpetuation of a now unbreakable habit. That sharadiya number has not shed its allure for many, even if it has to be disinfected. The deity was kind enough to allow online orders this time for those unable to leave their homes. Irresistible temptation. Does the addict’s pleasure in continuity spring from memory or from the hope of happier seasons?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||BJP suspends Sukhdev Bhagat, likely to rejoin Congress||The state BJP on Friday suspended former Lohardaga MP and senior worker Sukhdev Bhagat for a period of six years. BJP’s state general secretary Aditya Sahu said, “His letter of suspension was signed by the party president Deepak Sahu on Thursday night.” A bureaucrat turned politician, Bhagat, was former president of the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC). However, days before the assembly polls in Jharkhand last year, he switched to BJP after being denied a ticket by the Congress to contest from Loharadaga. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he was fielded by Congress from Lohardaga parliamentary seat but was defeated by BJP’s Sudarshan Bhagat. He is trying to rejoin the grand old party and was in regular touch with the Congress leadership. He distanced himself from the NDA camp for campaigning for the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and Bermo, which is why he was finally suspended, said BJP sources. The district administration on Friday announced a mass testing drive for Covid-19 across 31 places on Saturday. The move is intended at detecting large scale infection, if any, after Durga puja to curb the transmission of the virus, said officials. The drive will be held from 10am-6pm. As many as 14 centres have been earmarked in urban pockets while 17 have been put up in rural pockets. “The testing will be done on all four modes namely—rapid antigen test (RAT), nucleic acid test (NAT), Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and True Nat as per the requirement,” a district notification said. According to Thursday night’s Covid bulletin, Ranchi’s total tally stands at 25,414 of which 23,511 have been discharged, 172 died and the rest are active cases. A four-year-old boy died in Jarga village of Punai Panchayat in Daru block when a plaque broke and fell on him. The incident took place, around 40kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Relatives said the boy was sitting close to the plaque when it suddenly cracked and fell on him injuring him grievously. He was taken to the nearest hospital but was declared brought dead. Daru block development officer Ram Ratan Barnawal said if the boy died due to a plaque falling then action will be taken against the people responsible. A paddy field caught fire on Friday behind JMS church near Mahtikra area in Barkagaon when a 11000 volt overhead wire fell on it. This overhead wire supplies power to areas like Chorka, Pandariya and Palandu. The paddy on the 10-cottah field was destroyed causing huge loss to farmers. The farmers have demanded compensation for their losses from block officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Two cops hurt in Maoist attack||Two Jharkhand police personnel sustained serious injuries in an IED blast triggered by suspected Maoists that was followed by an exchange of fire in Serengdag region in Lohardaga district, over 120km from Ranchi, on Friday afternoon. Security forces retaliated to the firing by the rebels and over 1,000 rounds were exchanged. The injured, Upendra Singh and Arvind Kumar Pandey, were airlifted to Ranchi for treatment at Medica, a private hospital in the city. Their condition is said to be critical but they are out of danger. Lohardaga police sources said the blast occurred around 1.30pm when security forces were out for a combing operation following a tip-off about the presence of Maoists in the area. “The jawans were walking when an IED blew up near Sahighat forest. Soon, the rebels began firing but our men too retaliated,” said an officer. “A hunt is on to nab the rebels, who disappeared taking advantage of the denseness of the forest,” the officer added. Lohardaga superintendent of police Priyanka Meena, who visited the spot of the blast, confirmed to the media the injuries to the two security personnel but added that they were safely evacuated and airlifted to Ranchi for treatment. The police are suspecting the involvement of the Ravindra Ganjhu squad in the incident. Ganjhu is a regional commander of the Maoists who operates in Lohardaga, Gumla and Latehar districts. Talking to reporters, North Chotanagpur deputy inspector general of police Akhilesh Jha said: “We suspect that the blast and subsequent firing are a handiwork of the Ganjhu squad. Ganjhu is a wanted rebel.” Later in the evening, Jharkhand director general of police M.V. Rao visited Medica to learn about the condition of the jawans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad DC serves showcause notice on land mutation||Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has served show cause notice to several district circle officers in connection with erroneous land registration and mutation process over a period of six years. Singh has given a 10 day deadline to the concerned persons including the sub registrar of Dhanbad, Shweta Kumari and her predecessors, Santosh Kumar; Dhanbad Circle officer, Prashant Laik and his predecessor Prakash Kumar; Govinpur Circle officer Bandana Bharati and her predecessor, Anil Kumar; Baghmara Circle officer Rajesh Kumar and his predessor, Pramod Ram; Baliapur Circle officer Md Aslam a and several other present and past circle inspectors. “The error in land mutation process has been noticed over a long period of time beginning since 2015-16 as the plot and khata number mentioned for the concerned has not been found as per latest land records,” said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Singh said that two kinds of government land records exist including the old and new land records but the mutation and registry of the concerned lands have been carried out as per the old land records. “We have asked in show cause notice that why land registration and mutation has been carried out as per the old land government records despite the presence of new records.” Dhanad resident, Ramesh Kumar Rahi had written three letters to K.K. Soan, secretary of Department of Revenue, Registration and Land reforms pointing out the anomalies in land registration and land mutation and cited over 150 examples of erroneous land registration. Singh according to the instruction of Soan, constituted a committee headed by additional collector Shyam Naryan Ram, of six different sub committees. The committee in its preliminary enquiry detected errors in the land registration and land mutation process and hence show cause notice to 22 people was served. “A technical team led by Additional Collector Shyam Narayan Ram constituted to probe the anomaly will check the documents submitted by the concerned persons along with their reply and submit a final report,” said the DC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Peter Hartley gears up for a successful ISL season with Jamshedpur FC||English Defender Peter Hartley, who is making his debut in the Indian Super League (ISL) in the upcoming 2020-21 season with Jamshedpur FC, looks forward to a successful ISL season, as he is out of quarantine and finally met his teammates. The seventh edition of the Indian Super League (ISL) will kick-off on November 20 in Goa. The 32-year-old English defender is adjusting well to the hot and humid conditions in Goa. He was anxious to come out of isolation. “Well, it was a long journey from England to India. I slept for a couple of days in isolation and just couldn’t wait for the quarantine to get over so that I can and interact, socialize with the boys, train and work hard. I missed my wife and spent time in isolation watching movies on Netflix,” Hartley said from Goa. When asked about his thoughts of playing with the Indian players for the first time, he said, “I have very good and positive thoughts. The standard of Indian players is very good. The boys are really fit and very good on the ball. We are doing a hard job under Owen Coyle (head coach), Sandy Stewart, Noel Wilson (both assistant coaches) and Adrian Dias (strength and conditioning coach). We are looking forward to more time on the pitch.” One of the prized possessions of Jamshedpur FC, Peter Hartley is keen to put his best foot forward. His expectation is to give everything for the club and to have a very successful season. He expects the group to create history for Jamshedpur and make it to the play-offs. He also added that Owen Coyle sets very high standards and knows what the game is all about. “Having already spent five days with the coach and his assistants I think it would be very positive. The team is going to be on the front foot. We will be taking games to teams. We also have experience throughout the team. Owen has created a very good mix. So, there can be very positive moments ahead,” remarked the experienced defender. Owen Coyle, the head coach has a fantastic reputation in both England and Scotland. Having played against his teams in both countries, they fight until the very end no matter what’s the outcome. “It’s an attitude I’ve seen he can easily instill on his team and it is something I wanted to be part of,” he added. Hartley mentioned that he had three excellent seasons at Motherwell FC. “It’s a club I will hold close to my heart for everything that we’ve achieved. But things change, plus the global pandemic didn’t help things. Sometimes, a new challenge is what is required and I needed to make sure that I chose a club and a manager who can help me grow and improve as a person and player, and Jamshedpur FC is the place for that I believe,” he stated. In his message to the fans, Hartley said, “I thank you for the support I’ve already received in such a short time. I can see you are passionate, which is a characteristic of mine as well. Let’s give everything for a successful season. We are stronger together.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Man killed after trying to break up neighbours’ fight||A 30-year-old man at Janugora in suburban Parsudih thana area was assaulted and killed when he tried to break a fight between a couple. The victim identified as Rajendra Kumar Sharma had tried to break a fight between his neighbours who were having an argument in an intoxicated state. The 20-year-old son of the couple attacked the victim and hit him with a stick on his head.  Sharma's head cracked causing him to fall in a pool of blood.  Soon the neighbours rushed the injured to Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. The incident took place at around 11 pm on Thursday. The assailant identified as Rahul Sireng had instantly fled the spot after the attack, but was caught  at a relative's house in adjoining Sundarnagar thana area on Friday morning. "The victim Rajendra Kumar Sharma was the immediate neighbour of the assailant.  As the assailant's parents were quarrelling having consumed liquor,  the victim and his family could not sleep due to the commotion. Then only he had gone over to the neighbour's house and forbidden to quarrel.  While persuading the drunk couple, the victim had also scolded them.  After the couple were made to stop quarrelling, the victim started returning back home.  But as he stepped out of the neighbour's house,  the couple's son had attacked him with the stick and had fled," said Ajay Kumar, OC of Parsudih thana. The OC said the victim died on his way to the Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal which was about four km from the spot. "After the arrest of the assailant, we interrogated him to know the reason behind attacking his neighbour.  The assailant, Rahul Sering confessed that he got angry as the way Sharma had scolded his parents was very humiliating," the OC pointed out while talking to this website. The police have seized the stick that the assailant used in the assault and sent the body to MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem after a Covid test. The police sent the accused to Ghaghidih Central Jail after taking him to the medical college hospital for Covid test and producing him before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Special Assembly session on Sarna code soon, promises Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren said on Friday that a special Assembly session would be convened before Statehood Day on November 15 to pass a resolution in favour of a separate Sarna code ahead of the 2021 nationwide census, agreeing to a long-standing demand of the tribal community. Hemant’s announcement comes days before the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, both constituencies that have of late seen an iteration of the Sarna code demand. Addressing a press conference in Dumka, Hemant said, “I too am equally concerned about the Sarna code like several other tribals who have been struggling for long to get it. My government is serious about it and we have decided to convene a special Assembly session very soon so that we can pass a resolution in its favour and send it to the Government of India by November 15, Jharkhand’s Statehood Day.” The chief minister said he had also spoken with governor Droupadi Murmu and would, in a day or two, send a formal proposal to Raj Bhavan for convening the special session. Hemant, along with his father and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, has been camping in Dumka for the last few days to oversee the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance’s campaign for the byelections. For the last few days, Hemant has been touring Dumka and Bermo extensively, canvassing for candidates of the alliance. But of the two, Dumka is a prestige seat for JMM as the party has fielded Hemant’s younger brother, Basant. The Opposition BJP has fielded former minister Louise Marandi as an NDA candidate in Dumka, while former MLA Yogeshwar Mahto Batul will take on alliance candidate Kumar Jaimangal in Bermo. Hemant’s announcement, days before the bypolls, is an attempt to consolidate the tribal vote in the face of widespread demonstrations in favour of a separate Sarna code. JMM central committee members had also written to him, advocating a special Assembly session to pass a resolution. For tribals, a separate Sarna code in the Census will be key to a distinct identity, as opposed to being classified as Hindus, Muslims or Christians. Hemant endorses their view saying that tribals, or followers of Sarna _ nature worshippers _ deserve a separate place in the Census to retain their identity. In September, churches of Jharkhand also threw their weight behind the demand by writing to the chief minister in favour of a separate Sarna code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Doctors call for smoke & cracker-free Diwali this time||Jharkhand’s medical fraternity has appealed to the state government and the public at large to walk the extra mile to ensure a smoke-free Diwali in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that has seen the state’s case load climb to over a lakh. Doctors fear that fall in temperatures due to the onset of winter, coupled with increase in air pollution due to bursting of crackers, may pose serious health challenges for those who have recovered from a coronavirus infection and those with breathing problems. The state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IAM) has, therefore urged everyone to observe a cracker-free Diwali on November 14. “More than noise, smoke from crackers will pose serious challenges in our fight against the pandemic,” said Jharkhand IMA president Dr A.K. Singh. “Experts have already predicted a second wave of Covid-19 cases during winter. Since Covid affects the lungs the most, even those who have recovered from the virus will be vulnerable because their immunity and respiratory system would still be fragile. Bursting of smoke emitting crackers will be lethal,” he explained. According to pulmonologist Dr Suman Bharvaga, during winter, the phenomenon of dryness in the ambient air poses respiratory problems among people. “The situation turns problematic for people with asthma or other respiratory disorders. An additional load of pollution in the air will only make things worse given that the majority of Covid cases in our state are of those who have comorbidities,” he said, specifying that he would prefer a total ban on crackers this time. Jharkhand IMA chief Singh said the impact of unlock followed by Durga Puja festival which went by last week would start showing in the coming days. During Puja, safety norms were flouted in most places. For example, despite the state government advisories, crowds swelled on streets, many people without masks, on the night of Ashtami and Navami while restaurants in commercial areas like Bistupur and Sakchi in Jamshedpur ran out of place. In Ranchi, areas like Main Road and Kutchery Chowk remained abuzz with people even though Pujas in the city were low-key. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said they were busy studying the Covid cases trend of Durga Puja before issuing guidelines for Diwali. An official in the state disaster management department said SOPs for Diwali would be issued in the latter half of next week. “SOPs for Kali puja samitis too will be more or less the same as that of Durga Puja. With regard to crackers during Diwali, a decision has to be taken at the highest level as many traders, who are already hit by the lockdown, will not want a ban. The chief minister will have to take a final call,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Motors ramps up production of heavy vehicles, ancillaries benefit||Automobile major Tata Motors Motors and its ancillaries based at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district has seen a rise in production of all heavy commercial vehicles in October. According to company sources, the production of trucks, trailers, tippers and other multi-axle vehicles has witnessed a rise from 3,500 vehicles in September to around 6000 in October. The company has set a higher target of manufacturing over 7000 vehicles in November. R.K. Singh, the general secretary of Tata Motors Workers Union, the Intuc-affiliated recognised union of the company said, "We are happy that production as well as orders for heavy commercial vehicles have picked up in October. It is a good sign. With increasing orders, the company has decided to increase its target in November. " There are over 700 small, medium and large ancillary units at Adityapur that supplies auto components to Tata Motors. The company remained shut for almost two months ever since the  Covid-19 induced lockdown was announced in March which had severely impacted it's ancillaries at Adityapur. Production resumed in May but in absence of orders the company was facing a tough time. Earlier this week, the automobile major had announced that it had recorded a 103 per cent jump in bookings and 90 per cent rise in passenger vehicles' retail this Navratri, compared with the same period in 2019. A.K. Srivastava, an industry expert said, "The going in recent times, however, has been as tough for Tata Motors as it has been for other major players in the Indian automobile industry. The shift to BS- VI and technology upgrades had a bearing on performance in 2019 when demand too was comparatively muted.  The year 2020 may have offered hope but the Covid-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown resulted in new and unprecedented challenges."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown triggers ‘marriage on the rocks’ fears, surge in marital disputes||A doctor couple, married for around five years, filed a divorce case with a Ranchi court during the lockdown while both spouses were on Covid-19 duty in different states. The doctors decided to part ways as they failed to devote time to their marriage during the crisis, which created rifts between the two. Eventually, the couple had to be counselled via video conferencing by the mediation centre of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in Ranchi, and they were now reconsidering their decision of parting ways. Similarly, a Ranchi woman in her late twenties had filed a divorce case against her husband, settled in Raipur, after they could not meet each other for six months during the nationwide lockdown enforced in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The DLSA offered counselling to the couple via video conferencing, and they eventually started living together after lockdown restrictions were lifted. Lockdown restrictions have triggered a rise in matrimonial disputes over petty issues in Ranchi, members of the District Legal Services Authority said on Thursday, highlighting that over 300 cases of matrimonial disputes were referred to the DLSA for mediation during the six months of lockdown. “We received over 600 cases of domestic disputes from March to October. At least 300 of them were matrimonial disputes, and we have settled 151 of them via video conferencing,” said DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar. Kumar added that most of the matrimonial disputes that were mediated by the DLSA were triggered during the lockdown. In some cases, the couples fought while they were locked at home during this period; and in many cases, the physical distance between the couple became the bone of contention. “There has certainly been a rise in matrimonial disputes triggered by lockdown restrictions. Mediation played an important role in counselling the couples and encouraging them to give their marriage another chance,” said Kumar. Psychiatrists are of the opinion that spending the entire day together over a period of several months could be one of the triggers for friction between couples. Dr Nishant Goyal, an assistant professor of Clinical Psychiatry at the Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) in Ranchi, said that the overall stress associated with the Covid-19 pandemic and its effect on the livelihood of people also contributed to irritability in couples. “Most of such cases would have been triggered over petty issues, and that is the reason why mediation helped in settling the matter,” said Goyal. “The work from home practice, which the lockdown encouraged, exposed couples to each other’s professional stress. The anxiety associated with losing their jobs or getting infected may have also played a role,” he added. Goyal said that there was also a rise in cases of domestic violence in Jharkhand during the lockdown, an independent survey done by the CIP revealed. The final report of the survey was not out yet, but the figures indicated a surge in cases of domestic violence, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||Blood donation on birthdays in Ranchi||For Dr Abhishek Verma, a Ranchi-based pathologist, it was a birthday celebration of a never-before kind. A blood donation camp was organised at his Ashok Nagar laboratory on his 37th birthday on Thursday when he and his friends donated 12 units of blood in about an hour for children suffering from thalassemia. “It’s really a pleasure to do such a thing for those children who need blood transfusion regularly,” the doctor said, adding he was glad that his friends gave this “precious gift” that made his birthday a happier occasion. It may not be a big donation in terms of quantity but that also matters a lot for those thalassemia children, the doctor further said. “Abhishek’s birthday is not the only occasion, such camps were organised on birthdays of at least 150 more people in the past one year and many more are lined up,” said Atul Gera, founder of Life Savers, a voluntary organisation that organises such blood donation camps regularly for thalassemia children receiving regular transfusions at Thalassemia Day Care Centre at Ranchi Sadar Hospital. “The next such camp will be organised at Namkum on the occasion of birthday of Kunal Sharma on November 2 and another on November 4,” Gera said, adding there will be around 15 such birthday special camps in November. “That will be my 25th birthday and I have invited my friends and neighbours to donate blood for thalassemia children on that day,” informed Kunal who is pursuing a management programme at the local Xavier Institute of Social Service. The Life Savers contact the local authorities who sends a blood collection cum transportation van and a medical team at the venues of such camps. “I have over 5,000 Facebook friends and I get advance alert about their birthdays,” Gera said, adding he contact those who are in Ranchi for organising blood donation camps on their birthdays. Besides birthdays, they also organise blood donation camps with help from members of some organisations and even residents of some apartment buildings, Gera further informed, adding they already have 10 such camps lined up till November 13 and more were expected. They collect about 20-25 units of blood from small camps and more at big ones, he further said, adding such an inflow of donated blood helps keep the transfusion process of thalassemia children go on uninterrupted. “On an average about 20 such children come to the Thalassemia Day Care Centre everyday for receiving blood transfusion,” Gera informed, adding blood collection was disturbed during the pandemic but they still tried to maintain inflow of donated blood by organising such camps. “We can now manage to collect about 60 per cent of monthly retirement for transfusion of thalassemia children who come to the Day Care Centre at Ranchi Sadar Hospital,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
30-10-2020||Jharkhand||3 of family murdered on witchcraft suspicion in Jharkhand||Police recovered three decapitated bodies, including two women, all from one family, near a stream of Raba rivulet in Jharkhand’s Khunti district on Wednesday evening, with allegations that they were murdered for practising witchcraft. The deceased have been identified as Birsa Munda, 48, his wife Sukru Purty, 43, and their daughter Somwari Purty, 20. Police claimed to have arrested all the three accused in the murder while they are searching for seven others, including the quack, who had said the victims were allegedly practising witchcraft. Police sources said the arrested persons — Soma Munda, 45, his son Raghu Munda, 22, and Bishram Munda, 42 — all residents Kuda village under Saiko police station of Murhu block have confessed to their crime. Khunti superintendent of police Ashutosh Shekhar said, “We have nabbed the three accused named in the FIR. A search is on for six others of the same village who were involved in the murder. We are also searching for the quack from the neighbouring village who had told the accused that the victims were practising witchcraft which had led to the death of their family member “On the basis of confession of the three accused, we exhumed the bodies of the three victims near a stream of Raba rivulet near the village on Wednesday evening. We also recovered their heads buried separately and sent them for post-mortem.” “Telani Purty, another daughter of Birsa and Sukru, in her FIR lodged in Saiko police station said that when she had come to her father’s house on October 8 morning, she found the door open. Telani was informed by neighbours that more than a dozen persons had come on October 7 night and forcibly taken her parents and sister from their house. After searching in different villages, Telani lodged a police complaint about her missing parents and sister. She named the three accused who had earlier alleged her parents were practising witchcraft. “We contacted our village informers and some local social workers who gave a tip-off about the three accused hiding in the nearby forest and we nabbed them,” said Khunti subdivisional police officer Ashish Kumar Mahali. Sources said the wife of Lochan Munda, a resident of Kuda, had died on October 6, two months after giving birth to a boy. The villagers then consulted a quack in the neighbouring village who alleged that Birsa and his wife had done black magic which had led to the death. Some of the villagers then decided to eliminate the family. On October 7 night, they dragged the three to the nearby rivulet where they were beheaded and their body and heads buried separately to hide evidence, sources said. The area is around 50km south of state capital Ranchi. Murder, driven by the belief in black magic, is common in Jharkhand. In 2019, the state reported 27 deaths related to allegations of witchcraft, according to police data. Till September this year, 19 killings have taken place on allegations of witchcraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-252
