31-10-2020||Calcutta||Interaction tweak for pre-primary admissions||A progress report or a declaration by parents on a child’s basic knowledge and rescheduling interactions with parents — schools are changing their way of interaction with the child and his/her parents for pre-primary admissions. Don Bosco Park Circus, where parents can apply when the child is four years and six months old have sought “a progress report of the child from the school currently he/she is studying in”. If home-tutored, parents have to give a declaration on the child’s basic knowledge in mathematics (numerical) and English (language), according to the kindergarten admission notice. “At the time of application, we have asked parents for a statement from the playschool the child attended. If children are home-tutored parents should give a declaration on the basic knowledge of letters and numbers the child has,” Father Bikash Mondal, the school principal, said. “We cannot meet parents or children; so, we have made parents responsible for what they say. We receive numerous applications for a limited number of seats; so, this will be the first level of screening, followed by lottery.” Several schools have been interacting with children and their parents online for pre-primary admissions. Traditional schools which did not reschedule the time allotted to parents in the past are now doing so. “At times there are Net connectivity problems and parents are unable to attend the interaction; so, we are allotting them another time,” Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said. “But we are giving them this option provided they tried to log in or were in the waiting room but could not attend because of Net connectivity problems. Online interaction has its set of challenges for schools when it comes to assessing the behaviour of parents or children, the head of a school said. It would be an easy affair if the interaction were to happen in school, the head said. A child is close to the screen during an online interaction and often it seems someone beyond the screen is prompting him/her, a teacher said. “That cannot happen when the interaction is in school.” “We get an idea about parental relationships when they are in front of us,” Loreto House principal Gomes said. Calcutta Girls’ High School has decided to call parents to school for an interaction but teachers will interact with children online. “For a fair decision I will have to interact and meet parents in person,” Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’, said. “Often, it is the conversation with parents that gives us an insight into their nature. There can be parents with a humble background but they are very sincere about their children… we will be able to gauge that when we meet them.” Some schools like Sri Sri Academy believe the challenge in an online interaction is the time allotted for the interaction. “Usually, we would finish in a week; now, that has stretched to a month. In school we would meet parents in a group of 10. When the interaction is online we are not comfortable doing that… so, we are meeting parents individually,” Suvina Shunglu, the principal, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Upcoming tyre artwork in park in Esplanade ||A tyre park will soon be inaugurated at Esplanade opposite the tram control room and it will house artwork made from scrap and defective tyres. The West Bengal Transport Corporation has decided to convert dumped tyres into art installations using bright paint and innovative design. “There will be a small cafe, too,” Rajinvir Singh Kapoor, the managing director of the corporation, said. “Visitors can take a ride on the tram library that runs between Shyambazar and Esplanade after visiting the park.” Some of the discarded tyres will be cut into various sizes and made into art installations; some will be converted into small chairs or flower pots and placed at various corners of the park Every year close to 800 tyres are discarded and dumped at various bus depots across Calcutta. A team of in-house experts will work on them, a transport department official said. “The idea is to convert an otherwise unkempt plot into something that is worth watching… where one can pause for a quick bite and a cup of coffee.” The plot around the tram control room opposite KC Das in the Esplanade area will be covered for the installations to be placed, along with green plants and swings for children. “We will inaugurate the park shortly after new lawn grass is planted and all the artwork installed,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Alipore hospital technician held for OT theft||A senior operation theatre technician of a private hospital in Alipore was arrested on the charge of stealing instruments, consumables and medicines from the operation theatre on Thursday afternoon. Atanu Shree, who has been attached with the hospital for more than 10 years, was found with illegal possession of consumables like cotton, scissors, gauge and medicines meant for use at the operation theatre, police said. Alipore police station started a theft case after receiving a complaint from the person in charge of the hospital’s security. Hospital guards apparently caught Shree trying to carry the goods out of the hospital through the main gate, the police said. The accused employee was handed over to officers of the police station where he was arrested and charged with theft. The fact that some medical consumables and various equipment had often been reported missing from the operation theatre had prompted guards to keep a watch on all employees attached with the operation theatre, the police quoted hospital officials as saying. The medicines, consumables and equipment seized from Shree are worth Rs 45,951, hospital officials have told the police. Officers of Alipore police station Cops have collected CCTV footage from the hospital as supportive evidence to justify the charge against him, the police said. Investigations have shown this was not the first instance of theft at the hospital, the police said. “We are still to ascertain what used to be done with all the medical equipment and consumables stolen from the operation theatre,” an officer of Alipore police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||In doldrums, Dr Graham’s Homes, Kalimpong works on revival||Dr Graham’s Homes, a one-of-its-kind school in the country which has left its imprint across the globe, is tottering but a new administrative set-up has decided to start afresh the revival journey with its first meeting on November 2. The school, which was set up by Reverend Dr John Anderson Graham in Kalimpong in 1900, mainly for “neglected” Anglo-Indian children, now has 1,499 students, including 387 boarders. The school, however, has a staff strength of 362, including 74 teachers. Sources said the school annually generated revenues of Rs 10.4 crore, of which almost Rs 8 crore was spent on paying salaries. “To be honest, we are always left into borrowing revenues of the next financial year,” said Wg.Cdr (retd) Prafulla Rao, vice-president, board of management. Recently, the teachers suspended online classes for five weeks demanding implementation of the sixth pay commission. The sources said if the pay commission was to be implemented, the salary expenditure would jump up to Rs 15.5 crore annually. The management, however, agrees that the teaching unit is the only wing that is generating revenue. Dr Graham’s Homes follows a unique model. Spread over 100 acres, the institution also runs a farm for dairy (which used to be sold in various places, including Calcutta) and poultry, bakery, clothing department and a hospital. The students stay in groups of 30 to 35 in cottages. There are 12 cottages for boys and seven for girls. “Overall, there are 54 main structures (including museum, gyms and chapel) and one can imagine the maintenance and renovation costs,” said Rao. There is a general consensus among stakeholders that apart from the teaching unit, other wings like dairy, bakery and clothing department are not boosting the revenues. Overhead costs because of increase in salaries and allied reasons turned dairy and bakery into loss making units. Senior teachers say the pay commission recommendation has come up after 13 years and the management should have had an insight into the financial challenge so that the most profitable unit of the institution is in a proper condition. “The non-teaching staff also demanded a Puja bonus but an assurance was given to them (to pay hardship allowance). But no such promise was given to the teachers on the new pay scale,” said a senior teacher. The teachers are willing to accept a written assurance that their arrears would be paid once the institution became financially strong. Following the developments revolving around the teachers and non-teaching staff, a new 20-member board of management was formed with Michael Shane Calvert, who represents the Anglo-Indian community in the Bengal Assembly, as its president just a month ago. The new board has for the first time formed a 15-member school management committee for a more “participatory” approach. “The committee members will hold their first meeting on November 2,” said Calvert. The board president admitted that their first concerns would be “how to better manage the finances, which are in the doldrums.” “Then, we need to see how better to generate revenues, better manage resources and the excess staff. The school must survive and will survive,” Calvert told The Telegraph over the phone from Calcutta.The institution’s challenges aggravated after the 104-day Gorkhaland agitation in 2017. “We lost about 200 to 250 students who didn’t join the following academic session,” admitted Neil Monteiro, principal, Dr Graham’s Homes. Then, tuition fees to the tune of Rs 2 crore are yet to be realised because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our classrooms are spread out, we don’t accommodate more than 35 students in a class. Yet, we have enough infrastructure to accommodate 1,900 students, including 800 boarders,” said Monterio. Despite its huge infrastructure, Calvert said the management couldn’t crassly “commercialise” the school and it needed to uphold the “ethos of the institution.” The school still sponsors children from underprivileged communities through its international committees, specially the one in the UK. There are such committees, many formed by ex-students, in Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and Japan, among other countries. As an off-the-cuff suggestion, Calvert said the management might probably look into converting the hospital into a nursing training school. “We can also further strengthen our international committees,” said Calvert. Other suggestions put forward by board members were consolidating the idea of hostel, instead of cottages, for better management and cost reduction and also opening up unused areas to tourism. “One major area where investment is needed is infrastructure. The structures, which are more than a century old, need to be repaired,” said an official of Dr Graham’s Homes. Enrolling more students is the easy way out but given the Covid pandemic and mushrooming of educational institutions in most cities, fingers are kept crossed on this option.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Man assaulted for protesting public drinking dead||A 62-year-old man who was beaten up on the night of Sashthi (October 22) after he protested drinking in public by some of his neighbours in Garfa died on Thursday, five days after he was discharged from hospital. His family has alleged that the man died because of the assault on Sashthi and have pressed the charge of murder. But the police are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the death before slapping the murder charge. Kanai Naskar, a resident of Garfa Mondal Para, and some of his family members had protested after seeing a group of neighbours drinking in the open on the night of October 22. The police said Naskar was punched, kicked and beaten up with bamboo sticks, leaving him injured in his left chest, left forearm, nose and legs. His family members — including son Choton Naskar, Akash Bahadur, Subrata, Babua and Abhijit — were also allegedly attacked. Naskar was first taken to Baghajatin State General Hospital, from where he was shifted to SSKM Hospital. The police said Naskar was discharged from SSKM Hospital the next day after preliminary treatment. Based on a complaint filed by Naskar’s son, Garfa police had started a case of attempt to murder, wilfully causing grievous hurt with sharp weapons and wrongful restraint against nine persons named in the FIR. Three of them were arrested. Naskar was found unconscious in his room on Thursday and that triggered panic among his family members. He was rushed to SSKM Hospital, only to be told that he had passed away. “They killed my husband. His only fault was that he had tried to stop criminal activity in the neighbourhood. His killers should be charged with murder,” said Manorama Naskar, the wife of the deceased. Senior officers said they were awaiting the post-mortem report before amending the charges. “Three persons have been arrested in connection with the case. We are looking for others as well. Once the post-mortem report comes, we will be able to ascertain whether the death was caused by the wounds inflicted on him on Sashthi or any other ailment,” said an officer of Garfa police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Outgoing councillor asks people to keep off firecrackers this Diwali||An outgoing Calcutta Municipal Corporation councillor has in a Facebook post requested people to not burst firecrackers this Diwali, citing the threat posed by “poisonous gas” to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “Corona patients… have respiratory problems…. Let all of us pledge that we and our family members will not burst crackers this Diwali because of the Covid-19 pandemic…. The poisonous gas will be deadly for Covid-19 patients in home quarantine,” reads the Thursday post by Goutam Halder, the outgoing councillor of Ward 4, a north Calcutta pocket near the Tallah water tank that has over 40,000 voters. “You should request people in your neighbourhood to desist from bursting crackers this year…. That will set a great example,” says the post, which has been welcomed by netizens and shared 29 times as of Friday evening. Halder, a first-time councillor, has reasserted what doctors and public health experts have been saying — the Covid-19 pandemic has made it all the more necessary to prevent a spurt in air pollution during Diwali. But not many of his colleagues have been so forthcoming. Many public health experts felt leaders across the political divide could have done better by asking people not to step out during Durga Puja. Halder did not mince words. “In every neighbourhood, there must be several people who have tested positive and are in home isolation. Many of them are senior citizens with pre-existing medical conditions. I think bursting firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali will be extremely selfish,” he told Metro over the phone. Halder said he would visit households in his ward with leaflets and speak to residents to discourage them from bursting firecrackers. A series of billboards is being set up with the same message, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||No fee for convocation at Jadavpur University this year||Jadavpur University is not taking the convocation fee of Rs 500 each from the graduating students as the university will not hold on-campus convocation this year because of the Covid pandemic, an official said. About 4,000 students have graduated this year — undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD put together. The convocation fee is collected to distribute gowns among the recipients and for the laminated degree certificate given to each. “Since the convocation will not be held on campus and the students don’t have to be present in person to receive the certificates, we have decided not to take any convocation fee,” JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das told Metro. At JU, the convocation is traditionally held at the open-air theatre on December 24. The need for maintaining physical distance and other health concerns because of the Covid-19 outbreak have forced the university not to hold the convocation in the usual way. “Besides, the health experts are apprehending that the virus could become more virulent during winter. We cannot risk any physical assembly on the campus in winter,” said an official. Regular classes are being held on the digital platforms as the campus has remained closed since March. A university official said since the convocation will either be held virtually or not be held at all, they have decided not to charge the convocation fee. The university will either courier the degree certificates to the residential addresses of the recipients or upload the certificates for the recipients to download them later. The university could also ask the students to come to the campus and collect the certificates in a staggered way. “We are exploring whether the convocation could be held virtually like the way IIT Guwahati and IIT Kanpur did. We are also keeping track of what Presidency University had done early this year,” another official said. Presidency this year had issued digital degree certificates that were collected online in February. The university had scrapped the convocation amid the buzz that the College Street institution was reluctant to hold the ceremony to spare itself the trouble of inviting the chancellor — governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — to the programme. The governor around that time had faced students’ protests on several campuses, mostly because of his comments in support of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. At Jadavpur University, as the court or the executive council could not meet because of the pandemic, no names have been decided for the DLitt and DSc recipients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-255
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Vox pop: Why some of us are without face covers?||Gautam Ghosh, a 52-year-old pharmacist from Salkia in Howrah (in pink), egged his opponent Chanchal Biswas (in green) under the Gariahat flyover to play his next chess move while puffing on a cigarette, the strings of his mask dangling from the pocket of his trousers. Both players, who were sitting inches from each other, did not have masks on. Many players on other tables did not have masks on either. “We are regulars here for the past many years and spend hours here playing against each other. Neither me nor my partner is down with Covid-19. So we don’t wear masks here,” said Ghosh. Most hawkers peddling their wares from shops on the pavements in Hatibagan did not have masks on. Many had the masks on their chin or wore them in a way that their noses stuck out. Prashanto Paul, who sells dress materials and bed sheets from one such stall, did not have a face cover on. Asked, Paul said he was thirsty. “Dada ektu jol khai tarpor mask er kotha bhebe dekhbo. Ei pathiyechi antey (Let me drink water first, then I will think about wearing a mask. I have just asked someone to fetch me a bottle of water).” Prodded further, Paul brought out a piece of cloth from under one of the bedsheets and said he wears it around his face while dealing with customers. Nitai Bagh, a rickshaw-puller in Salt Lake, was puffing a bidi with his mask hanging around his neck. Bagh insisted that he always covered his face while ferrying passengers and said that although it feels suffocating, he rarely takes it off. When asked why his mask was around his neck, Bagh pointed at his bidi. “I can’t smoke with a mask on. I have taken it off for a bit and will wear it once I am done. There are no passengers,” said Bagh. Shyamoli Ghosh, 38, a homemaker from Hatibagan, who had come to get her idols polished and to buy clothes for Goddess Lakshmi, had a mask hanging around her chin. “I live nearby and will go straight home. I have lowered it as I need to give directions,” Ghosh said. Medical representatives clustered outside a hospital in Salt Lake and very few had masks on. Most had masks dangling from their ears or chins and one even had it strapped on top of his head. Arindam Chakraborty, 35 (in green shirt), who was chatting with the others, said they had to wear masks nearly throughout the day as they had to visit multiple hospitals, nursing homes and doctor’s chambers. “The few minutes outside the hospitals are the only respite we get. Wearing a mask throughout the day is very suffocating and it makes it extremely difficult to speak or get heard while wearing one. Since we wear it at all other times, we allow ourselves a break when we sit and chat,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Puzzle: How to make people wear masks?||How to make people wear masks? The state government and public health experts involved in Covid-19 management in Bengal has no answer yet to the question. A large number of people without masks in public places is one of the biggest causes for concern for the government and public health experts, who said they did not have a solution to it. On Thursday, members of the global advisory board on Covid management, set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, held a meeting on the problem but no solution came out, said some of those who took part in the online discussion. Some experts said the problem was prevalent around the globe. “Some of the experts who took part in the meeting said the problem of people not wearing masks was faced by administrations in cities like New York and Paris. There, too, experts have not found any solution,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, the convenor of the global advisory board and a public health expert. “We need an innovative solution to the problem. But it is not yet clear how to make everyone wear masks. It’s a behavioural science issue,” said Chowdhury. A state government official said there were several campaigns to increase awareness among people about wearing masks in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee also regularly appeals to people to wear masks as part of safety measures against Covid. “Such campaigns didn’t have any desirable effect as we see many people on roads and in markets and shopping malls without masks,” said the official. He said it was not possible to take legal steps against people for not wearing masks. “Threats of fine also don't work,” he said. Another official said a campaign to provide masks to people for free had not worked. “It’s often seen that people given masks are keeping them in their pockets or handbags,” the official said. At hospitals, too, many people, patients and relatives arrive without wearing proper masks. At Peerless Hospital, officials said they sell 15 masks on an average daily to patients and their relatives who come wearing improper masks or without wearing one. “Many people come wrapping a handkerchief around their mouth. Others come with a loose mask that hangs from their chins. Wearing those are meaningless. We insist they buy a surgical mask and then enter the hospital. Many of them don't understand that it’s for their own safety,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. But the problem is not unique to Calcutta or Bengal. A doctor from Calcutta working at a hospital in New York and treating Covid patients said there, too, people in some neighbourhoods were not wearing masks. “I have seen people in many neighbourhoods in Brooklyn going out without wearing masks. The administration has not been able to enforce any law to make wearing masks compulsory,” said Abhishek Chakraborti, a postgraduate trainee at New York’s Brookdale Hospital Medical Center. The problem is similar in other parts of the world, too, members of the global advisory board discussed on Thursday. The World Health Organisation has advised wearing masks as an effective protection against Covid-19. “If COVID-19 is spreading in your community, stay safe by taking some simple precautions, such as physical distancing, wearing a mask, keeping rooms well ventilated, avoiding crowds, cleaning your hands, and coughing into a bent elbow or tissue…. Make wearing a mask a normal part of being around other people,” the WHO has said. However, with many people paying no heed to such advice, the state’s Covid management team is grappling for solutions. “We are thinking of involving local clubs and puja committees in campaigns for wearing masks. But we have to see how effective this would be,” said Chowdhury. According to a public health expert, there is a sense of denial among a section of people about Covid. “Many people are aware of the fact that most of those who get infected are having mild or no symptoms. So, there is a general carelessness among many people,” the expert said. Till October 30, 6,784 Covid-19 patients died in Bengal. On Friday, 59 have died, according to the state health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
31-10-2020||Calcutta||Lakshmi immersion only in designated ponds||Idols of Goddess Lakshmi will have to be immersed in designated ponds in Lake Town, Dum Dum, New Town, and Behala, the police commissionerates of Calcutta and Bidhannagar have been instructed. In a communique to the commissionerates on Friday, Bhabani Bhawan, the Bengal police headquarters, asked officers to strictly monitor that immersions were carried out in the designated ponds. The state pollution control board has identified two ponds, Debi ghat in Lake Town and Pond No. 4 in Dum Dum Park, for immersion of Lakshmi idols in accordance with the National Mission for Clean Ganga guidelines. Both these ponds, along with Upsana ghat in New Town, earmarked by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, is in the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s jurisdiction. The one in Behala, earmarked by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, is in the city police’s jurisdiction. A joint team of officers from the commissionerates and officials from the state pollution control board will oversee the immersion before water samples are collected to test water quality after immersion. The police have been told about the ponds, Rajesh Kumar, member secretary of the state pollution control board, said. “The board has created facilities to help organisers with the immersions.” Most home Lakshmi idols will be immersed on Saturday. Some puja committees have told the police that idols would be immersed on Sunday. “We want all Lakshmi idols, including those from homes in these parts of the city, to be immersed in the designated ponds. This is the first time we are trying this out and we want to see how it works,” Kalyan Rudra, chairman of the state pollution control board, said. The designated ponds have been fitted with synthetic linings to arrest pollutants that get dissolved in the water, the police said. The pollution control board immersion action followed a meeting chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on October 17 where the importance of following the NMCG guidelines had been stressed in the presence of Rudra and Rajesh Kumar. The NMCG, which had issued the guidelines in 2018, recently reiterated that they be followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-256
31-10-2020||Business||Apple posts record September quarter revenue of $64.7 billion||Tech giant Apple has posted a record September quarter revenue of $64.7 billion with a strong performance across markets, including India. “Geographically, we set September quarter records in the Americas, Europe and the rest of Asia Pacific. We also set a September quarter record in India, thanks in part to a very strong reception to this quarter’s launch of our online store in the country,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said in an earnings call. In September, Apple launched its first online store in India — a market that is dominated by Android smartphones. Apple, which competes in the premium smartphone segment in India with players such as Samsung and OnePlus, has been aggressively ramping up its presence in the Indian market. The US-based company, in collaboration with partners such as Wistron and Foxconn, had recently started assembling iPhone 11 in India. According to research firm Canalys, the tech giant’s renewed focus on India paid off with a double-digit growth to nearly 8,00,000 units in the region during the July-September 2020 quarter. “Apple is finally paying attention to India,” said Canalys research director, Rushabh Doshi. “It has opened a direct online store, giving it several new angles in its go-to-market strategy such as utilising device trade-ins to provide purchase incentives, or bundling AirPods with iPhones to make them more appealing. However, its new iPhone 12 family will be a tough sell in India this year, as network operators do not yet have the infrastructure for mass market 5G deployment,” he said. A Counterpoint report had noted that Apple led the premium segment surpassing OnePlus even before its flagship launch, driven by strong demand for its iPhone SE 2020 and the iPhone 11. India’s smartphone shipments in the premium segment (priced above Rs 30,000) was one of the least affected segments and reached its highest-ever share in the overall India smartphone market, contributing more than 4 per cent in total smartphone shipments, according to Counterpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||RBI data reveals slip in growth rate led by non-food credit||The lending activity of banks does not square with the Centre’s claims that the economy has started to recover, based on its interpretation of read-outs from some high frequency indicators. According to RBI data on sectoral deployment of bank credit, the slip in growth rate was led by non-food credit which decelerated to 5.8 per cent in September 2020 from 8.1 per cent in September last year. While credit to agriculture and allied activities under the non-food credit segment increased 5.9 per cent in September 2020 against 7 per cent a year ago, the growth in credit to industry was “nil” during the month compared with a 2.7 per cent growth in September 2019, pulling down the overall growth rate. Within industry, credit growth to food processing, petroleum and coal products, leather, wood products and paper was higher in September 2020 compared with the corresponding month of the previous year. However, there was a decline in credit growth to beverage and tobacco, construction, infrastructure, rubber plastic, chemical products,  glass and glassware and all engineering goods . Bucking the downtrend, credit growth to the services sector accelerated to 9.1 per cent in September 2020 from 7.3 per cent in September 2019. Within services, advances to computer software, trade and tourism and hotels and restaurants  registered higher growth vis-à-vis September last year. Personal loans registered a growth of 9.2 per cent in September 2020 against a  16.6 per cent growth in September 2019. According to industry sources, a weak macroeconomy and risk aversion by banks because of asset quality concerns have contributed to the low credit offtake. Banks continue to remain cautious in lending to certain sectors that have been affected by the lockdown. This is primarily to prevent fresh slippage when recovery could be difficult. There is, however, a relative improvement in credit growth to micro, small and medium enterprises, aided by the credit guarantee support of the government. “While there is a decline in the credit growth rate, there is still an absolute increase of Rs 4,96,992 crore in non-food bank credit,” a senior banker said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||RBI disallows Axis Bank 's direct acquisition Max Life Insurance||Axis Bank on Friday said the Reserve Bank has not allowed it to directly acquire a 17 per cent stake in Max Life Insurance and the lender will now purchase shares in the life insurer along with its subsidiaries. Axis Bank and its entities have revised the agreement with Max Financial, the promoter of Max Life, to acquire a 19.002 per cent stake in the insurance firm, the lender said in a regulatory filing. In late August this year, Axis Bank had entered into a definitive agreement with Max Financial Services Ltd (Max Financial) for the direct acquisition of 17.002 per cent of equity share capital of Max Life Insurance Company Ltd (Max Life) by the lender. “In response to Axis Bank’s application to the Reserve Bank of India on directly acquiring 17.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, the Reserve Bank of India has advised Axis Bank that the application for direct acquisition of 17.002 per cent has not been considered,” it said in a regulatory filing. “Axis Bank and its subsidiaries — Axis Capital and Axis Securities (together Axis Entities) have agreed to enter into revised agreements with Max Financial for acquisition of up to 19.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life (revised agreements),” the filing said. The lender said its total stake in Max Life will remain within the limits stipulated under the applicable laws. “Under the revised agreements, Axis Bank will acquire up to 9.002 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, and Axis Capital and Axis Securities will together acquire up to 3 per cent of the share capital of Max Life. “Axis entities will have a right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent of the equity share capital of Max Life, in one or more tranches, in accordance with existing regulations,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||IOC reports eleven-fold jump in standalone net profit ||India’s top oil firm IOC on Friday reported an eleven-fold jump in its standalone net profit at Rs 6,227.31 crore for the September 2020 quarter on the back of a boost in refining margins and inventory gain on using low-priced crude oil to make fuel. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 563.42 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. “The profit was up due to higher inventory and foreign exchange gains and better refinery margins,  Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, chairman of Indian Oil Corp (IOC), told reporters here. The company earned $8.62 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel in the second quarter of 2020-21 compared with a gross refining margin of $1.28 in July-September 2019. IOC gained Rs 7,400 crore on using low-priced crude oil it procured during May and June to convert into petroleum products such as petrol and diesel. Inventory gain is booked when a company buys raw material at a particular price but by the time it is turned into fuel, the rates have gone up. As retail pump prices are benchmarked at prevailing international rates, an inventory gain is booked. IOC also had a foreign exchange gain of Rs 672 crore in the July-September quarter compared wth a loss of Rs 1,135 crore a year ago. IndusInd net declines Bogged down by money set aside for possible reverses in asset quality because of the coronavirus pandemic, IndusInd Bank’s September quarter net profit halved to Rs 663 crore and the private sector lender hinted at more pain in the offing, saying provisions may go up in the future. On a consolidated basis, the lender’s net profit declined to Rs 663.08 crore in the latest September quarter from Rs 1,400.96 crore in the same period a year ago. For the reporting quarter, its core net interest income grew 13 per cent to Rs 3,278 crore on the back of a 0.06 per cent expansion in net interest margin to 4.16 per cent and a 2 per cent loan growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||Amazon takes steps to pre-empt Future deal||Domestic stock exchanges are set to consult the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) after Amazon wrote to them and the market regulator to take into consideration the Singapore arbitrator’s interim judgment that has put on hold the Rs 24,713-crore deal between the Future group and Reliance Industries Ltd. The e-commerce giant shared a copy of the interim judgment with the stock exchanges in its letter and said they must take cognisance of the order given by the arbitrator when they are reviewing the proposed deal. The Future Group-RIL deal is subject to approvals from various regulatory authorities, including Sebi and the Competition Commission of India, and the bourses. Reuters reported that the stock exchanges will seek clarification from Future Retail about the transaction following Amazon’s objection to the deal and that the BSE will also consult Sebi with regard to its stance on the deal. The arbitrator’s order had called for an arbitration process to be followed by Future and Amazon, and that the Future-RIL transaction be stayed. Last year, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent in one of Future Group’s unlisted firms — Future Coupons Ltd — with the right to buy into flagship Future Retail Ltd (FRL) after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in FRL. It dragged Future to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) after the group entered into a deal with Reliance in August year to its sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units. The global retail giant had alleged that the asset sale violated the contractual agreement. Last Sunday, it won an interim award by the Singapore-based single judge arbitration panel. Even as both Future Group and Reliance have indicated that they want to proceed with the deal, the next step that will be taken by Amazon is also being keenly watched. One possibility is Amazon may approach the Indian courts to enforce the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||15th Finance Commission to submit report on November 9||The 15th Finance Commission will submit its report for financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 9, an official statement has said. The commission under chairman N.K. Singh on Friday concluded its deliberations on the report. The report was signed by Singh and members of the commission — Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand. “The commission had sought time to present its report to the President of India. It has now been communicated by the office of the President that the report submission will be on November 9, 2020,” the statement said. The report will be tabled in Parliament along with an action taken report of the government. “The commission has finalised the report after wide-ranging consultations with the Union and state governments, local governments at different tiers, chairmen and members of previous finance commissions, advisory council to the commission and other domain experts, academic institutions of eminence and multi-lateral institutions,” the statement added. At present, 42 per cent of the central pool of resources must go to states. In a post-Covid environment and the shrinking of revenue resources, the Commission is expected to rework the formula with the result that the states may be allotted less money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-249
31-10-2020||Business||DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan's repayment offer rejected||The Rs 43,000-crore repayment offer made by the promoter of DHFL — Kapil Wadhawan — has reportedly not found favour with the legal adviser to the troubled mortgage lender. Wadhawan, who is now under judicial custody, had earlier offered his personal and family properties for the  repayment of outstanding loans of the lenders to the troubled mortgage firm. He had proposed to transfer the right, title and interest in various projects which form part of the real estate portfolio of his family. In a letter to the RBI appointed administrator, R. Subramaniakumar, Wadhawan had said that the valuation of these projects are around Rs 43,879 crore. The agreement among creditors for DHFL was signed in July last year after the RBI released its guidelines on the resolution of stressed assets. The exposure of the lenders who signed the pact was Rs 39,000 crore. Recent disclosures have shown that the total claims made by financial creditors stand at Rs 94,690 crore, of which Rs 87,048 crore has been admitted. Wadhawan said in his letter that even today DHFL’s collection has been between Rs 10,000 crore and Rs 15,000 crore, which are available to repay the lenders. However, according to a Bloomberg Quint report, AZB & Partners, the legal adviser, has said that the settlement offer made by the promoters cannot be considered. The erstwhile promoters are locked in cases filed by the administrator and they cannot sell assets as long as these cases are sub-judice. Further, nearly all the properties offered by them are ones where the mortgage lender has a legal and equitable interest. The development comes at a time Adani Group, Piramal Enterprises, SC Lowy and Oaktree Capital Management have placed bids for DHFL. Among them, while Oaktree is keen on acquiring the entire book of DHFL, Piramal Enterprises is eyeing the retail book. The other two entities had placed bids for its construction finance portfolio. Shares of DHFL were locked at the upper circuit on Friday. The stock gained 5 per cent to Rs 15.91 on hopes that a resolution could be around the corner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
31-10-2020||Business||RIL posts consolidated net profit of Rs 9,567 crore in Q2||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has posted a consolidated net profit attributable to owners of Rs 9,567 crore in the second quarter ended September 30 against Rs 11,262 crore a year ago, which was still better than analyst estimates. The Covid-19 pandemic had led to softer crude prices while the lower demand for petroleum products adversely affected RIL’s refining business. Revenues from this segment plunged more than 36 per cent over the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the energy-to-telecom giant to report a net profit of around Rs 8,100 crore. Its profit before exceptional items came in at Rs 10,602 crore — a growth of 28 per cent over the same period last year. Jio profit surges Profits of Reliance Jio Infocomm (RJIL) moved up to Rs 2,844 crore, a sequential rise of almost 13 per cent and a jump of 187 per cent over the same period last year. Analysts had estimated the bottomline at around Rs 2,600 crore. Amid more data consumption and tariff hikes, Jio’s total revenues grew to Rs 17,481 crore in the September quarter from Rs 13,130 crore in the corresponding period last year — a rise of 33 per cent. Average revenue per user was higher at Rs 145 per subscriber per month compared with Rs 140.3 in the preceding quarter. Jio Platforms, which houses RIL’s telecom and other digital services business, saw revenue from operations rising 7.2 per cent over the first quarter to Rs 18,496 crore. Retail show Reliance Retail — the other consumer facing business of the group — reported a 13.77 per cent fall in its pre-tax profit to Rs 2,009 crore for the quarter.   The segment had posted a pre-tax profit of Rs 2,330 crore in the July-September quarter a year ago. Revenue from the organised retail segment during the quarter was at Rs 39,199 crore, down 13.77 per cent against Rs 41,223 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. Traditional business RIL’s traditional business put in a mixed show with petrochemicals witnessing a sequential growth of 18 per cent in revenues at Rs 29,665 crore, though on a year-on-year basis it saw a drop of 23 per cent. However, the refining & marketing business was a let down with gross refining margins coming in lower at $5.7 per barrel against $6.3 per barrel in the previous quarter and $9.3 per barrel in the same period of last year. Turnover from this segment also plunged to Rs 62,154 crore against Rs 97,229 crore in the year ago period. “We delivered a strong overall operational and financial performance compared with the previous quarter with a recovery,” said chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani. Fibre investment Reliance Industries on Friday brought in investors for its fibre undertaking. Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Saudi Arabia’s The Public Investment Fund (PIF) will be investing around $1 billion in this business. Reliance Jio had earlier transferred the control of its optical fibre and tower undertakings to two Sebi registered infrastructure Investment Trusts. Brookfield Infrastructure and its institutional partners had invested Rs 25,215 crore by subscribing to units of the tower trust. RIL on Friday said in a presentation that ADIA and PIF have purchased units of the fibre trust for Rs 3,779 crore each. Observers do not rule out the possibility of RIL bringing in more investors in the fibre undertaking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-250
31-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath moves Supreme Court against EC’s order to revoke ‘star campaigner’ status||Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday moved the Supreme Court challenging an Election Commission (EC) order revoking his ‘star campaigner’ status for violations of the model code during the campaign for the bypolls in 28 assembly constituencies in the state. Besides seeking quashing of the EC's October 30 order, the Congress has sought framing of appropriate guidelines for speeches during campaigning by star campaigners or campaigners, “keeping in mind the right to freedom of speech and expression and concept of democratic elections”. Nath, who is currently the president of Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee has said in his plea that the EC has passed the order without any notice or hearing him based on a complaint by the BJP against a speech delivered on October 13. “It is submitted that the impugned order (of EC) is illegal, arbitrary, unreasoned, passed in complete violation of basic canons of natural justice and in negation of fair play and therefore, deserves to be quashed. Further, no notice has been issued to the petitioner (Nath) with regard to the impugned order in complete violation of principles of natural injustice,” the plea, filed through advocate-on-record Varun Chopra, said. While a political party pays for expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. Earlier in the day, senior lawyer and Congress Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha told PTI that the former chief minister has challenged the EC's decision on various grounds and an urgent hearing on his plea would be sought. In his plea, Nath said that EC has passed the October 30 order and has revoked his name from the list of 'star campaigners' of the Indian National Congress on the ground of repeated violation of model code of conduct (MCC) and advisories of the poll panel. It alleged that the order is completely unreasoned and passed without application of mind. The plea said that MCC has been in force for 12 districts of Madhya Pradesh since September 29 when the schedule for by-elections to 28 seats in the state legislative assembly, which are to be held on November 3, was announced by the EC. In his plea, the former Union minister and nine-time Member of Parliament has claimed that leaders of the BJP have been “repeatedly making statements ex-facie in violation of the model code during campaigning for the by-elections”. It is reiterated that despite the use of such language in public view and blatant violation of the Model Code of Conduct, the Respondent No.1 (EC) has not taken any such action against any leaders of BJP or the party itself for allowing its leaders to repeatedly violate provisions of MCC, it said. The plea has also raised several questions of law of public importance, including whether the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression guaranteed to Nath has been abrogated by the EC. Whether a restriction on speech and expression, that too in a manner that is arbitrary and contrary to natural justice restrains the free exchange of ideas to the voter for making an informed choice and thus negates the fundamental right of the petitioner (Nath) to have freedom of speech and expression and the fundamental right of voters to know?, said one of the questions of law in the plea. Whether by the revocation of petitioner from campaigning as a star campaigner, the principle of free and fair and level the playing field in elections have been impeded by the Respondent No.1 (EC), it said. The plea said EC ought to have granted a hearing to Nath before taking the drastic step of revoking his status as a 'star campaigner'. It said that for a vibrant democracy and for the conduct of free and fair elections, it is necessary that voters, candidates, campaigners and workers are not unduly restrained from exercising their freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. The plea said that restriction on speech and expression, that too in a manner that is arbitrary and contrary to natural justice restrains the free exchange of ideas to the voter for making an informed choice and thus negates the fundamental right of Nath to have freedom of speech and expression and the fundamental right of voters to know. It said that to achieve freedom of expression guaranteed under the Constitution, elections should be transparent, inclusive and accountable, and there must be equitable opportunities to compete in the elections. Besides the plea, an application has also been filed seeking a stay on the EC's October 30 order until the final disposal of the petition. In the order, the poll panel said, “...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (Star Campaigner) of Kamal Nath, Ex-Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current Bye-elections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh.” The commission referred to his remarks against Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He had used the words "mafia" and "milawat khor" against a political rival at a recent campaigning event. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like "item" in campaigning. He had used the jibe to hit out at the state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||After Punjab, Rajasthan introduces bills to negate farm laws||The Rajasthan government on Saturday introduced three bills in the Assembly to negate the impact of the farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. The move comes after the Punjab Assembly earlier this month adopted a resolution against the farm laws and unanimously passed four bills to counter the Centre's contentious legislations. Rajasthan's Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal introduced the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020. He also introduced the Code of Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill 2020 on the first day of the Assembly session. A number of provisions to protect the interests of farmers, including sale or purchase of a crop under farming agreement on a price equal or greater than minimum support price and imprisonment of three to seven years for harassment of farmers, have been included in the bills. The Congress leadership has suggested that states where it is in power should pass laws of their own to counter the central legislations that had triggered farmers' protests in several parts of the country. In the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, a provision states, "Provided further that no Farming Agreement for the sale or purchase of a crop shall be valid unless the price paid for such agricultural produce is equal to, or greater than, the prevailing Minimum Support Prices, announced by the Central Government for that crop. Apart from a few other amendments, three new sections have been added as special provisions for Rajasthan, providing for punishment for harassment of farmers and powers to the state government to give directions. The bill proposes punishment of imprisonment from three to seven years with or without a fine of Rs five lakh if any person, company or corporate house or any other association or body of persons harasses farmers. "There has been extraordinary outrage amongst the farmers, farm labourers and all others engaged in incidental and ancillary agricultural activities. Since the direct consequences of the Central Act would be to nullify the minimum support price mechanism that has stood the test of time and introduce several other infirmities and distortions operating to the grave detriment and prejudice of agriculture and the communities associated with it," the statement of the bill said. "The Parliament has also introduced a mechanism for production, trade and commerce in agricultural produce through this Central Act, that is vulnerable to encroachment and manipulation by vested corporate interests through provisions such as contract farming minus a guarantee of minimum support price and leaving the farmer open to the vagaries of market forces for getting a remunerative price for agricultural produce, fruits and vegetables. No check has been provided against exploitation of farmer, it said. In the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, one of the proposed amendments pertains to regulation of notified agriculture produce, which says that the state government may notify a Fee/Cess/Cesses/Charges on notified agricultural produce, brought or bought or sold, by a corporate or trader for trade and commerce in a trade area. The Rajasthan government also introduced three other bills on the first day of the session -- the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill-2020, the Code of Civil Procedure (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill-2020 and the Rajasthan University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (Amendment) Bill-2020. The House was adjourned for the day after obituary references on the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee and other leaders who passed away recently. After the House was adjourned, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore told reporters that the BJP will oppose the bills and will prove during the debate on Monday that the central laws are in favour of farmers. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised, during election campaigns, doubling the income of farmers but after winning the elections he worked to serve the interests of the corporate houses and anti-farmers legislations were enacted. The three central farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income. Earlier, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had said his state would follow Punjab in bypassing the "anti-farmer laws". "INC under the leadership of Smt #SoniaGandhi ji& #RahulGandhi ji stands absolutely with our annadatas and will continue to oppose the anti-farmer laws passed by NDA Govt. Today Congress Govt in #Punjab has passed Bills against these laws & #Rajasthan will follow soon, Gehlot tweeted on October 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Tharoor refers to 'Hindutva movement' as mirror image of 1947 Muslim communalism||Hindutva movement is the "mirror image" of the Muslim communalism of 1947 and its triumph would mark the end of the Indian idea, says senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, asserting that Hindutva is a political doctrine, not a religious one. A 'Hindu India' would not be Hindu at all, but a "Sanghi Hindutva state", which is a different country altogether, says Tharoor in his new book 'The Battle of Belonging' that was released on Saturday. "People like me want to preserve the India we love, and not turn our beloved nation into the kind of religious state we were brought up to detest," he said. Tharoor also asserted that the Hindutva movement rhetoric echoes the bigotry that India was constructed to reject. In the book published by Aleph Book Company, Tharoor makes a stinging critique of the Hindutva doctrine and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which he says is a challenge to, arguably, the most fundamental aspect of Indianness. Devoting a chapter to the 'Hindu Pakistan' controversy in the book, the former Union minister writes: "I had inveighed against the ruling party's attempts to create a Hindutva version of Pakistan, since that was not what our freedom movement fought for, nor was it the idea of India enshrined in our Constitution." "This is not just about the minorities, as the BJP would have us believe. Many proud Hindus like myself cherish the inclusive nature of our faith and have no desire to live, as our Pakistani neighbours are forced to, in an intolerant mono-religious state," he writes. Tharoor's reported comment last year that the BJP will pave the way for creation of a "Hindu Pakistan" had sparked a controversy with the party demanding his apology over the remarks. Hinduism, as Swami Vivekananda asserted, teaches the acceptance of difference as a basic credo, Tharoor said in the book. "What is bizarre about the media drama over my remarks is that no one who was giving airtime to multiple BJP voices, frothing at the mouth about my words, actually asked them one simple question: 'Is the BJP giving up its dream of a Hindu rashtra?" Tharoor said. BJP apologists point out that the government has done nothing to amend the Constitution, and others have suggested that the Supreme Court's ruling that secularism is part of the 'basic structure' of the Constitution makes the idea of a 'Hindutva Pakistan' impossible, he said. "But the fact is that both have only been held at bay by the simple fact that the BJP has not had the numbers required to achieve their goal -- two-thirds of both Houses of Parliament and half the states," he said. Their overwhelming victory in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and winning a plurality of seats in the Rajya Sabha in June 2020 has ensured that they finally have all the elements needed to fulfil their "project", he said, adding that the nation has been "warned". Tharoor argues in the book that the battle is between two opposing ideas of India or what might be described as ethno-religious nationalism versus civic nationalism. In a sharp criticism of the CAA, Tharoor said it is the first law to question a basic building block of the nation -- that religion is not the determinant of our nationhood and, therefore, of our citizenship. At a time when India's major national priority ought to have been its flailing economy, whose plummeting growth rate had already aroused widespread alarm even before the coronavirus struck, the Modi government plunged the country into an unwanted political crisis of its own making with the CAA, he said. "With its penchant for shock-and-awe, the government pushed through Parliament legislation that fast-tracks citizenship for people fleeing persecution in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh -- provided they are not Muslim. By excluding members of just one community, the new law is antithetical to India's secular and pluralist traditions," writes Tharoor. "The religious bigotry that partitioned the country with the founding of Pakistan has now been mirrored in pluralist India. As I told my fellow parliamentarians, that was a partition in the Indian soil; this is now a partition in the Indian soul," he said. The Hindutva movement is the mirror image of the Muslim communalism of 1947; its rhetoric echoes the bigotry that India was constructed to reject, Tharoor said. Its triumph would mark the end of the Indian idea, the Congress leader added. In the book, Tharoor also delves into the issue of the slogan 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' allegedly becoming an "acid test of Indian nationalism" and reiterated his stance that no Indian should be compelled to mouth a phrase that is nationalistic in the eyes of some, but not in his own. Revisiting the 2016 controversy involving Muslim legislator Waris Pathan, who was suspended from the Maharashtra Assembly soon after for refusing to utter the slogan, Tharoor noted that some Muslims say, "'Tell us to say Jai Hind, Hindustan Zindabad, Jai Bharat, we'll do it -- but do not ask us to say Bharat Mata ki Jai'." "The same Constitution that, in our civic nationalism, gives us the right to freedom of speech, also gives us the freedom of silence. We cannot put words in people's mouths," he asserted. Tharoor also criticized the manner in which Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, saying Modi shocked the nation with an announcement on Kashmir that could well turn out to be the "political equivalent of demonetization".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Truth of Pulwama attack accepted in Pakistan Parliament, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the truth of last year's Pulwama terror attack, in which 40 CRPF personnel were killed, has been accepted in Pakistan Parliament. His statement comes two days after Pakistan's Science and Technology Minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country's role in the Pulwama attack during a debate in their National Assembly (Parliament). Modi also said that when the entire nation was mourning the brave soldiers' death in Pulwama attack, some people indulged in "dirty politics" for their political gains. Without mentioning China, the prime minister said that Indian soldiers are giving a befitting reply to those eyeing to grab the country's land. He was speaking at Kevadiya in Gujarat's Narmada district after paying tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel at the Statue of Unity on his 145th birth anniversary. "The country cannot forget the unwarranted statements made after the Pulwama attack. Dirty politics laced with selfishness and arrogance was at its peak when the country was suffering from immense pain," Modi said. "But the real face of such people has been exposed after the truth was accepted in the Parliament of our neighbouring country," he said in his address on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas. During a debate in Pakistan's National Assembly on Thursday, Chaudhry had said, "Humne Hindustan ko ghus ke maara (We hit India in their home). Our success in Pulwama, is a success of this nation under the leadership of Imran Khan. You and we are all part of that success." The PM said he remained silent despite all the "accusations and filthy words" used against him after the Pulwama terror attack. "Politics done after Pulwama attack shows that people can cross any limit for their political gains. I want to urge such political parties not to indulge in this kind of politics as it affects the morale of our security forces," he said. "For your political gains, you should not play into the hands of anti-national forces, knowingly or unknowingly," he added. Against the backdrop of terror attacks in France and criticism being faced by its President Emmanuel Macron over a cartoon row, Modi said it was a matter of concern for the entire world how some people have come out in support of terrorism. "In the present situation, all the nations, all the governments and people of all the faiths must get united against terrorism. Peace, brotherhood and respect for each other is the identity of humanity. Terrorism and violence is not good for anyone," he said. India understands the pain of terror victims very well, as terrorism has taken lives of thousands of Indian soldiers and citizens over the years, the PM added. Stressing that the world needs to get united against terrorism, Modi also called for fighting all those forces that support it. On the issue of securing borders, Modi said the country's soldiers now have the capability to give a befitting reply to the enemies. "Aaj Bharat ki bhoomi par nazar gadane walo to muh tod jawab mil raha hai (Today those eyeing to grab our land are getting a befitting reply)," Modi said without naming China. "India is building hundreds of kilometers of roads, bridges and tunnels near our borders. The country is committed and well-prepared to protect its honour and sovereignty," he said. On the occasion, Modi remembered all those police personnel, who sacrificed their lives while serving the society during the coronavirus outbreak. "When other countries are still struggling, 130 crore citizens of India came together to give a united fight against the pandemic. As a result, India is coming out of the coronavirus outbreak and marching ahead," he said. He said Jammu and Kashmir's "unification" with India completed one year as his government scrapped Article 370 a year ago. Modi said that Sardar Patel would have resolved the Kashmir issue had he been allowed to do so. "I am fortunate for getting the opportunity to complete the unfinished task of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Now, Kashmir has embarked on its journey of development," he said, adding that efforts were also being made for bringing peace and prosperity in the north-east region. He said Patel started the "yagya" (mission) of reclaiming India's cultural heritage by ordering reconstruction ofSomnath temple. "The country saw the extension of that yagya in Ayodhya. The country witnessed the Supreme Court ruling on Ram temple, and people are now witnessing the construction of a grand Ram Mandir," he said. Stressing the need for unity and developing the spirit of 'India First', Modi mentioned a poem written by well-known Tamil poet and freedom fighter Subramania Bharathi. Remembering Sardar Patel, who united the country after the British left, Modi said, "We should always remember that the interest of the country is paramount for all of us and only it will lead us to the path of progress." He also remembered Maharishi Valmiki on his birth anniversary. The PM said it is Valmiki's depiction of Lord Ram that connects every citizen living in different parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Free Covid vaccine promise not a violation of poll code, says EC ||The BJP's promise of providing free coronavirus vaccine in its manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls is not violative of the provisions of the model code, the Election Commission has held. Responding to a complaint by RTI activist Saket Gokhale, the commission said it has found no violation of the provisions of the model code in the issue. "...no violation of any of the provisions of Model Code of Conduct has been observed...," the commission said. Gokhale had claimed that the promise is discriminatory and a misuse of powers by the central government during elections. According to sources, the commission cited certain guidelines for election manifestos contained in Part VIII of the Model Code of Conduct to conclude that the free vaccine promise was not violative of it. "The Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution enjoin upon the State to frame various welfare measures for the citizens and therefore there can be no objection to the promise of such welfare in election manifesto," one of the provisions quoted by the EC said. Trust of voters should be sought only on those promises which are possible to be fulfilled, the other provision cited by the EC said. "It is stated that the election manifestoes are issued by political parties, candidates in respect of a particular election," the EC response said. Gokhale wrote on Twitter on Friday, "ECI shockingly ignored the fact that the Union government announced it for a specific state and said action is taken when election atmosphere is vitiated." Earlier this month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had released the BJP manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls which promised free Covid-19 vaccine once it is cleared by the ICMR. Opposition parties had slammed the BJP for promising free Covid-19 vaccines in its Bihar poll manifesto and demanded action by the Election Commission, while alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political gains. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the BJP, saying one has to refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when one will have access to the vaccine. The BJP, however, said health is a state subject and its manifesto is for Bihar, not for the entire country, where it has promised that the state will buy the vaccine for its people. The RJD, the Congress, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party and the National Conference all raised questions on the BJP's poll promise of free vaccine for Bihar, alleging that it is politicising the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Covid caseload above 81 lakh with 48,648 more cases||With 48,648 fresh Covid-19 infections, India's caseload rose to 81,37,119 on Saturday, while the number of recoveries crossed the 74-lakh mark, pushing the recovery rate to 91.34 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 1,21,641 with 551 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 74,32,829 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far, taking the national recovery rate to 91.34 per cent. The case fatality rate has dropped to 1.49 per cent. The number of active Covid-19 cases remained below 6 lakh for the second consecutive day. There are 5,82,649 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, which comprise 7.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 10,87,96,064 samples had been tested for Covid-19 till October 30. Of these, 10,67,976 samples were tested on Friday. The 551 new fatalities include 127 from Maharashtra, 59 from West Bengal, 49 each from Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, 47 from Delhi and 38 from Tamil Nadu. Of the total 1,21,641 deaths reported so far in the country, 43,837 are from Maharashtra, followed by 11,140 from Karnataka, 11,091 from Tamil Nadu, 7,007 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,784 from Bengal, 6,676 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,470 from Delhi, 4,187 from Punjab and 3,711 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||A concert and a lesson for liberals ||Poems of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru would form the lyrics for Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna’s performance to mark Kerala’s formation day on Sunday. A Magsaysay Award winner known for his progressive speeches and writings and widely acclaimed efforts to push out caste elitism from the world of Carnatic music, Krishna has tuned the poems of one of the key social reformers, who led the transformation of Kerala from an unrelenting caste-based society to a more progressive one. Malayalam channel Kairali TV will broadcast the pre-recorded concert at 5.30pm on Sunday to mark the “Kerala Piravi” or Kerala formation day. In an email interview to The Telegraph, Krishna said it was quite easy to compose Guru’s poetry since it had immense musicality. “Guru’s poetry naturally opens itself to melody and rhythm. The flow, measure, sound of syllables are all musical, therefore setting them to music is easy,” he said. Krishna said the poems should come out in other genres and languages as well. “It is essential that Guru’s thoughts are shared through music and other art forms. I want to stress that it should not only be Carnatic music. We should be able to hear Guru’s poems in rock and roll and hip-hop and they must be sung in many languages,” he said. In the first such show, Krishna had performed in Mumbai last year. “Before the Covid-19 pandemic took over our lives, we were planning a few concerts in Kerala and in Karnataka (Mangalore),” he said, expressing hope to carry on the social reformer’s messages through music. Born into a backward Ezhava family in caste-ridden Kerala in 1855, the social reformer, who came to be revered as Sree Narayana Guru, had done the unthinkable in 1888 by consecrating a piece of rock he picked from a river in Aruvippuram near Thiruvananthapuram. While the Brahmins, whose sole domain it was to consecrate, questioned the act, Sree Narayana Guru had famously retorted that it was “not a Brahmin Shiva, but an Ezhava Shiva” at a time when Kerala was deeply enmeshed in a rigid caste system that left a massive majority as untouchables. It was this kind of regressive caste dynamics that made Swami Vivekananda declare Kerala as a “lunatic asylum” during a trip in 1892. The radical consecration of what became a famous shrine eventually led to a massive movement with leaders of more dominant communities like the Nairs joining Sree Narayana Guru in his endeavour to rewrite the social fabric of Travancore, and eventually the state. Krishna found the teachings of the reformer-philosopher very relevant to the present times. “In the present context, learning from Guru becomes essential. If we want to fight parochialism, bigotry, divisiveness, hate, every liberal in this country must internalise Guru,” Krishna said, pointing to a fallacious approach of liberals. “The liberals of India have to realise that for too long we have treated religion and faith with condescension and progressiveness has become synonymous with atheism. This has paved the way for bigotry and violence, allowing the Right-wing to use fear to trap people within its clasp. Guru’s progressiveness was faith itself,” he said. “Unlike (Mahatma) Gandhi who unfortunately thought cleansing and purifying religion was all that was needed, Guru questioned, reimagined and literally redrafted religion. He took ownership of it,” said Krishna. The show would be presented under the banner of Nool Archives, a collective of intellectuals. “Nool” means thread in Malayalam and the name signifies finding a common thread in cultures across and beyond the country. Artist Riyas Komu, a key figure behind Nool Archives, saw the concert based on Guru’s poems as a significant step towards recovering mystic traditions. “Such artistic interventions will help rejuvenate the collective consciousness of the people in the current political climate,” said Komu, one of the co-founders of Kochi Muziris Biennale, the country’s premier art exposition. “We wanted to take the conversation forward with Guru as a poet since he wrote in multiple languages,” he said, alluding to how Guru wrote in Malayalam, Tamil and Sanskrit with equal ease. “It is important to retrieve our past which has got great values and present it for today to build a great future. If you are not conceiving the past in its right spirit then your present goes into chaos,” he said. Dinakaran Meenamkunnu, a retired scientist of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre who too is a part of Nool Archives, cited Guru’s progressive thoughts and writings that had to be focused on. “He is very unique. Not only that he didn’t have any baggage from the Western education system, he was very progressive in the Indian way,” said Meenamkunnu. He said that the socio-political analysis of the social reformer had to co-exist with his metaphysical side. “You have nothing new to say about the social reform part of Guru. But the metaphysics side of Guru that gave rise to the social reforms is important now,” Meenamkunnu said, alluding to Krishna’s concert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath loses ‘star campaigner’ status||The Election Commission on Friday revoked the “star campaigner” status of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath taking serious note of breach of “ethical and dignified behaviour” and repeated violations of the model code during campaign for the bypolls in 28 Assembly constituencies in the state. In an order, the commission said, “...for repeated violation of Model Code of Conduct and for completely disregarding the advisory issued to him, the Commission hereby revokes the status of leader of political party (star campaigner) of Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for the current byelections of Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh.” It said no permission will be granted by authorities to Nath as a star campaigner. “However, if any campaign is done by Kamal Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure related to travel, stay and visit will be completely borne by the candidate in whose constituency he carries out campaigning,” it said. While the political party pays for the expenditure of a star campaigner, the candidate pays for the expenditure of other campaigners. Last week, the EC had asked Nath not to use words like “item”, a jibe used to hit out at state minister and BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Global Himalayan Expedition trains sights beyond India||An Indian social business that leads Himalayan treks to set up solar micro-grids in remote mountain villages plans to expand its clean-energy work to other countries facing similar challenges, after winning a United Nations climate award. Global Himalayan Expedition (GHE) has brought solar electricity to more than 130 Indian villages, benefiting about 60,000 people, while setting up home-stays for tourists that have generated more than $100,000 income for villagers. By providing clean energy and livelihoods, the company has helped preserve fragile eco-systems and bridged the gender gap by training local women to become entrepreneurs, said Jaideep Bansal, GHE’s chief operating officer. “Without access to basic facilities and better income opportunities, the villagers are likely to migrate to towns in search of jobs, accelerating cultural and social erosion in these areas,” he said.  “We are able to leverage tourism as a force for holistic development of remote mountain communities.” The Indian government deems all villages nationwide to be electrified because at least 10 per cent of households and public places have electricity. But power cuts are rampant, forcing residents to use diesel generators and kerosene lamps with noxious fumes. Fast-dropping costs for solar power, combined with plenty of sun have made mini-grids and micro-grids an affordable option. GHE identifies villages that lack access to reliable electric power, sometimes trekking up to six days to reach them. More than 1,300 travellers have so far paid up to $3,500 each to join the hikes, with about a quarter of the charge going towards setting up the solar grid, Bansal said. The tourists work alongside engineers to install the micro-grids and fixtures, including street lights and LED lights, fans and mobile charging points in homes, he added. The project has provided solar capacity totalling 360 kilowatts, avoiding about 35,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, according to a UN estimate. GHE trains local youths and women to become electricians, and helps women set up home-stays and“astro-stays” that offer stargazing at night on solar-powered telescopes. “Empowering women entrepreneurs through astronomy has helped reduce the gap in gender equality. It has also engendered greater interest in STEM subjects in women and children,” Bansal said, referring to science, technology, engineering and maths. GHE’s model of tourism with environmental and social benefits is “easily replicable because of the simplicity in approach”, said the UN climate secretariat, announcing the winners of its 2020 global climate action awards this week. The model is particularly relevant as sales of off-grid solar products fell sharply in the first half of the year with incomes hit because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Covid-19 crisis has derailed GHE’s expeditions this year. But it plans to expand tours to Madagascar, Sumatra and Nepal next year, and is partnering on other community-based tourism initiatives in Indonesia, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia and Kenya. “We are looking at remote regions with similar development problems as the Indian Himalayas, where the concept of impact tourism and sustainable development can be applied,” Bansal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-585
31-10-2020||India||Congress steps up Munger heat ||A Congress delegation met Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday and demanded the removal of chief minister Nitish Kumar over Monday’s alleged police brutality on Durga devotees in Munger town, which left a teenager dead and triggered retaliatory mob violence on Thursday. “We met the governor and demanded the immediate removal of chief minister Nitish Kumar and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi,” Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. “They are responsible for the brutal lathi-charge and police firing in Munger. They have pushed the state into anarchy.” On Monday, a quarrel over the right of way had broken out between the police and devotees carrying the town’s famed Badi Durga idol for immersion. The police allegedly fired on the crowd, killing 17-year-old Anurag Poddar and setting off a minor stampede, and then caned the crowd, leaving many people with bullet wounds and other injuries. The police have denied firing, saying criminals from within the Puja crowd had fired the shots. Wednesday’s vote in the town passed peacefully but with no action taken against the police even on Thursday, thousands of angry residents attacked police stations and vehicles and other government buildings. Subsequently, the Election Commission transferred Munger district magistrate Rajesh Meena and superintendent of police Lipi Singh. Surjewala said the Congress team had requested the governor to provide a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to Anurag’s family and ensure punishment for the officials involved in Monday’s atrocity. “The police fired at the people in which a youth was shot in the head and died. Eight others received bullet injures. Several women, children and other people were brutally thrashed,” he said. He accused the state government of having tried to shield Lipi because she is the daughter of senior JDU leader R.C.P Singh, considered close to Nitish. Meena is believed to have Sushil’s patronage. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera and Bihar unit president Madan Mohan Jha had accompanied Surjewala to the governor. Meena’s and Lipi’s replacements, Rachna Patil and M.S. Dhillon, respectively, have held flag marches in Munger, which has been limping back to normality. An internal report written purportedly by an official of the Central Industrial Security Force, deployed in the town on poll duty and apparently present at the site of Monday’s violence, has been circulated widely on social media. It says the police had fired in the air after the Durga devotees began throwing stones around 11.45pm on Monday night. This provoked the mob to intensify the stoning. A CISF head constable then fired 13 rounds from his Insas rifle in the air in self-defence, after which the crowd left, the report says. It does not explain how a young man died and many others received bullet injuries if all the firing was directed at the sky. Calls to the CISF public relations officer went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Appeal: We must look after and look out for teachers||The Loreto Schools have made a special request to parents to “act in a spirit of cooperation and consideration for others” to get through the “crisis without conflict”. The schools have said in a circular that although profit is not the priority, the institutions need to be kept afloat and functional to ensure that the “staff are paid and their dependence on the schools are addressed”. The eight unaided Loreto schools in the state — six in Calcutta and one each in Darjeeling and Asansol — have issued an appeal to parents and guardians: those who do not need to avail of the reduction of fees may inform the schools. “Profit, financial benefit and money are not our priorities. However, the reality is that we need to keep the schools afloat and functional, and to ensure that our staff are paid and their dependence on the schools are addressed. Our teachers and staff depend on us for their livelihoods and existence. We must look after them, and look out for them at all costs through these hard times,” the circular says. The circular has been uploaded over Thursday and Friday on the websites of the schools, communicating compliance with a high court order for a 20 per cent reduction in tuition fees. It said all Loreto schools had unanimously adopted resolutions implementing the points of the order. Addressing parents, guardians and staff, the circular said all those who are part of the Loreto family know that they have a lot of other responsibilities to society and to those who are “less fortunate than us”. That is where a lot of the costs arise, dealing with basics as widely varying as food rations, clothes, books, mobile top-ups and sanitary materials, the circular said. “It is for those in our family who have enough to choose to give what they can for others in need, for whom Loreto is a means of survival. The simplest way to do that is through making payment of fees so that we can use the money in the way we always have, to cover our costs and for the betterment of others,” the circular added. “We still incur heavy expenses in each of our schools towards our social commitment and helping the needy students, and those less fortunate than us. For this reason, we appeal to those who do not need to avail the reduction of 20 per cent fees, to write or communicate to us immediately... this small gesture on your part will help reduce our burden and our concern for the coming months ahead. “We request all to act in the spirit of cooperation and consideration for others to help us get through this crisis without conflict. We are here to help you, for your child is as much our responsibility.” A member of the Loreto Education Board said that concessions had always been provided to a large number of students, and during the pandemic they had increased. “We have given further concession to students whose families suffered financial losses. We have provided support like data recharge, smart phones wherever necessary to ensure that where learning is concerned students should not suffer,” said the Loreto Education Board member. The circular said: “You have trusted us with your children to educate them and instil values in them. We ask you to help us, as we also trust you as part of our family to stand by us. We hope that those who can do without the concessions and understand the practical issues of keeping the schools alive and running will stand by us in our times of need, just as we stand by all of you.” The schools have said that the Loreto way of life has never been about marks alone but also about being good human beings and helping each other. “We hope, pray and trust that these values will show in all of us, and come back from our entire family of staff, parents and administrators, and we will get through all of this together, helping those in need, making sure we maintain as much normalcy as possible for our children, and with the greatest good to the greatest number,” the circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Proposal for high-risk group during phase 3 efficacy trial||A top medical virologist has proposed that vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease shown to be safe and generating a good immune response in humans should be offered to high-risk individuals in parallel with phase 3 efficacy trials. The proposal by T. Jacob John, former head of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, represents a dramatic departure from standard practice that allows vaccine roll-outs only after efficacy has been established through large-scale phase 3 trials. “There is a strong case for allowing emergency use of any Covid-19 vaccine already in phase 3 or ready for phase 3,” John said in a peer-reviewed paper co-authored with Mumbai-based paediatrician Dhanya Dharmapalan and set to appear in the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. A phase 1 trial on a small number of healthy volunteers evaluates a vaccine for safety, while a phase 2 trial on a few hundred volunteers examines whether the vaccine generates a strong immune response among the recipients. Phase 3 marks a critical efficacy trial in which researchers administer the vaccine to tens of thousands of people to determine whether it protects them from the natural infection. John’s proposal implies that vaccine candidates found to be safe and generating an immune response should be offered to individuals with underlying health disorders and the elderly who are at high risk of developing severe disease or dying from Covid-19. John contends that such a limited and supervised roll-out may help save lives. “If the candidate works, it would save lives. If it does not work, no harm done. If a candidate has as yet undetected adverse effects, the larger pool of recipients through a parallel roll-out will only facilitate faster detection of adverse effects,” John told The Telegraph. Two Covid-19 vaccine candidates in India -– one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from Oxford University and produced by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India — have been approved for phase 3 clinical trials. At least eight other candidates are under phase 3 trials elsewhere in the world. The limited, supervised roll-out of vaccine candidates in parallel with phase 3 trials would need to be under full-informed consent where recipients are aware that they are receiving experimental and unproven vaccines and with no liability on the manufacturers or vaccinators for adverse events. “The world is facing a once-in-a-century need for fast-tracked vaccines,” John said. Other experts and clinical researchers said John’s arguments were strong. “This is a pandemic and in times such as these, the benefits may be large and therefore it’s worth taking risks,” said Urmila Thatte, senior clinical pharmacologist in Mumbai and a specialist on trials. “But the bottom line is informed consent,” Thatte said. India’s apex health research agency has independently initiated a “scientific dialogue” on the option of authorising emergency use of vaccine candidates without any compromise on safety, a top official in the agency said. “The Covid-19 pandemic has posed an extraordinary challenge that requires extraordinary responses,” Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division of the Indian Council of Medical Research, told this newspaper. “We’ve initiated a scientific dialogue on this.” Panda, however, stressed that the decision to approve a vaccine candidate for emergency use rests with the drug regulatory authority.India’s Covid-19 epidemic has killed over 121,000 people. Health authorities on Friday recorded 48,648 new cases, raising the total of laboratory-confirmed patients to over 8.08 million, of whom 7.37 million have recovered and 594,000 are under medical supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||No ifs and buts: Muslim women’s voice stands out||Two among the largest organisations of Indian Muslims have focused on the reaction of the French government to the beheading of schoolteacher Samuel Paty rather than on the knife attacks. But an unequivocal condemnation of the murders of Paty and three others in a church in Nice on Thursday has come from the Muslim Women’s Forum, India. The forum works for the empowerment, inclusion and education of Muslim women. A statement signed by former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, one of the founders of the forum, and others said on Thursday: “We remind ourselves of the Quranic injunction — ‘killing an individual is like killing an entire quam (humanity) (Surah 5:32)’. Such an act cannot be accepted by any democratic and civilised society. We want that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice quickly.” One of the signatories, civil rights activist Shabnam Hashmi, told The Telegraph: “Most people are caught up with politics within the country, on which Islamophobia is present. They find it difficult to come out of that prism and do not see extremists among Muslims too. In the last few decades, conservatism has grown in the community. In my youth, we could speak about topics that are called blasphemous today.” Bhopal, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Aligarh have seen protests against France amid calls in some places for a boycott of French goods. N.P. Ashley, who teaches English at St Stephen’s College in Delhi and is part of education programmes in his community of Moplah Muslims in Kerala, said the protests in India had brought together conflicting streams of Muslim politics. “We are seeing two kinds of protests: one by conservatives who feel that you can’t insult the Prophet. The conservatives may be illiberal but they aren’t communal. The second is by Islamists who seem to view the developments as a rerun of the crusades. This is communal and it rejoices in acts like the conversion of the Hagia Sofia into a mosque by Urdugan (Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan),” Ashley said. “Islamists think of Islam as a civilisation, just like the Islamophobes. The fear of majoritarian targeting or anti-Muslim bigotry should not make Muslims lose their sense of ethics or perspective.” Author and journalist Ziya Us Salam said: “Outside France reacts to the perceived actions of the French government — which is not a civil society response. When the government puts pictures of the Prophet on buildings, coupled with the statements of Macron, these are seen as acts in bad spirit which are deliberately provocative. No one in a proper frame of mind has justified the killings.” Paty was beheaded by Chechen refugee Abdoullakh Abouyedovich Anzorov in a Paris suburb on October 16 for displaying cartoons on the Prophet Muhammad during a class on free speech. Such cartoons are seen as blasphemous by Muslims. Cartoons published by satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo in 2006 and 2012 had been cited as a motive for the attacks on its offices in 2011 and 2015 in which 12 cartoonists were killed. Macron has supported the slain teacher and the right to publish cartoons, which have been projected on public buildings in the country after the incident. On October 21, Macron said: “We will defend the freedom that you (Paty) taught so well, and we will strongly proclaim the concept of laïcité (secularism). We will not disavow the cartoons, the drawings, even if others recoil. We will provide all the opportunities that the Republic owes all its young people, without any discrimination.” This, as well as his speech on October 2, in which he called Islam a “religion in crisis”, drew condemnation from Turkey, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran. India has condemned the language being used against Macron, after Erdogan said Macron needed a mental health check. Twitter has deleted a post by former Malaysia Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad saying Muslims had the right “to kill millions of French people” for the atrocities of colonialism — a sentence he said was taken out of context. The full posts of Mahathir said: “Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large, the Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t.” On Tuesday, the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, one of the oldest conservative political groups among Muslims, condemned Macron for his alleged Islamophobia. Jamaat president Syed Sadatullah Hussaini said: “French President Emmanuel Macron is openly exhibiting Islamophobia, one of the reasons for which is his government’s failure on various fronts. For the past few years, one has observed a fair degree of extremism among the Far Right political and non-political groups. It appears as though Macron is resorting to Islamophobia to discredit these organisations…. The French government should objectively evaluate the issue of teacher Samuel Paty, the act by the Chechen student and its aftermath in the context of politics, sociology and psychology.” On Wednesday and Thursday, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, a national body of clerics led by Maulana Mahmood Madani, had issued statements condemning Macron and the Indian government’s support for him. Terrorism was condemned but the group blamed France for “encouraging terrorism”. Madani said on Thursday: “This attitude of the Government of India reflects hostility towards Islam and Muslims. This will no doubt inflict hurt upon not only the 20 crore Muslims of the country but Muslims of the entire world as well secular-minded people.” In a statement, his group said: “Jamiat condemns every form of terrorism committed by any individual, organisation or State. But at the present, France itself is encouraging terrorism.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Pinarayi Vijayan under attack after arrests||The Opposition parties in Kerala have launched a no-holds-barred attack on chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over two arrests that have come to haunt the CPM. After briefly staying away from mass protests because of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, both the Congress and the BJP hit the streets in big numbers on Friday seeking the resignation of Vijayan who had all along been the bulwark they found difficult to upstage. The arrest of his former secretary M. Sivasankar and that of Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of the state CPM secretary, came just a day apart and fully loaded with ammunition for the Opposition. Sivasankar was held in a case related to gold smuggling in Kerala, while Bineesh landed in trouble over a drug case in Bangalore. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said Vijayan was trying to escape by fixing all the blame on Sivasankar. “The chief minister is saying that neither he nor his government has any responsibility in what Sivasankar did in his personal capacity. Sivasankar’s help (in gold smuggling) is help from the chief minister’s office,” he said. After sporadic protests on Thursday, an organised agitation was held across the state on Friday when Congress and BJP workers clashed with police in Thiruvananthapuram. The ruling Left Democratic Front, however, stood steadfast behind the chief minister. State CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran said it was wrong to target the chief minister for alleged crimes committed by Sivasankar and Bineesh. Kerala was declared the best governed large state in a public affairs index released here on Friday, while Uttar Pradesh featured at the bottom. While Goa emerged the best governed among small states, Chandigarh was adjudged the best-governed Union Territory by Public Affairs Centre, an NGO headed by former Isro chairman K. Kasturirangan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Breather for caste, gender study centres||Teachers and students at nearly 200 academic centres that study caste and gender discrimination have received temporary relief after weeks of fear that these centres would be closed, hitting their future. The University Grants Commission last week issued a letter assuring the continuation of funding, till March 31 next year, for the Centres for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy at about 35 universities and Women’s Studies Centres at about 160 universities The commission has also decided to go on funding 30 other schemes, including equal opportunity cells that provide coaching to students from socially marginalised and minority communities. Most of these schemes had been started under the five-year plans, with five-year extensions at the end of each plan period. But these schemes and the study centres came under a cloud when the Niti Aayog scrapped five-year plans in 2017. Since then, the government had been extending these centres’ lives one year at a time. But after one such extension expired on March 31, 2020, the commission granted just a six-month extension till September 30 — and sat tight after that date passed while students and teachers worried about their careers. The social exclusion and women’s study centres offer MPhil and PhD courses in the atrocities and bias faced by Dalits, tribal people and women. Besides, they provide some courses under the choice-based credit system for undergraduates. These centres together have more than 1,000 teachers and other staff, and several thousand students. On Friday, many of the students and teachers said they were relieved for now but demanded that these centres be converted into permanent university departments, which would end the periodic tension over funds. “Six-monthly or yearly extensions of funding affect research because we cannot plan long-term projects. If the centres are made permanent, more students and teachers will be willing to join,” a teacher at a social exclusion study centre in a central university said. Some institutions like Banaras Hindu University, Tripura University, Hyderabad University and Pondicherry University have already converted their social exclusion and women’s centres into permanent departments. A recent conference of vice-chancellors passed a resolution requesting the government to provide funds so these centres can be merged with their universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Congress attacks ‘cosy club of sycophants’||The Congress on Friday reacted to the government’s choices for the new chief information commissioner and a new information commissioner by saying the Centre wanted to run the country through “a cosy club of favourite bureaucrats and sycophants”. It said the Narendra Modi government’s record in “transparency and accountability” had been “pathetic” and that its appointments to investigative agencies and watchdog institutions demonstrated its anti-democratic mindset. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, was referring to the proposed appointment of former diplomat and information commissioner Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha as the new chief information commissioner, and that of journalist Uday Mahurkar as information commissioner. Chowdhury had opposed these choices in his capacity as a member of the appointments committee, which includes the Prime Minister and the Union home minister. “If you want to conduct administration through a cosy club of favourite bureaucrats and sycophants, democracy diminishes,” Chowdhury told The Telegraph. “Watchdog institutions and investigative agencies like the CBI, Central Vigilance Commission, Lokpal, Central Information Commission, Comptroller and Auditor General of India play a critical role in the democratic functioning of the country. Any attempt to control these institutions with the help of pliable officers undermines democracy.” Chowdhury is said to have recorded his dissent at the appointments committee’s October 24 meeting, alleging violation of the criteria laid down by the RTI Act. He had argued that Sinha, a former Indian Foreign Service officer, lacked adequate “on-ground” domestic experience in the field of service delivery. Chowdhury had supported the candidature of another information commissioner, Vanaja N. Sarna, who was senior to Sinha. Mahurkar, Chowdhury had said, had not even applied for the post but was picked because he is a known Modi supporter. The journalist has written books on Modi and subscribes to the RSS ideology. “There are two aspects (to such appointments): one, following the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the provisions of the act; two, deciding by consensus. This government has no concern for either. They just decide and bulldoze their decision,” Chowdhury said. “We have seen it in the past. Democracy will not survive in this manner. There is a ‘Liberal Democracy Index’; India is falling in its rankings.” Chowdhury had also objected to IAS officer Sanjay Kothari’s appointment as chief vigilance commissioner in April, citing a vitiation of the selection process — the search committee had included an official who was himself an applicant. The government had ignored the objections. In the past, then Lok Sabha Opposition leader Mallikarjun Kharge had written dissent notes in vain. During the selection of the Lokpal, Kharge had seven times refused to attend the committee meeting as he had been called as a special invitee without the right to vote. To justify the denial of voting rights, the government had cited the technicality of his not having been formally anointed as leader of the Opposition. The Congress has consistently been complaining about a conspiracy to weaken democratic institutions. There had been speculation about the Lok Sabha public accounts committee, headed by Chowdhury, writing to the CAG about the delays in filing audit reports over the past few years. Chowdhury confirmed on Friday that he had written to the CAG. “Delays in the reports ensure that burning issues are forgotten. By the time the reports come, governments have changed in the states or events have overtaken the subject. We have summoned the CAG to explain the delays at the next meeting,” he said. Apart from the delays, the number of the CAG’s reports has fallen sharply over the past few years. During the tenure of Vindo Rai — which damaged the reputation of the Manmohan Singh government — the CAG used to churn out over 200 audit reports for Parliament and the state legislatures every year. It, however, produced just 73 reports in 2018-19 and 98 in 2017-18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Odisha MLA, wife harvest paddy on festive break||While others of his ilk appear to be on an extended vacation on account of Durga Puja and Diwali, Nityananda Gond, the BJP legislator from Umerkote in southern Odisha, has been busy harvesting paddy. The tribal MLA has been working in the fields with his wife, who is the headmistress of a government high school. Gond, 42, who has a bachelor’s degree in law and a post-graduate degree in history, was practising at the subdivisional court at Umerkote in Nabarangpur district, before winning the last Assembly election on a BJP ticket. However, coming from a family of farmers, he still takes interest in his fields whenever he finds time. Umerkote is around 598km from here. Gond, who owns nearly 25 acres of land, says he earns between Rs 12 and Rs 15 lakh every year by cultivating paddy and corn. “I have grown up watching our fields being cultivated. My father Samaru Gond used to till the land himself. My elder brother Hiraman still tills our land. I help him to the extent I can. Becoming an MLA has changed nothing for me as far as our farming activities are concerned,” the MLA told The Telegraph. According to Gond, farming can be a profitable business only if one works hard. “It’s tough to find labourers at the right time for harvesting. If you work in the fields yourself, others will follow you. We had a good harvest this year despite natural calamities,” he said. Gond said the coronavirus-induced lockdown had caused a shortage of farm labour in the market. During the Dussehra vacation when others were busy in festivities, Gond and his wife decided to work in the fields. “During Dussehra my school was closed. I decided to go back to my in-law’s house, which is only 25km from my work place. When I saw my husband working in the field, I decided to join him in paddy harvesting. As a wife, I support him. The bond between a husband and a wife gets stronger when they work together,” said Chaiti Gond, the headmistress of Chadheiguda UG High School in Nabarangpur district. Gond said, “I am proud of my wife. She always supports me. We have inspired other people in the area who don’t hesitate anymore to work in their fields. I have engaged six people to support me in harvesting the paddy. My elder brother looks after these things when I am away and engaged in political activities.” Gond, who came into politics in 2000 after being inspired by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, wants everyone to gain experience of farming. “We can engage in farming while discharging our regular professional work. Farming connects us to our roots,” he claimed. Gond said it was important for a farmer to be in his fields during monsoon to plough the land and to undertake paddy transplantation work. “Similarly , one should be present when harvesting takes place. If you take care of these things, there is never any fear of losing money,” he said. Earlier, ruling Biju Janata Dal’s Dabugaon MLA Manohar Randhari, who also hails from Nabarangpur district, had earned praise from Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for working in his paddy fields, carrying out transplantation work amidst monsoon showers. Naidu had tweeted, “It’s inspiring. According to him (Randhari), the youths should not feel ashamed or feel any kind of hesitation, while working in the agriculture field.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||IPL betting racket busted in Odisha ||Two persons were arrested by police in Odisha’s Berhampur town for allegedly running an IPL betting racket. The police also seized Rs 33.61 lakh and two mobile phones from the accused. They suspect that the accused have Dubai links. Interrogation is on. Southern Range DIG, Satyabrata Bhoi told reporters in Berhampur: “Following a tip off about an illegal online betting racket on the IPL (Indian Premier League), special teams were constituted to nab the kingpins of the racket in Berhampur town on October 29 and October 30. During the raid, a gang was busted and two accused persons R. Lalie Achary (50) and K. Prasant Kumar Subudhi (43) were apprehended and cash worth Rs 33,61,200, two mobile phone sets and three ATMs were seized.” The police in a press release said: “On thorough investigation, it was ascertained that the accused persons used to play on various online betting websites. The accused persons have conspired with the help of different agents of different cities like Kolkata, Mumbai, Delhi and Dubai and collected a huge sum from the general public to bet online in IPL cricket with false assurance of getting a profitable margin of return.” The police said the accused had formed a big group to run the racket that was active in southern Odisha. “All of them have been arrested under various sections of IPC and Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning Act), 1978,” the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Maya rebels: We’re loyal to BSP, against BJP ||The rebel Bahujan Samaj Party members whose suspension Mayawati announced on Thursday affirmed their loyalty to the party on Friday and insisted they were exempt from the anti-defection law since they had violated no whip. Lalji Verma, BSP legislative party leader, has said the party would soon initiate the process to have the seven rebels disqualified from the Assembly. However, Handia (Allahabad) MLA Hakim Lal Bind told The Telegraph the dissidents had not defied any party order and had only tried to prevent Mayawati from seeking BJP support to get her candidate elected to the Rajya Sabha. Sushma Patel, MLA from Mungrabadshahpur, Jaunpur, raised a procedural point: “No party can suspend someone without serving a notice. This process was not followed in my suspension. I didn’t commit any crime and nobody can remove me from the BSP.” Five among the seven rebels had on Wednesday claimed their signatures on party Rajya Sabha candidate Ramji Gautam’s nomination papers had been forged. Their move had allegedly come at the behest of Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav. However, the returning officer cleared Gautam’s candidature. On Thursday, Mayawati announced their suspension from the party’s primary membership at a news conference. “I bear Mayawatiji no ill-will. I’m against our party’s Rajya Sabha candidate because I don’t want him to seek the BJP’s votes. I’m also against some of the BSP president’s rogue advisers,” Bind said. “I have not defected and never met Akhilesh. Behenji is my leader.” Aslam Ali, MLA from Dhaulana in Hapur, denied any inducement from Akhilesh and said: “I’m the only party MLA from western Uttar Pradesh, and Mayawatiji will always prefer me in place of any other candidate. We are against any understanding between the BSP and the BJP.” Under the anti-defection law, lawmakers can lose their membership of a House if they leave their party, defect to another, or violate a party directive to vote or abstain from voting on any issue. While any defection by two-thirds or more among the party’s elected members is exempt from automatic disqualification, the rebels make up less than half of the BSP’s 18 MLAs. Precedent, however, suggests that the seven may hope to escape disqualification. In July, Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit had quashed a Congress appeal to disqualify two of its MLAs, Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh, for allegedly violating a party whip and supporting the BJP government over the amendment of Article 370. The Congress had suspended both after serving them with notices. Dixit had ruled that no voting had been held in the House on the matter and the MLAs had not defied the party whip.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-586
31-10-2020||India||Dalit beaten up, burnt alive in Amethi||The husband of a Dalit village panchayat chief was allegedly beaten up and set on fire in Amethi on Thursday evening. Arjun Kori, 50, husband of Bandoiya village panchayat chief Chotka Devi, was rushed to Sultanpur District Hospital and later referred to the trauma centre of Lucknow’s King George Medical University. He died on the way. Superintendent of police Dinesh Singh said the family members of the victim had filed an FIR against a person called K.K. Tiwari and four others. “We are investigating the case and the guilty would be arrested soon,” Singh said. Chotka Devi said Tiwari and his goons were forcing her and her husband to give him kickbacks from the development fund. “They were not ready to listen to our plea that the fund is released by senior officers and monitored by them. We are not in a position to siphon off money from it. However, these people thought we were secretly making money. They called my husband on Thursday to discuss something. Later, some villagers told us that he was beaten up and set on fire,” the panchayat pradhan said. Surendra Kori, the son of the victim, accused police of inaction. “We had registered a complaint with the police a few months ago that some affluent villagers were threatening to kill the entire family if we didn’t pay them a monthly amount from the development fund. But no action was taken at that time,” he said. “The seat is reserved for the Scheduled Castes. Usually, the affluent villagers field Dalits on this seat and ensure their victory. They control everything once their candidate wins. But in our case, my parents resisted any misuse of their power,” Surendra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
31-10-2020||India||Trains halted, Punjab faces power scarcity||The power situation has turned grim in Punjab with thermal plants nearly running out of coal stock, with movement of coal rakes suspended for about a month —first because farmers protesting against the new farm laws were blocking the tracks, and now because the railways is not allowing freight services to the state. “The Centre is targeting Punjab by suspending the goods trains in the state because farmers and the government here have opposed their anti-farmer laws,” Punjab minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Friday. The protesting farmers had on October 21 exempted good trains from their rail roko agitation against the farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government, and services had resumed. But days later, the railways suspended the services alleging that the tracks were still blocked. On chief minister Amarinder Singh’s request to resume freight services, railway minister Piyush Goyal sought the state government’s assurance on the safety of trains and their crew. Minister Randhawa said: “Let the government of India officials themselves go and check if the farmers are still squatting on rail tracks. Barring one track in Jandiala Guru, where too train can be diverted via Tarn Taran to reach Amritsar, other tracks are free. On Jalandhar-Pathankot section, in Bathinda and in Ferozepur, tracks are free”. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited chairman-cum-managing director A. Venu Prasad on Friday said out of five thermal plants, only one is running. “Coal stock of Nabha Thermal Plant at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited in Mansa has been completely exhausted.” “In three other power plants, stock available will last only for 2-3 days and for emergency purpose or critical events we have kept that. In view of the situation, we are purchasing 1,500 megawatts to 1,700MW from power exchange, but it is unpredictable, sometimes we get, sometimes we don’t and at what rates we are going to get we don’t know…. “Therefore, as of today, the situation has assumed serious proportions. So, if current uncertainty continues, power board and power consumers may face difficulties,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
31-10-2020||India||Kargil picks Jammu and Kashmir over Ladakh ||The Valley-based seven-party alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370 received a rousing reception and warm support in Kargil on Friday, dealing a blow to the Centre’s efforts to wean Ladakhis off Kashmiris’ political campaigns. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, making its first outreach to Kargil, won support from a local coalition of political, religious and social bodies. The development was equally a setback for Ladakh’s Buddhist alliance, which has been seeking Muslim-majority Kargil’s support in its battle to have the fledgling Union Territory included in the autonomy-granting Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. The Centre has been unsuccessfully trying to convince Kargil that the amendment of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir, of which Ladakh was a part, has been good for them and that their future will be safe in the Union Territory of Ladakh. Friday’s development suggests that Kargil wants a return to a Jammu and Kashmir that is an undivided, full-fledged state with the special status granted by Article 370. Asgar Karbalai, a Congress leader from Kargil, said the local leadership had met the Valley delegation led by former chief minister Omar Abdullah and offered support to its campaign. “One thing common to the People’s Alliance and the Kargil Alliance is that we are all for restoration of the erstwhile state along with Article 370 and Article 35A. We are not going to back off,” Karbalai told reporters after the meeting. Ladakh has two districts: Leh and Kargil. Leh has a Buddhist majority that supports the abrogation of Article 370 but wants similar privileges for Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule. Overall, Muslims enjoy a slender majority in Ladakh. Omar said he was open to talks with the Buddhist leadership of Leh. He accused the BJP of trying to divide the people of the erstwhile state on the basis of religion and region. “They claim we are anti-national. Our fight is not against the country but (against) the BJP.... Whatever we demand is a part of the Indian Constitution. We will not give up our fight,” Omar said. Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain said Omar’s delegation had received a warm welcome everywhere in the district, with people lining the roads to receive it. “Kargil never supported the demand by the Leh parties, and what the (Kargil) parties reiterated here today is certainly a setback for their (Buddhist leadership’s) efforts (to forge Ladakhi unity behind the Sixth Schedule demand),” he said. In Leh, Ladakh Buddhist Association president P.T. Kunzang accused the Kargil leadership of sailing in two boats. “On the one hand they are with Kashmir and on the other they take all the benefits that come to Ladakh in the shape of Scheduled Tribe status or autonomous councils. They have to decide whether they want to be a part of Kashmir or Ladakh,” Kunzang told this newspaper. “If they put their feet in two boats, there is the chance of drowning…. We are in touch with them and we sincerely want to take them on board.” Hussain said the Kargil leadership had all along supported the unity of the erstwhile state and never sailed in two boats. In Srinagar, the government prevented People’s Alliance president Farooq Abdullah from visiting the Hazratbal shrine where a festival was under way. The alliance has termed the move an interference in his religious rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
31-10-2020||India||BJP Pulwama strike on Congress||The BJP on Friday demanded an apology from the “Congress and others”, latching on to a Pakistani minister’s boast of the country’s involvement in the Pulwama terror attack. “Pakistan has admitted its hand behind Pulwama terror attack. Now, Congress and others who talked of conspiracy theories must apologise to the country,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Friday. Javadekar’s tweet came in response to Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhary boasting in the National Assembly that his country had hit India hard in Pulwama. The minister subsequently said he had been “misinterpreted”. He said he was referring to post-Pulwama air strikes by his country. Javadekar and other BJP leaders didn’t refer to the Pakistani minister’s retraction and went all out to slam the Congress and other Opposition parties, seizing his initial statement. “Terrorism anywhere in the world has its roots in Pakistan. But, it is irony that Rahul Gandhi and his associates from Congress party termed the Pulwama attack as a match fixing between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-587
31-10-2020||West Bengal||New liquor prices across Bengal from Sunday||The West Bengal Government has revised the price structure of liquor brands to be sold through the retail route in the state which will come into effect from Sunday, sources said. The government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalizing the price structure, the sources said. The state government, in an apparent bid to shore up excise revenues, had imposed a 30% tax on liquor in the second week of April when the lockdown was in force. But that move had resulted in a steep decline in wine and beer sales in the state to the tune of 40% as compared to the previous year during this time, director-general of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) Vinod Giri said. Giri said representatives of the association have met the State Finance secretary and Excise commissioner and urged them to revisit the price structure. “The government has been very receptive and indicated that it would visit the price structure because of the ongoing festive season,” he said. A leading wine retailer of the city informed that the government has made 22 new slabs for wine and beer across all categories after rationalizing the price structure after 30% sales tax imposition. He said most of the prices of the various brands have gone up which is detrimental to the liquor industry in the state. “Owing to this, people are being forced to switch over to country spirits and everyone had been scaling down the value ladder due to the price rise,” he added. Those retailers having old price tags will be able to sell as previous prices till stocks last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Dhankhar begins month-long north Bengal tour||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has left for north Bengal to begin his month-long tour of Darjeeling from November 1. Dhankhar said he will connect with the people and the administration and work towards "fulfilling people's expectations". "In train for North Bengal to connect with people and work towards fulfillment of their expectations. Harnessing of its enormous travel, tourism, economic, educational potential would improve lives of the people. Would connect with people and administration @MamataOfficial," he tweeted on Saturday. In another tweet, Dhankhar said he has reached Malda station and was "touched" by the warm response from local people led by BJP's Malda Uttar MP Khagen Murmu. In an earlier statement, the Raj Bhavan had said Dhankhar will tour Darjeeling from November 1-30. He is also scheduled to address a press conference in Siliguri on Sunday. The governor's tour of Darjeeling comes in the backdrop of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha supremo Bimal Gurung announcing his party's exit from the NDA and pledging support to the Trinamool Congress during next year's assembly elections. Dhankhar had also called Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday and discussed the "state of affairs and affairs of state". Supporters of both Bimal Gurung and his rival GJM faction led by Binoy Tamang have taken out separate rallies in the hills in the last few days. Gurung, while recently making a dramatic appearance in Calcutta after remaining in hiding for three years, walked out of the BJP-led NDA, accusing the political alliance of not keeping its promises. The TMC received a shot in the arm with Gurung's announcement and welcomed his decision. The Binoy Tamang-led GJM faction is already allied with the ruling party in the state. The TMC leadership, however, is apprehensive of Dhankhar's visit to the hills as he has been at loggerheads with the Mamata Banerjee dispensation since assuming charge as the governor over a year ago. "Dhankhar can always visit any part of the state but we don't think this is a routine visit. We are apprehensive about his purpose," a senior TMC leader from north Bengal had said. The BJP, however, has come out in support of the governor and said Dhankhar has the right to visit any part of Bengal as the constitutional head of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||175 trucks with wheat seized||Customs authorities over the last few weeks have seized 175 trucks laden with wheat packed in gunny bags with FCI tags suspecting that essential food grains meant for public distribution were being illegally exported to Bangladesh through the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas. After preliminary verification, customs authorities handed over the trucks to the Basirhat police on October 20 and lodged a complaint as well. Basirhat police on the basis of the complaint have begun a case against 13 exporters on Thursday accusing them of possessing, receiving, dealing, and concealing stolen property. The entire consignment of the wheat loaded in the 175 vehicles is estimated to be around 4,500 tonnes and remain parked outside the Ghojadanga land port under police vigilance. The incident has angered the exporters who have refuted the allegations claiming that the customs authorities were harassing them even though they had submitted bills to prove that the wheat had been bought from open markets in Bengal and other states . They also claimed that the gunny bags with the FCI tags do not necessarily mean the food grain were meant for public distribution as such old gunny bags with such official tags are openly available in the market. The exporters, who are from North 24-Parganas, Malda, Murshidabad, Habra, Barasat, Ashoknagar, Bongaon and other places, have appealed to the Federation of Indian Export Organisations to take up the issue with the customs authorities. State food and supply minister Jyotipriya Mullick, however, appeared unconvinced with the claim of the exporters and alleged that the consignment of wheat from Punjab was being “smuggled” to Bangladesh through the Bengal land port. “This is a big scam that has been going on for a long time now. In the recent past, the state administration had also nabbed such consignment of wheat at Benapole,” the minister said, adding that seized food grain would be distributed among the people through the local administration if the court permitted it. A customs official posted in Ghojadanga said: “We have strong reasons to suspect foul play in the procurement of wheat since all the bags had FCI tags. It is not clear if the tags were fake or the food grain was packed in old bags. After preliminary examination we felt suspicious about the authenticity of procurement of the consignment and requested the police to investigate.” An officer of the Basirhat police said on the basis of a complaint by the Customs officials, a case had been started. “We have got in touch with the exporters and asked them to meet the investigating officers with their procurement documents,” he said. An exporter said: “We have all the necessary documents of purchase, export apart from clearance for loading for export. We have handed over all the documents to the police. Hope the police will act without prejudice.” FCI sources admitted that old gunny bags were often sold in the market and it often led to confusion. A police officer said: “It is true that reused gunny bags with FCI tags are available in the market. But we need to ascertain it”. An exporter also pointed out that in 2018, Patna High Court had dismissed a criminal case filed by Bihar Food and Consumer Protection Department that accused a trader of illegally dealing with rice packed in similar gunny bags with FCI tags claiming it was meant for public distribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Electric shock kills three kids||Three children who were taking part in a religious procession were electrocuted  and 15 were injured in Islampur on Friday. Sources said some residents were moving on a truck with flags atop long poles through the bypass of NH31 when one of the bamboo poles came in contact with high tension electric wires of the highway. Almost all those on the truck got jolt and suffered injuries. Three children, who were in the vehicle, also received electric shock. All of them were rushed to the subdivisional hospital in Islampur where doctors pronounced Mohammad Rajiv, 11, and Anjali Khatun, 10, dead. Later, five of them were sent to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri where Tahir Reza, 11, succumbed to his injuries. Around 10 others are under treatment at Islampur hospital. Senior police officials and Golam Rabbani, an MLA of North Dinajpur and the minister of state for labour, rushed to the spot. Police have started an investigation. “The state government is with the bereaved families,” Rabbani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Madrasah clerk faces scholarship bribe slur||A clerk at a state-aided madrasah in the Chanchal subdivision of Malda has been accused of demanding money from girl students while promising them enrollment in a state-run scholarship scheme launched to encourage girls to continue their education. A section of students and their guardians filed a complaint with the subdivisional officer of Chanchal and demanded a probe. According to sources, Mohammad Harun, clerk at Jalalpur high madrasah in Chanchal 2 block, has been asking for Rs 5,000 each from a number of girl students who are beneficiaries of Kanyashree-II category. The madrasah has around 200 girl students, said the sources. “He has demanded Rs 5,000 from some girls, including my daughter. He has also mentioned that if the money is not paid, the student concerned would be deprived of the scholarship. We have lodged a complaint with the SDO of Chanchal and want them to look into the issue,” said a guardian. The guardians have also circulated a video in social media (The Telegraph did not check the authenticity of the clip) where the clerk is allegedly seen seeking money from the girls and assuring them of the scholarship. According to the scheme, girls who come under Kanyashree-II category are entitled to receive a one time grant of Rs 25,000 for higher studies. Another guardian alleged that Tofajjal Hossain, the teacher-in-charge at the madrasah, was also involved in the corruption. “If we see the video, the clerk is seen saying he will have to pay a share to the teacher-in-charge. There should be a complete investigation,” the guardian said. Hossain denied the charges and questioned the authenticity of the video. Harun could not be contacted. “The administration should probe such a serious charge. We, on behalf of the managing committee, will also look into the allegation,” said Habibur Rahaman, the president of the madrasah’s managing committee. Sabyasachi Roy, the SDO of Chanchal, said he had asked the BDO (of Chanchal 2 block) to conduct a probe and submit a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Shukla ‘killers’ held in Punjab||Bengal CID took into custody two men who had alleged gunned down BJP leader Manish Shukla after the duo had been arrested in Punjab in connection with a robbery at Ludhiana. Former Titagarh municipal councillor Shukla had been killed in public view on October 4 by motorcycle-borne assailants who fired at least 17 rounds, most of which hit their target. “The arrested duo were brought to Bengal on transit remand and produced in a Barrackpore court on Friday,” said a source. Sources in the CID said Punjab police had arrested Sujit Kumar Rai, 26, and Roshan Kumar Yadav, 20, for their alleged complicity in the robbery of 30kg gold from a loan firm on Dungri Road in Ludhiana. Rai and Yadav are from Samastipur and Vaishali, respectively, in Bihar. “Both Rai and Yadav were part of the gang that executed the plot to kill Shukla. Both are members of the Subodh Singh gang, which specialises in looting gold loan institutions. The gang is accused of robbing two such institutions in Barrackpore and Asansol. During interrogation in Punjab, they admitted their involvement in the murder,” said a source. The murder of Shukla became a political issue in Bengal as the BJP and the deceased man’s family pointed fingers at the Trinamul Congress. The state CID, however, found no evidence that suggests the involvement of any ruling party leader in the case. Police had already arrested three persons, including alleged mastermind Subodh Singh who had purportedly planned the murder from inside a jail in Bihar’s Nalanda. With the fresh arrests, the number increased to five. Mohammed Khurram — a Titagarh-based businessman who had apparently personal enmity with Shukla — was also arrested. Another person arrested earlier was Subodh Yadav — who was engaged by mastermind Subodh Singh for providing logistical support to the hired sharp shooters who had come to the city a week before the plan was to be executed, the police said. The third arrested man was Gulab Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Daily recoveries cross 4,000||Bengal for the first time logged over 4,000 recoveries from Covid-19 in a day with 4,015 patients being reported cured of the pathogen on Friday, outnumbering 3,979 new infections. The higher recoveries resulted in a drop in the total number of active cases for the fourth consecutive day. There has not been such a spell of fall in the total of active cases in the state since a 15-day streak ended on September 7. Bengal on Friday reported 59 deaths, including 18 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Since Durga Puja ended, the state has been reporting numbers that the government hopes is the onset of a decisive turnaround in the pandemic. The recovery rate, which had taken a tumble since the October 6 high of 87.98 and fallen to 87.43 on October 20, was 88.16 per cent on Friday. The national rate is 91.12 now. “For 11 consecutive days now, the record for the new high in daily recoveries was reset. On all four days after Puja, the new case count has been sub-4,000. We still have to see what numbers we get over the next week or so, but these early indicators give us some scope to be optimistic,” said a minister. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.69 lakh. But they include nearly 3.26 lakh recoveries and 6,784 deaths. With 43,774 tests on Friday, Bengal went past the milestones of 45 lakh tests and the 50,000-mark in tests per million people, with 45,12 lakh tests at 50,136 tests per million. The positive confirmation rate is 8.19 per cent now. Of the total 6,784 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,705 (84.1 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent. The state reported 34.81 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals on Friday. Over 3.92 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
31-10-2020||West Bengal||Shah, not Nadda, to visit Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah will be in Bengal on a two-day visit early next month to hold organisational meetings of the BJP’s four zones, state party president Dilip Ghosh said on Friday. Earlier, the BJP had announced a two-day programme of party president J.P. Nadda, who was supposed to be in Bengal on November 6 and 7. “There have been changes in the programmes,” Ghosh said. “Amitji will come instead of Naddaji. He would address the workers of Burdwan and Midnapur zones on November 5 and those from the Calcutta and Nabadweep zones the following day,” he added. The state BJP had requested both Shah and Nadda to visit Bengal during the festival period and meet party workers to prepare them for the next year’s Assembly polls. “Amitji’s health is better now. Since he is coming, it has been decided that he will cover all the four zones together,” a state BJP leader said. Shah had been afflicted by Covid-19 recently. In the BJP scheme of things, Bengal is divided into five different organisational zones. Nadda had addressed the north Bengal zone on October 17. The national leadership had recently made a key change in the BJP’s state unit by replacing Subrato Chatterjee with Amitava Chakraborty as the BJP’s general secretary (organisation). The BJP on Friday also announced its plan to hold a business conference by the end of this year. “We would discuss the aspects of industrialisation in Bengal with various industrialists and other stakeholders. We want to understand what the investors want from a new government if we come to power,” MP Swapan Dasgupta told a news conference here. The business meet will be held by December or January, Dasgupta said. “Whether it would be a virtual event or an actual one will be decided on after taking the pandemic situation into consideration.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
31-10-2020||West Bengal||From Raiganj, Kanchenjungha direct||Friday morning brought a pleasant surprise to residents of Raiganj who were mesmerised to catch a glimpse of the glittering silver lining in the northward landscape as Kanchenjungha, the third highest mountain in the world, was visible from different parts of the town. The residents of Raiganj recalled that the last time they had witnessed the spectacle was on October 8, 2013. “It was like a dream coming true. Back in 2013, I was not in town and had missed seeing the Kanchenjungha. But I am lucky this time. I had been to Darjeeling and Sikkim to see the Kanchenjungha range, but seeing it from my hometown was a delightful feeling,” said Aritra Day, a college student. Since morning, hundreds of Raiganj residents were seen swarming into their rooftops. Some of the enthusiasts even moved out of the town or climbed up multi-storied buildings to have a better view of the peak that stands at 8,586m (28,169ft). “Around 40 years ago, Kanchenjungha was often visible from places like Raiganj, Islampur and Kishanganj. But these days, because of rise in pollution levels, it is rare to get a clear sky free of dust particles and clouds. It is because of consistent rainfall in the region, coupled with lower pollution levels on account of the prolonged lockdown, that we could see the mighty peak again from here,” said Tapan Basak, a schoolteacher. He also said because of smog and dust which float in the atmosphere, the mountain was rarely visible from Raiganj that is 190km from Siliguri. From Siliguri, Kanchenjungha can be seen during clear summer days and during autumn and winter. Even on Friday, the peak and its entire range — also known as the “Sleeping Buddha” — were visible from Siliguri. Along with Raiganj, residents of some other towns of north Bengal like Jalpaiguri, Maynaguri and Dhupguri could also witness the magnificent Himalayan peak. The peak was crystal clear from all parts of the Darjeeling hills and Sikkim, which left locals and a handful of tourists visiting the region elated. Those associated with travel trade and even residents of the hills, however, rued the absence of tourists from the region because of Covid-19. Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, said thousands of tourists visited Darjeeling and Sikkim to catch a glimpse of the peak but this year, the inflow of tourists was comparatively low because of the pandemic. “Usually, the hills and the Dooars remain flooded with tourists during this time of the year... But the present situation has held many of them back at their homess,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-328
31-10-2020||North East||Row over migrants’ museum ||The push by Congress legislator Sherman Ali Ahmed to set up a Miya museum at the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra here has triggered a controversy in poll-bound Assam with the ruling BJP stepping up its attack on the Congress, which is trying to put a lid on it. The BJP has asserted this past week that the state government will never construct any such museum at the Kalakshetra, which was set up as a part of the 1985 Assam Accord, the culmination of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners. Miya is pejorative term used to describe Muslim migrants from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) living in the riverine areas of the Brahmaputra, a community perceived as a threat to the culture and language of Assam’s indigenous communities. This perceived threat triggered the Assam Movement in 1979. The migration of these people started in the 19th century. Though the Congress is not against a museum for the people living in sar saporis (sandbars along the Brahmaputra) as recommended by the Assembly’s departmentally related standing committee (DRSC) on education 2020-21, the Opposition party on Thursday restrained Ahmed from passing any controversial statement on the Miya museum issue. The committee had 15 members, of whom 10 were from the BJP-led ruling alliance. Ahmed in a letter to the director of museums on October 18 had urged him to expedite the setting up of a museum reflecting the culture and heritage of the people living on sar saporis of Assam at the Kalakshetra as recommended by the Assembly committee in March. Ahmed even suggested the name of Sarharuddin Ahmed, a former director of museums and a Sanskrit scholar, for consultation on the issue. What triggered the controversy was a Facebook post by Ahmed on October 19, in which he said he had mooted setting up of a Miya museum at the DRSC meeting and that his proposal had been accepted. There was no mention of a museum for people living on the riverine sandbars in the post. He had even added seven more names who could be consulted on the establishment of the Miya museum, triggering a wave of criticism by the BJP and leading organisations such as the All Assam Students’ Union and the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad. Apparently rattled by the criticism, Assam PCC president Ripun Bora in a letter on Thursday conveyed to Ahmed that his statement on setting up the Miya museum has given “scope” to the ruling BJP to polarise the people  with a “disinformation campaign” ahead of the Assembly polls. Bora said Ahmed’s letter to the director of museums was in “perfect order and you have done your duty as an MLA”. “But the recent controversy arose due to your reaction and statement ... for a Miya museum which was out of the content of your (October 18) letter,” Bora said, alluding to his dropping the original proposal for a museum for the people living on sandbars. Bora also reminded Ahmed of his call on October 26 where he asked the MLA to refrain from making any more comments on the issue. Bora said despite the call, Ahmed has been “repeatedly hammering” on the same issue giving the BJP and the RSS an opportunity to turn the Miya museum into a “serious controversy by dragging the name of the Congress”. Making his displeasure clear, Bora said Ahmed’s statement was “totally unwanted” before the Assembly polls. “Therefore, you are hereby restrained from making any more controversial statement from now onwards,” Bora said. On Friday, Bora said the sandbars are inhabited by several other communities, including the Misings. A museum for all communities therefore will include both Miyas and non-Miyas, he added. When contacted, Ahmed declined to comment on Bora’s letter or the controversy. “I have said whatever I have to say,” he said. Earlier, Ahmed had said he was a proud Miya and that Miyas are an integral part of the greater Assamese society. Ahmed’s proposal has left the Congress seemingly divided with several leaders from Upper Assam opposing the move because of strong anti-immigrant sentiment in the area. Friday saw another Congress legislator Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha mooting a museum for the 70 lakh-plus Bengali community in Assam. Dr Hafiz Ahmed, president of the Char Chapori Sahitya Parishad, said the Miya museum was an “avoidable political controversy”. “Bengali migrants were brought by the British to Assam. Today they are a mix of Assamese and Bengali culture. All communities have their culture and these need to be showcased but not necessarily at the Kalakshetra. It could be showcased in the state museum,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
31-10-2020||Opinion||Left out: Suryakumar Yadav not in Australia Tour||Sir — The announcement by the chairman of the selection committee of the Board of Control for Cricket in India of the Indian men’s team for the tour of Australia in all three formats was both interesting as well as perplexing in parts. The tour starts with the first one-day international in Sydney on November 27 and will end with the fourth Test match in Brisbane, which is from January 15-19 next year. Rohit Sharma has been left out of the squad after sustaining a hamstring injury, and K.L. Rahul, the captain of the Kings XI Punjab for the ongoing season of the Indian Premier League, has been made the vice-captain for the limited-overs formats for the tour. Rishabh Pant has also been excluded from the white ball format owing to his poor run during the IPL, but has found a place in the Test side. Hardik Pandya has missed out on the Tests but will play in the ODIs and the Twenty20 matches. Mohammed Siraj, Varun Chakravarthy and Shubman Gill have all been included in the squad; while Siraj has got a berth in the longer format, Gill will play in both the ODIs and the Tests. Chakravarthy, known as the mystery spinner for the Kolkata Knight Riders, has made his way into the T20 side. However, many have expressed their disbelief after Suryakumar Yadav was ignored in the selection process. The right-handed batsman has been in sublime form for the Mumbai Indians, both during the previous edition of the IPL as well as during the tournament this year. He has notched up 283 runs at an average of 31.44 and a strike-rate of 148.94 in the matches he has played so far. He also has two half-centuries to his name, with a highest score of 79 not out. One does not know what else he needs to do to get picked for the national team, given that he has been performing during the IPL as well as the Ranji Trophy season. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The former chief selector for India, Dilip Vengsarkar, has rightly said that the BCCI president, Sourav Ganguly, should investigate why Suryakumar Yadav was not picked for the tour of Australia. Even players such as Manoj Tiwary and Harbhajan Singh have been vocally critical about the selection committee’s inexplicable decision to exclude Yadav from all formats of the game for the upcoming tour. The batsman has been performing so well that the selectors had no reason not to pick him. He would have been a real asset to India while playing on the tough pitches Down Under. It is high time some transparency and accountability were brought to the selection process. Ganguly himself has borne the brunt of selectors’ prejudice during his cricketing career even though he was easily one of the best batsmen and captains Indian cricket has ever seen. He should take the matter seriously and find out why Yadav was not selected. Rishiraj Sikri,Delhi New warning Sir — In a welcome move, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has declared that those caught without a mask in public in Mumbai will have to sweep the streets if they are unwilling to pay the stipulated fine for the offence. It is a pity that such measures have to be resorted to; one would expect adult citizens to be more mindful of their own health and that of others during a global pandemic. Why must they be arm-twisted into complying with regulations that have been put in place for their own good? Nevertheless, one hopes that the new rule will have its desired effect. Sudeshna Koli,Mumbai Parting Shot Sir — At a time when coronavirus cases are surging in the United States of America and India, and countries such as France and Germany are going into lockdown again, it is remarkable that Taiwan has achieved a far more favourable record — it has marked over 200 days without a locally transmitted case of Covid-19. There are so many important lessons that Western Europe and large countries like India and the US can learn from a small nation like Taiwan. Donald Trump and Narendra Modi should really be ashamed of their failures to contain the crisis in their own countries.Malini Bose,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
31-10-2020||Opinion||Moon ahoy: Water on lunar surface||Much like the wise men and women who spout them, quotes are not blessed with immortality. Famous utterances, therefore, lend themselves to not only new interpretations but also to — some say sacrilegious — alterations. Now that an excited National Aeronautics and Space Administration has announced that it has found evidence of water on the moon, it is perhaps time to twist the famous words of Neil Armstrong — the First Man on the Moon — by a bit. ‘That’s one small drop of water, and one giant step for mankind’ could well be ushered into the Hall of Fame of quotations. The suggestion is not being made in jest. The discovery of the nectar of life on a lifeless satellite — some estimates say that the moon is hiding between 100 million tonnes to 2.9 billion tonnes of H2O — could be an occasion that is as momentous as the day of the moon landing of July 1969. In the course of these 51 years, humans, as is their wont, have managed to make the future prospects of inhabiting earth rather bleak. Depredations on the planet’s thinning natural landscapes and its finite resources brought about by burgeoning population, unregulated industrialization and, most conspicuously, competition among nation states have necessitated the framing of contingency plans to create new colonies in outer space. The possibility of Homo sapiens setting foot on distant planets — not just the moon — is no longer limited to the realm of science fiction. Advancements in science and technology, fused with the spirit of entrepreneurship among ambitious corporations, have the potential of transforming fiction into reality: for instance, SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private company, has set its eyes on the firmament. But this new reality could well be tainted by old antagonisms. Human enterprise, history is proof, has its own Achilles’ heel in the form of competition and conflict. Thus Nasa’s announcement of striking water on the moon has, unsurprisingly, been met with acrimony. The Russians, still smarting from their defeat in the Cold War, are on record saying that the Reds got to the precious liquid almost 50 years ago. This sparring could take on even more sinister forms. Space agencies in Europe and China are already nosing around for water on the lunar South Pole. The chances of bonhomie blooming during these expeditions are likely to be slim. Some countries are relying on diplomatic sleight of hand to convince others that they have struck a healthy balance between ethics and commerce. Australia is a case in point. Even though it is a signatory to the Artemis Accords — a pact in which member nations solemnly pledge to uphold the objectives of peace and fraternity during space odysseys — Canberra has had no compunctions about joining the treasure hunt for lunar resources. Science has reason to believe that the riches space offers to human civilization can surpass the proverbial king’s ransom. Energy, material resources, a home away from home, even contact with alien, advanced cultures — the largesse, greedy earthlings believe, are worth squabbling over. It is this myopic urge to possess, monopolize and exploit that led to the welcome demise of colonization on earth. The fate of man’s trek across the stars will not be different unless humanity learns to understand the difference between exploration and conquest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-124
31-10-2020||Opinion||Make amends: Haberdashers’ Adams sans Clive||At St Xavier’s in Patna, we inherited the English house system, so that those of who belonged to “Leopards” went around chanting, “Mighty Leopards”. For others, it was “Mighty Tigers” or “Mighty Panthers”. Once, while researching a piece on The Doon School, I was told (jokingly) by Karan Singh: “I belonged to Kashmir House — and I never got a decent meal there!” But in England, Haberdashers’ Adams, a high-achieving grammar school in Newport, Shropshire, founded in 1656, has just dropped Robert Clive as the name of one of its houses because of the manner in which he won Bengal for the East India Company. Britain’s colonial history is under scrutiny with the Black Lives Matter movement spilling over from America. I had a long chat with Gary Hickey, the school’s headmaster, who like Father Murphy of old, comes across as a very fair and decent man. He believes that the colonial history of the raj — and the Partition in particular — should be taught in schools which it isn’t because it is considered too controversial. I liked the way the case for and against “Clive of India” — a local man, born near Market Drayton in Shropshire on 29 September 1725 — was set out. The headmaster acted as Third Umpire: “We are persuaded that a name change for Clive House is the right step for the school. Making explicit our revulsion at the actions of historical figures is one way, amongst many, of reinforcing the message that racism has no place in our school or society. By renaming Clive House (after the war poet Wilfred Owen), we believe that we will be contributing, in a small but useful way, to recognizing and redressing some of the injustices inflicted on ethnic minority communities and their predecessors.” Dark secrets Unauthorized political biographies are hardly ever good news in England because authors tend to put the boot into their subjects. Tom Bower’s Boris Johnson: The Gambler is unsparing about the prime minister’s personal life. Lord Michael Ashcroft, former treasurer and deputy chairman of the Conservative Party, co-authored Call Me Dave: The Unauthorised Biography of David Cameron, which was not very flattering to the former PM. The contents of Ashcroft’s new biography, Going for Broke: The Rise Of Rishi Sunak, the first on the chancellor of the exchequer, remain under embargo until November 12 but the advance publicity says: “Michael Ashcroft’s new book charts Sunak’s ascent from his parents’ Southampton pharmacy to the University of Oxford, the City of London, Silicon Valley — and the top of British politics. “It is the tale of a super-bright and hard-grafting son of immigrant parents who marries an Indian heiress and makes a fortune of his own; a polished urban southerner who wins over the voters of rural North Yorkshire — and a cautious, fiscally conservative financier who becomes the biggest-spending Chancellor in history.” A friend who covers politics for a national newspaper tells me: “Ashcroft tends to bring out a biography a year of someone interesting. Rishi is talked of as a future prime minister but who is Rishi? He is seen as squeaky clean but we don’t know a lot about him.”Prized possession Opinion is divided on whether Joseph Mallord William Turner or John Constable was Britain’s greatest landscape artist. Anyway, a new exhibition, Turner’s Modern World, opened this week at Tate Britain. It comes as a surprise to learn that although Turner never actually visited India, he did four watercolours with Indian settings based on descriptions by eyewitnesses. Two of these have been included among the 160 paintings in the exhibition. They are The Fortress of Seringapatam, from the Cullaly Deedy Gate and The Siege of Seringapatam. The latter belongs to the Tate but the former is on loan from one-time Calcutta boy, Nirmalya Kumar, who has one of the finest private collections of the Bengal School. Kumar was with the London Business School and is now Professor of Marketing at Singapore Management University. “I acquired it from Sotheby’s New York in 2014,” he said. “After I acquired [it] I took it for examination to the Tate and showed it to David Brown, the Turner expert there. Around 1800 when Turned painted these, paintings of India were rather popular as Thomas and William Daniell had very successfully published their set of 144 aquatints on India called ‘Oriental Scenery’. Besides, the empire was starting to consolidate.” Kumar explained that over the decades Turner’s four Indian paintings “were mistakenly attributed to William Daniell (1769-1837). Only in the mid-1980s, when one was offered for sale at Christies, were they recognized as Turner originals.” Reign on Bhasha Mukherjee’s reign as Miss England has been extended because of the pandemic. Mukherjee, who thus becomes the longest-serving Miss England, has been working tirelessly on Covid-19 duties at Boston Pilgrim Hospital and Derby Royal Hospital. She says: “It’s hard to celebrate when you’re seeing Covid numbers rising in your hospital. We are right next to Nottingham which has the highest rate in the country so we have staff and patients coming between us and the hub of the virus.” Footnote Sir Geoffrey Boycott, 80, has not taken kindly to being dropped by the BBC as a cricket commentator after 14 years. He appeared to have Isa Guha in mind when he told a national newspaper: “They have sacrificed quality for equality. It is now all about political correctness, about gender and race. When you work for them you are wary and frightened of saying anything. It is a minefield out there and that is sad.” Incidentally, Boycott is auctioning off much of his cricket memorabilia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
31-10-2020||Opinion||Woman of steel||It was a blistering day in 1982. The ground of the Boys School at Harippad, an agrarian town in Alappuzha district in Kerala, and its surroundings were flooded with people braving the raging summer. Suddenly, the roar of an approaching helicopter was heard, which was immediately overwhelmed by the loud cheering of the crowd chanting, “Indira... Indira... Indira...” The enthusiasm of the crowd had hit a crescendo. As Indiraji alighted from the chopper and waved at the mammoth gathering, the effect was magical. That was my first glimpse of a Gandhi. I was 26, and it was the first time I was contesting an assembly election. Indiraji had come to campaign for me. I still cherish those fond memories of the charismatic leader who then spoke in a language of love and determination. When I left for Chennithala, my village, after the meeting was over, I had no idea that the event would turn out to be a milestone in my life; I also had no idea that Indira Gandhi would be instrumental in changing my destiny from then on. It was by chance that I became an active worker of the Kerala Students Union during my college days, and my rise up the organizational ladder was phenomenal. Though professionally trained to teach Hindi in schools in Kerala, politics and serving humanity have always fascinated me. I became president of the KSU in 1980 with the backing and blessings of Kerala’s Congress strongman, K. Karunakaran, fondly called ‘Leader’. And it was in those days that I started interacting with the national leaders of the Congress Party and its various feeder organizations, especially Rajiv Gandhi, who was in charge of the National Students’ Union of India and the Youth Congress in his capacity as general-secretary of the All India Congress Committee. I vividly recall that morning in 1982 when Karunakaran contacted me through emissaries while I was attending a KSU meeting at Koothuparamba in Kerala’s northern district of Kannur. ‘Leader’ conveyed the message that Rajiv Gandhi wanted to meet me in New Delhi immediately. I left for the national capital without any clue as to what would be discussed in the meeting. In Delhi, I met Rajivji at his small but elegant residence where there was nothing extraordinary to indicate that it was the residence of the son of the country’s prime minister. Rajivji, clad in blue jeans and a white T-shirt, was looking out of the window of the drawing room. He spoke to me very lovingly for a few minutes. The talk mainly included queries about my journey and accommodation as well as the organizational work in Kerala. Then, all of a sudden, he revealed to me his plan to appoint me president of the NSUI. “I know you can do it and I will be with you,” Rajivji said as he held my hands. He said he was confident about my ability to handle Hindi and English and to work hard to rebuild the organization across India. I was spellbound for a moment after hearing what Rajivji said. But soon I told him that I was ready to take up the task. Then he told me that he had already apprised Indiraji of the decision, which must be ratified directly between her and me. Until then, I had had no personal meetings with Indiraji; I had always watched her from a distance. Then Rajivji took me to Indiraji. He drove the car straight to her residence. When we reached her residence, Indiraji was about to leave for the airport to board a flight to the erstwhile USSR. She was in a hurry. The AICC general-secretary in charge of the party organization, G.K. Moopanar, was there at the residence. “Are you Ramesh Chennithala?” Indiraji asked me. I nodded my head. “I know. Rajiv has already told me about you. I’m happy that you are ready for the task,” Indiraji said. Then she told Moopanar to prepare my appointment order quickly. While the stenographer started typing the appointment order, Indiraji left for the airport, directing me to reach the airport with the typed appointment order for her signature. It was at the airport lounge that she signed the order appointing me president of the NSUI. I knew I was the personal choice of Rajivji for that crucial post — it was a time when he was initiating a big revamp of the NSUI and the Youth Congress. As directed by Rajivji, I travelled the length and breadth of India, revamping the NSUI. I had mainly focused on Central universities. It was in those days that we conceived the idea of organizing a huge student conference in Nagpur, Maharashtra, with an expected turnout of over half-a-million young workers of the Congress Party. Our idea was to make it India’s largest-ever youth meet. Even from distant Kerala, the southernmost state of the country, we chartered a train to carry over 1,500 party workers. The meeting was well-planned, and the preparations had begun well in advance. Great care was taken regarding food and accommodation for all participants. The announcement that the prime minister, Indira Gandhi, would address the concluding rally of the youth meet boosted the morale of the cadre considerably. Rajivji, who was present at the conference all the time, was ready to perform even humble tasks. However, right from the beginning, we noticed a sort of an unrest among a section of the gathering. Things started getting out of our control when a sizable portion of the assemblage started complaining about inadequate accommodation and food. I doubted that somebody was wilfully provoking unrest to defame the NSUI in particular and the Congress Party in general. When I shared my suspicion with Rajivji, he took a vehicle parked outside the conference venue and asked me to board it. We went to the office of the person in charge of Nagpur railway station, and from there he contacted the Union railways minister and requested him to help us by providing the available accommodation and catering facilities of the railways in Nagpur. With the railways schools, guest-houses and empty buildings being turned into accommodation facilities, and with the railways canteens serving food, the unrest among the participants subsided and the conference turned out to be a huge success. The AICC paid the railways for the food and the accommodation facilities. Indiraji reached the conference venue on the final day, and I welcomed her with a speech in Hindi. She congratulated me saying that a person from a non-Hindi-speaking state making a powerful speech in Hindi was a sign of national integrity and unity. Her vibrant speech infused a novel enthusiasm and vigour in all those present there. Years later, the Thakkar Commission, which investigated the assassination of Indiraji by two of her security guards, said there were several attempts earlier to assassinate her, and one of them was in Nagpur. There were wilful attempts to create unrest and assassinate her during the road show amidst chaos, the Commission said. Only then did I realize the gravity of the risk involved at the Nagpur event. Indira Gandhi was a noble soul with strong secular and pluralistic credentials. When the Intelligence wanted to keep the members of the Sikh community away from her personal security detail, Indiraji disagreed, saying that such a move would further alienate the community from the government, the party and the nation. At 9.20 am on October 31, 1984, when her bodyguard, Beant Singh, fired from his gun into her body, Indiraji would not have felt disillusioned or chagrined. By not avoiding bodyguards of a particular community, she had chosen to risk her life rather than endangering the unity of the nation and she had chosen to die for the cause of unity. She always stood for the unity, integrity, solidarity and amity of the nation. Communal and casteist feelings were alien to her. She was a leader with truly pluralistic perspectives. When the nation and its Constitution are facing threats from different sides, when a large section of society is being alienated in the name of citizenship, the memories of Indiraji are more relevant now than ever before. My humble homage to the fond memories of Indiraji. The author is a senior leader of the Congress Party and the leader of the Opposition in the Kerala legislative assembly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-125
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Elephant herd kills 1 in Chatra||A herd of 12 elephants trampled to death a 65-year-old man at Majdiha village in Lawalong block of Chatra district on Friday night. Rajeshwar Mochi, the deceased, was a resident of Loharsi village in the Panki police station area in Palamau district. Local residents said Mochi had come to the village a few days ago to meet his daughter. On Friday, the duo were walking back home from the local market when an elephant emerged from behind a government school and attacked him. His daughter managed to flee. Angry villagers later lit torches and tried to chase the herd into the forest. But this angered the elephants and they destroyed paddy in neighbouring Sehda village. Forest department and police officers on Saturday reached the village and spoke to the villagers. A 35-year-old man who had sustained a gunshot wound in an attack by a gang of alleged drug addicts at Dhatkidih in the Bistupur police station area on October 5 succumbed to his injuries at his home early on Saturday. Mohammed Mustaqueen had sustained a bullet injury in his lower abdomen and was admitted to Tata Main Hospital along with another gunshot victim, Mohammed Qayyum. Mustaqueen had been operated upon and discharged from the hospital on October 7 as his family could not bear the medical expenses. Both Mustaqueen and Qayyum were shot at by a gang of drug addicts near the house of Md Zeidy, a companion of the attackers, after a commotion. Police have arrested three of the attackers, but the main accused, Salman, is still at large. A 28-year-old man allegedly committed suicide after an argument with his newly-wedded wife at Tilhet village in Huntergujnj block. Jangali Bhuiyan was a resident of Santarapur village under Chakla panchayat in Huntergunj block of Chatra and was staying with his in-laws in Tilhet. He and his wife went to the market and had an argument. He later consumed poison.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Large potato-sized brain tumor excised successfully at hospital||Another critical surgery of a 45-year-old woman with a large potato-sized brain tumor was carried out in Brahmananda Narayana Multispeciality Hospital which is located on the outskirts of Jamshedpur. Namita Rajak (45), a resident of Galudih in East Singhbhum, was operated by a team of doctors led by Dr. Rajiv Maharshi, (Consultant - Neurosurgeon) on Tuesday, October 27. “The surgery took four hours and the tumor was completely excised as a whole. Post-operation the patient recovered well and her behavioral changes have returned to near normal and she was discharged from hospital in stable condition,” said Dr. Maharshi. Namita was suffering from headaches for the last one year and was admitted to the hospital with a complaint of altered behavior irritability. Before coming to BNMH she underwent treatment for the same by several local doctors including psychiatrists but she was not relieved of her problem. When she came to the neurosurgery OPD of BNMH, she was advised MRI of the brain by Dr. Rajiv Maharshi, Consultant - Neurosurgeon. The MRI showed a large potato-sized tumor on her right side of the brain, which was meningioma. Meningioma is a highly vascular tumor of the brain, commonly seen in middle-aged females. Most of the meningioma is curable, but bigger tumors may lead to risks as they continue to put pressure on the brain which may even lead to an emergency situation. Conventional craniotomy was done tumor was excised under heavy bleeding. According to Dr. Maharshi, the size of meningioma varies from peanut to large-sized potato. “Often, meningioma causes no symptoms and requires no immediate treatment. But its growth can cause serious problems. In some cases, such growth can be fatal. Meningioma is the most common type of tumor that originates in the central nervous system,” he explained. The neurosurgeon also said that causes of meningioma are multifactorial, one of which is radiation exposure, especially in childhood. “The common symptoms of this tumor are seizure, headache and vomiting, weakness of the body part, behavioral changes, etc. Early diagnosis is the key, never ignore such symptoms and consult a doctor to reduce upcoming risks,” he added. The patient, Namita Rajak, thanked the hospital and the doctors for operating the tumor and saving her life. “I am thankful to the hospital and the team of doctors who carried out the critical surgery and saved my life. I was released from the hospital two days after the surgery. Now, I don't feel any pain in my head. I have been prescribed certain medicines which I will have to continue taking for one month,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||3-day strike call Bokaro General Hospital ||Contract workers at Bokaro General Hospital have announced to go on strike for three days from November 3 due to pay discrepancies. The workers at the dedicated Covid centre of the district have alleged that they are not being provided with safety gears in addition to being given their ESI, provident fund, earned leaves and bonuses. BGH is run by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). There are 235 contract workers working under four different contractors performing all ground work activities in the entire medical department including the Covid ward, operation theatre, critical care unit, burn intensive unit and others. The strike will cripple the services. The first negotiation meeting held between BSL management and Jai Jharkhand Majdoor Samaj (JJMS) on Saturday failed to come to any conclusion. JJMS, a labour union wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is leading the agitation. A meeting has been called by the labour department on November 02. General Secretary of JJMS, B.K. Chaudhary said that contract workers in BGH are being exploited. “A contractor who has engaged 79 workers has not done payment to ESI. In result the workers and their dependents could not avail medical treatment under ESI from April. These workers are working sweepers in Covid Wards and in other departments in the hospital. If BGH management would remain vigilant they would have not suffered. If we are demanding free medical facilities from BGH until their ESL facility is restored, what is wrong in that?” said Chaudhary. “Another 89 workers engaged under one of those contractors have not got bonus and EL for more than 36 months. The contractor doing laundry work has put their 17 workers under semi-skilled workers despite the fact that they operate machines. And one of those contractors with 87 workers is treating lift operators as unskilled workers. It is exploitation,” said Chaudhary. Of the 5306 patients who tested positive in the district from March, BGH has treated more than 1500 patients both symptomatic and very serious cases. At present, the Covid ward has 19 positive patients undergoing treatment. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “BSL management is trying to resolve the issues raised by the contract workers in BGH. Already BSL has initiated several steps for settlement of the issues and the same was conveyed to them. We are closely following up with all concerned for resolving the issues. An appeal has been made to the agitating workers to call off their proposed strike.” “We are concerned with the well being of all patients in BGH and hopeful of an amicable solution,” said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||JMM slaps sedition case against state BJP chief ||The ruling alliance of JMM-Congress-RJD filed an FIR against state BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash in Dumka on Saturday, accusing him of sedition for trying to hatch a conspiracy to “topple the Hemant Soren government in the state”. In a clear sign of escalating tensions before the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo, Congress’s district president Shyamal Kishore Singh filed the FIR in the presence of JMM workers while the JMM held a press conference in Dumka to announce the move. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said they were forced to lodge a complaint following Prakash’s open threat to topple the democratically elected government in the state. “Yesterday (Friday), at a press conference in Dumka, Prakash, who is also the state BJP president, said that in the next two months, a new government was going to be formed in the state under the leadership of BJP. “We want to know how? They don’t have the numbers. All their leaders have been trying to confuse and intimidate people by campaigning about a change of guard. There are enough indications to make us believe that the BJP is hatching a conspiracy against the popularly elected government.” The FIR registered at Town police station accused Prakash under four IPC sections, namely, 504, 506, 120B and 124A. Section 504 amounts to causing intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace, section 506 is about criminal intimidation, section 120-B talks of criminal conspiracy to commit a punishable offense with death while section 124 deals with sedition. The BJP hit back and dared the government to arrest Prakash before the polls. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “The way sedition charges have been pressed against our president, it seems that he has waged a war against the nation. Police too didn’t use their mind while pressing charges during filing of the FIR. If the state government has the guts, we challenge it to arrest our president before the polls.” Notably, between 2014 and 2019, when the BJP was in power in Jharkhand, it had slapped several sedition cases against human rights activists and tribal residents, including those involved directly or indirectly with the Pathalgadi movement in Khunti. Recently, 82-year-old Jesuit priest and reputed social worker Stan Swamy was arrested by NIA which accused him of harbouring links with Maoists in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2017. “It’s time for BJP members to taste its own medicine,” remarked a JMM leader. Bhattacharjee said the BJP, which had deployed three of its former chief ministers (Babulal Marandi, Raghubar Das and Arjun Munda) to campaign for the November 3 bypolls, had realised it was losing in both seats. That was why the BJP was creating a fear psychosis among people by talking about a change of guard in the state after the elections. “But let us make it very clear to the BJP that Jharkhand is not Karnataka or Goa,” the JMM leader said. BJP and AJSU-P with 28 MLAs in all do not have the numbers to claim a majority in the 81-member Assembly. With Dumka and Bermo vacant, and the demise of JMM’s Madhepur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari, the strength of the House is now down to 78. Still, the BJP is far away from a two-thirds majority to form a government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Bars to defy unlock guidelines, stay closed from Sunday||Bars will not reopen from Sunday in accordance with the state government’s unlock guidelines as their demands for a relaxation in licence fees had not been met, Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association announced on Saturday. Addressing the press at a city hotel on Kanke Road, office-bearers of the association said that compared to other trades and business establishments, the state government took a call on reopening bars very late. They also accused the state excise department of putting undue pressure on them to pay license fees before allowing resumption of business. Association president Ranjan Kumar said, “Annually, Rs 9 lakh is taken as license fee from each bar. But we remained shut from March-end till October. Therefore, we are demanding a reduction in license fee on the basis of the months that we will operate in this fiscal. We will stand by our demands.” Anit Singh, general secretary of the bar association, added it wasn’t feasible for them to pay such a hefty amount amid the pandemic when their businesses had generated next to nothing in the last seven months. “We are ready to pay fees but only for the remaining months of the year. It is because in April, we will have to again pay Rs 9 lakh to take a license for the next year. No bar owner is currently in a position to bear such extreme financial load,” said Singh, adding that even though their bars remained closed they had to meet recurring monthly expenses running into lakhs to pay staff, for maintaining the establishment, fixed water and electricity charges, among others. There are around 50 licensed bars in Ranchi. In all, there are over 150 bars across the state, said Kumar. “All bars have jointly taken a call to remain shut till their demands are met. This is the time when the government should stand by traders and businessmen to support them and not unnecessarily impose fiscal stress,” said Kumar, adding that they had also submitted a memorandum to the excise department on Saturday afternoon. State excise secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey did not receive calls when The Telegraph Online tried to reach him for a comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport to reduce car parking charges from Sunday||Tired of paying more to park your vehicle at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda international airport even while visiting for a brief period to pick up or drop a friend or relative? Worry not. From Sunday, November 1, airport authorities have decided to introduce time-bound parking charges to suit everyone’s needs. Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said the new parking rates have been designed keeping in mind concerns raised by many visitors about exorbitant charges even for 10-15 minutes. “Currently, we have a flat rate of Rs 55 which is too much for many who just used to park their vehicles for 15-20 minutes. So, under the new rates, we have decided to charge Rs 20 for the first one hour irrespective of the vehicle, Rs 35 for up to two hours, Rs 45 for over two hours to four hours. Thereafter, Rs 10 per hour will be charged,” he said. Sharma added that after the new rates came into effect, Ranchi airport parking charges would be less than rates at other prominent places. “I think even big malls in the city charge more than Rs 20 for four wheelers for the first hour,” he remarked. The director said they were now trying to increase the frequency of flights from Ranchi to cater to the growing demand. Currently, 12 flights (24 to-and-fro) are operating from Ranchi to places like Delhi, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Mumbai. He said they were hoping for five more flights (10 to-and-fro) soon. “We have sent a requisition to the state government to seek approval for adding five more flights. We expect a go-ahead soon. After the approval, we will decide the destinations,” said Sharma, adding that all 12 flights from Ranchi were now operating at full capacity. “There is heavy demand for flights now as people have started travelling in view of the ongoing festive season. This apart, only a few trains are running, forcing many to opt for flights. This trend is certainly good for the aviation sector,” opined Sharma. Notably, Ranchi airport was rated first among 17 medium category airports across the country in terms of customer satisfaction as per a survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India early this year, results of which were announced in the first week of October. Ranchi airport had scored 4.79 points out of 5, covering 33 parameters centred around passenger facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Police extort money from travellers at border check-posts ||Police posted at certain check-posts of East Singhbhum district bordering Bengal and Odisha are extorting money from travellers entering the state in the name of the e-pass system that was introduced during the lockdown for inter-state travel. The e-Pass could be made through an online portal. However, the system of showing it at check-posts was discontinued by the end of August. Kartar Singh was travelling back to Jamshedpur along with his family in his car from Calcutta. They had to stop at Jamsolaghat check-post where policemen demanded that he produce an e-pass on Friday. He was allowed to cross the check-post only after he paid up. "I paid the cops the money as my family was with me and I did not want to create any scene with the cops with my family members seated in the car nearby.  But this is not a good practice," observed Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Another commuter, A. Sengupta, who was also returning from Calcutta with his family, was stopped at the Jamsholaghat check-post and asked to show his e-pass.  But on questioning the police about the system which has already ceased to exist, he was allowed to go ahead without any more demands. Sengupta said, "I was in a mood to create a scene with the cops at the Jamsholaghat check-post as they demanded e-Pass, but it was my family that came in the way. The cops posted there are just taking undue advantage of the commuters who are accompanied with their families." Two-wheelers are also made to pay money while entering the state. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said there was no need to show e-pass to any policeman at any check-post as the system has already been discontinued. He pointed out that the system of e-pass was still prevalent, but  for  foreigners only. "The e-pass system is not in use now and it is only applicable to foreigners only.  But even if any policeman or other government official is demanding commuters to show the e-Pass then it is illegal. I will get the matter checked as it is a serious thing to happen," said the deputy commissioner to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||State discom promises steady power supply during Diwali||Areas served by Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam (JBVNL) can look forward to a bright Diwali as the state-run power distributor will start an on-call electrician facility to attend to faults immediately. The JBVNL’s Singhbhum electricity supply, which covers three districts of Kolhan - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ will introduce "electrician-on-call" service in command areas on Diwali on November 14. Officials of JBVNL, that has over 7 lakh consumers in the Kolhan region, decided on the service at a meeting here on Saturday. "A 24/7 control room will also be set-up at Adityapur and Karandih for attending emergency calls made by consumers. The control room helpline numbers will become active a day prior to the festival," said Sanjay Mahto, a junior engineer who looks after JBVNL's Mango division. The electrician-on-call service will be offered at all four power subdivisions of Jamshedpur — Karandih, Jugsalai, Govindpur and Mango. The service will also be available for JBVNL command areas at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Ghatshila. Any consumer seeking the services of an electrician for any faults or breakdowns in their personal line, can either call the control room or SDOs (sub-divisional officer) and JEs (junior engineer) of their respective areas. Sources said an electrician (or lineman), from a pool of electricians that would be constituted, will be rushed to the spot without delay.  JBVNL will also publish cellphone numbers of officials in vernacular dailies for the convenience of subscribers. JBVNL has prepared a list of areas where senior officials would constantly monitor power supply. In case of a breakdown, the matter would be immediately reported to the general manager's office for corrective measures. JBVNL's Singhbhum unit has also written to the state load despatch centre (SLDC) in Ranchi, which feeds power to the two grid substations at Gamharia and Golmuri, asking it to ensure steady supply during Diwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||JFC to kick-off ISL campaign against Chennaiyin FC on November 24||Jamshedpur FC will launch their Indian Super League (ISL)  campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan in Goa on November 24. The fixture for the cash-rich tournament's 7th edition was announced on Friday evening. Kerala Blasts will kick-off the action against ATK Mohun Bagan FC  in the season opener at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on November 20. According to the schedule, the Tata Steel-owned club will cross swords with Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on November 29 in their second outing followed by the encounter versus Hyderabad FC  at the same venue on December 2. Jamshedpur will clash with reigning champions ATK Mohun Bagan FC, again at Tilak Maidan, on December 7 before having a face-off with East Bengal at the same venue on December 10. The Owen Coyle-mentored outfit’s next match will be against Mumbai City FC at GMC Stadium in Bambolim on December 14 whereas the tie against NorthEast United FC is scheduled at Tilak Maidan on December 18. The Men of Steel will lock horns with hosts FC Goa at Tilak Maidan on December 23 at Tilak Maidan and will later face Bengaluru FC at Fatorda Stadium on December 28. The team will take on Kerala Blasters FC at Tilak Maidan on January 10 next year. The schedule is for JFC ‘s first 10 matches spread over 11 rounds of the league. Schedule for the remaining matches will be released post clarity on calendar dates of Asian Football Confederation (AFC) competition matches. Head coach Owen Coyle, who propelled Chennaiyin FC to the summit clash after taking charge mid-way last season, said: “I am absolutely looking forward to play Chennaiyin FC in our first match. I had great time there and I know it won’t be easy to get three points against them. They have built a good squad, but so have we. We are looking to hit the ground running from the first match itself, no matter who the opposition is.” Jamshedpur FC finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriondo in the last season. The team under Coyle is high on hopes for making it to the play-off for the first time in three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||CRPF 12  hurt as driver tries to save goat||As many as 12 CRPF personnel were injured, five of them critically, when a truck taking them to Nimiaghat in Bermo of Jharkhand for election duty turned sideways after the driver lost control while trying to save a goat on Friday afternoon. The accident occurred under Madhuban police station area in Giridih district, around 200km from state capital Ranchi. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu said the truck was carrying around 25 CRPF personnel of the 154th Battalion from Madhuban camp to Nimiaghat in Bermo, where byelection will be held on November 3, when the driver lost control while manoeuvring to save a goat which came in front and the vehicle fell sideways. “All the injured CRPF personnel were rushed to Dumri General Hospital in Giridih where their condition is said to be stable. However, five of them who sustained head injuries have been airlifted to Patliputra Medical College Hospital in Dhanbad for better treatment. Based on medical advice, we might send them to Ranchi,” said Renu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
31-10-2020||Jharkhand||Hard campaign for legacy seats||As the campaign for bypolls for Dumka and Bermo Assembly seats heading towards its end on Monday evening, the ruling dispensation tries to steer clear of an apparently non-issue. “The results of these bypolls will not affect the government as we formed it with the support from 50 MLAs,” chief minister Hemant Soren told a few election gatherings he addressed in those two constituencies since Monday, adding it would rather strengthen it. He was replying to clear the doubt that these bypolls would be a referendum for his government, an idea that a section of the media reported, quoting some BJP sources, though the arithmetic did not support it. Hemant had been camping in Dumka and addressing election meetings in both the constituencies since then. Besides the chief minister, JMM supremo Shibu Soren who recently recovered from Covid-19 infection also shifted to Dumka and was joined by others from both the JMM and the Congress to campaign for the mahagathbandhan candidates — the chief minister’s younger brother Basant Soren at Dumka and deceased Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son Kumar Jaimangal at Bermo. On the other hand, three former chief ministers — Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das — are leading the Opposition campaign for BJP candidates, Louise Marandi at Dumka and Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ at Bermo. The Opposition mainly alleged that the Soren government failed to deliver during the past 10 months and the law and order situation deteriorated during their rule. The ruling combine, led by Hemant, defended it saying they had to fight the pandemic during seven of those ten months. “Sar murate hi Ola pore (the hails rained immediately after shaving off the head),” Hemant reminded the saying to convince his audience at a Dumka gathering. “Still, we brought back maximum number of migrant workers home and fed everyone though community kitchens during those months,” he further reminded them, adding his government also arranged chartered flights for bringing back such migrant workers from Andaman and Leh, actually making “Hawai chappal se hawai jahaj (Hawai slippers to aeroplane)” possible. “We didn’t allow a single person to starve while there were about two dozen alleged hunger deaths during their rule,” Hemant roared at some those meetings when he often switched over to Santhali to convince his fellow tribals. Hemant also raised at different meetings the issues of auto-debit of Rs 1417.50 crore from the state’s account by the Centre and cancellation of 11 lakh ration cards and attempted tweaking of tenancy laws by the previous BJP government in the state to expose the opposition. “We are now issuing 15 lakh new ration cards and will also soon offer dhoti, saree and lungi at Rs 10 apiece,” he assured. After recent death of minority welfare minister Hazi Hussain Ansari on October 3, the strength of the 81-member state Assembly has been reduced to 78. While ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine has 46 MLAs now, BJP-Ajsu 28 and other 4. The results of bypolls, when declared on November 10, will the take up the strength to 80 and the majority mark will be 41. Even if the BJP wins both the seats, the present government is unlikely to face any threat. Still, this bypolls, slated for November 3, are prestige fight for both JMM and Congress as they had won Dumka and Bermo respectively maximum times and as such those are treated as their legacy seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-251
