02-04-2021||Other||2 criminals arrested after brief exchange of fire in Rohini||New Delhi Two men allegedly involved in multiple cases of snatching, robbery and murder were arrested after a brief exchange of fire with the Delhi Police’s special cell in outer Delhi’s Rohini in the early hours of Friday.DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the two suspects, identified by their first names Mahesh and Mohit, were allegedly involved in at least five crimes -- murder of a man they suspected of giving information about them, an attempt to murder, a robbery, a vehicle theft, and a snatching -- in the past month alone. Mahesh and Mohit were out on bail since last September and November, respectively, after being arrested following a shoot-out with the Rohini district police team in September 2019. They did not sustain any injury in that incident. Police said they received a tip-off on Thursday about the duo passing through Rohini on their way to Rohtak, following which a trap was laid on Helipad Road in Rohini’s Sector 37.An officer said the two suspects were spotted on a motorcycle around 3am. While the duo took a U-turn and allegedly tried to escape, their bike skid and they fell on the road during the police chase.According to police, the duo allegedly pulled out their guns and began firing at the police. Police said the two men fired five rounds at the police -- three of which hit the bulletproof vests of two policemen. “We fired three rounds at them,” said DCP Yadav. While Mahesh was shot near his right knee, Mohit sustained a wound near his left knee.Police arrested the two and alleged seized two guns and five bullets from their possession.Police said overall, Mahesh has been involved in 70 cases while Mohit’s name has cropped up in 25 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-criminals-arrested-after-brief-exchange-of-fire-in-rohini-101617388144680.html
02-04-2021||Other||AAP, BJP spar over proposed excise policy||New Delhi The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for protesting against the Delhi government’s proposed excise policy for the national capital and accused it of corruption, a charge which was denied by the latter as “baseless”. The BJP further hit back saying the AAP is engaging in corruption through the proposed policy.The proposed excise policy for Delhi aims at increasing the government’s revenue, improving consumer experience, contributing to ease of doing business, and cracking down on import of liquor from other states which cause revenue loss to the Delhi government. The policy proposes to reduce legal drinking age in Delhi from 25 to 21 years, bring down the number of dry days and ensure equitable distribution of liquor stores across the city. Delhi BJP leaders have been protesting against the proposed policy since Tuesday.“In Delhi, a lot of people aged below 25 years go to restaurants and pubs and consume liquor. For that, the BJP leaders extort money from restaurant and pub owners. With the new policy, this extortion will stop. Also, several BJP-ruled states such as Goa, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh have 18 years as the legal drinking age. Why do they have a problem with the Delhi government reducing it to 21?” said AAP MLA Atishi in a press conference at the party office in central Delhi on Friday.Delhi BJP, however, termed the allegations “baseless”. “They should stop misleading people on the issue and answer questions such as why is the Delhi government adding liquor shops? Why are they handing over 500 shops to private enterprises? Why are they (government) preferring a system with fewer number of wholesale distributors? This policy reeks of corruption,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.While AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Restaurants and pubs in the city have to adhere to guidelines, regulations, and protocols under the jurisdiction of both administrations, depending on the nature of the issue – like food safety standards, taxes, excise, fire safety, pollution, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-spar-over-proposed-excise-policy-101617387844727.html
02-04-2021||Other||5 hitmen, part of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, arrested in north Delhi||New Delhi Delhi Police on Friday arrested five hitmen, who are allegedly part of an interstate syndicate led by jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi and his key confidant Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, from near north Delhi and recovered four pistols, a revolver and 70 cartridges from their possession.Bishnoi is lodged in Ajmer jail while Jatheri, who fled from Haryana Police’s custody following a gunfight last year and carries a ₹7 lakh reward on his arrest, is controlling the gang’s operations in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttarakhand, police said. “The arrested men are ‘guns-for-hire’ (hired shooters) and were wanted for a series of gruesome crimes including a triple- and a double-murder at two places in Haryana last year. They were acting as a bridge between Bishnoi-Jatheri and another wanted gangster from Gurugram, Sube Gurjar, who also carries ₹7 lakh reward on his arrest,” said deputy commissioner of police (counter intelligence wing of special cell) Manishi Chandra. DCP Chandra said that the five were caught early Friday morning from near Chandgi Ram Akhara in north Delhi, following multiple operations that his teams had been conducting in five cities in four states – Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand – using its “Trace-Track-Monitor” capabilities. Police identified the five as Kapil Nehra (23), Yashpal alias Sarpanch (28), Rajeev alias Raju Basai (25), Rahul Mehalawat (23), and Gagandeep alias Guni (35). While Nehra and Gagandeep hail from Haryana’s Rohtak and Punjab’s Barnala respectively, the rest are from Gurugram. “They all have been found involved in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, contract killing, extortion and shootouts with police in Delhi and the four states,” said Chandra. About the operation against the syndicate, DCP Chandra said that after escaping from Haryana police custody in February last year, Jatheri had been working to expand his network in Delhi and its adjoining states. As some most wanted criminals were arrested in the last one year, many criminals from the neighbouring states, including Bishnoi and Jatheri, have been trying to fill the void of Delhi’s crime world, the officer said. “While Bishnoi himself is in jail, he roped in Jatheri to expand the syndicate’s footprints in Delhi. Jatheri is closely assisted by one Kala Rana, who is from Bishnoi’s gang and is suspected to be hiding in a southeast Asian country. This gang has committed several firing and extortion incidents in Delhi-NCR in the last eight-nine months,” said an officer, who did not want to be named. Even as the arrested men are being questioned regarding their visit to the capital, on account of the recovery of arms and ammunition, Delhi Police officers suspect that they were planning “something big”.According to police, on August 20, the arrested men and their associates had allegedly killed three rival gang members in Gurugram. In a case of mistaken identity in February this year, they had allegedly killed two men in Rohtak. They had also committed contract killings on the directions of Bishnoi and his Canada-based aide Goldy Brar, said the DCP. Police said that at least half a dozen similar firings for extortion were reported from other areas in southwest Delhi last year. In most of the cases, the attackers threw “threat slips” with the names of their gangs, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-hitmen-part-of-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-arrested-in-north-delhi-101617387844113.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Body of a woman found in Mangolpuri, while a man is found killed in Narela in two separate cases||Two persons, including a 26-year-old woman, were found murdered in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri and Narela between Thursday and Friday. Police said the two murders are not connected, but in both cases, the prime suspects were known to the victims and are currently on the run. In the woman’s murder, the prime suspect is her live-in partner, the police said. In the other case, the brother-in-law of the 36-year-old dead man is the suspect, police said, adding that the motive in both the cases is unclear.According to police, at 10.52am on Friday, the police received a call regarding the discovery of a woman’s body in her rented room, on the fourth floor of a building in Mangolpuri. A team reached there and found that the woman’s two children –aged 6 and 4 – were sitting next to the body. There were injury marks on the woman’s head and the right side of the face. She was identified as Jyoti alias Soni, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.Through local inquiry, the DCP said the police learnt that Jyoti had shifted to the rented room a few days ago with her live-in partner Shiva Sharma, a carpenter. She was separated from her husband, the police said.“Prime facie, it seems that the woman had a fight with Sharma on Wednesday night and he hit her on the face and head. She suffered injuries and started bleeding and Sharma fled, after locking the main door leading to the staircase,” said DCP Singh. In the morning, the children were calling out to people from the fourth floor window, asking for help. That was when the body was discovered, the DCP said.“Efforts are on to nab Sharma,” he added.Nearly 24 hours before the woman’s body was found, the body of a 36-year-old man, with the face burnt, was found at a vacant DSIIDC flat in north Delhi’s Bhorgarh near Narela, the police said. Police identified the deceased as Karan Kumar from Kanjhawala and a murder case has been registered. Police are conducting searches to arrest the man’s brother-in-law, Panna Ram.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said Kumar’s relatives discovered his body at the vacant second floor flat on Thursday morning and informed the police. Kumar was missing since March 31 and a complaint in this regard was already lodged with the police.“There were injury marks on the man’s neck and hands; his face was burnt, probably to mask his identity. However, relatives who were present at the spot identified the body as that of Karan Kumar,” the DCP said.In his statement, Kumar’s nephew Vicky told the police that his uncle left home around 11am on March 31, purportedly to meet Panna Ram. But when Kumar did not return home, the family met Panna Ram, who claimed that Kumar had not met him.However, Panna Ram had an injury in his leg and he asked Kumar’s family members to search for him at the DSIIDC flats. “Panna Ram became the prime suspect after Kumar’s body was found in one of the flats and he has been on the run since then,” said a police officer, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/body-of-a-woman-found-in-mangolpuri-while-a-man-is-found-killed-in-narela-in-two-separate-cases-101617387786948.html
02-04-2021||Other||Man arrested for creating fake profiles, blackmailing minor for sexual favours||New DelhiDelhi Police on Friday arrested a 25-year-old man who they claimed had created multiple fake social media accounts of a 13-year-old girl, where he uploaded her morphed photographs and used them to blackmail her for sexual favours.The suspect, identified as Bharat Khatar, worked at an event management company and was allegedly miffed after having been told off by the 13-year-old earlier for abusing her friend, who too is a minor.“Khatar is a serial offender, who often targeted women and girls. His interrogation has revealed that he has abused and blackmailed at least six other women so far. In one of those cases, a minor girl had approached the cyber cell of Faridabad Police last year to allege that Khatar had morphed her photos, uploaded them online and was blackmailing her. He was later arrested in that case also,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). The precise details of his past involvements in such cases are being looked into, Thakur said, adding that two mobile phones allegedly belonging to Khatar have been sent for forensic examination.The present complaint against Khatar was made by the13-year-old’s mother at Kotla Mubarakpur police station last month after she got to know that her daughter was being blackmailed.During the probe, police got to know that the whole incident started after the girl’s 15-year-old friend came in contact with Khatar online. “They got chatting and later exchanged numbers. However, Khatar later allegedly started trying to have obscene chats with her. This led to a heated exchange between them,” said the DCP.Later, when the 13-year-old girl got to know of this, she got in touch with Khatar and warned him against it.“Khatar then wanted revenge against the 13-year-old for having confronted him. So, he created three fake social media profiles, morphed her photographs, and uploaded them on those accounts. When the girl got to know of this and demanded that the accounts be deleted, he demanded sexual favours from her in return. The girl then went and told her mother everything, after which she approached the police with a complaint,” the DCP said.After receiving the complaint last month, investigators tracked down the IP address from which the fake accounts were created. That led them to Khatar who was arrested from his home in NIT Faridabad on Thursday, the DCP said.The officer said that Khatar would habitually create fake accounts on social media and use them to contact girls and women. He would then allegedly start morphing their images and blackmailing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-creating-fake-profiles-blackmailing-minor-for-sexual-favours-101617387784593.html
02-04-2021||Other||Constable’s wife dies by suicide in Ghitorni, poisons her children before||New DelhiThe wife of a Delhi Police constable was found hanging inside her home in Ghitorni, while her two sons — aged three years and three months — were found unconscious in the bathroom of the house on Thursday evening, police said.Police suspect the woman allegedly died by suicide. The two children were allegedly administered bathroom disinfectant and their mouths were gagged with cloth pieces.No suicide note was recovered from the house, but investigators believe that the woman first allegedly tried to poison her children before hanging herself.Police said both the children had been rushed to a private hospital for treatment and the condition of the younger child was serious while that of the elder one was stable. The incident came to light after the constable made two calls to the police control room around 8pm that his wife had failed to respond to repeated knocks, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.The couple married in 2014 and lived in a two-bedroom flat. The constable had gone to his native village in Rajasthan and returned to Delhi on Thursday evening only to find the door locked from inside. When his wife did not respond to repeated knocks or his calls, he panicked and called the police, said a neighbour.“Nobody in our neighbourhood was aware of the matter until they saw a police van reach the area and saw some policemen rushing to the constable’s flat. I followed them. They broke open the door and found the constable’s wife hanging from a ceiling fan. Their two children were found unconscious in the bathroom with pieces of cloth stuffed in their mouths. All of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead,” said the neighbour.DCP Singh that the woman’s family has been informed about the incident. “The statements of her family members are being recorded before the local sub-divisional magistrate. Legal action will be taken in case a complaint is made on the basis of their statements,” he said.In a similar incident reported on Thursday morning from Rohini, a contractual DTC bus driver had also died by suicide with the bodies of his wife and their two sons — aged 6 and 3 — found lying in the same room with stab wounds. Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constables-wife-dies-by-suicide-in-ghitorni-poisons-her-children-before-101617387784009.html
02-04-2021||Other||This March in Ludhiana was hotter, drier than normal||The district witnessed hotter than normal temperatures through March, while the month was also 70% rain deficient, according to the meteorology department at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).As per the data shared by PAU’s department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, the average temperature in March is normally 26.7°C, but this year, it was 29.5°C – a departure of 2.8 degrees.Even the minimum temperature remained three notches higher than the average temperature expected in March. “Against the average of 11.9°C, this year the night temperature in March was 14.9°C on an average. Even February remained 2.7°C hotter, as compared to last year,” said Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department.She added that the temperature was expected to rise further in the coming days, which will also see high-velocity winds sweeping the region.On the precipitation front, the department’s data revealed that normally March saw 23.6mm rain, but this year the city received merely 5mm showers in the month – a deficit of 70%.The department had expected 4.7mm rain in the last week of March, but the city did not receive a single drop of rain. February was also rain-deficient, with only 17mm rain against the average of 34mm recorded in the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-march-in-ludhiana-was-hotter-drier-than-normal-101617387245245.html
02-04-2021||Lucknow||Man charred to death in plywood factory fire in UP||A 32-year-old security guard was charred to death after he was trapped inside a plywood factory when the fire broke out there under Bazarkhala police station limits here in the wee hours of Friday, said police officials.The police said that property worth several lakh was gutted in the fire and further investigation is on to ascertain the cause behind the incident.According to the police, the victim was identified as Jagganath Gautam, a resident of Siddhauli in Sitapur, who was employed as a security guard at the plywood factory owned by Aishbagh resident Mohd Abbas for past some years. The victim and one Dileep was sleeping inside the factory located in Habib Nagar locality when the fire broke out apparently due to a short circuit at around 2.15am on Friday.The police said Dileep managed to come out of the factory after spotting fire flames while Jagganath was trapped inside. They said the victim’s charred body was later recovered lying in between the burnt wooden blocks after the fire flames were doused.They said the fire tenders were rushed to the spot after being informed about the incident by the locals but till then the flames had engulfed a major portion of the factory. They said the firefighters took over three hours to douse the flames.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-charred-to-death-in-plywood-factory-fire-101617387065320.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Covid tally surges past 35,000; five dead||The district’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 35,000 mark on Friday with 369 people testing positive for the virus.The toll also climbed to 1,157 with five people losing the battle to the disease.Ludhiana’s total cases now stand at 35,155, of which 2,943 cases remain active after 31,055 recoveries. The daily cases have remained over 300 for the past two weeks, even hitting an all-time high on March 27 with 495 infections.Among those who died were three women – two aged 55, from Mundian Kalan and Hambran, and a 48-year-old from Swami Vivekanand Nagar.The male deceased were a 72-year-old from Gill village and a 58-year-old from Jagraon. Among those testing positive were a cop, two health workers, seven school teachers and a student.12,384 vaccinatedLudhiana recorded the highest single-day vaccinations so far on Friday, as 12,384 people turned up for the jab at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Friday. These included 3,328 senior citizens and 4,150 people aged between 45 and 59. Besides, 200 healthcare workers came for the first dose, while 93 received the second dose. As many as 4,072 frontline workers also got the first dose and another 298 came forward for the second dose. So far, 1,84,487 people in the district have been inoculated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-covid-tally-surges-past-35-000-five-dead-101617386944593.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shiv Sena leader orchestrated attack on himself, say Ludhiana police||The alleged murderous attack on national promoter of Shiv Sena (Punjab) Mahant Kashmir Giri in March 2020 was orchestrated by him to get better security cover, police said on Friday.It was Giri’s son, Rajan Bawa, who had hired two men to act out the murder attempt by firing shots outside their house in Khanna, and also provided them training in handling the weapon. The revelations came following the arrest of Giri in an attempt to murder case registered on March 28, said Khanna senior superintendent of police (Khanna) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal.The case was lodged against Giri, his two sons and their accomplices following a complaint by one Nikhil Sharma of Khanna. An FIR under Sections 307, 323, 324, 148, 149, 506 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act is registered against them in this regard.During questioning, the SSP said, Giri confessed that he had orchestrated the attack on himself to get more security. For this, his son, Rajan, had hired two men, Jaswinder Singh of Lakhpur village, Banga, and Gurinder Singh of Mukandpur village, Nawanshahr, to carry out the fake murder attempt.On March 9, 2020, the two men arrived on a motorcycle and opened fire outside Giri’s house, following which he called the police.“Giri had claimed that while walking to a nearby temple, he had noticed the shooters making rounds of his colony, due to which he had walked back home and bolted the gate from inside. The accused had fired twice and one bullet had hit the main gate of the house,” said the SSP, adding that the accused were captured in the CCTV cameras while escaping.“They had a foolproof plan to make the attack appear real, which helped Giri get more security cover, while earlier he had only one gunman,” the police official added.The police are investigating where the accused procured the gun and have launched a manhunt for Bawa and the two shooters.In a similar case in March 2020, chairman of the labour wing of Shiv Sena (Hindustan), Narinder Bhardwaj, was arrested for concocting a story of assault on him. According to police, the 45-year-old was also eyeing more security cover.Shooters were arrested in another case, got bailNotably, the Samrala police had arrested Jaswinder and Gurinder, along with their two accomplices, for possessing illegal weapons on July 28, 2020. They were sent to jail on judicial remand and were later granted bail. However, the police had failed to find links of the accused with Kashmir Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shiv-sena-leader-orchestrated-attack-on-himself-say-ludhiana-police-101617386884849.html
02-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Two brothers assault, kidnap elderly father to grab his real estate||Eyeing their parents’ vast properties, two brothers and their accomplices assaulted their 70-year-old father and kidnapped him after barging into his house in Vishwakarma Colony, Moti Nagar, on Thursday.The brothers also stole ₹1.5 lakh in cash from the house, along with the house’s documents, and their parents’ debit cards, cheque books and other documents. A manhunt has been launched following a complaint by Rajwinder Kaur, 67, the mother of the accused – Amarjit Singh and Narinder Singh.Rajwinder told the police that she lived with her husband, Harbhajan Singh, and grandson, Sarbjit Singh, 17, at their house in Vishwakarma Colony.She said two of her three sons, Amarjit and Narinder, had been staking claim to this property, besides others owned by her husband. On Thursday, Amarjit and Narinder, with their respective sons, a relative and three more men, barged into their house and assaulted her husband. They ransacked the house and stole ₹1.5 lakh in cash, their house’s legal papers and other financial documents. They then forcibly dragged her husband out of the house and left with him. Rajwinder said they had already divided their 14-acre land in Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, among their three sons, while their only daughter had died. Besides their house in Moti Nagar, they own another building in Ludhiana, whose rent is their primary source of income.The woman added that Amarjit and Narinder wanted to grab all their properties and money and had therefore kidnapped her husband to force him to give in.Rajwinder claimed that her sons had assaulted her husband in December 19, 2020, as well. They had filed a complaint to the police in this regard, but no action was taken. She rued that had the police acted timely, the attack on her elderly husband could have been prevented.Sub-inspector Mewa Singh, who is investigating the case, said they were on the sons’ trail to rescue the victim, and will nab all accused soon. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Moti Nagar station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-two-brothers-assault-kidnap-elderly-father-to-grab-his-real-estate-101617386824569.html
02-04-2021||Other||Stalked for long, Class 9 student found hanging in her house||Kanpur: A Class 9 student was found hanging in her house on Thursday, after she and her family were allegedly attacked by a stalker and his family members in Rajpur area of Kanpur Dehat district. IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal said police had registered cases against 15 people on Friday and one of them had been arrested. Police have registered two cases, one of violence and the other of murder, as the girl was alone in the house at the time and family members were at the police station to complain about the attack. Her younger brother who returned from the police station discovered the body. As per reports, a man had been stalking the girl for long and irate over the family’s attempts to lodge a police complaint against him, he and his aides allegedly assaulted the girl and her family after barging in their house on Thursday. The girl’s father has alleged that the local police did not act on his earlier complaints against the stalker and once the sub inspector shooed him away from the police station. Even on Thursday, when he went to police after the attack, the complaint was not entertained. Police acted only when informed about the girl’s death, he alleged. IG Mohit Agarwal said police role was being investigated and no one would be spared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalked-for-long-class-9-student-found-hanging-in-her-house-101617385863915.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||Heatwave conditions likely in parts of Rajasthan for next 48 hours: Met dept||Several parts of Rajasthan are likely to experience heat wave conditions over the next 48 hours with a rise in maximum temperatures, the meteorological department here said on Friday.The met office has issued a yellow alert for Saturday and Sunday in some districts of the state including Kota, Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, and Jalore.Director of meteorological centre, Radheshyam Sharma said at present, the maximum temperature in most places is below 40 degrees Celsius but the mercury will rise by two to three degrees Celsius in the next two-three days.He said a new western disturbance will be active on April 5 and 6 in the districts of Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Hanumangarh, Ganganagar and Churu.Due to this, duststorms with a wind speed of up at 30-40 km per hour are likely to occur in Jodhpur and Bikaner divisions, Sharma said.However, there is a possibility of drizzle or light rain in both the district on April 6 accompanied by gusty winds with speed reaching 40 to 50 km per hour, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/heatwave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-rajasthan-for-next-48-hours-met-dept-101617383875877.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Fake call centre busted in Delhi; 25 employees arrested for duping US nationals||Twenty-five employees of a fake call centre here have been apprehended for allegedly duping US nationals, Delhi Police officials said on Friday.The call centre was in Saidullajab in south Delhi's Mehrauli area, they said.Its employees used to dupe US nationals by asking them to pay membership fees on the pretext of providing them US government grants for unemployed persons and handicapped persons, police said.So far, 25 employees, including their boss Kamal Dass, have been apprehended. They were detained following a raid, they said.Employees used fake names and called their potential targets in the US through spoofing calls via internet. During inquiry, Dass disclosed that they used get details of potential targets from their sources and accordingly, briefed employees about their strategy to dupe them, police said."The employees at the call centre called up US citizens by impersonating themselves as officials and asked them to pay membership fees on the pretext of providing US government grants for unemployed persons and handicapped persons. Once the victim paid the amount, they stopped attending their calls," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said.To pay the fees, the victims were asked to purchase Google Play Cards, Ebay gift cards and Amazon gift cards, he said.Then they were asked to share the coupon code to encash the cards. The employees sent these coupon codes to their "sources" and received money through bank transfers and cash payments, Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fake-call-centre-busted-in-delhi-25-employees-arrested-for-duping-us-nationals-101617383374526.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist records 9,100 new Covid cases on Friday; 70K beneficiaries vaccinated||PUNE On Friday, the district recorded 9,100 new Covid-19 cases, as per the state health department. Also, close to 70,000 beneficiaries received a Covid-19 vaccine dose, the highest so far, since the nation-wide vaccination drive begun. Thirteen deaths were reported, taking the death toll in the district to 8,421. Pune’s progressive count has now gone up to 0.553 million cases, of which 0.474 million have recovered, and currently, 70,000 are undergoing treatment for the infection in hospitals or are in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune city saw 4,766 new cases which takes the final count to 2,86,169. Seven deaths reported on Friday, puts the death toll at 4,742. PCMC reported 2,405 new cases, which takes the final count to 1,40,146. With two deaths reported on Friday, the death toll stands at 1,383. Pune rural saw 1,957 new cases, taking the progressive count to 1,27,098. With four deaths reported, the death toll stands at 2,248. Pune’s vaccination drive saw 69,845 beneficiaries get the jab. PMC saw 22,398 beneficiaries who got the vaccine dose, while PCMC saw 13,289 beneficiaries who got the vaccine. Pune rural saw highest number of vaccinations, as 34,158 beneficiaries got the dose. Of the 69,000 doses administered, 69,388 were Covishield and the remaining Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-records-9-100-new-covid-cases-on-friday-70k-beneficiaries-vaccinated-101617384363784.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport reduces price of RT-PCR Covid-19 tests to ₹600||Amid a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the passengers arriving at the Mumbai airport will now have to pay just ₹600 for the RT-PCR test as against the earlier rate of ₹850.The new rate was introduced from April 1, in line with the latest directive by the state government, said Mumbai International Airport Pvt Ltd (MIAL).Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "The CSMIA introduced the RT-PCR test counters at the terminal on September 06, 2020 and undertook over 3 lakh tests till date at the airport. In its efforts to cater to the convenience and safety of its passengers, CSMIA was the first Indian airport to launch a unique molecular testing technique developed by Abbott ID Now™' that produces results in 13 minutes," the MIAL said.In line with government norms, the regular test that provides results within 8 hours can now be availed by passengers at a minimal cost of ₹600, while the express test which delivers results in 13 minutes is available at ₹4500, the airport said.The MIAL spokesperson said all other international arriving passengers will have to provide proof of a negative report of a test undertaken 72 hours prior to the arrival."Alternatively they can opt to undergo the molecular test on arrival at the airport, wherein post submitting the test sample they can proceed with their journey and receive their reports in 8 hours," the spokesperson said.The official further informed that domestic passengers arriving at CSMIA from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa, Gujarat and Kerala can opt to provide a negative test report taken 72 hours prior to travel or undergo the RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport. In lieu of the travel restrictions, passengers can also opt to undertake the test at CSMIA before their departure or at their destination airport.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 47,827 new Covid-19 cases and 202 deaths today. The total cases in the state reached 29,04,076 including 3,98,832 active infections and 55,379 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-reduces-price-of-rt-pcr-covid-19-tests-to-rs-600-101617383724528.html
02-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to prepare Tribal Development Index||A Tribal Development Index (TDI) will soon be prepared in Jharkhand on the lines of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)’s human development index (HDI) to understand the current condition of tribal people and find out the areas of improvement.The TDI will be prepared by the Tribal Research Institute (TRI), a tribal research wing of Jharkhand government, in association with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Roorkee.The project, to be funded by the union tribal affairs ministry and state welfare department, has already been allotted to IIT, Roorkee, to carry out the study. The project, estimated at ₹14 lakh, is likely to complete by year end.Chintu Doraiburu, who handed over the charge of TRI deputy director on Thursday after his transfer to personnel department, has been instrumental in drafting the project.“The TDI will be a prototype of HDI. It will concentrate on tribal population. Objective of the project is to understand how government schemes have benefited the tribal to uplift their lifestyles and livelihood. The research work will also look into the areas where improvement is required,” he said. Doraiburu said, “IIT Roorkee will carry out random sampling covering all tribes of Jharkhand. All indicators prescribed under UNDP’s HDI such as population trends, health outcomes, education achievements, income, livelihood and human security will be covered in the study. The institution is expected to submit its outcome report by December.”He said the project was to start last year but got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.Jharkhand has 32 tribal groups, of which eight tribes — Asur, Birhor,Birjia, Korwa, Mal Paharia, Pahariya, Sauria Paharia and Savar— are from Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG). Tribal people form 26.2% of the state population.According to the Census 2011, population of PVTGs in Jharkhand has increased from 2,23,336 in 2001 to 2,92, 359, around 30.9%.Former Tribal Advisory Council (TAC), Jharkhand, member Ratan Tirkey said, “If done in a right manner, the TDI would immensely help to understand current situation of tribal people in Jharkhand.”He said conditions of many tribes, particularly PVTGs, are still not good. Most of them still live in hills or forests without basic minimum facilities, he added.“I do not know on which parameters the study would be based. But, I would suggest the researchers to study the circumstances under which many tribes are leaving their past tradition and culture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-to-prepare-tribal-development-index-101617383943797.html
02-04-2021||Ranchi||45% people have antibodies, 55% vulnerable in Jharkhand: Sero survey||A sero survey conducted in Jharkhand’s 10 districts has revealed that 45% of the over three crore population in the state has already been infected with Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and developed antibodies.The sero survey phase 2 reflected that the remaining 55% population was vulnerable to the disease and at the risk of contracting the contagion.An interpretation of the survey report also highlighted that there was a possibility of antibodies weaning off with time (sero reversion).Jharkhand had conducted the sero survey (in-vitro qualitative detection of antibodies to SARS-COV-2) between February 4-26 in 10 districts namely Bokaro, Dhanbad, Dumka, East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Hazaribag, Khunti, Palamu, Ranchi and West Singhbhum.According to a health department’s press communique issued on Wednesday, as many as 3,965 samples were collected from community and high-risk group. Of the samples collected, 1,774 were found positive for Sars-Cov-2 antibody. This accounts for 44.74% spread.Among 1,774 samples found positive, 833 came from community and 941 were reported from high-risk group.According to the survey report, seropositivity was highest in Bokaro from where 425 samples were collected, out of which 245 were found positive for SARS-COV-2 antibody.In Ranchi, 241 samples out of 464 returned positive for SARS-COV-2 antibody.Considering Jharkhand’s 3.26 crore population, the size of the samples was small. However, experts say that if samples were collected scientifically, the present size is sufficient for the prediction.“Under the serosurvey, the samples were collected scientifically from both sectors, including from community and high risk zone. So, around 4,000 samples were enough for making the prediction,” said Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).The survey among other things recommends to escalate Covid-19 vaccination coverage in the state at the earliest to achieve faster rate of population immunity. Besides, it focuses on continuation of the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour without complacency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/45-people-have-antibodies-55-vulnerable-in-jharkhand-sero-survey-101617383764417.html
02-04-2021||Other||Two schools sealed after teachers, student test Covid positive in Jharkhand||Two city-based private schools were sealed after two teachers and a student tested Covid-19 positive here, said an official on Friday. The second wave of Covid-19 has now spread across the city as 71 more patients were detected by Thursday night in Jamshedpur, said an official.“Loyola School was sealed on Friday after a Class 12 teacher tested Covid-19 positive. The school has been shut down for 72 hours. We have also sealed the Andhra Association School under Kadma police station area after a teacher was found Covid positive,” said Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC).“All the school managements have been asked to allow students and teachers entry into the schools only after they show Covid-19 test reports,” he said. Meanwhile, Kadma-based DBMS School joint chairperson B Chandrashekharan said that the management voluntarily shut down Class 9 on Friday after a student tested Covid-19 positive. “The administration has not sealed the school. We have asked all the 244 Class 9 students to get tested,” he said.Awareness drive flagged offDistrict surveillance officer Dr Sahir Pal said a Covid-19 awareness van was flagged off on Friday. Under the drive, the van would travel to all the 11 blocks making people aware of Covid-19 protocols, test formalities and vaccination. “The infection is spreading faster in the second wave. More and more testing and vaccination is the key to counter the menace,” said Dr Pal.As per Covid-19 bulletin, out of the 71 cases detected by Thursday night, 13 were from Kadma area. Rest of new csses were from all corners of the city. The city now has 413 active Covid-19 cases out of the total 18,977 positive and 18,188 cured patients so far. As many as 85,985 have taken the first dose and 19,126 have taken the second dose of vaccine so far.Jamshedpur DC Suraj Kumar said medical officers in-charge (MOICs) have been asked to conduct 400 tests per block while 25 incident commanders have been asked to conduct 500 tests each in the city. Two magistrates each have been deputed at the entry and exit gates at Tatanagar station. Two such magistrates have been posted at Ghatshila station as well.“Special vaccination drive will be held at panchayat level on April 4-5, 7-8, 10-11 and 13-14. Civil surgeon has been asked to ensure availability of masks, oximeters, sanitizers and thermal scanners. All the MOICs have been directed to keep five oxygen beds and 50 Covid-19 beds ready at all block health centres,” the DC said.“ TMH, Tata Motors Hospital, MGMMCH, Mercy Hospital and Uma Hospital have been directed to increase the number of Covid-19 beds and ensure central oxygen supply system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-schools-sealed-after-teachers-student-test-covid-positive-in-jharkhand-101617383763778.html
02-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand MGNREGS workers to get ₹225 minimum wage from April 1||Labourers working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) will get ₹225 as minimum wage, effective from April 1, in Jharkhand, said an official on Friday.State rural development department has issued a letter to all deputy commissioners and concerned authorities to ensure the minimum wage to all MGNREGS labourers from Thursday. State rural development director Aditya Ranjan said, “The Centre had increased the minimum wage for the labourers under the scheme from ₹194 to ₹198 in March this year.”Chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren had requested the central government to escalate the wage from ₹198. “After getting no positive response from the Centre, the CM decided to increase the wage to ₹225. The gap between the Centre’s wage and state’s decided wage will be filled from the state exchequer,” stated a press communiqué issued by the information and public relation department of Jharkhand on Friday. In a bid to raise the workers’ income, the state would also request the Centre to revise the CFT (cubic feet) provision per man-day for labourers working under MGNREGS, a rural development official said.A worker’s man-day under the Centre’s scheme is considered after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. In other words, a worker gets the minimum wage of ₹194 after he digs 73 CFT soil in Jharkhand. MGNREGS labourers in Andhra Pradesh get the minimum wage after digging just 28 CFT. In Chhattisgarh, it is 48 CFT, officials said.However, a time-motion study is begin carried out in Jharkhand by the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR) for revision in the CFT rule. Jharkhand has already achieved man days target of 8 crore this year. The state had requested the Centre to revise it. The Centre has set new target of 9 crore man days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-mgnregs-workers-to-get-225-minimum-wage-from-april-1-101617383703817.html
02-04-2021||Other||Proposed flyover bends to stay off historic Khuda Bhakhsh library||The proposed flyover between Kargil Chowk and Patna Science College on the contested stretch of Ashok Rajpath is set to undergo a design modification to save the heritage building of the famous Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library (KBOPL). KBOPL, which has in its possession over 22,000 manuscripts, 3 lakh books and over 2000 rare paintings dating back to 14th Century, had objected to the road construction department’s (RCD) plan to build the flyover on Ashok Rajpath as the proposed construction required demolishing a portion of its spacious reading hall, named after the erstwhile Viceroy to India George Curzon to mark his visit to the library in 1905. In its bid to streamline traffic flow on Ashok Rajpath between Gandhi Maidan to the existing National Institute of Technology (NIT), Patna, which houses important institutions like Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Science College, Patna University and Patna College, chief minister Nitish Kumar had asked the RCD to build a flyover. Accordingly, the RCD had proposed a 2.20km-long four-lane flyover in double deck from Kargil Chowk to Science College, to be built at a cost of ₹369 crore, and sought permission to acquire a portion of land of the institutions near the roadside for the new project. While the PMCH has given its no-objection to offer land to the RCD, Patna University and Urdu Library are yet to give their consent. KBOPL director Shayesta Bedar, citing resolution of the board’s meeting, said essential elegance of the library and its hoary past would be obliterated if any portion of its land taken over for road construction. “We preserved the library’s reading room, which was more than a century old, even as a modern three-story building of the KBOPL was opened by President Ram Nath Kovind in 2017,” said Bedar. KBOPL has been frequented by research scholars from across the world ever since it was opened for public in 1891 by Khuda Bakhsh, the first vice chairman of Patna Municipal Corporation and bibliophile. Acknowledging the immense historical and intellectual value of its rich and valued collection, the Government of India declared the KBOPL an Institution of National Importance by an act of Parliament in 1969. The library, an autonomous institution, is fully funded by the Ministry of Culture. Bedar said they studied the new road proposal once the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) served notice on the library to give up its land and subsequently sent their objections to the district magistrate and later to the chief minister with valid reasons. BRPNNL had sent notices to all the institutions concerned a couple of months ago. “We hope CM Nitish Kumar, who had great sense and knowledge for history and archaeology, would understand out issues,” she said. Additional chief secretary, RCD, Amrit Lal Meena, said he had instructed the BRPNNL to modify the design of double decker elevated road so that quintessential of the KBOPL would not be disturbed in any way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/proposed-flyover-bends-to-stay-off-historic-khuda-bhakhsh-library-101617383463765.html
02-04-2021||Other||Halted by Covid, kidney transplants pick up in Bihar again||Kidney transplants are gradually gathering momentum after a gap of six months due to the pandemic even as doctors are guarded given the second wave of coronavirus, with the state reporting over 2,000 cases and 13 deaths over the last eight days — the highest single-day spike in cases being 488 on April 1. The state reported 12 kidney transplants in the last six months at the four facilities approved by the health department — Ruban Memorial Hospital, Paras HMRI Hospital, IGIMS and BIG Apollo hospital — all in Patna.Doctors had put on hold all such procedures given the high probability of infection among patients on immunosuppressive drugs, after the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown on March 23 last year. The Ruban Memorial Hospital in Patna, accredited to the National Accreditation Board of Hospital (NABH), did the last such procedure on two patients on March 20. The two male patients, a 34-year-old from Hajipur and a 19-year- old from Patna, were discharged from the hospital on Thursday. “These were our first post-Covid-19 renal transplants since the previous one done at our hospital in 2019,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director and senior urologist of the Ruban hospital. Most of the post-Covid-19 renal transplants in the state have been done during the last two months. The Paras HMRI Hospital, also accredited to the NABH, had done three, while the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution funded by the state government, and the Ruban Hospital had done two each. The Paras HMRI hospital, however, was the first facility in the state to do a renal transplant post Covid-19, in last October. “After our last pre-Covid-19 renal transplant in February 2020, we had temporarily stopped doing the procedure at our centre till last September. We gradually began again, having done one renal transplant in October, two each in November and December last year and three in February this year,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent, Paras-HMRI hospital. The IGIMS did its first post-Covid-19 kidney transplant in February and then in March, said Dr Om Kumar, professor and head, department of nephrology. “The first post-Covid-19 renal transplant at IGIMS was done in February on a 24-year-old male from Patna’s Baktiyarpur block and the second in March on a 25-year-old male from Munger. Both are doing fine,” he said. “We have planned another kidney transplant on April 6, but we will wait and watch the trend of Covid-19 infections in the state because we do not want to put the patient and their kidney donors at risk if the coronavirus infection increases in the state,” Dr Kumar said. Dr Pankaj Hans, head, department of nephrology, Ruban Memorial Hospital, and an associate professor at the Patna Medical College Hospital, said putting on hold renal transplants was not the solution in the present scenario. “We are much better prepared to tackle the pandemic now and have also gained in experience. Kidney transplant is a better mode of therapy in comparison to dialysis, as the patient’s quality of life improves. We should not deprive those who have donors and are willing to undertake the procedure,” said Dr Hans. He, however, cautioned, that doctors need to be guarded. “The new strain of Covid-19 virus may have higher transmissibility but is less severe in terms of mortality rate. We will adopt a cautious approach in doing kidney transplants. We need to be careful with patients taking immunosuppressive drugs and regulate their medicines because they are prone to contracting Covid-19 infection,” he said. The Ruban Memorial Hospital, which was the first in the state to do a successful kidney transplant in 2008, has done 14 such procedures so far. “The state government told us to wait till it framed its own rules, governing organ tissue transplant. We then lost three to four years because of change in ownership of our hospital and the government rules on the mandatory three-year cooling off period,” said managing director Dr Singh. In terms of kidney transplant, the IGIMS leads in the state, having done 73 procedures so far since it initiated it in 2016. The Paras-HMRI hospital had done 38 after introducing the facility in January 2018. The BIG Apollo hospital hasn’t done any kidney transplant procedure. “We got the government approval to perform kidney transplants only last month. We have the requisite infrastructure in place,” said its nephrologist Dr Harsh Vardhan. Quoting statistics, Dr Hans said 1.50 lakh patients required kidney transplant but only 7,500 transplants, on an average, were being done in India every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/halted-by-covid-kidney-transplants-pick-up-in-bihar-again-101617383403807.html
02-04-2021||Patna||Taxing times for staff at Bihar varsities, colleges as I-T trashes their PF scheme||Several university teachers in Bihar are in a fix after receiving notice from the income tax department regarding identification of “high value information, which does not appear to be in line with their income tax returns filed for assessment year 2020-21 (relating to financial year 2019-20)”. The teachers have been asked to revise their ITRs and submit online response on compliance portal. The teachers say the “high value information” is their provident fund (PF) deposit, which the universities in Bihar deposit in the savings bank account as an old practice, and not in the general provident fund (GPF) account. So far, they availed tax relief on the basis of the income and deduction certificate issued by the college principals concerned. However, the I-T department has refused to accept this system and served notices to individual teachers. This could affect all the teachers and employees working in the universities and colleges of the state, as the same practice has been followed everywhere for decades. Last year also, the I-T department had refused to recognise PF deductions presently being made for teachers and disallowed any claim of relief u/s 80C of the IT Act, 1960. It also disallowed any claim made by the employees u/s 10 of the I-T Act on the interest received from such prevalent PF schemes in the state universities. As the teachers usually fix their PF amounts with banks to get higher interest, though it is still lower than the GPF interest, the I-T department treats these fixed deposits taxable income. The Universal Account Number (UAN) also eludes the college/university teachers and employees, as they are out of the PF net. “Any failure on the part of the drawing and disbursing officers to make deductions of income tax at source at the rate applicable on the income chargeable to salary will lead to recovery from the deductor along with monthly interest,” said an earlier letter from assistant commissioner (I-T, Patna circle) TT Bhutia. The I-T department has stuck to its stand again this year. Former chief commissioner, I-T, Vijay Sharma, who had sought information from the universities under the Right to Information Act, said there seemed to be a nexus involving all the stakeholders behind the practice adopted in state’s universities. “The PF commissioner should also have taken cognizance of it, as the I-T department is correct in not treating general savings account or fixed deposits out of the purview of PF to avail benefits under relief u/s 80C of the IT Act,” he said. He said the IT department would recognise the deductions for relief only if the amount goes to the GPF, which is regulated by the state government. Prof Parvez Ahmad of Patliputra University in Patna said the teachers and employees were the ultimate losers. “Instead of minuscule interest on savings account, they could get higher returns in GPF and the government and the universities must act on it,” he said. KB Sinha , working president of Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB), said he had written to the assistant commissioner of income tax earlier, saying there was nothing wrong with the PF deductions in colleges and universities, as the accounts were with the nationalized banks as per provisions of university Acts and statutes and were hitherto treated equivalent to government PF accounts.“All PF accounts, whether in government or private and autonomous institutions, have controlling officers, Similarly in universities and colleges, registrar/principals are the custodians of PF accounts . No deposit or withdrawal can be made without their consent,” wrote FUTAB working president KB Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar, urging the I-T department to withdraw the letter. However, I-T department has refused to oblige. The delay in PF deduction of school teachers appointed in the state since 2006 had also landed in the Patna High Court. After the Patna High Court order and letter from the additional central provident fund commissioner (Bihar and Jharkhand) Rajib Bhattacharya to the department of education, the government finally decided to extend EPF coverage to its nearly four lakh teachers last year, though the teachers have still moved the court with a petition seeking that the benefit be extended from their date of joining, not the date when the government brought them under PF coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/taxing-times-for-staff-at-bihar-varsities-colleges-as-i-t-trashes-their-pfscheme-101617383283766.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||Focus on coronavirus testing, treatment of people: Uttarakhand CM to officials||Expressing concern over a spike in coronavirus cases, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday directed officials to focus on testing and treatment of coronavirus patients besides extending vaccination facilities to rural areas, according to a statement.Uttarakhand should become a state with 100 per cent vaccination, the chief minister said during a review meeting, asking officials to prepare a fool-proof plan for this.He asked officials to ensure compliance of the treatment protocol to reduce the fatality rate.Rawat said fresh awareness campaigns should be held involving people who command social respect to teach people the importance of masks, hand sanitisation and social distancing.The chief minister, who is himself working from isolation after testing positive for Covid-19 on March 22, asked officials to ramp up testing in view of the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Haridwar and make arrangements required for the safety of people during the forthcoming "Char Dham Yatra" season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/focus-on-coronavirus-testing-treatment-of-people-uttarakhand-cm-to-officials-101617382139065.html
02-04-2021||Other||No home isolation for 60+ Covid patients in Agra||Agra Due to increased risk because of new corona strains, the facility of home isolation has been withdrawn for those above 60 years of age in Agra. The chief medical officer clarified that similar restriction would be imposed on those below 60 years of age but having co-morbidity so as to save their lives with treatment in hospital. “To minimize the threat to lives of senior citizens and those having co-morbidities, they would be treated in hospital and would not be allowed to opt for home isolation in the present scenario,” stated Chief medical Officer of Agra, Dr RC Pandey. Arrangements are being updated with the second wave on in Taj city. However, there seems a lack of enthusiasm for vaccination and only 1713 of those above 45 years of age got inoculated on Thursday, the day when vaccination began for those above 45 years of age. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey urged more of those above 45 years of age to go for the shot and continue with mask and physical distancing. Meanwhile, a testing drive was undertaken at Dr BR Ambedkar University after the vice chancellor tested corona positive. In all, 195 samples were taken, including 125 from Khandari premises and 70 from Paliwal Park premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-home-isolation-for-60-covid-patients-in-agra-101617381963720.html
02-04-2021||Other||Max single day inoculation: 15631 take the shot in Lko||LUCKNOW: The state capital recorded its maximum one-day vaccination on Friday as 15631 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine shot at 139 sites. Earlier on March 18, as many as 15607 beneficiaries had taken the vaccine. Among the total vaccination sites, 72 were made in government health facilities where 11215 beneficiaries took the jab and 4416 were inoculated at 67 vaccination centres in private hospitals. Among the total beneficiaries, maximum 8331 were between 45 and 60 years who took their first dose, while 254 of the same age group took the second dose. In all, 4066 beneficiaries above 60 years took their first dose and 672 of the same age group took the second dose, according to the data from the health department. A total of 805 health workers took the first dose and 220 second dose while 997 frontline workers took first dose and 286 second dose. Of the beneficiaries, 8707 were men and 6923 women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/max-single-day-inoculation-15631-take-the-shot-in-lko-101617381723841.html
02-04-2021||Other||4 held for beating dalit youth||Lakhimpur Kheri: A 22-year dalit youth Harendra was brutally thrashed by four people in Kusahi locality of Belrayan town in Tikonia kotwali area on Wednesday night. Old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the attack. Police said all four accused had been arrested. Reports said the youth sustained injuries in his private parts but circle officer (CO), Nighasan, Pradeep Kumar Verma, who is investigating the case, said, “Such injuries are mentioned neither in the complaint nor in the statement of the victim.” “Even the attending doctors were not informed about such injuries by the victim or his relatives,” he said. However, he added that investigation was underway and all the four accused had been arrested. According to Tikonia police sources, Dharmendra, the victim’s brother, told the police in his complaint that Harendra was preparing for a competition and practised running early morning. According to his complaint, Harendra was running outside his house on Wednesday when the accused Bramhadeen and his three sons Bharat, Gajraj and Raju caught hold of him and took him to their house where they brutally beat him. The assailants left him seriously injured. Later, his family members rescued him and rushed him to the local primary health centre. However, in view of his serious condition, Harendra was sent to the district hospital where he is still under treatment. CO Pradeep Kumar Verma said an FIR under Sections 323, 504, 506, 342 and 308 of IPC and Sections 3(27) 5A of SC/ST Act had been registered against the four accused who had been arrested. When asked about the motive behind the brutal attack, the CO said the aggrieved family had cited old enmity with Bramhadeen. “Investigations revealed that both parties had a dispute a year back but, they reconciled later,” he said.--Deo Kant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-held-for-beating-dalit-youth-101617381546582.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||What CM Uddhav Thackeray said in Covid-19 address to Maharashtra||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday took note of the seriousness of the Covid-19 situation in the state and warned the citizens of another lockdown if no other alternative is found in the next two days. He told people to not let the guard down yet and that if they fail to follow Covid-19 protocols and continue to rise, the state may soon face a shortage of health infrastructure."I am not announcing a lockdown but warning about it," the chief minister said, adding that the shutdown is a catch 22 situation as it has a major impact on the economy.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Thackeray’s address comes on a day when the state reported 47,827 new cases, the highest ever one-day jump in cases. Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai also logged record 8,844 cases.Here’s what Uddhav Thackeray told Maharashtra on Covid-19 situation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-cm-uddhav-thackeray-said-in-covid-19-address-to-maharashtra-101617380837736.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||Stones pelted at Rakesh Tikait’s cavalcade in Rajasthan: Police||Some people threw stones at a cavalcade of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait damaging his car’s rear windshield when he was going to address a rally in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday, police said.Tikait was not in his car when the stones were pelted at his cavalcade, Bhiwadi Superintendent of Police Ram Murti Joshi said, adding no one was injured in the incident.Stones were pelted at the cavalcade when it reached Tatarpur chauraha on its way to Tikait’s second rally venue, he said, adding the farmer leader addressed two rallies in the district on Friday.Police have detained four persons, including a student leader in this connection, he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/stones-pelted-at-rakesh-tikait-s-cavalcade-in-rajasthan-police-101617374830204.html
02-04-2021||Noida||Chilla route between Noida-Delhi disrupted due to protest by farmers||Traffic movement was disrupted between Noida and Delhi through a key route on Friday evening after a group of farmers started protesting on the road stretch, officials said.The protesters belonged to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and were holding a demonstration against the attack on their leader Rakesh Tikait in Rajasthan earlier on Friday."The Chilla route between Noida and Delhi has been affected due to the demonstration. Commuters can use the DND (Delhi-Noida Direct) flyway or the Kalindi Kunj route for travelling," a Noida Traffic Police official told PTI.Due to the sudden closure of the route, several vehicles piled up on the busy road stretch at the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border around 8 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/chilla-route-between-noida-delhi-disrupted-due-to-protest-by-farmers-101617379001457.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Mother and three daughters drown after car veers into Panshet dam||A family of four –mother and three daughters - drowned after the car they were travelling in veered into a waterbody in the Panshet dam catchment area, ahead of Mavlai, near the Panshet Kuran phata. The incident took place at 4 pm on Friday. According to the Velha police, the family travelling in the car was on their way to their residence in Pune after visiting their village Vihir, in Velha tehsil. Constable Suryakant Omase, who was present at the spot, said that the deceased were identified as Kalpana Vikule (45), and her daughters Prajakta (21), Pranita (17) and Vaidehi (18). The father, identified as Vithal Keshav Vikule (50) tried to save his wife and children, but failed. According to police, Vikule, who was at the wheel, lost control and veered straight into the water body. The incident was seen by villager Rajiv Thakkar, who immediately called in the police to help. Villagers and policemen tried their best to save the family, but in vain. The police have retrieved the bodies and their identification has been done. API Vitthal Pawar, the investigating officer in the case said that bodies will handed over to relatives after the post mortem was completed. PMRDA fire chief Devendra Potphode said, “The bodies have been fished out and four females of a family have died. The father has been rescued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mother-and-three-daughters-drown-after-car-veers-into-panshet-dam-101617379083548.html
02-04-2021||Pune||PMC won’t budge on decision to not pickup waste from bulk generators||In the background of next year’s civic elections, political parties have raised strong objection on the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s decision to not pick up garbage from bulk waste generators.After the objection, the PMC has decided to only impose a fine and give some more time to make arrangements to bulk waste generators. For the past year, the PMC has been creating awareness and warning bulk generators including big residential societies, government, and private establishments to make arrangements to process their own wet waste. In December 2020, the PMC solid waste department set a deadline of March 31, 2021for bulk generators to make arrangements or set up a system to process garbage within their premises. As per the data of the solid waste management department, there are a total of 1,403 bulk waste generators. The number of residential societies is more in comparison to the commercial establishments. However, the PMC has not initiated strict action on bulk waste generators after the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena’s objections. The MVA parties warned PMC that if the civic body stops picking up wet waste, garbage will be dumped at the doorstep of BJP office bearers. Aba Bagul, Congress party leader said, “It is the duty of the administration to pick up, transport and dispose of garbage. It cannot be denied. We will conduct an agitation against the administration and BJP office bearers.” Prithiviraj Sutar, Sena leader said, “In the solid waste management department’s policy, there is no such provision or action mentioned to stop picking up garbage. The PMC is not able to process or run garbage processing plants in the city. Now, they are pressurizing societies to set processing plants. Most of the societies don’t have enough space; the PMC should give more time and find a solution to this kind of problem because setting up a plant was not mandatory to societies before 2002. We are against this decision,” he added. Ganesh Bidkar, BJP leader of house in PMC said, “The PMC has not started any action on societies till date. We will discuss with the administration on this decision.” Kunal Khemnar, PMC’s additional municipal commissioner said, “Due to the Covid-19 situation, we have decided to impose a fine on bulk waste generators and give more time to make arrangements of processing garbage.” He further said, “We have sorted only 3,000 establishments. It is not for the entire city. It is a very small chunk compared to the city population. We are following policy and government directives which were passed by local representatives. Another thing, we are ready to cooperate with societies to sort out their problems but, they should have to approach us. The bulk generators should appoint a private agency to process wet garbage. The PMC is ready to pick up dry garbage, but the PMC will not pick up garbage from bulk generators after March 31, 2021 and impose a fine as per law. However, we are concentrating on the commercial establishments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-won-t-budge-on-decision-to-not-pickup-waste-from-bulk-generators-101617378003585.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||Matri Sadan founder gives up agitation on Ganga after assurance by mission director||Just a day after Swami Shivanand Saraswati, the spiritual ideologue of Matri Sadan ashram, intensified his fast unto death agitation relying on just a glass of water, the National Mission For Clean Ganga (NMCG) shot off a letter of assurance urging the seer to give up his agitation. A letter from the director-general of National Mission for Clean Ganga, Rajeev Ranjan Mishra, was handed to Swami Shivanand Saraswati by Ganga Vichar Manch national convener Bharat Pathak at Matri Sadan ashram. Soon after reading the letter, the seer broke his three-week-long agitation. “NMCG has already written to the Environment, Forest and Climate Change Ministry to review its decision on environmental and technical grounds to stop illegal quarrying from Raiwala till Bhogpur. We have also written to the Uttarakhand government regarding environment clearance for quarrying in the area. Regarding hydropower projects, we apprise Swami Shivanand Saraswati that no consent has been granted by the ministry for any new project. The government is committed to the conservation of the Ganga. We all are committed and jointly make efforts for its conservation,” said Mishra. After a discussion with the ashram members and Ganga activists, Swami Shivanand Saraswati announced breaking his agitation and sipped water in presence of Ganga Vichar Manch office bearers Bharat Pathak and Ashish Jha. Also read: Tirath Singh Rawat govt overturns previous leadership’s major move“NMCG has assured of taking requisite steps and urged me to give up the agitation, which I have considered after reading the letter. Ganga conservation, as well safeguarding the ecology, is paramount and Matri Sadan ashram has always been a flag-bearer in this regard,“ said Swami Shivanand Saraswati. Expressing happiness over the development, Magsaysay awardee Rajendra Singh said that the demands of Swami Shivanand Saraswati, as well as other seers who previously protested for the cause, are genuine and related to river Ganga, the ecology and environmental concerns. “Government should take prompt and long term measures on demands of these saints who are the real heroes of our country,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/matri-sadan-founder-gives-up-agitation-on-ganga-after-assurance-by-mission-director-101617377885141.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Cleric assault case: Court acquits four accused due to lack of evidence||A Pune court has acquitted four persons who were charged for attacking a Muslim cleric due to lack of evidence. The accused were charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in an FIR lodged against them at Kondhwa police station by the victim in 2014. Additional sessions judge S R Navander ordered acquittal of Dada alias Amit Valmiki Harpale (21), a resident of Phursungi, Deepak Vasant Gorgale (23), a resident of Undri, Dattatreya Rajesh Tak (25), a resident of Pisoli and Srikant Nagesh Malge (29), a resident of Undri for lack of evidence. The fifth accused identified as Atuk Ravindra Kad (27), a resident of Kadnagar in Undri died during the trial. On June 1, 2014 , at 9.45 pm Maulana Ashpaque Ahmed Ansari (40), a resident of Ayesha Masjid in Undri and his brother Izhar Ahmed Ansari ( 30) had finished prayers and were on their way to the Wanowrie Bazaar when they stopped on Bishop’s school road for an auto rickshaw. At that time, they were attacked by the accused with wooden sticks without any valid reason. Ashpaque fell unconscious on the ground and his brother rushed him to Inamdar hospital where he was admitted. Maulana Ashpaque Ansari later lodged an FIR with the Kondhwa police stating that they were assaulted as objectionable photos of deities went viral on social media. Seven witnesses were examined and all of them told the court that they had attempted to murder the victim. The accused were represented by advocate Milind Pawar. The order stated “Based on the circumstantial evidence submitted by the prosecution before the court, it cannot be proved that the accused attacked the victim with sticks. Neither can it prove that they had sticks at the time of the incident which were used as weapons of assault. The court acquits them for want of evidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cleric-assault-case-court-acquits-four-accused-due-to-lack-of-evidence-101617377883634.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Students raise concerns over SPPU exam guidelines||The first semester examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is going to start from April 10 and guidelines regarding conducting the exams have been issued by the university. All SPPU affiliated colleges will be conducting the exams for more than 3,500 subjects in the online mode and its timetable has been declared department wise. Students have raised certain questions over conducting the exam in online mode which will affect the examination as well as the results. As per the guidelines issued by SPPU’s examination department it is stated that, “Students must register themselves for the examination through their mobile or email id. If there is any technical issue raised while appearing for the online exam, then only that specific time period will be increased due to which the exam was delayed.” The most important issue given in the guidelines is about declaration of results within 48 hours after appearing for the exam. “Once the student completes the exam and submits his/her paper, the result will be declared within the next 48 hours on the student profile system. If the student has any doubt or issue with the results, then he/she should immediately apply online in the same system in the next 48 hours. If the student doesn’t apply within the given time, then there won’t be any further complaint will be considered valid,” said Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation. Last year, the SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day, both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. While for the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for one-hour duration. Strongly opposing these new guidelines specifically about the result, Kuldeep Ambekar, president of students helping hand organisation said, “We all have experienced that there are several technical issues and problems come while appearing for the exam and it continues in result process too. Students had to fight for two to three months to get their results corrected from the university. Now, they are saying that apply within 48 hours to correct the results or later on it won’t be taken. This is not acceptable and there should be a provision to keep offline application for verification or correction of results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-raise-concerns-over-sppu-exam-guidelines-101617377763494.html
02-04-2021||Other||Keep calm, BKU urges farmers after attack on Tikait cavalcade||Terming the attack on cavalcade of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait as BJP conspiracy, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has made an appeal to farmers to not to lose their cool.“Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will take decision on future course of action,” said BKU’s state spokesperson Dharmendra Malik.Some people threw stones at a cavalcade of Tikait damaging his car’s rear windshield when he was going to address a rally in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday.Tikait was not in his car when the stones were pelted at his cavalcade, Bhiwadi superintendent of police Ram Murti Joshi said, adding no one was injured in the incident.Reacting to the incident, angry farmers blocked traffic on Gazipur border, Bhojpur (Ghaziabad) and Jewar (Noida).Malik said those who attacked were activists and leaders of BJP’s youth wing Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and a case has been lodged against them.He said farmers were not afraid of such dirty conspiracies of the BJP. “BJP men should also keep in mind that their MPs and MLAs also roam around on roads. We would not allow their movement if farmer leaders were attacked by BJP goons,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-calm-bku-urges-farmers-after-attack-on-tikait-cavalcade-101617376863491.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Temperature likely to rise to 38 Degree Celsius by Monday in Delhi: IMD||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 34.4 degrees Celsius on Friday, two notches above the normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The city's minimum temperature settled at 16.2 degrees Celsius.The weatherman said the mercury is likely to rise to 38 degrees Celsius by Monday. The capital had recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius last month, making it the "hottest" March in the last 11 years, according to the IMD.It was the highest mean maximum temperature in March since 2010, when it was 34.1 degrees Celsius.Normally, the mean maximum temperature for the month of March in Delhi is 29.6 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.On Monday, Delhi reeled under a "severe" heat wave, as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, the IMD had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/temperature-likely-to-rise-to-38-degree-celsius-by-monday-in-delhi-imd-101617375320905.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Highest spike of 8,832 Covid-19 cases in Mumbai; Maharashtra records over 47,000 cases||Mumbai on Friday recorded the highest spike in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally since the beginning of the pandemic with 8,832 cases and 19 more deaths. The caseload in Mumbai has now climbed to 432,367 with 11,727 deaths and 361,043 recoveries. This is also the second consecutive day that cases breached the 8,000-mark in the city. On Thursday, 8,646 people tested positive for the disease, which was previously the highest spike since last year.Maharashtra also saw the highest spike in its daily tally since last year with 47,827 new cases and the caseload breached the 2.9 million mark. A total of 202 people died and 24,126 were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 55,379 and 2,457,494 respectively, the bulletin showed.Amid indications that another lockdown might be imposed across the state to curb the spread of Covid-19, Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday an alternative will be found in the next two days and if no alternative is found, then the state government will have to decide on the next course of action after two days. Addressing a briefing, Thackeray also urged all the political parties in Maharashtra to positively respond to his request when it comes to lockdown.Also Read| Lockdown in Maharashtra can't be ruled out, says Uddhav; stricter curbs soonMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, meanwhile, said on Friday strict measures will have to be taken due to the rise in cases (since mid-February) which is creating pressure on the city’s health infrastructure. She added there are sufficient number of beds to accommodate the increasing number of patients but one has to act wisely before the city enters the danger zone.According to the BMC data, Mumbai saw 88,710 Covid disease cases in March alone, almost 475% greater than February’s case count at 18,359. January saw 16,328 cases in total, the civic body’s data said. There were 70,351 more cases in Mumbai in March as compared to the February and 72,382 more cases as compared to the figures in January, the BMC data showed as reported by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-yet-another-highest-single-day-spike-with-8-832-new-covid-19-cases-101617375204537.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Lost star||She would have turned 67 tomorrow, had she lived. How would she have marked the occasion? The last birthday she’d celebrated had been her fiftieth. She’d hosted a dinner for a handful of her friends — the few people who had managed to pierce through the smog of her paranoia and who she had accepted into her inner circle; her trusty manager who’d stuck by her through the savage spins of her tumultuous career; her building watchman along with the neighbourhood handyman; a couple of priests from the Church where she’d been baptized a few months before; and inexplicably, a random fan who had cold-called her and had managed to win her trust. She’d worn her prettiest kaftan and most flamboyant lipstick for the occasion. The table had been laden with dishes which she had prepared herself and glasses were clinked and jokes cracked. But, according to “Parveen Babi: A Life” authored by journalist Karishma Upadhaya, “Under that bright veneer of fun though, there was anxiety, and the laughter had not been as spontaneous as it had once been. The guests found it very hard to ignore the Dictaphone she had casually placed on the coffee table, in between glasses of mocktails and plates of food.’ It was to be one of her last hurrahs. Nine months later, this once-celebrated leading lady of the Indian film industry, a veteran of over 50 movies of which a dozen or so had been blockbusters at the box office, whose face had once adorned the cover of an international magazine when it turned its focus on India’s film industry, was found dead. Her body starved and gangrenous and only discovered two days after her passing, when her building security had alerted the police. Parveen Babi’s life is a morality tale on so many levels. On the most basic level, it teaches us about the dangers of the brittle world of show business and the damage it can wreak on the vulnerable and fragile; it underlines the importance of family and a support system for those in the limelight; it reveals the prejudice and pain endured by intelligent, beautiful and successful women who do not abide by patriarchal societal conventions. But above all, it emphasises the need to de-stigmatise mental illness and the way its victims are viewed and treated. At the height of her illness, when this once celebrated and vivacious leading lady, a woman known for her magnanimity and good manners and her intellect and sophistication, had begun to tell anyone willing to listen that she was the victim of an international conspiracy, that her food was poisoned and that a bugging device had been surgically planted under her ear, the media and the public had lapped it up. “She’s gone crazy”, “She’s lost her mind” the headlines had screamed. Sixteen years ago, the empathy and sensitivity for those suffering from mental illness had been more absent than it is today. An overweight, unkempt Babi spewing fantastic conspiracy theories was given none of the support and understanding that she so urgently required. Alone and friendless in Mumbai (according to some versions she rebuffed their overtures and stonewalled their solicitations), she was a walking train wreck, a tragedy waiting to happen in full public view, and no one, not her family, her lovers, colleagues, nor her adoring fans had stepped forward to prevent it. Would things have been different if it had happened sixteen years later, today? Perhaps not. Yes, since Babi’s death there have been others in the public eye who have tried to bring about a more empathetic understanding of mental illness. Deepika Padukone was brave enough to share her own; Ira Rao, Aamir Khan’s daughter, courageously faces prejudice stigma and vicious trolling each day as she recounts her tryst with depression; and Neerja Birla, through her NGO Mpower, have attempted to educate the public about its vicissitudes. But these interventions have been a drop in the ocean against the tide of misunderstanding and prejudice. We have only to look back as recently as last year to know how Sushant Singh Rajput’s struggle with depression and his ultimate suicide resulted in a heinous media circus that engulfed the nation. According to her friends, before Babi’s illness manifested itself, she had been a warm, effervescent and hardworking woman who had achieved a fair measure of success in a very competitive and demanding industry through her own merit. Why then had she ended up so alone and ill? The answer lies in our individual responses to mental illness. How would we respond to a manic and distraught Parveen Babi today? In a world already so fraught and hard-hearted, who would have the compassion and sensitivity to view someone with Babi’s affliction with the empathy and sensitivity it deserved? Which of her friends and colleagues would have the patience and perseverance to assist her in accessing the medical help that she so urgently required? Which media outlets would turn down the opportunity to make fodder of her illness or moolah out of the TRP it generated and leave her alone until she had healed? As for her doting fans and the general public, would anyone have cared to look beyond the manifestations of her paranoid schizophrenia and see the unwell and ailing woman under it, crying out for help? Sixteen years ago, a once-strong and successful woman was allowed to suffer unimaginable pain and to die alone. The tragedy is that were the same circumstances to present themselves today, she’d probably have met the same fate, or worse given the all-pervasive presence of social media and its army of trolls. “The death of human empathy is one of the earliest and most telling signs of a culture about to fall into barbarism,” Wrote political theorist Hannah Arendt, an early victim of Hitler’s anti-Semitism. On the eve of what would have been her 67th birth anniversary, what does it say about the prevailing culture of our time that had she been alive, Parveen Babi would perhaps still not get the understanding or empathy that she required? It is a sobering thought, one that should engage us far more than it does.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-lost-star-101617374884028.html
02-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s Shahnajaf Imambada wall collapses, HAT blames Jal Nigam||LUCKNOW The Gomti river-facing wall of the Shahnajaf Imambada collapsed on Friday. The Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) — the custodian of the imambada – made it clear that the wall was not a heritage structure. The trust blamed the Jal Nigam for the collapse as the civic agency was carrying out deep sewer line laying work along the wall. “Though the wall belonged to the Shahnajaf Imambada, it was not a heritage structure. The wall possibly collapsed due to the ongoing deep sewer line laying work being carried out along the wall the by Jal Nigam,” said Santosh Kumar, additional city magistrate (ACM) II, who holds charge of HAT secretary. He said the wall was recently repaired by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Sanjay Kumar Singh, chief engineer Jal Nigam (Lucknow zone) said the wall of Shahnajaf Imambada collapsed due to excessive mud pressure. “That was not a heritage wall. I have ordered repair of the damaged wall,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-shahnajaf-imambada-wall-collapses-hat-blames-jal-nigam-101617372963291.html
02-04-2021||Other||Power staff in UP continue to enjoy unmetered electricity||LUCKNOW Even as the Centre’s proposed scheme seeks 100% metered supply for all consumers to help discoms overcome losses, around one lakh power personnel and pensioners in Uttar Pradesh continue to get unmetered and unlimited supply of electricity that remains unaccounted for, said officials dealing with the issue. The Electricity Act, 2003, already prohibits unmetered supply of power to any consumer. “All the efforts by the state government and the UP Power Corporaion Ltd (UPPCL) management as well as repeated orders by the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) have failed to convince or force power employees to install energy metres in their houses,” a senior energy department official said. The UPERC recently sought a status report from the UPPCL on the number of power employees in whose houses meters have been installed before it admitted and approved the latter’s annual revenue requirement (ARR) proposal for 2021-22. The corporation had no reply to the question. “We sought information on the number of power personnel who have been connected to metered supply so far but they did not give any direct reply,” said RP Singh, UPERC chairman. UPPCL chairman M Devraj refused to comment on the issue. “No comment please,” he said when asked to tell if the corporation had any action plan to install meters on the premises owned by power employees and pensioners. The UPERC, in its September 3, 2019 tariff order, abolished the separate category (LMV-10) that was meant for unmetered supply to powermen and put them into the MLV-1 tariff category applicable for domestic consumers. “After the UPERC abolished the power employees’ separate tariff category and put them in the schedule applicable to any other domestic consumer, the UPPCL should have installed meters at power employees’ residences or started doing normative billing in their case (as is done in case of domestic consumers whose meter is defective or have no meter at all) till the meters were installed,” a senior official pointed out. Under the rules prevailing till the 2019 tariff order, power employees would pay minimum monthly charges fixed for them for unmetered and unlimited electricity use. The charges were deducted from their monthly salary. “Now, even those minimum charges are not being deducted from their salary because doing it is legally not possible after the UPERC abolished employees’ separate tariff category,” the official claimed. The Revamped Reforms-Linked Result-Based Distribution Sector Scheme, a new scheme that the Centre plans to roll out very shortly among other things aims at 100% prepaid metering for all consumers by March 2025 to make discoms financially viable to supply 24x7 electricity to all. “But UPPCL employees, who will be mandated to install meters in all other consumers’ houses, are shying away from installing meters in their own residences,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-staff-in-up-continue-to-enjoy-unmetered-electricity-101617372423327.html
02-04-2021||Lucknow||Class 10 student returning from tuition in UP village raped by 4; she dies by suicide||A 14-year-old girl in a Meerut village died by suicide hours after she was gangraped by four men on Thursday evening. She died in a city hospital later in the night, police said.The girl, a class 10 student, was on her way back from tuition a short distance from her house when the accused stopped her, dragged her to a secluded spot and raped her. The girl consumed poison soon after reaching home. Her family first rushed her to a doctor in the village and as her condition deteriorated, rushed her to a hospital in Meerut where she died.Keshav Mishra, Meerut’s Superintendent of Police (Rural) said two of the four accused, said to be 18 or 19 years old, have been arrested.A suicide note has been recovered from the room of the girl who was studying to appear in her class 10 board examinations in a month or so. In the note, the girl held the four youth responsible for her death.One of the four accused studied at the same tuition centre where the girl was also enrolled. Raids were being carried out to arrest the other two teenagers, Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/class-10-student-returning-from-tuition-in-up-village-raped-by-4-she-dies-by-suicide-101617372365264.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 3,594 fresh cases of Covid-19; 14 deaths||Delhi recorded 3,594 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, while 14 more people died due to the infection, taking the death toll to 11,050, according to the city health department.The positivity rate also mounted to 4.11 from 3.57 per cent a day before, amid a massive surge in cases in the span of the last few weeks.Delhi had reported 2,790 cases on Thursday, and 1,819 coronavirus cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 2.71 per cent.The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 6,68,814. Over 6.45 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.The city had recorded 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday.It had reported 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on last Friday, 1,515 cases last Thursday, 1,254 cases a day before that and 1,101 cases last Tuesday, when it had crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time since December 24.On December 8, last year, the city had recorded 3,188 cases and 2,706 on December 6.According to the latest bulletin, 14 more people died due to the disease, taking the toll to 11,050, it said.The number of active cases rose to 11,994 from 10,498 a day before.A total of 87,505 tests, including 54,898 RT-PCR tests and 32,607 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-3-594-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-14-deaths-101617370704270.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||Tirath Singh Rawat govt overturns previous leadership’s major move||Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat-led Uttarakhand government on Friday reversed one more major decision of the previous government led by Trivendra Singh Rawat. The state government decided to remove all non-government appointments and nominations made for the post of chairmen, vice-chairmen, advisors in corporations, commissions, civic bodies, councils and those with the status of a minister or minister of state in such bodies. The move applies to all appointments made since March 18, 2017, except in cases where such appointments were made on constitutional posts for fixed periods. The order in this regard was issued by chief secretary Om Prakash on Friday. Such appointments are generally made from among party leaders on the directions of the chief minister keeping various political equations and regional considerations in mind. Opposition Congress termed the development an expression of the ongoing infighting and power struggle within the state BJP unit. Pritam Singh, state Congress president, said that all such appointments and nominations in such bodies were made by the BJP government. “It was not as if the government had changed and it was necessary to remove such people. It is a clear indication that it is another decision that has been reversed. There is infighting in the state BJP due to which many decisions of the previous government are being changed. All this shows that the BJP has misled the people for four years and now in the last year, they are bringing changes, which won’t fool people here anymore”. A close aide of former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, wishing not to be named, said that whenever a new chief minister takes over, he has the right to select his ministers and appoint people in such bodies. “Every new CM makes these changes. Nothing more should be read in this development beyond that,” he said. The official added that since 2017, around 70 to 80 such appointments had been made in such bodies by the previous government. The BJP called the development a routine affair, adding that the Congress is unnecessary raking up the issue as it has been its habit in most cases. Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson, said it is a routine development with every new CM, whether it is the BJP or the Congress. “The new CM will choose new party members, who may even include some old ones as well. Our government had appointed around 70 to 80 people, while the Congress government in the past had appointed over 200 or so. They should see what they had done when they were in power and then comment on us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tirath-singh-rawat-govt-overturns-previous-leadership-s-major-move-101617370083838.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Positivity rate of Covid cases in last 2 weeks jumps from 0.93% to over 3.5%||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the positivity rate has mounted from just below one per cent to 3.57 per cent in the last two weeks, according to official data.Delhi had recorded 2,790 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest daily count this year while nine more people had died due to the infection, taking the death toll to 11,036, according to the city health department.The positivity rate also had mounted to 3.57 per cent amid a massive surge in cases in the span of the last few weeks.Delhi had reported 1,819 coronavirus cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 2.71 per cent, while 11 more people succumbed to the pathogen.The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 6,65,220. Over 6.43 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.The city had recorded 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday.Delhi on March 19 had recorded 716 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest in over two-and-a-half months, while the positivity rose had jumped to 0.93 per cent. Four fatalities were reported on that day pushing the death toll to 10,953, as per official data.The next day, Delhi had reported over 800 Covid-19 cases, for the first time this year, and the positivity rate had breached the one per cent-mark after over two months.The figures have been steadily rising since then, crossing two per cent-mark in between and then breaching the three per cent-mark.The positivity rate was 2.70 per cent on Tuesday, 2.77 per cent on Monday, 2.35 per cent on Sunday, 1.70 per cent on Saturday, 1.80 per cent last Friday, and 1.69 per cent last Thursday.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had last week dismissed any possibility of imposing another lockdown in Delhi, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the coronavirus that is again surging rapidly.Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" in cases to people turning complacent and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour.The next two-three months could be challenging, they said, adding the situation can be kept under control if vaccination is opened up for more people and COVID-19 protocols are strictly adhered to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-rate-of-covid-cases-in-last-2-weeks-jumps-from-0-93-to-over-35-101617369341361.html
02-04-2021||Pune||No lockdown for now but strict curbs, curfew in Pune from tomorrow evening||Stringent curbs will be imposed on Pune district from Saturday evening with curfew to be in place from 6 pm to 6 am and all eateries, malls, cinema halls and religious places to remain shut for the next seven days. The Pune administration, however, has decided against imposing complete lockdown similar to last year even as cases are rising sharply with the weekly positivity rate touching 32%. Amid a massive surge in Covid-19 infections, Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao announced fresh restrictions after reviewing the situation in the city, at a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. Although new measures have been taken, all essential services are exempted from the restrictions. Besides curfew post evening, the assembly of more than four people has been prohibited during the daytime too.The administration has also suspended the public transport service run by PMPML for common people. The intra-city buses will however, continue to run for those engaged in essential services. State transport bus service and inter-district travel has been permitted. The new measures will come into force from 6 pm on Saturday and will be reviewed by next Friday. Rao said while eateries, restaurants and bars will be closed for 7 days, parcel services and home delivery will be allowed. The closure order will not be applicable for shops selling cloth and liquor. “The situation in Pune district has been deteriorating. Until last week, Pune’s positivity rate was up to 27 per cent. But this week the positivity rate has reached 32 per cent. According to health experts, if this situation persists, we will have 9000 Covid-19 cases per day from the existing daily caseload of 8000. After the discussion in the meeting with elected representatives these decisions have been taken. We are also focusing on increasing health infrastructure by ramping up beds,” Rao.As part of the new curbs, weekly markets in rural areas of the district and parts of the city have been banned while the Market Yard (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) at Gultekdi will be operational under the watch of authorities to ensure the guidelines are being followed. Swimming polls and club houses in societies have been asked to remain shut for now. Schools and colleges will continue to remain closed till April 30. Rao, however, clarified that students of class XII and class X are exempted from these restrictions while competitive examination coaching classes will be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. The same rule is applicable to gyms. Gardens will be opened only in the morning.“We were eagerly waiting for these decisions. Though official lockdown has not been declared, I fear that the situation will be the same as lockdown. PMT service is closed. Roadside stalls will be shut. It will surely affect our number of customers,” said Sanjeev Phadtare, Secretary, Tulashibag Traders Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-lockdown-for-now-but-strict-curbs-curfew-in-pune-from-tomorrow-evening-101617369604070.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||‘Urge Centre to allow Covid-19 vaccination at non-hospital facilities’: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday requested the Centre to include non-health facilities like schools, community centres in the vaccination drive and to remove the clause of 45 years and above for inoculation.Addressing a press briefing, Kejriwal thanked the Centre for starting the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive from April 1, where all citizens aged 45 and above are being inoculated. He said a total of 71,000 beneficiaries in Delhi were given doses on Thursday of which only four people experienced some reactions and got recovered in an hour or two.“However, we are facing two problems. Firstly, as per the Centre’s guidelines, vaccinations can only be done at hospitals and health facilities. Initially, there were fears that if people experience any side effects or reactions after taking the dose, there had to be a facility where they can be immediately treated. But it has been three months since vaccination started. And it is proven that vaccines are safe,” he said.Also Read| No lockdown in Delhi, situation not as serious as before, says KejriwalThe chief minister pointed out that if vaccination begins at a mass level at non-hospital facilities, the Covid-19 disease can be brought under control. Arrangements such as ambulances, first aid etc., can be made available at such facilities, he said.More than 1.3 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the national Capital so far since the drive began on January 16.At the start of the briefing, Kejriwal said under the fourth wave of the pandemic in Delhi, cases are increasing exponentially but the wave is not as serious as the previous ones as there are very less deaths and lesser admissions in hospitals and intensive care units (ICUs). He announced no lockdown will be imposed as of now.Friday’s briefing was held after the chief minister chaired an emergency meeting at his residence earlier in the day amid the spike in infections in Delhi. On Thursday, 2,790 had tested positive for Covid-19 while nine more died, taking the caseload and death toll to 665,220 and 11,036 respectively. Thursday’s figures have been the highest in more than three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/urge-centre-to-allow-covid-19-vaccination-at-non-hospital-facilities-kejriwal-101617367708032.html
02-04-2021||Lucknow||Spurt in corona cases: UP schools up to class 8 closed till April 11||All government and private schools from class 1 to 8 across the state will remain closed till April 11 (Sunday) in view of spike in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a meeting on Friday, said an official. The classes will resume from April 12 now. The state government had closed down schools from class 1 to 8 on March 24 and gave students an extended Holi holiday. Earlier, these classes were scheduled to start from April 5. It has now been extended for a week. Soon after the government decided to keep schools closed till April 11, Unaided Private Schools Association, UP chief Anil Agarwal said many member schools have decided to keep their schools closed from Nursery to class 12 till April 11. The decision to resume teaching for students of class 9 to 12 from April 1, however, has left many parents concerned. While UP government has closed schools up to class 8 till April 11 and university, degree college were allowed to go for online classes till April 10, the government has not given any relief to students of class 9 to 12 who are required to go to schools to attend physical classes. For instance, if all students of class 9 to 12 come to attend classes at Aminabad Inter College there will be 1000 students. Principal Sahab Lal Mishra said, “We called students of class 9 and 11 on April 1 to collect report card. And classes for 9 to 12 will begin from Saturday as per government order.” Parents, however, want government to have mercy on their children. They want schools to switch to online mode. In all campuses of City Montessori Schools offline examinations for classes 9 to 12 shall continue as scheduled with strict COVID protocols in place as per the district administration’s guidelines. All campuses of CMS will start the new session for classes Montessori to 8 from Monday, April 5. In the new session, classes will be held online till April 14. The school will conduct offline classes for Montessori to class 8 after April 14, as per the government guidelines. CMS spokesman, Rishi Khanna, said, “CMS has already adjourned the examinations for classes Montessori to 8th, granting students promotion on the basis of their past test performance. The new session for these students will begin from April 5.” “All our campuses are being sanitised at least twice every day, masks are mandatory for both teachers and students, thermal scanning and sanitisation of students is done as they enter the school gates. No student is allowed to loiter in the campus before or after the examination,” he said. Uttar Pradesh reported 2,600 new COVID-19 cases and nine fatalities on Thursday, pushing the state’s infection tally to 6,19,783 and the death toll to 8,820, according to a health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/spurt-in-corona-cases-up-schools-up-to-class-8-closed-till-april-11-101617368583201.html
02-04-2021||Lucknow||UP CM stresses on tracking, testing and treatment of Covid patients||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officials to maintain a special vigil over Covid-19 situation in Lucknow, Kanpur, Meerut, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad and Agra.Stressing on testing, tracking and treatment, the CM said effective arrangements should be done for treatment of patients and ensuring that they do not further spread the infection.Yogi was reviewing the unlock situation at a high-level meeting at his official residence here.He said Uttar Pradesh had sufficient resources and experience of successfully treating Covid-19 patients and containing the epidemic.He said a better coordination should be made between use of resources and experience to effectively fight the pandemic.He said all necessary steps should be taken to check the spread of Covid-19 in villages in the state. He said the people were coming to rural areas for festivals and panchayat elections and there was a need to take effective measures to check the spread of Covid-19. He said public address system should be effectively used to educate people about protection against coronavirus infection. Yogi said use of masks should be made mandatory and those found without a mask at public places should be fined. He said a report about restoring all the Covid hospitals across the state should be made available to him by Friday evening. He said monitoring committees should be activated and surveillance system should also be made effective. He said number of L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals should be increased.He said patients in home isolation should be regularly monitored.Yogi also reviewed the progress of vaccination. He said people of 45-year and above age group should be vaccinated and the pace of vaccination should be stepped up. He said vaccination work should be carried out with full commitment in accordance with guidelines of union government. He said wastage of vaccine should be checked under any circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-stresses-on-tracking-testing-and-treatment-of-covid-patients-101617368223043.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||After getting thrashed, mela officer garlanded by Akhada seers in patch-up move||Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh on Friday visited the Bairagi camp where Nirmohi Akhada seers welcomed and garlanded him in a move to bury the dispute that had emerged between the two sides on Thursday. Shri Panch Nirmohi Akhada’s Mahant Rajendra Singh said “trivial incidents can’t overshadow the grandeur of Kumbh”.On Thursday, Singh was allegedly manhandled by Akhada seers over lack of proper arrangements in Mahakumbh mela. On Friday, the official was welcomed by Shri Panch Nirmohi Akhada’s Mahant Rajendra Singh while the seers showered petals and garlanded him.“Both saints and mela administration work in tandem during Kumbh fairs and will do so in Mahakumbh 2021. A grand and safe Kumbh mela is all that we are working together for,” said Mahant Rajendra Das.Meanwhile, Inspector-General, Kumbh mela force expressed unhappiness over Singh’s manhandling by Akhada seers.“Akhada Parishad has also condemned the behaviour of seers at Bairagi camp. Entry has been made in the general diary and the matter is being investigated. Due legal action will be taken,” said Sanjay Gunjiyal, Inspector-General, Kumbh mela force.Also Read: Helicopter showers petals as Akhadas hoist flag on day 2 of Mahakumbh“The state government has failed in organising the Mahakumbh fair. For centuries, the fair was being held for four months but the state government curtailed it to one month is not able to provide requisite facilities for saints and pilgrims. We condemn the incident that occurred at Bairagi camp. It is quite unfortunate,” said Congress state unit president Pritam Singh. The Bairagi akhada includes Nirmohi, Nirvani and Digambar Akhada.A city-based lawyer has filed a complaint against the spiritual head of Shri Panch Nirmohi Akhada in connection with the assault on Singh by Akhada seers.Lawyer Arun Bhadauriya submitted a complaint at Bairagi camp Kumbh Mela police station alleging a conspiracy by Shir Panch Nirmohi Akhada’s Mahant Rajendra Das and other Akhada seers. In the complaint, Bhaduriya alleged that officer Harbeer Singh was called to Bariagi camp on the pretext of no power supply at the Akhada camps.“I urge concerned officials to register a case against Mahant Rajendra Das and other seers involved in beating up of Kumbh mela additional officer and his security guard who is recuperating in the hospital. Saints can’t transgress the boundaries of law and order. They are regarded in high esteem in Hindu Sanatan Dharma and society,” Bhadauriya stated.When contacted, Kumbh mela Superintendent of Police (SP) Surjeet Singh Pawar said that Bairagi camp Kumbh mela police station has received the complaint and the probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-getting-thrashed-mela-officer-garlanded-by-akhada-seers-in-a-patch-up-move-101617367323592.html
02-04-2021||Other||Eshwarappa plaints against CM will be resolved in 2 days: Karnataka BJP chief||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Friday that grievances of Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa will be redressed in the next two days. Eshwarappa had made serious allegations against chief minister Yediyurappa, giving the Opposition the opportunity to approach the Governor and demand President’s rule in the state.State BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel told reporters in Mangaluru, “This will end well.In the next two days, I will only resolve it.” He said that the party is reviewing all incidents that have taken place in the last two days and they will discuss it with all those involved and resolve the issue.Kateel’s assurance comes a couple of days after Eshwarappa, the rural development and panchayati raj minister, made allegations of interference against chief minister Yediyurappa and called his administration “authoritarian”.The developments have given the Opposition more ammunition to attack an already pressured Yediyurappa government. The incident has also given rise to the speculation that the attacks against the chief minister had the BJP’s sanction. Eshwarappa alleged that he held back the approval to three projects, totalling ₹1,299 crore, which Yediyurappa was forcing the department to approve after bypassing the minister in charge.Also Read | K’taka minister’s letter fans new political rowDismissing claims that he was targeting the CM over their personal differences, Eshwarappa on Friday said that he was merely trying to reinstate the practice of following rules and procedures.“I am not a rebel, I am loyal,” he said as he pointed out that Yediyurappa left the BJP in 2012 and formed the Karnataka Janata Party.The two leaders are from Shivamogga and share a tempestuous relationship.On Thursday, Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah had urged the Karnataka Governor to intervene, remove Yediyurappa and recommend President’s Rule in the state.Eshwarappa’s criticism has added to the pressure on Yediyurappa who faces dissent from within the party and government. With the Covid-19 situation deteriorating steadily, the CM is also struggling to keep the numbers down without having to implement strict restrictions or lockdown-like measures.To add to the CM’s woes, voices within the party have been growing against Yediyurappa and his second son, BY Vijayendra, who has been accused of running a parallel administration. The upcoming bypolls in Basavakalyan, Belagavi and Maski presented an opportunity for Yediyurappa to silence some of this dissent but the sex scandal involving Ramesh Jarkiholi and Eshwarappa’s allegations have dented the party’s prospects.Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the legislator from Bijapur City continues to attack the chief minister, calling for his removal.However, Kateel said that Yatnal and Eshwarappa’s cases were different. He said the party had issued a notice to Yatnal and that the legislator will respond to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eshwarappa-plaints-against-cm-will-be-resolved-in-2-days-karnataka-bjp-chief-101617366783742.html
02-04-2021||Other||3 men arrested in UP’s Jhansi for demanding action against Kerala nuns||Three men were arrested after they created a ruckus at the Government Railway Police (GRP) Station in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi on Thursday night, alleging inaction over their forced religious conversion complaint against two nuns last month, a police officer said.The nuns were harassed and taken off a train in Jhansi on March 19 after a group of people claiming to be associated with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) accused the former of taking two postulants accompanying them for forced conversion.Jhansi residents Anchal Agadiya, Purukesh Amariya, and Ajay Shankar Tiwari were booked under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code (arrest to prevent the commission of a cognisable offence).Police superintendent (Railway) Somitra Yadav, who was rushed to Jhansi on March 25 to inquire into the harassment, said the three were produced before a magistrate on Friday and sent to jail till April 6.Investigators said Agadiya had informed the Railway Protection Force (RPF) control room and GRP (Jhansi) station house officer about his suspicion that the nuns were taking the two postulants for conversion. On his complaint, RPF took off the nuns and the postulants from the Odisha-bound Utkal Express on March 19.Yadav said Tiwari later lodged a formal complaint with GRP in Jhansi on March 19. . Yadav said the three were building pressure on the police to act upon the complaint.An inquiry into the harassment was ordered late last month hours after Union home minister Amit Shah assured at a public rally in election-bound Kerala that strong action would be taken against those who harassed the nuns. The issue snowballed into a major controversy after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took the nuns’ case up when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is reaching out to the Christian community, which accounts for 16% of the electorate in Kerala.Also Read | Kerala nun harassment case: Investigating officer picked for probeABVP is a student organisation affiliated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological fount.The nuns and postulants belong to New Delhi’s Sacred Hearts Congregation. They were returning to their native Rourkela in Odisha on March 19.A video of the harassment went viral on social media and purportedly showed the policemen threatening and misbehaving with the nuns, who were also forced to show their Aadhaar cards before they were later taken off the train. The nuns and postulants were brought to the GRP station even the postulants insisted they were Christians by birth. Officials of Jhansi’s St Jude’s Church also showed their baptism certificates to the police.The nuns and the postulants remained at the police station for three hours before they were released. They spent the night in Jhansi before leaving for Rourkela the next day on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-men-arrested-in-up-s-jhansi-for-demanding-action-against-kerala-nuns-101617363843574.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM threatening people with lockdown, says BJP's Rane||BJP leader Narayan Rane on Friday said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had failed to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases and was "threatening" people with another lockdown.He said Maharashtra had seen 54,000 deaths due to the infection, the highest for any state in the country, but added that another lockdown was "unacceptable".Mocking the Uddhav Thackeray government's 'my family, my responsibility' anti Covid-19 campaign, Rane said the CM's own family had contracted the infection.The CM's wife Rashmi and minister son Aaditya were detected with the infection recently."In one year, the CM and his government have failed to improve the state's health infrastructure and are now threatening the people with another lockdown in case they do not conduct themselves with self-discipline," Rane claimed."You have to talk to citizens with respect rather than issue threats. Another lockdown is unacceptable," he added.The former chief minister also criticised the CM for imposing night curfew amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-threatening-people-with-lockdown-says-bjp-s-rane-101617363082295.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to prepare online register of students coaching in Kota||The Rajasthan government will create an online register of students from other states, who are preparing for competitive examinations in Kota city, a well known coaching hub. The proposal for the ₹68 lakh project was cleared on Friday by chief minister Ashok Gehlot.RajComp Info Services Limited (RISL) has been assigned the job to create the database, which will include personal details of about two lakh students coaching in Kota city.“When the details of the students are available, it will be easier to manage these migrants in situations such as Covid-19. Similar student registers will also be prepared for other cities with coaching institutes,” said a release from the CM’s office. There are about 50 small and 10 big coaching institutes in Kota city, home to about 2 lakh students preparing for entry into engineering and medical colleges. There are around 25,000 paying guest facilities, 3,000 hostels and 1,800 student kitchen facilities. The annual turnover of the coaching related business in Kota is over ₹3,000 crore, as per the official data.The student database will carry details of all coaching institutes, permanent address and other contact details of students and their families, information on hostels, paying guest accommodations, student kitchens etc in the city. Through this portal, students will be able to register their problems related to coaching and lodging. The students register could also be used by parents to learn about their children’s time tables and attendance at coaching institutes. In special circumstances, necessary information and messages can be sent to the phone numbers entered in the database. The local administration will also use this database for better management of the entire coaching ecosystem in the city and the region, said the official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-prepare-online-register-of-students-coaching-in-kota-101617362703528.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||Helicopter showers petals as Akhadas hoist flag on day 2 of Mahakumbh||Flower petals were showered from a chopper during the flag hoisting event, Dharm Dhwaja, of Akhadas on day two of the Mahakumbh fair in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. The auspicious ritual of Dharm Dhwaja was carried out at Bairagi Akhada’s camp on Friday.This is the second time when chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat directed officials to do so. On March 11, Rawat had ordered flowers to be showered on pilgrims and Akhada seers in Haridwar on the occasion of the first Shahi Snan (holy royal dip) on Shivratri. “We thank the state government for ensuring showering of petals through helicopters earlier during Shahi Snan of Maha Shivratri and now during the religious flag hoisting at Kankhal of Bairagi Akhadas. The occasion of dharm dhwaja marks the beginning of Kumbh fair for the said Akhadas. It’s a holy place under which spiritual benefit is accrued and devotees pay obeisance,” said Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri. While Sanyasi Akhada’s religious flag was hoisted in March, the flag of three Bairagi Akhadas, which include Nirmohi, Nirvani and Digambar akhadas, was hoisted a day after the notification for Mahakumbh came into effect on Friday. To mark the major occasion, saints representing all thirteen Akhadas, along with Kumbh mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat and Kumbh mela force Inspector-General of Police Sanjay Gunjiyal, were present during the flag hoisting. As soon as the flag was hoisted, a chopper showered flowers on seers, devotees and tourists. Shri Panch Nirmohi Akhada’s spiritual ideologue, Shri Mahant Rajendra Das, said that with the hoisting of the religious flag and offering of prayers to Lord Hanuman, Akhada activities related to the Kumbh fair will begin on a wider scale. Akhada seers, as well as followers, have already started arriving for the Kumbh fair at the Bairagi camp. “First, rituals are carried out to worship mother earth (Bhoomi Pujan) after which the religious flag is hoisted. This is followed by offering prayers to the respective deity of all Akhadas. The religious flag remains throughout the tenure of Mahakumbh and is symbolic of the respective Akhada tradition, custom, presence and identity as well the Kumbh fair,” said Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, international convener of Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/helicopter-showers-petals-as-akhadas-hoist-flag-on-day-2-of-mahakumbh-101617362643373.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Slam Dunk: One size does not fit all – how basketball shapes shoe technology||In one of the most famous and popular commercials advertising and promoting Air Jordan shoes, the fictional character Mars Blackmon exclaims to Michael Jordan the famous phrase, “It’s gotta be the shoes!” While we clearly must not attribute the global success of Michael Jordan solely to his sneakers, there is no arguing the importance of his footwear as one of the primary components that catapulted his worldwide notoriety to levels never seen in a basketball player. In fact, one of the most coveted honours that a player can receive nowadays, is to have a shoe company create a “signature shoe”, customized, in which the individual player leads the entire concept and creative design process and vision for the shoe company. Currently, there are only 16 players in the NBA who have their own signature shoe with a particular shoe brand. Basketball shoe technology has evolved significantly since the heyday of canvas Converse sneakers being used in the early 1970s. As the speed of the game and athletic ability of players has been maximised, shoes have become more important than ever to player performance. A unique angle of individual player signature shoes is their ability to tell a story through the design and color of the shoes. Primarily, the shoes serve as a performance vehicle for a player to feel as comfortable and powerful as possible during game play. Shoe technology has closely reflected the evolution of basketball game play in the NBA. While the earlier versions of the modern game emphasised physical contact, slower tempo and limited space to move freely on court, shoes designed by manufacturers such as Nike, featured higher ankle supports, more rigid outsoles and premium air cushions, which contributed to the overall support of the shoes. The trade off in utilising air cushion technology such as the Nike Shox technology, was a large increase in the absolute weight of basketball shoes. As the game has progressed to increasing in speed, with players required to cover more ground and decelerate aggressively, shoe technology has morphed and focused on becoming lighter, while staying low to the ground and providing enough support to avoid ankle sprains. One of the first low-top basketball signature shoes was the Adidas Gil Zero made for Washington Wizards star guard Gilbert Arenas. However, low-top shoes were more commonly accepted after Kobe Bryant’s championship runs wearing low top Nike sneakers. The late 2000s also spurred Nike Flywire technology, which allowed shoes to maintain their support while not compromising on the overall weight and keeping the shoe low to the ground. Among contemporary sneakers, observing the playing style of Stephen Curry clearly shows the essential necessity of a basketball shoe that needs to have extreme traction while not compromising on comfort or weight. The recently released Curry 8 has pioneered the revolutionary “Flow” technology, which has made it the first basketball shoe to be created with a non-rubber and all foam sole, continuing to push the envelope even further on what is possible for performance in basketball shoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-one-size-does-not-fit-all-how-basketball-shapes-shoe-technology-101617362166527.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||HP health secy reviews Covid test, track and treat strategy||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, health secretary Amitabh Avasthi on Friday called for the efficient implementation of the test, track and treat strategy to control community transmission of the virus. Presiding over a review meeting with district officials through video-conference to review the evolving situation amid the second wave of Covid-19, Avasthi said all individuals with fever or flu-like symptoms should be tested and those who turn positive should be isolated. Also read: ‘Nobody wants lockdown but..’: Mumbai mayor warns of stricter Covid-19 normsThe district authorities have been told that all possible close contacts of positive persons must be traced within 48 hours and appropriately quarantined and subsequently tested for Covid-19 according to the protocol. Avasthi said more than 70% of the total testing should be through RT-PCR. He pointed to the low percentage of RT-PCR tests in districts such as Bilaspur, Kinnaur, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Mandi. Districts told to activate Covid facilities Deputy commissioners were asked to conduct a meticulous analysis of the situation and containment zones. All districts were directed to activate the dedicated Covid facilities in view of the increasing number of cases. “Quality services in terms of diet, sanitation and treatment should be provided to patients admitted in hospitals,” he said and directed regular monitoring of home isolated patients. Eighty ambulances have again been deployed in all 12 districts. “Border districts of Una, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur need to be more vigilant given the inter-state movement in these districts,” he said. Vaccination lagging in Solan, Sirmaur and ChambaThe health secretary said people were not taking precautionary measures and should be made aware through all the available channels. He called for holding vigorous vaccination drives in areas where more cases were being reported. He said Himachal figures among the few states to have vaccinated more than 30% of the estimated 60+ population. He said the vaccination drive is lagging in Solan, Sirmaur and Chamba districts and asked the authorities to increase the pace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-health-secy-reviews-covid-test-track-and-treat-strategy-101617362164937.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: A look at Delhi’s health apparatus for patients in home isolation||Manoj Jha, 53, a Delhi government schoolteacher, makes phone calls throughout an eight-hour shift and records details of Covid-19 patients under isolation. They tell him about breathlessness and other complications, which may need immediate medical intervention.“The details have to be accurate,” said Jha. “Name, address, pulse rate, oxygen saturation levels, type of symptoms, etc. All patients isolated at their residences are given pulse oximeters. Last November was madness. It looks like we are headed towards another such phase.”At the peak of the pandemic, Delhi recorded 8,593 cases on November 11. There has been a fresh spike in cases with the number of active Covid-19 cases increasing from 1,404 on March 1 to 10,498 on April 1. With the rising numbers, the government is investing in strengthening the home isolation monitoring system to keep the pressure off the health infrastructure system, officials said.People such as Jha and health officials posted in government dispensaries are part of the lowest rung of a multi-layered monitoring system that oversees home isolated patients.Delhi has 11 revenue districts. Each district has one such control room. Also, there are 260 government dispensaries.Also Read | Fresh restrictions in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh districts amid Covid-19 surge“When cases increase, our daily routines get more hectic,” said Praveen Kumar, another teacher, who has also been working as a home isolation control room operator.Of the 10,498 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi as of April 1, as many as 5,698 were in home isolation. As of March 1, the home isolation number was 739.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 2,790 new cases, the highest in nearly four months. As the numbers go up, strengthening the home isolation system essentially means scaling up preparedness for handling a higher number of follow up cases a day, maintaining a quick, simple and efficient system to deal with emergencies, and building up a stronger check and balance system to ensure that people are not violating isolation rules.More cases mean an increased probability of emergency situations. The emergency handling system for home isolation cases operates stage by stage in Delhi. It involves control room doctors, nurses in dispensaries, primary health nursing officers in sub-divisions, doctors engaged by the government for home isolation, and bureaucrats monitoring the system.Over 300,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered at their homes. While 43 of them died last year – either at home or while being taken to hospital or in less than 24 hours of hospitalisation, there have been no such deaths so far this year.Home isolation is for Covid-19 patients with mild or no symptoms who can afford to isolate themselves from other family members at their residences. Patients in home isolation are supposed to remain isolated for 10 days after the onset of symptoms -- or testing positive, in case there are no symptoms – provided they do not have fever for three consecutive days.What happens when a patient suddenly develops symptoms, which need medical intervention and hospitalisation?“Emergency contact numbers are shared with each patient in home isolation. They have to either call up their nearest dispensary from which they receive health check calls or call up the district control room. These are the first contact points. Dispensaries operate from 9am to 5pm. Beyond these hours, the control room is the only contact point in case of an emergency,” said Aman Prasad, a nodal officer for home isolation cases.On receiving emergency calls, dispensary officials and control room operators are supposed to note down details thoroughly and then share the contact numbers of a public health nursing officer (PHNO) for further help. In case the patients fail to connect PHNOs, the dispensary officials and control room operators have to ensure that the PHNOs call the patients at the earliest.“But it is easier said than done,” said a nurse with a government dispensary, who did not wish to be identified. “Once a patient called up saying he needed medical help immediately. It was evident from his voice that he was suffering from breathlessness. While I checked for the concerned PHNO during the call, I could hear the patient’s voice go weak. It was around 2am. I was sweating with anxiety. But we finally managed. The patient was moved to a hospital and later recovered from Covid-19.”Each revenue district has three subdivisions. Each subdivision has two to three such nursing officers. PHNOs are supposed to brief patients about what to do and connect them with a doctor.“As the doctor takes up the case, the PHNOs start arranging for oxygen concentrators and an ambulance to be sent to the patient’s residence. They do not have to wait for the doctor’s approval for that. The aim is to save time. Every district has stocks of oxygen concentrators and a few reserved ambulances. The doctors are supposed to assess if the patients need hospitalisation and help with arrangements in that regard,” said a PHNO, who did not wish to be identified.While PHNOs and doctors form the middle rungs of the hierarchy in the multi-layered monitoring system of home isolation cases, bureaucrats are at the top of it.“We have to constantly look out for gaps to be plugged and strategies to make the emergency system more efficient. This is one aspect of home isolation management. We also have to ensure that there are teams to conduct surprise checks on home isolation patients to check for potential violation of rules. We have teams to ensure that essentials are delivered to their residence,” said Dharmendra Kumar, additional district magistrate (West Delhi).Chief secretary Vijay Dev said Delhi was one of the first states to implement a home isolation model. “With time we have further invested in the system, plugged gaps, and scaled up surveillance. The results are visible. We have a better and stronger model in place now. We have had a successful home isolation model in Delhi because each stage of the system -- from the point at which one tests positive to the point at which the patient recovers -- is closely monitored and there is a systematic way to deal with any kind of emergency. Consequently, there have been no deaths in the last three months in the robust home isolation system being followed in Delhi.”Lalit Kant, a former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said a strong and efficient home isolation model is important to ensure that people do not hesitate to get tested for Covid-19, especially when cases are increasing. “But it is also essential to carefully assess the feasibility of each home isolation case. There has to be a separate room, a washroom, and another person in the same house to help during potential emergencies. Improper home isolation assignments can lead to higher transmission of the disease. Also, there should be strong checks and balances in place to ensure that people adhere to home isolation rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-a-look-at-delhi-s-health-apparatus-for-patients-in-home-isolation-101617362163551.html
02-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s event calendar: April 2 to April 8, 2021||Character doodling: workshop for all ages Have you ever had an idea for a story, or even a character that you wanted to express with beautiful drawings? Do quirky and cute characters catch your attention? This online workshop teaches you all the fundamentals and covers all you need to know to start doodling. Create your character doodles using simple techniques and embellish your doodles using beautiful patternsWhen: Saturday, April 3; 4:00 pm to 5:15 pmWhere: onlineContact: 9871858541 ( Kanika)Hello Stage, Hello Life! Acting workshop The Fireweavers Theatre Group presents the chance to act on the stage for six weekends, culminating in a theatre performance. Learn from internationally trained instructors. Enjoy the thrill of being part of an actor’s troupe.Where: Pune Theatre Life Fireweavers, Pune Theatre Life, Inscape Cowork, Bungalow No, 37B, C Ln, Ragvilas Society, Koregaon Park.Basic to advanced cake making‘The Cake Table’, where the style meets cake - by Sonal Nanadikar. A one-day session. Participants will also receive certificates.When: Friday, April 2; 11:00 amWhere: Kiwale Ravet, Pune, Maharashtra, India 412101, Pune, IndiaCall or WhatsApp: 7020001667Kids Art Summer CampA special artistic and creative camp designed for kids to explore and learn new art forms every week, with lots of fun and creative thinking, where kids will learn bottle painting, photo frames, ceramic pot painting, tote bag painting and dot paintingWhen: April 2-30; every Friday & Saturday; 3pm to 4:30pmWhere: Urja Art Studio, WakadFees: 2,100/- including materialCarpentry for beginnersStudy the fundamentals of woodworking in a relaxing workshop. This workshop will make you confident to select suitable materials for your project; teach use of basic hand and power tools safely and accurately; plan and perform small tasks independently.When: Saturday, Apr 3, 09:30 am, to Apr 4, 3:00 pmWhere: Timberbimber, Shed No 6, Baburao Industrial Estate, Behind Abhinav Pharmacy College, Narhe, Pune, 411041Fees:  ₹7,900/- (all inclusive)Easter brunch For a delicious Easter Brunch, enjoy the lavish spread with unlimited craft beers, ‘live’ egg counter, grills, tandoor, mains, desserts and more; with live music from Ruth and Vernon.When: April 4, 12:00 pm to 4:00 pmWhere: Independence Brewing Company, MundhwaFor reservations call : 8888166605Tu Mhanshil TasaA play about married life. We always see that there is basic differences of nature between all couples by virtue of which day-to-day situations get wired and sometimes, funny too. The play talks about the way out of these kinds of situations. Actors Sankarshan Karhade and Bhakti Desai lead the cast.When: April 4, 12.30 pmWhere: Balgandharva Rang mandirWhen: April 4, 5 pmWhere: Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha Booking online, or directly at the theatre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-event-calendar-april-2-to-april-8-2021-101617360368713.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||‘Covid-19 now more dangerous, majority in 2nd wave asymptomatic’: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the majority of Covid-19 patients infected in the second wave were asymptomatic and the virus was now more dangerous as it could spread rapidly through asymptomatic patients, who do not adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour.“Majority of the patients in this second wave are asymptomatic. Earlier, the symptoms were visible in the patients and it was easy to identify and quarantine them. But identification of patients with no symptoms is difficult without a test. Such a patient is not even aware of his own infection,” Gehlot tweeted.He added that such a situation warranted strict compliance to Covid-19 protocols as several unaware asymptomatic patients were likely to be moving around in public increasing the threat of infection to others.“Now the coronavirus has become more dangerous than before. In such a situation, we all have to show seriousness. I again appeal to everyone to strictly follow the protocol of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing. Even a little carelessness can cause someone’s life,” one of his tweets on the issue said.The chief minister presented data to underscore the rapid spread of the virus in the second wave. He said within 43 days between February 16 and April 1, daily reporting of Covid cases jumped to 1350 from 60. He added that from 1195 active cases on February 23, the number had risen to 9563 on April 1 as the case doubling rate of 2521 days as seen on February 24 had declined sharply to 270 days now.Gehlot’s expression of concern comes at a time when new infections have nearly tripled in the last ten days with 1,350 cases reported across the state on April 1, compared to only 476 on March 21. Total Covid-19 infections registered in the state reached 334,499 on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 28,222 as four more people succumbed to the disease. So far, 322,114 people have recovered from Covid-19, a health department release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid19-now-more-dangerous-majority-in-2nd-wave-asymptomatic-gehlot-101617359883393.html
02-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat cancels political appointments by previous govt||Uttarakhand government on Friday reversed another major decision by previous chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat by cancelling all the political appointments and nominations made in state corporations, commissions, civic bodies, councils since March 18, 2017, including for posts with status of minister or minister of state, except for constitutional posts of fixed tenure. Opposition Congress said it was another proof of “infighting” and “power struggle” in state BJP. “It was not as if the government changed and it was necessary to remove such people. It is clear that another decision has been reversed. There is infighting and power struggle in the state BJP due to which, many decisions of the previous government are being changed. All this shows that the BJP misled the people for four years and is bringing changes in the last year. This won’t fool people here anymore,” said Pritam Singh, state Congress president. However, a close aide of former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, wishing not to be named, said the new chief minister has the right to select his ministers and make fresh appointments to such bodies. “Every new CM makes these changes. Nothing much should be read into this development beyond that,” he said, adding that around 70 to 80 such appointments were made since 2017 by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government. BJP state unit’s official spokesperson too termed the development as routine while dismissing allegations levelled by the Congress. “New CM will choose new party members, which may also include some old ones. Our government appointed around 70 to 80 people, while the Congress government in the past appointed over 200 people or so. They should first see what they did when in power before commenting on us,” said Devendra Bhasin, state BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-tirath-singh-rawat-cancels-political-appointments-by-previous-govt-101617357003296.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Flame of the Forest blooms bright and early in Himachal||Rhododendrons, the first among flowers in the wild to signal a shift to spring as the chill thaws, have arrived three weeks ahead of schedule in Himachal Pradesh, causing concern among environmentalists. “Early flowering in the rhododendron is usually the result of less snow and it has an adverse impact on the seed setting,” says Himachal Pradesh’s principal chief conservator of forests, Savita. “We will study this phenomenon. I had noticed a similar trend in 2016 when I was posted at the Forest Research Institute in Dehradun. The rhododendrons in and around the hill station of Mussoorie had bloomed as early as January and villagers considered it ominous.” Though the blooming of the Flame of the Forest, as the state flower of Himachal Pradesh is also known as, is celebrated as it indicates the end of a harsh winter, this year the flowering has been erratic and premature. It’s folklore in the hills that the early blooming affects the crop cycle. Warmer winter, sunny spring leads to early blooming Rhododendron arboreum needs a temperature of 15-20 degrees Celsius to bloom. It is the average temperature in April in the middle and higher reaches of the Himalayas. “But the winter months this time recorded higher temperatures, leading to the early flowering. There was a lot of sun in March,” says Manmohan Singh, the director of the regional meteorological office in Shimla. This year, the state received 80% deficient rainfall in February and 62% in March, he says. “The changing phenomenon in the flowering pattern of the rhododendron requires deeper study. The sudden spurt of warmth is a concern. The changing flowering pattern can threaten the existence of these beautiful trees,” says Himachal-based author and historian Raja Bhasin. Changing pattern, shifting of baseline concern scientists Himachal Pradesh is home to two main varieties of the flower: The pink (rhododendron cinnamomeum) and red (rhododendron arboreum). The red flowers grow in the wild at an altitude of 6,000 ft to 8,000 ft, while the pink variety is found in the higher reaches of the Himalayas, ranging from 8,000 ft to 11,000 ft. Besides the changing flowering pattern, scientists are concerned about the shifting of the baseline of the rhododendron. “Rhododendron is getting rare and shifting its altitude. The variation in the rainfall pattern and the rise in temperature is the cause. This is the time to conserve and save this rare, beautiful flower,” says Suresh Attri, the principal scientific officer in the state government’s department of science, technology and environment. Experts working on climate change in the region have shared the concern. “The pink variety is not visible in the lower altitudes anymore and the red can be found in Kullu through the Prasher valley route. It’s time to organise conservation efforts and sensitise the local population so that there is awareness to protect this flower,” says Monica Sharma, a research scholar. Medicinal value of rhododendron The flower, which has medicinal value, grows in the wild in neighbouring Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir, too. Locally known as buras, the flowers help in heart ailments and controlling blood pressure. The flowers are also offered in the hill temples and used to make chutney with pomegranate seeds besides squashes. To beautify their summer capital, the British had planted red rhododendrons in Jakhu, Tara Devi, Summer Hill, Chowra Maidan and Boileauganj and they continue to bloom bright and beautiful even today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flame-of-the-forest-blooms-bright-and-early-in-himachal-101617356643425.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Nobody wants lockdown but..’: Mumbai mayor warns of stricter Covid-19 norms||Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday warned of tougher restrictions in the city as she said people continued to be negligent despite the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Pednekar’s warning comes a day after Mumbai recorded the highest single-day spike of 8,646 cases on Thursday and hours before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is set to hold a meeting over the surge in infections across Maharashtra.Thackeray will address the state at 8:30pm after Friday’s meeting with officials over the Covid-19 situation in the state and is likely to announce fresh curbs. The chief minister has already declared a state-wide night curfew from Sunday under the Maharashtra government's 'Mission Begin Again' programme.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“Nobody wants lockdown but keeping in mind the manner in which cases are rising and creating pressure on the health infrastructure, some strict measures will have to be taken,” the Mumbai mayor told news agency ANI.The western state witnessed a record jump of 43,183 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, which is the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. As many as 139 fatalities were also reported, data showed.“Due to the surge, a shortage of beds and ventilators is also being seen. We had been appealing to people since last March but they are showing carelessness,” Pednekar said pointing to infrastructural challenges following the spike.The mayor hinted at stricter curbs including shutting of malls, religious places, and restrictions on travel in local trains on Thursday. She, however, said there were enough beds to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 patients. “There are enough beds to handle the increasing number of cases, but we have to act wisely before the city enters the danger zone,” she told reporters.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained it has not decided about the lockdown yet. In order to curb the chain of transmission, the civic body has asked officials to ensure that home isolated patients monitor their health and take treatment for the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nobody-wants-lockdown-but-mumbai-mayor-warns-of-stricter-covid-19-norms-101617355027212.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan MLA suggests using Camels for patrolling in wildlife sanctuaries||Rajasthan MLA from Kota’s Sangod, Bharat Singh, who is also a member of the state wildlife board, has suggested that patrolling in state’s wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves is done using camels for greater efficiency and to aid camel conservation.In his letter to Mohanlal Meena, the chief wildlife warden of Rajasthan, Bharat Singh claimed that the camel population was declining in the state due to lesser demand for camel rides. He said the issue had often been raised in the state assembly and argued that engaging camels for patrolling in sanctuaries could prove to be a win-win formula for all parties.“Since the vehicles of the wildlife department break down frequently and go through intense wear and tear due to use on the rough and often muddy roads in the wildlife sanctuaries, camels can be used for patrolling in the wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves,” his letter said.He cited the use of camels by the Border Security Force (BSF) in the state and said the animals could also be reared for patrolling purposes by the wildlife department.“The forest guards are hesitant to patrol on foot, so if they are provided camels then 2 forest guards can patrol on a single camel in the wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves in the manner BSF jawans patrol border areas for security,” he said.Reasoning that the camel rides may also attract tourists, Singh further suggested that the experiment could begin with 6 camel-mounted patrols at Mukundra Hills Tiger reserve in Kota since the area provided for enough fodder and facilities for rearing camels. He further suggested that patrolling on camels can also be done on contract basis.Singh has urged that the proposal be discussed in the state wildlife board’s next meeting.Chief conservator of forest, Mukundra Hills Tiger reserve, SR Yadav said that the idea could be feasible in wildlife sanctuaries situated in desert areas but was unlikely to work in hilly areas.Chief wildlife warden of Rajasthan Mohan Lal Meena said the MLA’s suggestions will be debated before any decision is taken on this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-mla-suggests-using-camels-for-patrolling-in-wildlife-sanctuaries-101617354063166.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police constable’s wife found hanging, two sons unconscious||A Delhi Police constable’s wife was found hanging from a ceiling fan while her two sons -- aged 3 years and three months -- were found unconscious in the bathroom of their house in south Delhi on Thursday evening. The woman allegedly died by suicide. The condition of her younger son is serious while the elder one is stable. Both of them are undergoing treatment in a private hospital. It was the constable who made two calls to the police control room around 8pm that his wife was inside the house with their two children but was not opening the door, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh. Also Read | Madhya Pradesh farmer kills self after fire ruins standing wheat cropA police team reached there and broke into the house where they found the woman’s body hanging from a ceiling fan. The two children were lying unconscious in the bathroom. All of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead.DCP Singh that the woman’s family was informed about the incident and legal action would be taken in case of a complaint. In a similar incident reported on Thursday morning from Rohini, a contractual DTC bus driver was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his one-room flat while the bodies of his wife and their two sons -- aged 6 and 3 -- were also in the room with their throats slit. (Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-s-wife-found-hanging-two-sons-unconscious-101617353223364.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests man operating drugs factory in south Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a man who operated a drugs factory of fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim in Dongri area of south Mumbai, an official said on Friday.A team led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede arrested Danish Chikna from Rajasthan with the help of the local police on Thursday evening, the official said.The NCB has been on the lookout for Chikna, who operated a drug manufacturing unit, since the last few months following a series of raids in Dongri area, he said.The NCB also recovered some banned narcotic substances from the wanted accused's car, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-man-operating-drugs-factory-in-south-mumbai-101617352882575.html
02-04-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro temporarily shut due to power outage, later restored||Metro rail services in Kolkata remained shut temporarily from 11:25 am to 12:26 pm on Friday due to a power outage in the central substation. The services were later restored in both up and down directions in the entire section from Dakkhineshwar to Kavi Subhash, Metro Rail Kolkata informed.In a tweet from its official handle, Metro Rail Kolkata informed that services remained suspended from 11:25 am in the section from Dakkhineshwar to Kavi Subhash.Metro services are suspended from 11.25 am in the entire section from Dakkhineswar to Kavi Subhash as power has tripped in the Central substation. #KolkataMetroAs a result, truncated services, both up and down trains, were being run from Maidan to Kavi Subhash and from Girish Park to Dakkhineswar, the public transport entity informed.Kolkata Metro later informed in a tweet that services, in both up and down directions, have been restored from 12.26 pm in the entire section between Dakkhineshwar and Kavi Subhash. The services remained shut for 61 minutes.Services have been restored from 12.26pm in both UP and DN directions in the entire section.As has been the practice since metro rail services resumed following Covid-19 lockdown, Kolkata Metro has opted for letting passengers avail of smart cards instead of the usual tokens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-metro-shut-due-to-power-outage-at-central-substation-check-details-here-101617346462069.html
02-04-2021||Jaipur||Fresh Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan nearly triple in last 10 days||The second wave of coronavirus epidemic has seen the new infections in Rajasthan nearly triple in the last ten days with 1,350 cases registered across the state on April 1, compared to 476 on March 21, said health department officials on Thursday. Jaipur reported 242 fresh Covid-19 cases, the most in Rajasthan, followed by 139 in Kota, 123 from Udaipur, 114 in Jodhpur and 100 in Dungarpur. 90 cases were reported from Ajmer, 46 from Alwar, 10 in Banswara, 20 in Baran, 9 in Barmer, 4 in Bharatpur, 51 in Bhilwara, 33 in Bikaner, 8 in Bundi, and 91 in Chittorgarh. Total Covid-19 infections registered in the state reached 334,499 on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 28,222 as four more people succumbed to the disease, according to the report. One death each was reported from Churu, Kota, Jaipur and Nagaur districts, it said.The number of active cases in Rajasthan stands at 9,563. So far, 322,114 people have recovered from Covid-19, the report said.Nationally, the number of infections have a seen a steady increase for the 23rd day in row and the total number of active cases have increased to 614,696, comprising 5% of the total infections, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 93.67% , as per the health ministry data released on Friday. Vaccination for people in the age group of 45-60 began in the state on Thursday. A total of 2.09 crore people will be vaccinated in this age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-nearly-triple-in-last-10-days-101617346142927.html
02-04-2021||Bhopal||MP CM attends Dandi Yatra in Gujarat, calls it 'resolve for self-reliant India'||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan attended the “Amrut Festival of Independence” at Chhaparbhata village in Gujarat’s Surat on Thursday, saying it was a privilege to join the Dandi Yatra, organised to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi Salt Satyagraha.“The message of this Dandi Yatra, held in the 75th year of independence, is the creation of a self-reliant India and our commitment towards it. It is my great privilege that I am getting the opportunity to join this Dandi Yatra today, organised in the memory of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi Salt Satyagraha,” Chouhan said.The chief minister said while the Father of the Nation brought freedom to the country and Sardar Vallbhbhai Patel united it, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is building a “self-reliant India.” Through this Dandi Yatra, he said, “we all resolve to build a self-reliant India.”The chief minister further remarked that in the history of 1000 years of the world, “there has been no personality like Mahatma Gandhiji”, who has given the freedom to the country through non-violence. “We did not get freedom from the British easily. On one hand, there was Gandhiji's nonviolent movement, and on the other hand, thousands of revolutionaries sacrificed their lives for the freedom of the country,” he said.Chouhan also said that from the very day that Prime Minister Modi announced the creation of a self-reliant India, the state government has been working at great speed to make Madhya Pradesh self-reliant. “Self-Reliant India is a Mantra for us. We will fulfill it with full devotion, effort and dedication,” the chief minister said.He said that Gujarat has given great personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel and PM Modi to the country.“During my visit to Gujarat, I performed darshan and pujan of Mother Narmada and Maa Tapti, this morning. Both the rivers originate from Madhya Pradesh, flow in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and connect both the states with hearts,” CM Chouhan said.Gujarat’s minister of forest and tribal welfare Raman Lal Patkar and Darshana Jardosh, member of Parliament from Surat, were also present on the occasion.Prime Minister Modi flagged off the “Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav” on March 12 ahead of 75 years of India’s Independence in August 2022 to commemorate 91 years of Dandi March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-attends-dandi-yatra-in-gujarat-calls-it-resolve-for-self-reliant-india-101617345503405.html
02-04-2021||Patna||March from historic Vrindavan ashram to mark Gandhi’s 1st visit to Bihar||A march starting from the historic Vrindavan ashram in West Champaran district of Bihar will be held on April 10 to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence and Mahatma Gandhi’s first visit to Bihar in 1917 in support of Indigo farmers, suffering under the British rule. Union minister of art and culture Prahlad Singh Patel and Bihar deputy chief minister Renu Devi will attend the event, Bihar BJP state president and West Champaran MP Sanjay Jaiswal said on Thursday.“The event is being organised as part of Amrut Mahotsav, by the government of India, to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence, kick started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Jaiswal.Jaiswal said the march from Vrindavan Ashram, featuring several leaders, will culminate into a cultural programme at Bettiah’s Raj Kachahari grounds on April 10. Mahatma Gandhi had reached Patna on April 10, 1917 for his first visit to Bihar to first hand witness the plight of indigo planters of West Champaran. Gandhi’s visit snowballed into his first satyagraha in the country after return from South Africa.Later in 1939, Gandhi, persuaded by Prajapati Mishra, the then Bihar Congress president, organised the fifth Gandhi Seva Sangh Conference at Vrindavan ashram between May 2 and May 9. The conference highlighted the need for basic education and total dependence on indigenous goods as means to arouse mass consciousness against the British rule, paving the way for establishing basic education schools and khadi gramodyog kendra in erstwhile Champaran.Spread over 2.5 km wide area, Vrindavan ashram houses private cottages, orchards and Gandhian memorials. Gandhi had addressed a gathering here after the conclusion of the fifth Gandhi Seva Sangh Conference in 1939.The two basic education schools Gandhi started here- Rajkiya Bunyadi Vidyalaya and Rajkiya Bunyadi Kanya Vidyalaya, have witnessed a decline in the past few years with shrinking students size and the locals citing poor quality of teaching as the chief reason.From 735 students in 2016-17, the strength at Rajkiya Bunyadi Vidyalaya came down to 617 in 2017-18, followed by 510 in 2018-19, 448 in 2019-20 and 444 in 2020-21. Similarly, the student strength at Rajkiya Bunyadi Kanya Vidyalaya has come down to 250 odd in the current session.Teachers allege discontinuation of incentives like scholarship, dress compensation etc in the past few years, coupled with poor remuneration for the teachers, as the primary reasons for the decline. “Though the scholarship and dress compensation have been reinstated, the teachers here get mere ₹6,500 as salary. Moreover, Rajkiya Bunyadi Vidyalaya continues to function without a regular headmaster,” said a teacher, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/march-from-historic-vrindavan-ashram-to-mark-gandhi-s-1st-visit-to-bihar-101617336782271.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||65-yr-old convicted of raping daughter, sexually abusing granddaughter in Mumbai||A special court in Mumbai has sentenced a 65-year-old man to life imprisonment for raping his daughter and sexually abusing his 10-year-old granddaughter in 2017. The daughter told the court that her father first raped her in May 2017 and threatened to kill her children if she reported the matter. In June 2017, the 10-year-old told her mother that her grandfather attempted to sexually abuse her. The convict raped his daughter again a month later.The court delivered the order on March 25 and praised the police for tracing the woman and her daughter to Gujarat. It added due to the efforts of the public prosecutor Veena Shelar, the two were examined. The court said on the advice of the 65-year-old man’s lawyer, the wife of the convict deliberately kept the two away from the court proceedings.Also Read | Man gets death sentence for minor’s rape in Agra“It is alleged by the informant [wife of the convict] that the advocate for accused restrained the witnesses from remaining present in the court for [recording] evidence. Apart from that, it is also reported that the wife of the accused informed the informant that she should not come to the court till the advocate for the accused asked for,” the court said in its judgment.The court has sent a copy of the judgment to the Bar Council to take the required action against the lawyer to avoid such instances in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/65yrold-convicted-of-raping-daughter-sexually-abusing-granddaughter-in-mumbai-101617334682068.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi borders remain blocked as farmers’ protest continues||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Friday due to the protest by farmers who are demanding withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially as vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad was allowed on the stretch.“Ghazipur NH-24 upper side towards Ghaziabad is open for traffic movement. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police officer said. The Delhi Traffic Police have diverted the traffic that may possibly lead to traffic congestions in parts of the city during the peak hours. According to Delhi Traffic Police officials, vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see traffic congestion.Apart from the Ghazipur, other borders, namely Singhu, and Tikri, are closed. “The following borders are closed for traffic movement — Piyau Maniyari, Singhu border, Harewali, Mangeshpur and Tikri border,” said a traffic police officer.Traffic police officers also said that Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open. Traffic police advised commuters to take alternate routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-borders-remain-blocked-as-farmers-protest-continues-101617333002114.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to see windy day today, air quality moderate||Delhi is likely to see a windy day on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 17 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to be 34 degrees Celsius with strong surface winds during the daytime.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 18.4 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was 34 degrees Celsius -- one notch above normal.Delhi’s air quality stayed in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 194. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 182, which is also in the moderate category.Also Read | ‘It’s April, but feels like May-June’: Heatwave grips north IndiaAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Thursday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “..High winds and boundary layer heights are leading to better and faster ventilation helping to flesh out suspended dust aerosols. AQI is likely to stay in the Moderate to Poor category for the next three days. Hence, no highly significant impact on AQI would be felt except movement of much bigger Aerosols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-see-windy-day-today-air-quality-moderate-101617332881844.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||4th wave swells: Delhi adds 2,790 cases, most in 114 days||Experts called for faster vaccinations and urged authorities to open the drive up for all adults in the Capital, arguing that widespread coronavirus inoculations were the only way to prevent the infection surge from spiralling out of control.The city added 2,790 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, a jump of nearly 1,000 cases more than the previous day’s count.Thursday’s spike was the highest single-day surge in 114 days, since the city recorded 3,188 infections on December 8.“The number of cases has increased more than we anticipated. There is a need to quickly vaccinate as many people as we can — everyone above the age of 18 must be allowed to get doses,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). He headed the Delhi government’s first committee on Covid-19 management and control. The Delhi government had in the third week of March written to the Centre, asking for permission to vaccinate all adults, but hasn’t received approval yet.“All eligible residents should be administered the vaccine quickly. If south Delhi is reporting a high number of cases right now, there will surely be an increase in other districts as well,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Apart from the sharp spike in cases, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — also increased sharply on Thursday, jumping to 3.57% from 2.71% a day ago.Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to assess the spread of an infection. While Delhi’s positivity rate stayed below 1% for 82 days, it has jumped over the past few days.The number of active cases also crossed the 10,000-mark on Thursday. There were 10,498 people with the infection in the city as on Wednesday night – as reported a day later in Thursday’s health bulletin.The Delhi government on Wednesday ordered 33 major private hospitals to increase the number of Covid-19 beds after occupancy in some facilities crossed 75%.“In my hospital, the Covid wards that had been closed were re-opened. ICUs have started filling up. And, this will continue to increase as the number of cases keeps going up. This is the cycle of Covid-19 that has been seen in other countries as well. People became jubilant as the number of cases went down and the vaccinations started happening, leading to a second wave of cases. In Delhi, it doesn’t seem like a mutant variant is responsible for the current increase. It is the behaviour of people, increase in inter-state and country travel, and over-crowding in public places, get-togethers etc,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). He is currently the chairman of PSRI Institute of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine.“We have to start worrying about infections in children as well. Younger people are likely to become superspreaders now, with schools and colleges slowly opening up, but none of the vaccines being approved for them,” said Dr Sarin.“Last year, at this time, people were scared of the infection and were minimising activities, taking precautions such as wearing masks and washing hands. But now there is no scare or panic. If you go to the market, it seems as if there is no pandemic. Then there are congregations for festivities and marriages. These lead to the spread of the infection and have to be curtailed, because they are optional activities,” said Dr Khilnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4th-wave-swells-delhi-adds-2-790-cases-most-in-114-days-101617316529450.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 teachers test positive in Jammu||Authorities in Jammu were sent into a tizzy as two teachers tested positive for the novel coronavirus while the rapid antigen tests of five teachers at Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Satwari, were unclear. As a result, principal Surjit Singh, closed the school, which will be reopened on Monday after thorough sanitisation. Director school education Dr Ravi Shanker Sharma said, “As per reports with me, only one teacher had tested positive, while the result of four others are awaited.” The principal said, “One of our colleagues, who was on leave for five to six days, has tested positive. Therefore, the school was sanitised and other teachers underwent the teat in the school itself. The second teacher to test positive was also on leave. She has isolated herself,” he said. The principal said the uncertain results of five other teachers, who were tested, had added to the confusion and panic. “By then the health team that had conducted the test had returned. The teachers were mistakenly believed to be infected. However, they underwent a test at a private lab where three of them were tested negative while results of two others are awaited,” he said. Jammu district commissioner Anshul Garg has now asked the five teachers to undergo another test on Friday at 10.30am. As the school is an examination centre, it will be sanitised and re-opened. Following the surge, the government of Jammu and Kashmir has started opening schools in a staggered manner. The schools, private and public, have also been seeking indemnity bonds from the parents. However, many parents feel reluctant to send their children to schools. Meenakshi Sharma, the mother of a Class-6 student of an elite school, said, “School authorities are seeking indemnity bond from the parents that says that should any untoward incident happen with the child, the school will not be held responsible. How can a small child take care of herself in school. Given the Covid surge, can’t they continue with e-learning system?” Another parent, Mahesh Kaul also echoed similar views and said that the government should sense the gravity of the situation and should not risk the lives of small children. “How can they expect Covid-apt behavior from small children? Can’t they see spiraling Covid surge,” he asked||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-teachers-test-positive-in-jammu-101617311099974.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Another high: 4 deaths, 461 fresh cases in J&K||For the first time this year, the daily Covid count in Jammu and Kashmir crossed 400. The UT on Thursday recorded 461 infections, the highest daily count after December 8. The new cases have taken the case tally in the Union Territory to 1,31,421. The death toll reached 1,998 with four fresh fatalities — three in Kashmir and one in Jammu division.For the last seven days, the UT has reported around 200 daily cases. From 210 cases on Friday, the count reached 461 on Thursday – the highest daily count in 114 days.Overall, the month of March recorded 4,519 Coronavirus infections, an increase of 133% against February, and 37 deaths. In February,1,935 cases and 21 deaths were reported in the UT. As many as 361 cases were reported in the Kashmir division on Thursday while 100 fresh cases were reported from Jammu division.Officials said Srinagar recorded 157 new cases, followed by 76 in Baramulla , 61 in Jammu, 26 in Budgam and 21 in Kathua. Three districts, all of them in Jammu division, did not report any cases. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily in March, has reached 2,874, officials said. There are 2,150 active cases in Kashmir division, of which 1,158 are in Srinagar. Of the 724 active cases in Jammu division, 519 are in Jammu.On Thursday, 114 patients were also discharged from various hospitals including 78 in Kashmir and 36 in Jammu.As many as 126,549 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 96.29%.Over 6.08 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-high-4-deaths-461-fresh-cases-in-jk-101617310799985.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Third phase of vaccination: 43,000 get first jab across J&K||As India began the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive on Thursday by inoculating people above 45 years of age, 43,364 people received their first jab at 1,066 centres across Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. Financial commissioner (health) Atal Dulloo said, “The response on the first day was very good. As people in 45 to 60 age bracket mostly belong to the working class, we are considering providing them with flexible timings as 10 am to 4pm may not work for them.” On any specific targets to be achieved, Dulloo said, “J&K does not have any specific targets to achieve. Those coming with their Aadhaar cards are being administered the Covidshield vaccine.” Director general, family welfare, Dr Saleem ur Rehman said, “On the last working day we had vaccinated 26,000 people. Today, we registered a jump of around 14,000.” Dr Saleem said there were neither any bottlenecks on the first day nor was there any apprehension among the people. In Kashmir, 21,168 people were administered the first jab of the Covishield vaccine while 22,196 people received their first shot in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-phase-of-vaccination-43-000-get-first-jab-across-jk-101617310559819.html
02-04-2021||Other||We’ve been overlooked, rue transgenders||Even as women, especially frequent travellers in government buses, rejoiced at the Punjab government’s decision to allow them free commute, members of the transgender community have expresses disappointment. With their number close to 8,000 in the state, they say the decision could also have been made applicable for them.Mohini Mahant, 55, who has been working with the District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) and was the first member of the LGBT community to be appointed as a member of bench of Lok Adalat in the past, said, “It is good that the government is providing services for benefit of women. But what about us? We struggled hard and long to get voting rights in 2014. We need to travel, and buses are the only means of transport for many of us,” she said. Mohini holds a master’s degree in public administration. Another transgender Aaina said they face difficulties travelling in buses, as such. “We are ridiculed and not given a seat. We were hoping that there will be something for us when the government announces free bus service for women. We are very disappointed,” she said. Reshma, another transgender, said the coronavirus pandemic had already hit their earnings. “We are not given proper recognition in education, healthcare or jobs. The last year has been difficult, as social events where we performed have been few in number, and have restrictions. A free bus service will benefit us immensely. The government, however, has never though about us?” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weve-been-overlooked-rue-transgenders-101617309539952.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mob attacks cops in Tarn Taran village, frees rape accused||High drama was witnessed at Tur village in Goindwal Sahib sub-division on Thursday when a mob, including women, freed a proclaimed offender (PO), accused of rape, after assaulting a six-member police party. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Narinderpal Singh had led a raid at a house in the village about 7am, after a tip-off that the accused, Bhupinder Singh, was being harboured by his family members and relatives. Bhupinder had been booked for rape in April 2017. Video clips of the incident have gone viral on social media purportedly showing nearly 20 people attacking the police team. One of the clips shows a woman lying on the road before a police vehicle to obstruct the operation. Police have booked 21 persons and 11 of them have been identified. These are Bhupinder Singh, his father Joginder Singh, mother Mohinder Kaur, brother Baljit Singh, sister Sandeep Kaur, and Sumandeep Kaur, Mannu, Sukhjit Singh, Kulwinder Kaur, Jagir Singh and Sandeep Singh of the same village. The identity of the other accused has not been established yet.ASI Narinderpal said, “I, along with headconstables (HC) Pargat Singh, Avtar Singh, and constables Labh Singh, Tajdeep Singh and Gursahib Singh was patrolling in search of miscreants near the T-point in Tur village. We got a tip-off about Bhupinder and a raid was conducted immediately. Bhupinder was arrested, but he started shouting to attract attention. His relatives and other villagers gathered in the shape of a mob and attacked us. They tore the uniform of one of my men and snatched the phone of headconstable Pargat Singh. Four of us received minor injuries and the mob freed the accused.”On the statement of the ASI, a case under Sections 333 (causing grievous hurt), 186 (obstructing public servant), 379-B (theft by force), 216 (harbouring), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons), 225 (resistance to lawful apprehension), 202 (intentional omission) and 353 (assault) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mob-attacks-police-team-in-tarn-taran-village-frees-rape-accused-101617309479904.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||ITBP jawan shot dead over land dispute in Una||A 37-year-old Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawan was shot dead over a land dispute at Nangra village of Una on Thursday.The victim, Vipin Kumar, an assistant sub-inspector, was embroiled in a land dispute with one Jawant Singh, said additional superintendent of police Vinod Dhiman. “The two had a quarrel in the morning. In a fit of rage, Singh fired at Kumar who died on the spot after the bullet hit his chest,” said Dhiman. Singh has surrendered himself and a case of murder has been registered against him under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Kumar had been posted at Chattisgarh and had come home on leave on March 29. An eyewitness, Gurdyal Singh, said he was harvesting potato while Kumar was harvesting wheat with the help of labour when four people arrived at the spot in a jeep. “They started arguing with Kumar and one of them fired at him.” The jawan is survived by his parents, wife and two children.The body was handed over to the family after conducting a postmortem at the Regional Hospital, Una.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/itbp-jawan-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-una-101617309059649.html
02-04-2021||Other||Abohar MLA thrashing: BJP to launch rallies against state govt, says will go hard at farm stir||Facing continued political backlash from farmers over the passage of three agricultural laws, the Punjab BJP has decided to take an aggressive stance in favour of the laws. It will also hold a rally in May, where its top brass will participate.The party has crafted a strategy to use the humiliation of its Abohar MLA Arun Narang in Malout as its political weapon to not only target the state government, but also to discredit the hardliners’ in farmers’ stir. Farmers had attacked Narang and tore his clothes, when the first-time MLA had gone to Malout to address a press conference against the four-year term of the Congress government. The visuals of Narang being thrashed publicly had evoked a strong response from the party, which had called for Abohar bandh on March 30.“We will take up this issue head-on as the Congress-led state government is openly instigating hardliners to divide the state on communal lines. From tomorrow (Friday), we will be holding rallies at the district level to expose the state government. In May, we are planning to hold a mega rally on this issue,” said Punjab BJP president Sharma, adding that the party high command has taken note of the situation in Punjab. “Senior leaders are in touch with us to ensure workers’ morale remains high,” he added. This issue of low morale among cadre due to the farm protest was discussed at length during a meeting that Sharma had chaired on Wednesday in Jalandhar. The incident forced chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to not only condemn the incident, but to also direct all SSPs to ensure the safety of BJP leaders Before Malout, party leaders had been at the receiving end with its leaders not being allowed by farmers to come out in public. Senior leaders say, “A sentiment prevails within the party rank and file to leverage this incident to showcase its aggressive political posturing.” Leaders claim that if the BJP did not give a strong response, the cadre will be demoralised, with less than a year left for the assembly polls. There is also a growing perception that the BJP has been losing its traditional base in cities and in areas, where the Hindu community dominates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abohar-mla-thrashing-bjp-to-launch-rallies-against-state-govt-says-will-go-hard-at-farm-stir-101617309002098.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid spike in virus cases, schools in HP to remain closed till April 15||With the second wave of coronavirus infections sweeping across the state, the Himachal Pradesh government has directed all educational institututions to remain closed till April 15. Earlier, the said institutes had been told to remain closed till April 4. Chief minster Jai Ram Thakur, who was speaking on the sidelines of a function organised by the Jal Shakti department in Kullu said, “The government will review its decision to reopen schools after April 15. The new variant is different as it spreads at a faster pace. Everybody must remain cautious and strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures (SoPs) laid down to contain its the virus.” On the possibility of imposing another lockdown, the CM said, “Economic economic activities in the state cannot be halted right now. There is no question of banning entry of tourist or closing down hotels. Besides, hoteliers are strictly following the guidelines.” He said that despite the pandemic, development work continued to take place across the state. “During the pandemic, the government inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹3,500 crore in 42 assembly constituencies.” Later, the CM left for Mandi to campaign for the civic body poll and addressed six public meets. Public opposes election rallies The surging cases have alarmed people across the hill-state, some of whom have taken an exception to election rallies being held by different parties ahead of the municipal corporation polls. “One hand Covid is rapidly spreading and on the other hand parties are holding rallies. This should be immediately stopped,” said Suresh Mahajan, a senior citizen residing in Dharamshala. After the backlash, the BJP cancelled three public meetings. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania campaign in-charge for Dharamshala said, “The party had scheduled five meetings but only held two meetings. Now, the party is focusing on door-to-door campaigns. With 409 fresh cases, tally crosses 64k
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Third death in Patiala SUV crash, farmers seek murder FIR case against accused excise inspector||A 16-year-old boy, who was among those injured after an excise and taxation inspector rammed his speeding sports utility vehicle (SUV) into protesting farmers in Patiala three days ago, died on Thursday. The victim, Paramvir Singh of Inderpura village in the district, is third to die in the accident. While Inderjeet Singh, 65, a resident of Ranjit Nagar locality in the city, had died on the spot, a 2-year-old boy succumbed to his injuries later.Two persons are still being treated at a local hospital. The accused, Pritpal Singh, a city resident who is posted in Patran town of the district, was arrested on Thursday after he was discharged from hospital and was sent on 14-day judicial custody. Station house officer (SHO) Harry Boparai said a case was registered under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 297 (rash driving), etc of the Indian Penal Code. In a press conference, Samyukat Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Darshan Pal on Thursday demanded registration of murder case against the accused. “It is a serious matter and the police should take strict action against the accused. The government should give adequate compensation to the families of the deceased,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-death-in-patiala-suv-crash-farmers-seek-murder-fir-case-against-accused-excise-inspector-101617308521979.html
02-04-2021||Other||Woman killed in group clash in Amritsar||A 55-year-old woman, Lata Devi, was shot dead in a clash that ensued between two groups over an old enmity in Sandhu Colony on the 88-Feet Road on Thursday, about 1pm. Sources said one of the groups had resorted to indiscriminate firing and the woman became a victim, as she stepped out of her house. Devi’s son, Prahlad Kumar, said, “I and my brother Sunny Kumar work as labourers. Four months ago, one Sunny (namesake of his brother) and his uncle Labha had accused my brother of teasing a girl. The case reached the police station where a compromise was reached, as Sunny and his uncle failed to prove their charges. Since then, the accused had been holding a grudge against my brother.”Kumar added, “Two weeks ago, the accused met me in a market and a minor quarrel occurred. On Thursday afternoon, both came into locality, outside our house, and started hurling abuses. When we said we will file a police complaint, the duo fled. Minutes later, the two came back with a mob of 20 unidentified aides. All of them were armed and opened fire.”He said, “We climbed to our rooftop and started pelting stones to disperse the accused. My mother, who was in the house, went out and two of the gunshots hit her. She collapsed and the accused fled. We rushed my mother to a nearby private hospital where she was declared brought dead.”Amritsar Sadar SHO Parveen Kumar said they were yet to record the statement of the victim’s family. “Action will be taken,” he said, adding a that case under Sections 302 (murder) of the IPC and the relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered against Sunny and some unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-killed-in-group-clash-in-amritsar-101617308520992.html
02-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana police get 10,000 eyes in city as pvt CCTVs linked with control room||The police have connected private closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras with the control room.The drive was started at one police station four months ago, which has now been extended to 10 police stations with nearly 10,000 CCTVs linked.According to the commissioner of police, Rakesh Agrawal, the target is to attach private CCTVs to all 29 police stations. With this, the police will manage to keep tabs on movements in streets, which will help them prevent and detect crime.The police have been linking CCTVs installed outside markets, shops, factories and commercial complexes with the police control room using the internet. The SHOs of police stations will also have access to the CCTVs.Under the Safe City Project, the police had installed CCTVs at all major points, places, roads and crossroads of the city but the cameras do not cover internal roads. In such a scenario, the police have to wait to procure CCTV access from people.“The SHOs have been asked to hold meetings with local shopkeepers, market associations, factory owners to get their CCTVs linked with the police control room,” said the police chief.“The CCTVs will also help in tracing vehicle-lifting incidents, burglaries and clashes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-get-10-000-eyes-in-city-as-pvt-cctvs-linked-with-control-room-101617308519931.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 more arrested in ₹484 crore GST billing scam in Ludhiana||Two more persons were arrested on Thursday in the ₹484 crore Goods and Services Tax (GST) billing scam that was unearthed in Ludhiana recently. The accused were identified as Gurtej Singh and Sagar, proprietors of two of the 19 firms involved in the fake invoicing racket run by Baljinder Singh alias Bunty, a Khanna resident, who was arrested along with his aide Vishal Singh earlier. GST commissionerate officials said Gurtej Singh and Sagar confessed that there was no actual business activity in their firms which they had opened at the behest of Baljinder, who did bogus billing to the tune of ₹484 crore through 19 companies in lieu of money. Gurtej, the proprietor of RK Fabrics, along with Baljinder availed fake ITC (input tax credit) of ₹3.51 crore and passed ₹2.06 crore through bogus invoices of ₹33.48 crore, the officials claimed. Sagar, the proprietor of SD Fabric, along with Baljinder availed fake ITC of ₹2.11 crore and passed on ₹2.11 crore through bogus invoicing of ₹24.46 crore, they added. 2 arrested in similar cases The GST commissionerate also arrested Amanpreet Singh, the proprietor of Har Kiya Oil Corporation, for availing fraudulent ITC of ₹2.2 crore without actual movement of goods or supporting invoices. Amanpreet confessed that he floated the firm at the behest of Daljit Singh, the proprietor of Kaacha Dhan Oil Products, who availed fraudulent ITC of ₹7.96 crore through three bogus firms, they claimed. In another case, Vishal Kumar Singla was arrested for allegedly floating 32 bogus firms operated by Gurbax Lal, alias Happy Nagpal. The accused allegedly availed fake ITC of ₹65 crore, the officials said. Nagpal’s two accomplices Rajinder Singh and Sandeep Puri were arrested on February 5. Nagpal was involved in issuance of fake invoices amounting to ₹38.67 crore and fraudulently availing ITC of ₹6.58 crore through five bogus firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-more-arrested-in-rs-484-crore-gst-billing-scam-in-ludhiana-101617308459739.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rift within BJP widens as Jai Ram fires salvo at Mandi MLA Anil Sharma||Firing a salvo at the party’s Mandi legislator Anil Sharma, Himachal chief minister criticised his colleague and former power minister for not campaigning for the saffron party ahead of the municipal corporation elections . “Elections are underway and it is everybody’s duty to seek votes for the party’s candidates. He ( Sharma) should have joined the campaign,” said Thakur. Shrama had joined the BJP ahead of the assembly elections but was forced to give up his Cabinet berth after the Congress made his son Ashray, the Congress nominee for the Lok Sabha elections . BJP did not include Sharma in any of the poll panels constituted for the elections to Mandi MC. “ I learnt that he (Sharma ) is holding group meetings. God knows for what are the meetings are being convened when the party workers are out in the field,” the CM said. Reiterating that nobody was above the party. Thakur said, “The party had allocated a ticket to Sharma in the assembly elections. I was campaigning in remote villages at the time yet I was told to remain present for his nomination. I followed party directives and did my best to help him during the elections. However, for him his family is always comes first.” Striking an emotional cord with the Mandi electorate, he said, “Elections to the municipal corporation are prestigious not just for me but for the entire district. After all, it is after 70 years that the state has had a CM from Mandi. If you think Jai Ram is resident of Mandi then all of us have to make concerted efforts to ensure the party’s victory in the elections.” Making a fervent appeal to voters, Thakur said, “Congress is misleading people by saying taxes will be levied if rural areas are merged into the corporation. No taxes will be imposed in rural areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rift-within-bjp-widens-as-jai-ram-fires-salvo-at-mandi-mla-anil-sharma-101617308404633.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge continues in Punjab with 3,161 new cases, 60 deaths||Chandigarh In a second highest single-day spike of Covid cases to date, Punjab on Thursday witnessed 3,161 fresh infections and 60 deaths. The highest single-day rise of 3,171 infections was recorded on March 26. As per media bulletin of the state government, maximum 416 cases were detected in Jalandhar district, followed by 409 in SAS Nagar, 376 in Ludhiana, 332 in Amritsar, 268 in Patiala, 258 in Hoshiarpur, 186 in Ropar, 127 in Gurdaspur, 100 in Kapurthala, 85 in Sangrur, 81 in Tarn Taran, 62 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 56 in Faridkot, 55 in SBS Nagar, 48 Pathankot, 44 in Mansa, 39 in Moga, 28 in Barnala, 26 in Fazilka, 18 in Muktsar and eight in Ferozepur. Eleven virus-related deaths were witnessed in Amritsar, nine each in Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, four in SBS Nagar, three in Gurdaspur, two each in Ferozepur, Patiala, Sangrur and Tarn Taran and one each in Barnala, Bathinda, Pathankot and Kapurthala. State now has 24,644 active cases of which 3,296 are in SAS Nagar. 77,000 people vaccinated On the first day of the third phase of Covid vaccination drive, Punjab on Thursday administered 77,000 doses against a daily target of one-lakh inoculations. A total of 48,800 people between 45 years and 59 years of age were vaccinated on the day at 2,500 sites across the state. State plans to start vaccination at 5,000 sites. As per state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, a few issues cropped up as it was only first day of the mega drive. “Within a day or two, we will reach the target,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-continues-in-punjab-with-3-161-new-cases-60-deaths-101617308403331.html
02-04-2021||Other||For second time in row, PAU Kisan Mela to be held virtually||The visual spectacle of Kisan Mela at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) will be held online for the second year in a row as the offline event was cancelled in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana.Earlier, the PAU authorities had decided to hold the Kisan Mela offline in April PAU premises.The biannual affair was also cancelled in March last year due to the pandemic and was held virtually in September during the Rabi season. As per PAU authorities, the virtual event had witnessed a participation of 2.66 lakh persons from India and abroad.The online mela at the sub-stations of Gurdaspur, Bathinda and Ballowal Saunkhri had received a timid response. One of the online melas held at Bathinda also drew criticism due to low attendance and continuous internet issues.Event could have had political overtonesAs PAU Kisan Mela always attracts political attention, the timing of the offline event was also significant as it was being organised at a time when farmer unions were at loggerheads with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the three contentious farm laws. It was being anticipated that the mela could have political overtones as there’s less than a year left for the assembly polls.However, without any prior announcement, the farmers were informed about the event being held virtually during the PAU live programme on Thursday.Dr JS Mahal, director of extension education, PAU, said the Kisan Melas were organised twice a year during March and September for Kharif and Rabi seasons. Due to the pandemic, virtual melas are being organised, he said, adding that the two-day event was all set to be held on April 5 and 6.During the mela, videos of field demonstrations, farm machinery and latest agricultural recommendations will be uploaded on the website portal of Kisan Mela. Farmers, farm women and rural youth can participate by logging in on the website, added Mahal.Farmers can also attend the mela on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-second-time-in-row-pau-kisan-mela-to-be-held-virtually-101617308339762.html
02-04-2021||Other||Protests, confusion in Ludhiana on first day of free bus scheme for women||The free bus service for women triggered protests by the Punbus Contract Employee Union, who said that the move would result in losses.The day was also marred with confusion as the women were caught unaware and were seen wanting for Aadhaar cards.Representatives of the union feared that the new scheme would immensely benefit women, but render the department bankrupt and ultimately lead to the closing of the government bus service.The vice-president of the Contractual Workers’ Union, Gurpreet Singh, said the union welcomed the step of free travel: “However, we fail to understand how the government will manage to run such schemes with empty coffers. It is nothing but an election gimmick. No funds have been allocated in the recent budget for government transport vehicles. Punjab Roadways has 250 buses in 18 depots, while PRTC has a fleet of 1,800, of which around 1,500 buses are run by being hired from a private bus operator who is paid for each kilometre.”He further added that during the time of elections, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had vowed to eradicate the private transport mafia, but nothing was done. On the other hand, the government buses were running into losses with each passing day, he said.Due to the protest, the launch of the free bus scheme was delayed by over an hour. Earlier it was stated that cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu would inaugurate the scheme at 12 noon, but later deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, along with MLA Surinder Dawar, district Congress committee president Ashwani Sharma and Youth Development Board president Sukhwinder Singh Bindra launched it at 1pm.Confusion prevailed at the ticket counter as many women were seen calling their relatives to the bus stand to handover their Aadhaar cards or driving licences.Puja, 23, who was travelling with a friend, said she was not carrying any identity card: “It was only after reaching here that I learned of the free travel scheme for women, but since I was not carrying an identity proof, I had to pay for the ticket.”Scheme will encourage independenceNeha and Sonia, residents of Doraha and Samrala, respectively, said they were excited about the new government scheme. The scheme will help women immensely in making them independent and also lessen the financial burden the family incurring on their education.“Earlier we used to travel through student passes. Renewing it was a tedious process. Sometimes we used to shell out money to travel through private buses. With government making travelling in government buses free for women anywhere in the state, it has opened abundant opportunities for us,” said the duo, who are NCC cadets.Vina Rani, Nisha, Mamta, Nirmala and Simarjit, who were visiting a shrine at Nakodar, said: “Earlier we used to request our husbands to ferry us because we could not travel by public transport due to financial constraints. Now that travel is free, we have decided to visit each district and town of Punjab.”Demands of protesting unionThe union members want regularisation of contractual staff working for over 12 years; implementation of equal pay for equal work; inclusion of new buses to meet the need of rising population; and proper availability of spare parts at the workshop for timely maintenance of buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protests-confusion-in-ludhiana-on-first-day-of-free-bus-scheme-for-women-101617308160351.html
02-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana saw six-fold rise in Covid hospitalisations in a span of a month||The district has seen a six-fold increase in the number of Covid-19 patients requiring hospitalisation in the last one month, data from health department revealed.As per information, there were 59 Covid-19 patients admitted in government and private hospitals across the district on February 28. By March 31, the number went up 355. The number of active cases also increased almost five times in the corresponding period. Against 554 active cases on February 28, there were 2, 937 active cases on March 31. The number of patients on ventilator support also increased from one on February 28 to 10 on March 31.As per information, around 70-80% of the beds at prominent city hospitals, including Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), are occupied. But hospital authorities – both at private and government ones—maintain that adequate arrangements are in place to deal with the situation. DMCH medical superintendent Dr Sandeep Sharma said, “With the rising cases, the number of patients requiring hospitalisation has also increased. But there is nothing to worry as we have enough beds. The number of beds can be increased further if the need arises. Even if the cases rise beyond capacity, the hospitals are in touch with the administration to make alternative arrangements to ensure no one is left without a bed.”A CMCH official said, “Everyone has learnt from the past experience and ramped up the facilities. Also, now most of the Level 1 patients remain in home isolation and only Level 2 and 3 patients are hospitalised. The capacity can be increased if directions are received from the administration.” Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Sukhjevan Kakkar said, “There is a rise in the number of cases but there is no shortage of beds and adequate arrangements are in place to provide medical facilities to Covid patients. We are regularly monitoring the situation and if required, more beds will be added to increase the capacity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-saw-six-fold-rise-in-covid-hospitalisation-in-a-span-of-a-month-101617307919636.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Enforcement Directorate initiated probe into case despite apex court’s stay, Punjab MLA Khaira tells HC||Bholath (Punjab) MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) initiated a probe against him in the 2015 drug seizure case even as the Supreme Court had stayed the proceedings in his favour in the matter. Questioning timing of the ED raids on his properties, the legislator responded to the agency’s affidavit in the high court that ₹4.86 crore was deposited in his bank accounts in 12 years while his declared income was only ₹99 lakh. The agency had also submitted that as money laundering is a standalone offence it can continue with the probe despite the apex court staying criminal proceedings against Khaira. These claims were made by the ED in response to the MLA’s plea against March 9 raids on the properties of Khaira and some people associated with him in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. Nine persons were convicted in October 2017 in the case with Khaira summoned as “additional accused” through same order, a decision subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court. He alleged the ED was indulging in a political witch-hunt and it chose to launch probe when he was vocally criticising the central government over the farm laws. No cash was recovered in raids and he could explain every transaction made as not a single penny was unaccounted for, he said. He admitted to making some calls to police officers about Gurdev Singh, a convict in the 2015 drug trafficking case as he belonged to his constituency. “If the SC orders are allowed to be violated with impunity, it would spell a death knell for the citizens of this country. .... The court should take a stern view of the matter and deal with all excesses and illegalities committed by the ED,” he added. The matter was adjourned to April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/enforcement-directorate-initiated-probe-into-case-despite-apex-court-s-stay-punjab-mla-khaira-tells-hc-101617307619611.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder scared of standing up to BJP-led Centre, says Sukhbir Badal on DBT row||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was afraid of standing up to the BJP-led central government and that was the reason he failed to take any concrete step to stop implementation of the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for wheat procurement. Addressed a rally at Ajnala in Amritsar district, his first after recovering from the coronavirus infection, Sukhbir leader also accused Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal and party’s Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann of playing a double game on the three agricultural laws. “Kejriwal enacted a big drama of opposing the farm laws during the party’s recent meeting in Baghapurana even as his government was the first to implement the legislations in Delhi. Similarly, Bhagwant Mann gave his assent to the amended Essential Commodities Act in a meeting of the standing committee on food and consumer affairs,” he claimed. Later, talking to mediapersons, he said, “Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is playing a fixed match with the Centre and it is clear from the fact that he had sought time to implement the DBT scheme instead of declining to execute it.”Also, he accused the Centre of teaming up with the AAP government in Delhi as well as the Sarna and GK groups to debar SAD from contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections.Assuring the people that the SAD would continue to safeguard people’s interests, Sukhbir announced SAD would not allow implementation of the three farm laws in Punjab once it forms government in the state.Party leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, “The SAD is the only party which is committed to protect the interests of Panth and Punjab. The Congress is ruining the state under the supervision of Amarinder Singh.”The rally organised former MLA Amarpal Singh Bony whose father Rattan Singh Ajnala along with others had floated the Shiromani Akali Dal (Taksali) in 2019. Ajnala’s wife was also present in the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-scared-of-standing-up-to-bjp-led-centre-says-sukhbir-badal-on-dbt-row-101617307503831.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University officiating V-C appoints new registrar, employee unions threaten to intensify stir||Punjabi University officiating vice-chancellor Ravneet Kaur on Thursday started making new appointments for top administrative posts and designated senior professor Varinder Kumar Kaushik as the varsity registrar for one year even as the teaching and non-teaching staff unions threatened to intensify their protest against the move. Kaur, a senior IAS officer, along with Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vikram Jeet Duggal visited the university campus and held meetings with the faculty members who recently tendered their resignations from various administrative posts. She also held discussions with representatives of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) and other unions to end the deadlock. Kaushik, who is from the varsity’s Punjab school of law, had unsuccessfully contested against incumbent PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol in the last elections. The appointments for other top posts such as dean academic affairs, controller of examination, dean colleges and director planning and monitoring are also under consideration, it was learnt. The varsity’s functioning has come to a standstill for over a week after 40 senior faculty members tendered resignations from various posts, accusing the officiating V-C of working in an autocratic manner. They are also miffed over non-clearance of 105 promotion cases. “The new registrar has been appointed on priority basis as the university has to be run. We need to finalise and approve the annual budget to run the institution’s affairs. We cannot afford further deadlock. Meetings are being held to make other top appointments as the names of faculty members are under consideration,” said the officiating V-C. “In the past one week, I have held three meetings with outgoing registrar Devinder Sidhu but he was reluctant to come on board again,” she added. Candlelight march held on campusPUTA and other employee unions on Thursday staged a protest and held a candlelight march on the campus over the decision to appoint the new registrar. “We strongly oppose the appointment of new registrar as the administration has resorted to divide-and-rule ploy. The officials are using pressure tactics to force other teachers to rejoin their administrative posts,” Deol said. “We will intensify our protest in the coming days and won’t allow the varsity administration to work till our demands are met,” he added. The protesters have locked the registrar’s office and stalled the administrative work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-officiating-v-c-appoints-new-registrar-employee-unions-threaten-to-intensify-stir-101617307500678.html
02-04-2021||Other||Toddler falls off moving train near Samrala, hospitalised||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl survived with minor injuries after she fell off a moving train near Samrala on Thursday afternoon. As per information, the girl fell through the emergency exit window. Her mother had gone to the washroom at the time. It was after the mother raised the alarm that other passengers pulled the chain and brought the train to a halt and informed railway officials. After two hours of search, the girl, identified as Mahira Sharma, was found lying in the fields, about six kilometres from where the train halted. She was rushed to the Samrala civil hospital from where she was shifted to a private hospital. Doctors said she has suffered only minor injuries and is in a stable condition. Vaishali Sharma, the girl’s mother, said that she resides in Mumbai and had come to Phagwara with her three children to meet her relatives. On Thursday, the four of them boarded the Paschim Express from Phagwara to reach Mumbai. The seats allotted to them were in the middle of the compartment. Around afternoon, she went to the washroom, leaving the three children on their seats. When she came back, her five-year-old daughter told her that Mahira had fallen off the window. A passenger on the train said that it is nothing less than a miracle that the girl suffered only minor injuries as the train was moving very fast. Dinesh Malhotra, a railway official, said the train was halted for about two hours after the incident. Railway officials said they will make arrangements to send the family to Mumbai after the girl recovers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/toddler-falls-off-moving-train-near-samrala-hospitalised-101617307499684.html
02-04-2021||Other||Centre duty-bound to address state’s grievances, says Punjab food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu||Gurpreet Singh NibberWith no clear resolution in sight to the row over implementation of the system of direct payments to farmers, stakeholders are looking for clarity. Punjab food and civil supplies minister tells HT that the state government is committed to ensuring procurement of every grain. The deadlock between the Punjab government and the Centre continues. Will it cast a shadow on upcoming wheat procurement? You have already deferred it by ten days. We are trying to resolve the deadlock between our government and the Centre. I, however, want to assure you that there will be no impact on procurement this season, and every grain of the farmer will be purchased. Procurement was deferred due to the spike in covid cases. We are ready and have set up at least 3,900 mandis for staggered procurement.How will you resolve the deadlock?We are trying to meet Union food minister Piyush Goyal. The issues are complicated and have to be resolved in a face-to-face meeting. Writing letters will not solve any purpose. The Centre is duty-bound to redress the state’s grievances. The CM is also trying to meet the PM.What are Punjab’s apprehensions in implementing direct payment? It concerns the state’s Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, which mandates an important role for kutcha arhtiyas (commission agents) in our procurement system. If we make direct payment to farmers, we have to amend the APMC Act. Arhtiyas manage entire mandi operations and other logistics related to the crop. In addition to all of this, an Indian state also has federal powers, which need to be respected.Arhtiyas claim there are other issues which need resolution.There are incidental charges that we need to be recover from the Centre. The Rural Development Fee (RDF) has also not been released and foodgrain in godowns needs to be lifted fast; already, there is a glut-like situation, with another 130 lakh tonne wheat from this season needing storage or transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-duty-bound-to-address-state-s-grievances-says-punjab-food-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu-101617307140649.html
02-04-2021||Other||Night curfew goes for toss in Ludhiana as liquor vends clear stock||Night curfew and social distancing norms went for a toss on Wednesday as Bacchus lovers queued up at liquor vends, which were offering huge discounts to customers, in a bid to clear the stock on the last day of the financial year 2020-21.Though night curfew kicks in at 9pm, vends on Pakhowal Road, Gill Road, Railway station road, Dugri, Haibowal, Model Town and Haibowal, remained open even after 11pm as police patrol teams turned a blind eye to the violations. At many places, social distancing norms were also seen being openly flouted as patrons rushed to secure themselves a stock of their preferred brand of liquor. At some places, liquor vend owners had pulled the shutters down but continued sale through a small holed carved in the shutter.A staffer at one of the vends, requesting anonymity, said, “It would have been a huge revenue loss for us if the vends had been closed at 9pm. People came in large numbers in view of the year-end discounts. The government should also have made exceptions for us in view of the March 31 rush.”Sahil, a customer standing in a queue at a vend on Pakhowal road, said it is the only time of the year when liquor is available at discounted rates so everyone is trying to make the best out of it.Traders slam police inaction against liquor vendsMeanwhile, police inaction against the liquor vend owners did not go down well with the traders who accused the administration of discriminating against them. Deepak, a shopkeeper in Model Town Extension, said, “We are forced to pull down the shutters even before 9pm by the police, but no action was taken against the liquor vend owners. They got away easily as they are backed by influential people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-goes-for-toss-in-ludhiana-as-liquor-vends-clear-stock-101617307139631.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||BKU Muktsar chief among 21 held for murder bid on BJP MLA||Muktsar Police on Thursday arrested 21 more people, including Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Sidhupur) Muktsar president Sukhdev Singh, for attempting to murder BJP’s Abohar legislator Arun Narang in Malout on March 27, taking the total arrests to 25. Narang was beaten up and stripped naked by a mob of farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. Police had arrested four people a day after the incident amid widespread condemnation of the incident. Besides Sukhdev Singh, two BKU-Sidhupur office-bearers Nirmal Singh (general secretary) of Jasseana village and Nanak Singh (treasurer) of Fakarsar village were also arrested on Thursday. Among others arrested include Baljeet Singh of Bodhiwala Khadak Singh village, Gurdeep Singh, Baldev Singh, Lakhvir Singh, Balvir Singh, Guradita Singh, Sadhu Singh and Jaskaran Singh ( all residents of Harike Kalan village), Mandeep Singh of Mehna, Avtar Singh of Mithri Budhgir, Darshan Singh, Manjinder Singh and Sarjinder Singh (all residents of Warring village), Balwant Singh, Dharam Singh, Resham Singh and Gurwinder Singh (all residents of Raniwala village) and Jaskaran Singh of Gulabewala village. Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi said all the accused named in the said case have been arrested even as investigations are still on. The case was registered on the complaint of Muktsar superintendent of police (SP) Gurmail Singh against BKU office-bearers, 24 farmer activists and 250 unidentified people under sections 307, 353, 186, 188, 332, 342, 506, 148 and 149 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Malout police station. Sudarvizi said the members of police party, including SP (headquarters), Malout DSP, two station house officers (SHO) and personnel of quick reaction team (QRT), trying to protect MLA Narang were also attacked by the protesters. Superintendent of police Gurmail Singh and constables Ranjit Singh and Harmanpreet Singh had suffered injuries in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-muktsar-chief-among-21-held-for-murder-bid-on-bjp-mla-101617307079386.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 47,000 people in 45-59 age group get the jab in Haryana||Over 47,000 people in the age group of 45-59 (with and without co-morbidities) in Haryana were inoculated with Covid vaccine on Thursday.The vaccination drive went off smoothly despite the fact that beneficiaries had to go for on-the-spot registration on Co-win portal.As per health department statistics for vaccination of above 45 individuals, Rewari with 8,750 inoculations led the way, followed by Gurugram with 7,185, Faridabad 7,076 and Karnal 4,611.About 1.10 lakh people, including around 35,000 people above the age of 60, were administered the vaccine on Thursday. The total number of persons who have been inoculated so far is 17.01 lakh.In Rohtak, Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra and his wife Neelam Batra received the vaccine jab at PGIMS.A 47-year-old labourer Rameshwar, who received the first dose of the vaccine at Sonepat civil hospital, said, “There was less rush when I got the jab. Government should provide vaccine shots to children as well so that we can move freely.”Vaccination at Ambala took place at nearly 160 centres in district. Krishan Kumar, 55, of Manav Vihar, said the vaccination process was smooth.Panchkula district immunisation officer Meenu Sasan said 3,033 persons were given the vaccine on April 1, of which, 1,508 were over 45 years of age.Paramjit Kaur, 53, chief manager at the Haryana Seeds Development Corporation, said that they were directed by senior officials to get vaccinated. “We approached the health authorities and they vaccinated over 25 employees of our department,” she said.FIGURES AS ON APRIL 1Total vaccination: 17.01 lakh personsFirst dose administered to 1.87 lakh healthcare workers against targeted 2.55 lakh; over 1.13 lakh get second doseFirst dose administered to 1.12 lakh frontline workers against targeted 1.59 lakh; 40,743 administered second doseAbout 12.26 lakh people above 60 and citizens above 45 with or without co-morbidities inoculated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-47-000-people-in-45-59-age-group-get-the-jab-in-haryana-101617306901350.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s kitty got ₹30,713-crore GST boost in 2020-21||Punjab received a financial boost from the goods and services tax (GST) during the financial year 2020-21, thanks to the highest-ever compensation and sharp recovery in collections after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state economy. The cash-strapped state government received ₹30,713 crore from GST, including compensation from the central government, in 2020-21 as against ₹22,099 crore during the previous financial year, according to data compiled by the taxation department. The 39% increase in GST revenue has provided a considerable financial wiggle room to the state government that has less than a year to go for the assembly polls, allowing it to release pending bills and payments and give a push to welfare schemes. 105% JUMP IN GST COMPENSATION FROM CENTRE The indirect tax funds include GST compensation of ₹18,050 crore which is more than double, 105% to be precise, the amount of ₹8,805 crore received by the state government from the central government in financial year 2019-20. The compensation is for shortfall in the state’s monthly protected revenue of ₹2,403 crore last year in addition to some pending claims, a department official said. At the time of switching to GST, the central government had guaranteed 14% year-on-year growth over the revenue base in 2015-16 and agreed to compensate the state for any shortfall. The Centre has borrowed funds to give compensation to the states as tax collections were severely hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year. COLLECTIONS POINT TO ECONOMIC RECOVERY The state’s GST revenue signalled a significant pickup in economic activity, nearly matching the revenue in 2019-20 revenue, after the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the first two months of the year gone by. The collections including state GST (SGST) and integrated GST (IGST) settlement stood at ₹12,663 crore in 2020-21, down 4.7% from ₹13,300 in the previous year, which is a considerable improvement from the first half when the mop-up was sluggish. The state’s revenue collection for the April-September period of 2020-21 was down by 31% year-on-year and started picking up as lockdown restrictions were eased gradually. Additional chief secretary, taxation, A Venu Prasad said the GST amount is at a “historic high” as the department pursued GST compensation claims vigorously with the central government and filed claims on time which also helped settlement of some compensation claims of previous years. “Our GST and excise teams carried out strict enforcement and launching crackdowns on those indulging in tax frauds and illicit liquor trade,” he said. DOUBLE-DIGIT GROWTH IN EXCISE, VAT REVENUES The increase in excise and value-added tax revenues also provided relief to the state government. The excise collection jumped by 21% year-on-year, going to ₹6091.21 crore in 2020-21 from ₹5,022.36 crore. Besides release of additional quota that fetched extra ₹450 crore, action against illegal distillers and smugglers under Operation Red Rose also saw collections go up. VAT and central sales tax collections, which mostly come from diesel, petrol and other petroleum productions, swelled by 13%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-kitty-got-30-713-crore-gst-boost-in-202021-101617306779388.html
02-04-2021||Other||2 Panipat cops suspended after detainees clash in lockup||Taking a serious note of clash between two accused in police lockup, Panipat superintendent of police (SP) has suspended an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a constable for negligence of duty.Police had detained Sushil Kumar and his uncle Balwan Singh after a clash over some land.Police called them on March 31 to settle the dispute but the issue could not be sorted. Police locked them up at Panipat’s Sector 13/17 police station under Sections 107 and 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).In the wee hours of April 1, Balwan allegedly attacked Sushil with a stick while in lockup and injured him.Police found Balwan unconscious and he was rushed to a private hospital. His condition is stated to be critical.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said that ASI Anoop Singh and constable Rakam Singh have been suspended for negligence of duty and probe has been ordered in the case.Police have registered a case against Balwan under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-panipat-cops-suspended-after-detainees-clash-in-lockup-101617306719572.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Women will decide what to wear, eat, drink, not BJP or RSS: Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Thursday held a meeting of the State Mahila Congress workers and said that camps will be organised to train female delegates about social media platforms to the advantage of the party activities.The HPCC chief assured the delegates that they will be given opportunities in the party according to their talent and that participation of women will be ensured in important party activities.Accusing BJP and RSS leaders of making vulgar and controversial statements against women, Selja said that women will decide what to wear, eat and drink, and not BJP or RSS.The HPCC chief said these leaders should refrain from making controversial statements against women and respect them.She said that ever since the BJP government was formed in Haryana, the situation of women in state has become “pathetic”.“The law and order situation in state has collapsed due to which there is huge increase in rape and kidnapping incidents in Haryana,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/women-will-decide-what-to-wear-eat-drink-not-bjp-or-rss-selja-101617306539714.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||IAS officer Khemka moves HC over strictures passed by court||IAS officer, Ashok Khemka, has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court over strictures passed by the court against him in a case related to appointment of international shooter Vishwajeet Singh as a Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer. The HC bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Rajesh Bhardwaj has issued notice of motion for April 20. In January, a high court judge had decried his role for causing delay in appointment of Vishwajeet as an HCS officer. The appointment of Vishwajeet, son of IAS officer Jagdeep Singh, got delayed on complaint of Khemka in December 2019. The appointment has now been made after HC intervention in January in which court made remarks against Khemka. Khemka demanded that strictures passed against him should be expunged as he was not associated with proceedings before court in any manner. “It is submitted with the greatest respect and in all humility that the impugned strictures are not only absolutely unfounded and perverse but have been passed by the learned single judge in manifest violation of the principles of natural justice and are thus ex facie illegal and liable to be expunged,” Khemka stated. The single judge bench had recorded in its order that the shooter’s appointment got delayed due to an “ill-informed perspective which complainant Ashok Khemka entertained regarding shooting sport.” “Even the questions raised by Khemka in his complaint, reflected his utter ignorance about the sports activity and regarding award of medals in the sport of shooting,” the court recorded. “This was the height of unfounded self-righteousness. This totally takes away the pretense of acting in public interest and shows that Khemka might have used all these tactics to bring the officers under pressure and to bring junior officials of the department under fear psychosis, which forced them to continue the tirade against the petitioner in one form or the other” was another remark the judge had made on Khemka’s role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ias-officer-khemka-moves-hc-over-strictures-passed-by-court-101617306428212.html
02-04-2021||Other||Karnal shopkeepers protest ‘no-parking zone’ move of dist admn||Agitated over the district administration’s decision of declaring busy markets as ‘no-traffic zone’, Karnal shopkeepers held protest and urged the administration to withdraw the decision.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday announced that no vehicles will be allowed to ply in Karan Gate Market, Gur Mandi, Dupatta Market and Dyalpura Gate Market, between 10am and 9pm from Wednesday (April 1). Later, it will also be implemented in Kunjpura Road Market.The administration has created two parking lots for visitors and police are deployed in the markets to challan defaulting vehicles.Soon after the decision was implemented on Thursday morning, shopkeepers held a meeting and took out a protest march. They asked the shopkeepers to keep their shops shut to protest the decision.“The move will affect our business if customers will not be allowed to enter markets,” said Shyam Batra, member of shopkeepers’ association.He alleged that police are challaning vehicles that are entering the market.Later, the shopkeepers reached out to the DC office and the latter told them that the decision was taken in favour of shopkeepers to provide hassle-free movement to customers.The DC said that the matter was resolved and the traders have agreed with the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-shopkeepers-protest-no-parking-zone-move-of-dist-admn-101617306299843.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University will continue with online teaching for now, says V-C||Panjab University vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar on Thursday said the varsity will continue with online teaching for now in the wake of the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.The remarks of the V-C came amid the growing demand from the students for the resumption of regular classes. Raj Kumar said the safety of students remains the prime concern for the university.“Given the present situation, the university will continue with online teaching. It is not feasible for us to resume physical teaching for all students. Almost 99% of our online classes are successful,” he added. PU had allowed certain categories of postgraduate final-year students to stay at hostels in February, but later halted the further reopening in the wake of spike in Covid-19 cases. Many students have also boycotted the online classes, seeking resumption of regular classes. Regarding the ongoing protest of students who are demanding the reopening of AC Joshi library, Raj Kumar said that a committee has already been constituted to deliberate on the matter. Research scholars of the university are facing many issues that are affecting their research work. When asked about this, Raj Kumar said, “We are already thinking about it. We are trying to find an alternative within the PU regulations in the interest of our students.”With the senate election of PU pending since last August, the varsity is functioning without its apex governing body. The term of senate had ended on October 31. The annual budget for the 2021-22 financial year recommended by the Board of Finance has not been approved by the senate so far. “The annual budget has been recommended by the BoF which has a member of the ministry of education, Punjab government, and the Chandigarh administration. I do not think that university will face any issue in its implementation,” the V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-will-continue-with-online-teaching-for-now-says-vc-101617306182286.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting PU students break into reading hall||With the demand to reopen the AC Joshi library for them, students of Panjab University on Thursday entered the reading hall after breaking open its lock. The protesting students entered the reading hall as the meeting between them and the varsity officials was not held after both sides differed on how many students will attend the meeting. The research scholars and students have been protesting for the last nine days outside the library demanding its immediate reopening.Last week, the university had closed all the departmental libraries, along with AC Joshi library, in the wake of recent surge in the numbers of Covid-19 positive cases.Continuing the stir, students also marched towards the administrative block of PU on Thursday where they raised slogans against the vice-chancellor, Raj Kumar, and other varsity officials. Raj Kumar also held an emergent meeting with officials in the day regarding the issue after which officials called a meeting with student representatives. The university, in its official communiqué, said, “PU authorities tried to meet the protesting students to continue dialogue with them related to the opening of the library. The authorities asked the students to send five representatives whereas students were insisting on sending nine members for the meeting. The authorities kept on waiting for two hours but no one turned up.”The university also said that there was a protest by students at the administrative block after which they went to the library and broke open the lock of the reading room. “A police complaint has been made in this regard. Thereafter, with the help of the police, the reading room was locked,” the university said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-pu-students-break-into-reading-hall-101617306181268.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh pollution panel seeks report on garbage dump fire||As the fire at the dumping ground in Dadumajra continued to smoulder on Thursday, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee sought a report from the municipal corporation detailing the reasons.The letter to the MC commissioner came after an expert team from the CPCC was constituted and rushed to the spot for inspection.Debendra Dalai, member secretary, CPCC, said: “The committee has asked the corporation to immediately submit a report detailing the reasons for the fire and also submit an accident report.”In case of a fire at the dumping site, the MC is mandated to submit an accident report on its own to the pollution board, as per the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules.“After the last fire incident, the MC didn’t submit the report. This time, the CPCC has sought the report,” said Dalai.According to MC officials, this is the fourth fire incident at the dumping site in the past one year, with two of these being major ones.On the environmental and health impact of the fire, Dalai said: “Such a fire can have detrimental impact on the air quality with release of toxic gases. The poor air quality results in health issues for people.”The committee in the letter to the MC has also directed it to take immediate steps so that such an incidents are not repeated in future, said Dalai.The fire has engulfed the site of legacy mining from where more than 5 lakh tonne of legacy waste is to be removed. The legacy mining project, worth ₹33 crore, started in December 2019, was to be completed in 18 months. So far, only around 30% of it has been completed.MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “The project deadline was revised in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the firm has been directed to complete it by December this year. So far 1.5 lakh tonne of legacy waste has been removed.”Fire still simmering, residents complain of issues in breathingAs many as eight fire tenders along with earth-moving equipment have been pressed into service since the fire broke out on Wednesday afternoon. It is still simmering, and every few hours, huge flames can be seen erupting from some parts of the dump.“The operation is still on. The fire had spread towards the processing plant but was brought under control,” said Anil Kumar Garg, chief fire officer. Though the exact cause of the fire is unclear, the authorities pin suspicion on scrap dealers and rag pickers. Garg said: “Methane gas produced in the garbage catches fire very easily. Ragpickers who move around in the area drop bidis and cigarettes that leads to fire.” Scrap dealers burn the plastic coating to extract wires, and that could have led to the fire, said another fire official. Medical officer health Dr Amrit Warring said about 10 earth-moving vehicles have been pressed into service to put sand on the dump.Meanwhile, people residing in nearby areas, including Dadumajra, Sector 25, Sector 38 West, Maloya and Dhanas, had a sleepless night. Many complained of problems in breathing and irritation in eyes. Rohit Sharma, a resident of Sector 38 West, said: “The smell made it difficult to breath.” Satprakash, a shopkeeper in Sector 25, said: “The smoke brought down visibility. We are wearing masks, but they are ineffective in keeping away the smoke and smell.” Dyal Krishan, president, Dadumajra Dumping Site Joint Action Committee, said, “In the past one year, many fires have broken out at the dump. An inquiry is needed into these repeated firing incidents so that corrective measures can be taken.” Meanwhile, even as a thick blanket of smoke covered the area around the dumping ground, air quality index (AQI) at various observatories in the city didn’t show any unusual rise. Debendra Dalai attributed it to fast winds blowing in the city. “While the values of PM 2.5 and PM 10 rose slightly on Thursday afternoon, the overall AQI remained unchanged around 120 at various CPCC observatories. The AQI had stayed below 100 about a week back; so there was only a marginal rise due to the fire,” he said. The continuous ambient air quality monitoring station in Sector 25, situated close to the dumping ground, also didn’t show any spike in AQI on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pollution-panel-seeks-report-on-garbage-dump-fire-101617306180186.html
02-04-2021||Other||Seven-fold rise in Covid cases sets alarm bells ringing in Panchkula||The Panchkula district witnessed seven-fold spike in Covid-19 cases within the month of March, for which the authorities are already working on war footing. The number started increasing steadily in February, but the major surge was seen last month. Till March end, the Covid count rose to 2,185, a figure that was just 304 in February. The active cases have increased 7.3% within a month. On March 1, out of 10,844 positive cases, only 124 were active, whereas the number increased to 953 out of 13,029 by March 31.The recovery rate reduced by 7%, as it was 97% in the beginning of the month and reduced to 90% by the March’s end.It was in September last year when Covid-19 cases were at peak that the district had reported 3,762 cases whereas this year, in March itself, over 2,000 cases have been logged.House-to-house surveillance to begin at 17 hotspotsThe Panchkula administration has identified 17 hotspots, out of which 13 have been declared as surveillance zones.“The hotspots are increasing daily for the last two to three days. Today, four sectors – 4, 2 A, 20 and 21 — were declared as hotspots. It was decided in a meeting with the DC that house-to-house surveillance will begin,” said civil surgeon Dr Saroj.“In every sector, there will be four teams which would make a list of people with symptoms. The next day, our teams will do their Covid-19 tests,” she added. The doctor shared that in one of the prominent schools, at least seven students tested positive on Thursday, which has raised the safety concerns. “We are working on war footing to trace the infected people and get them tested as soon as possible. Also, we are planning to reach out to people via Google Meet in a bid to make them aware of the importance of masks and social distancing,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sevenfold-rise-in-covid-cases-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-in-panchkula-101617306059608.html
02-04-2021||Other||Mohali mayor to be from general category||Finally after 43 days, the Punjab government on Thursday issued the notification for reservation of mayor/ president posts in municipal bodies. The Mohali mayor will be from general category, while the Kharar and Nayagaon MC’s have been reserved for a woman president. The elections in Mohali district were held on February 14 for the Mohali municipal corporation and seven municipal councils of Kharar, Kurali, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Lalru, Banur and Nayagaon. The results were declared on February 18. A senior MC officer said the agenda for mayoral elections will be issued on April 5 and they are likely to be held on April 7. Congress had registered a landslide victory by winning 37 of the 50 seats in Mohali MC. The Azad group-Aam Aadmi Party combine clinched 10 seats, while the remaining three were bagged by independents. The two front runners for the post of mayor are Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, brother of Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, and former senior deputy mayor Rishiv Jain, who won the election for the third time in a row. While Amarjeet won from Ward 10, Rishiv won from Ward 20, both on Congress tickets. For Amarjeet, who is into liquor business and is also a director of the SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited, it is the first win. “As of now, we have not decided on any name. Now the notification has been issued and we will comply with whatever all councillors and party high command decides,” said Balbir Singh Sidhu. A senior Congress councillor, on the condition of anonymity, said: “Most of the party councillors are in favour of Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, while Rishiv Jain will be given the charge of senior deputy mayor again. Kuljeet Bedi, who has won for the third time, is set to be the deputy mayor.” The mayor is elected for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mayor-to-be-from-general-category-101617306000896.html
02-04-2021||Other||Vax drive for 45+ sees good response in Chandigarh tricity||The vaccination drive for everyone aged above 45 years began on an encouraging note with 4,118 such beneficiaries getting the shot in the tricity on Thursday. While 1,867 people in the age group of 45 to 59 got jabbed in Chandigarh, the numbers stood at 1,508 and 743 in the neighbouring districts of Panchkula and Mohali, respectively, as the Centre extended the drive to all, irrespective of comorbidities.In Chandigarh, for the first time the number of daily inoculations went above 3,000, pushing the total number of doses administered to 81,158.As many as 3,499 people were inoculated, including 791 senior citizens. However, it was just 50% of the total capacity of 7,000 people per day.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education, was among the first to receive the jab at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. “Our department has over 10,000 teachers and I hope all the eligible ones will come forward for vaccination,” he said.Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party president Arun Sood, senior leader Sanjay Tandon and mayor Ravikant Sharma also received the jab. Despite a public holiday, the Chandigarh administration has decided to operationalise both government and private vaccination centres on Friday.In Mohali, the 45-59 age group saw a threefold rise from an average of 250 people (with comorbidities) getting vaccinated on an average daily. The total has reached 4,868, of whom 17 have even received the second shot.Among senior citizens, 810 were vaccinated for the first time while 81 got the jab for the second time, taking the total to 22,390 and 141, respectively. As many as 19,068 health and frontline workers have also been vaccinated so far. In Panchkula, of 3,033 people vaccinated on Thursday, 1,508 were in the age group of 45-59 years. “Among them, 32 got the second dose,” said Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer.Meanwhile, 917 senior citizens, 136 healthcare workers and 472 frontline workers also got vaccinated at 35 centres. To date, 67,591 people have been vaccinated in the district.Sharing her experience, Paramjit Kaur, 53, chief manager with Haryana Seeds Development Corporation, said: “Around 25 employees of our department got vaccinated. I am feeling fine after getting the shot.”Ramesh Singh, a 45-year-old man from Sector 2, Panchkula, said: “I had been waiting for the vaccine for long. I feel safer now.”825 test positive in tricity, highest since SeptemberThe tricity recorded 825 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest since the first wave in September last year.The number of cases had reached 820 on March 27, after which they dropped till 613 on March 31. During the first wave, the peak was recorded on September 13 with 865 people testing positive.On Thursday (April 1), 409 people tested positive in Mohali, followed by 257 in Chandigarh and 159 in Panchkula.Mohali also reported three deaths, taking the toll to 436. The total number of cases has reached 27,102 of which 3,297 are active. Among the fresh cases, 275 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 42 in Kharar, 34 in Dera Bassi and 33 in Dhakoli.With 293 patients being discharged, the number of those cured reached 23,369.In Chandigarh the death toll reached 380 with one patient succumbing to the virus. Of 27,256 tested positive so far, 23,925 have recovered and 2,951 are still undergoing treatment. Panchkula’s total count has reached 13,188, of which 1,034 cases are active, 12,000 patients have been cured and 154 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vax-drive-for-45-sees-good-response-in-chandigarh-tricity-101617305999631.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||This March in Chandigarh was driest since 2018||Due to higher temperatures and weak western disturbances (WD), this March was the driest since 2018, with only 5.6mm rain in the entire month, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Of the total rain in the month gone by, the maximum was recorded at 2.4mm on March 24. This is the driest the city has been since 2018, when 3mm showers were recorded.However, a WD is likely to affect the region in the coming week, and will bring along rain.“Western disturbances remained weak this time and didn’t bring much rain. Temperature also remained high and dry, and cloudless weather was prevalent throughout the month,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh.Paul added that it could not be determined as yet if the same effect will continue through April. However, due to a WD next week, light rain up to 20mm is likely on Monday and Tuesday.Mercury lowers to 31.1°CMeanwhile, after soaring to 36.5°C on Tuesday, the maximum temperature dropped to 32°C on Wednesday and further to 31.1°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature also decreased from 15.6°C on Wednesday to 14.3°C on Thursday. The drop in temperature over the past couple of days is due to the movement of easterly winds, which cooled down the city, while earlier, warm and dry northerly winds had caused the day temperature to soar past 36°C.But, with the effect of the easterly winds diminishing, the maximum temperature is expected rise up to 33°C in the next three days, while the minimum temperature may also go up to 16°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-march-in-chandigarh-was-driest-since-2018-101617305821233.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hold senate polls in 2 months: HC to Panjab University||Criticising the role of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed Panjab University to hold its senate polls within two months.The order came on the plea of seven former senators, who had moved the high court on December 22, seeking directions to hold governing body polls. The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31 and the syndicate’s term got over on December 31. The varsity is without a governing body now. Elections were to take place in August, but the varsity deferred them citing Covid-19 pandemic as the reason.“Little did the enacters of the Panjab University Act, 1947, would have realised that what they have framed as a comprehensive and exhaustive legislation would come to be a tool in the hands of its own academic officer, pursuing not the educational goals but satisfying his own personal ends and thereby in the process virtually oust its own governing body, looking after the management and superintendence of this August institution once of international fame and oldest in this country,” the bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh observed, while questioning the V-C’s role in delaying the elections. The bench further observed that provisions on governance have been thrown “off to the winds” and the university is being run as a “one-man show”. ‘Can’t postpone indefinitely’On the varsity’s argument that the elections were deferred in view of the Covid-19 situation, the court observed that the argument is apparently a way to duck the obligations, at a time when elections are being conducted to various institutions, including state assemblies and local bodies, throughout the country. No doubt the V-C is empowered to postpone the elections for the time being, but this does not clothe him with unbridled powers to carry on indefinitely when throughout the country elections are being held, the bench added. It further recorded that all was not well with the decision of the authorities to defer the polls and it could have been done with “motive and malice”. ‘Decision smacks of caprice’As for the argument that the new education policy is to be implemented and it calls for a re-examination of the governance structure, the court said its implementation is too far-fetched a proposition and till that time regulations on governance, which call for the polls, can’t be put into a “cold freezer.”It further said that for properly running the university and ensuring that the very purpose of its formation is not jeopardised, the election needs to be held at the earliest so that it does not lead to autocratic governance affecting democratic functioning of the institution. “In a democratic system, elections need to be held periodically, which in turn leads to democratic governance and thus are a very essential function in decision making. Besides, it leads to accountability, resulting in better and efficient running/governance of an institution,” the court said, recording that the decision of the varsity “smacks of mala fide, caprice” and is in utter violation of the law governing it. Now, the V-C has been asked to complete the poll process by all means within two months. Reacting to the development, the V-C said the varsity will abide by the directions of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hold-senate-polls-in-2-months-hc-to-panjab-university-101617305819659.html
02-04-2021||Other||Farmers protest Haryana dy CM’s visit to Hisar||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday faced farmers’ protest during his visit to Hisar.After getting information about the visit, farmers gathered outside the airport on the outskirts of Hisar, where Dushyant’s chopper landed amid heavy security arrangements.Dushyant chaired a meeting of administrative officials at the airport and farmers continued raising slogans at some distance from the site. After seeing the farmers’ numbers increasing, Dushyant took off in a chopper for Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (CCHAU) from where he went to the mini-secretariat and inaugurated many developmental projects in the presence of state minister Anoop Dhanak, Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni, Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag, and Tohana legislator Devinder Singh Babli.Later, the farmers went to Dushyant’s residence and raised slogans against him while carrying black flags.A senior administrative official, seeking anonymity, said the deputy CM attended a wedding at international boxer Pinki Jangra’s home in Hisar and skipped his plan to visit the grain market to inspect wheat procurement.Soni said Dushyant inaugurated a two-lane overbridge on the Rewari-Bathinda railway line, distributed 45 water tankers in different panchayats, etc.Farm leader Vikas Sisar said they will continue to protest against the BJP-JJP leaders until the Centre’s three farm laws are repealed.JJP MLAs put a united showEven as farmers’ anger against Dushyant continued across state, his party MLAs, including Dhanak, Sihag and Babli put up a united show by attending his public programme for the first time since the farmers started agitating.However, Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam, who is at loggerhead with Dushyant, skipped the programme.Political observer Anant Ram, a retired professor from Bhiwani, said Babli and Sihag have no option than supporting Dushyant after they backed BJP during trust vote.“Both know that the farming community is unhappy with them as they assured the farmers of putting weight behind them in the ongoing stir. After seeing all situations, both the MLAs decided to repose faith in Chautala,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-haryana-dy-cm-s-visit-to-hisar-101617305759587.html
02-04-2021||Other||Mansukh Hiran murder case: NIA seizes Audi, suspects trader was smothered in it||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has seized one more car in connection with the murder of 48-year-old Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran. The agency suspects that the Audi, seized from Vasai, could be the vehicle in which the trader was smothered. NIA sources said the Audi was taken to south Mumbai, where forensic experts thoroughly examined it on Thursday for possible biological and other traces.Hiran was linked to the explosives-laden Scorpio found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani Antilia home in south Mumbai. He had gone missing late in the evening on March 4 and his body was recovered from a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra the next day.Six handkerchiefs were found stuffed in his mouth, and his face was covered by a scarf. The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which was earlier probing the case, had arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in connection with the murder. ATS suspected that suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze – who has been arrested by NIA for his alleged role in the Antilia security scare case – is also the prime accused in Hiran’s murder case, while Shinde allegedly helped him execute the murder, and Gor arranged for some SIM cards used in the commission of the crime from Gujarat.Both ATS and NIA officials believe that Mansukh was smothered in a vehicle at Gaimukh, along Ghodbunder Road.The initial probe by ATS had revealed that Hiran had received a call around 8.29pm on March 4, and the caller spoke to him for around 11 minutes and asked him to meet near Majiwada junction on Ghodbunder Road.According to an ATS officer, the trader was made to sit in a four-wheeler at Majiwada junction, taken 10km away to Gaimukh breach front, and smothered in the vehicle at the spot. Later the body was dumped in the creek at Reti Bunder, suspect NIA officials.NIA is also trying to trace the Maruti Eeco, allegedly stolen from Aurangabad in November. The car’s original number plates were found during a search in Mithi river on March 28.Meanwhile, NIA also raided a Girgaum club, whose owner had introduced Vaze and Shinde to Gor. An NIA team conducted a search for three hours and recorded the statements of the owner, manager and staff. NIA also questioned a woman on Thursday in the connection with the Antilia case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-case-nia-seizes-audi-suspects-trader-was-smothered-in-it-101617305339825.html
02-04-2021||Chandigarh||Central panel flags low contact tracing, vaccination coverage in Chandigarh||A three-member central panel, in city to assist the UT administration with reining in the Covid-19 pandemic, has observed that contact tracing can be strengthened and vaccination coverage must be improved through rigorous information and educational activities. The team is led by Vijoy Kumar Singh, additional secretary and financial adviser, Union ministry of textiles, with experts drawn from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi, and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi.The panel on Thursday held a two-hour meeting with officials of the health department and Chandigarh administration, and doctors from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) at the UT Guest House here. Stating that the system developed by the authorities in Chandigarh was better than most places in the country, Vijoy said there was still a scope for improvement. “In the contact-tracing exercise, the number of contacts currently stands at 13-15 persons. This can be improved to 20-25 persons,” said Vijoy, the chairman of the panel.On the vaccination drive front, the panel took note of low response by health and frontline workers.Even after over two months since the vaccination drive’s rollout on January 16, the coverage among healthcare staff and frontline workers was quite less, as compared to other states. Similarly, among the senior citizens, only 32,154 people had received the first dose through March.“The vaccination coverage among the priority group of senior citizens has been less, and even if we assume that there are around 3 lakh senior citizens in the country, the coverage in one month is not encouraging,” said Arun Gupta, UT health secretary.The panel also suggested that UT should conduct a sero-survey to know the extent of infection spread in the city, officials part of the meeting said. Taking note of its steadily rising cases, the Union health ministry on Wednesday had asked Chandigarh to step up its test-track-treat strategy against the Covid-19 pandemic.History of lapsesA team of experts, deputed by the central government in early September, had found that as the Covid-19 pandemic surged in Chandigarh in September last year, the administration was not able to get in touch with those testing positive within 24 hours of samples testing positive, which further delayed contact tracing.The month saw a major surge in infections, with the highest single-day cases (449) being recorded on September 13, while the highest number of active cases (3,171) was reported on September 16.After September’s 7,595 cases, the highest so far, March has the second-most infections at 5,229.‘Make test results available sooner’Second Innings Association, a civil society group, in a representation to the panel suggested that Covid-19 test results should be made available in the minimum possible time, so that the affected people can be isolated at the earliest. “Presently, test results are received quite late, which delays the contact tracing exercise,” the association said. Emphasis should also be on taking strict action against those violating Covid norms and testing capacity should be enhanced at government institutes, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-panel-flags-low-contact-tracing-vaccination-coverage-in-chandigarh-101617305279545.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Most cases, tests in Mumbai in March: Mayor warns of curbs on train travel, malls||Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday hinted at strict restrictions, including shutting of malls, religious places and restrictions on travel in local trains, as the city reported its highest every cases – 8,646 – since the outbreak of Covid-19 on Thursday, along with 18 deaths. The authorities have started testing aggressively since the past one week, taking the city’s tally between March 1 and 31 to 838,500 tests. This is the highest number of testing conducted in the city ever since the outbreak of the pandemic. March also reported the highest – over 80,000 cases – in one single month, followed by around 211 deaths in the city, according to the state health department data. Pednekar, while speaking to reporters on Wednesday, said, “There are enough beds to handle the increasing number of cases, but we have to act wisely before the city enters the danger zone. The new restrictions that might be announced will have malls and religious places completely shut, followed by shops that might be allowed to open on alternate days. We might also allow local trains to be only used by essential workers owing to the increasing cases.” However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained they have not decided about the lockdown yet. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have not received any directions on lockdown. There is no such directive or announcement yet.” The BMC officials claimed a final decision on restrictions might only be taken by weekend, after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray takes a review meeting on Covid-19 situation. According to BMC officials, as the tests have almost doubled, the detection has also increased and the variations in mutants have added to the case tally. The mortality rate has, however, remained under control. Mumbai reported around 211 deaths in March 2021, whereas in September and October, when Mumbai was at its peak, it reported around 2,500 deaths with around 0.1 million cases. Since February 3, 2020, Mumbai has tested 4.1 million tests and the positivity rate is around 10.04%, according to BMC’s data. March 2021 saw the highest spike in testing, when 838,500 tests were conducted, much higher than compared to the tests conducted during the peak in Mumbai. In September and October, when Mumbai was at its peak, the city tested around 0.7 million samples cumulatively. According to BMC officials, the testing has increased in the city as the authorities have started random testing at malls, markets and other crowded places. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had last week said, “We aim to test around 60,000 samples daily, which is around 50,000 right now, and with this, the daily caseload might also go up to 10,000 on a daily basis. However, this might not result in shortage of beds.” As of Thursday, the city has recorded 423,419 cases and 11,708 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 84% with 355,944 recoveries, followed by the city’s mortality rate is 2.76. There are 54,807 active cases in the city. Meanwhile, the BMC in a statement said that it has issued revised guidelines for home isolation of Covid-19 patients. In the guidelines, the BMC has listed out specific warning signs to be looked for immediate hospital transfer of patients under home isolation. The BMC has also asked its officers to ensure that home isolated patients monitor their health and take treatment for Covid-19 from their family physician and continue comorbidity treatment. Some of the warning signs that would need admission include difficulty in breathing, oxygen saturation < 95% using fingertip pulse oximeter, persistent fever of 100.4 for more than 24 hours, persistent pain, pressure in the chest or cough, hypoxic on mild exertion like six-minute walk test, climbing 1 or 2 flight of stairs, mental confusion or inability to arouse, slurred speech, seizures, weakness or numbness in any limb or face, bluish discoloration of lips, face, any other new onset organ dysfunction, like hypotension, drowsiness, kidney dysfunction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-cases-tests-in-mumbai-in-march-mayor-warns-of-curbs-on-train-travel-malls-101617304558780.html
02-04-2021||Other||B’luru adds over 2k cases, K’taka’s tally crosses 1mn||Bengaluru The city on Wednesday added 2906 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of active cases to 21789. The toll surged to 4630 after 11 more deaths were reported. The spike in Bengaluru took the number of infections in Karnataka beyond the 4000 mark for a second day in a row. Karnataka recorded 4234 new Covid cases on Wednesday thereby taking its active case count to 30865. The death toll climbed to 12585 as 18 more people succumbed to the virus. The surge in cases has prompted the government to declare that the state is reeling from a second wave.The infections since the beginning of March have seen a sharp spike, sparking fears that Bengaluru could relapse into a phase it had seen in September and October last year when it started to record an average case count of over 3000 and a high of over 5000 per day. The BS Yediyurappa-led government has even been accused of not taking the recommendations of the technical advisory committee or officials from announcing stricter measures to contain the spread. Former BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad on Wednesday said that their proposal to make negative RT-PCR Covid test reports mandatory for passengers entering Bengaluru from all states was not approved by the government. The state government has ruled out another lockdown that could further cripple the already fledgling economy and cash crunch in the state, experts and political leaders said. Not only Bengaluru, the situation in other districts in the state has deteriorated as well, data shows. The border district of Bidar registered 208 new cases while Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Tumakuru reported 144, 109 and 102 cases respectively on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-adds-over-2k-cases-k-taka-s-tally-crosses-1mn-101617304499379.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||‘80% of ICU beds occupied in Mumbai, need more to fight 2nd wave’||With the number of active Covid-19 patients crossing 51,000, almost 80% of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds are occupied by severely infected patients. Although the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to increase the bed strength to 21,000 from the current 13,000, doctors claim the civic body should focus more on ICU beds. Currently, there are a total of 1,627 ICU beds in hospitals, of which only 324 beds are vacant. It includes 155 vacant beds in civic-run hospitals, while the remaining 169 unoccupied beds are in private hospitals. Similarly, of the 1,000 ventilator beds, only 170 beds are vacant with 81 beds in private and 89 beds in BMC-run hospitals. Mumbai is recording between 5,000-6,000 cases daily, of which 10-15% need hospitalisation. With around 700 patients needing hospitalisation for a period of 14 days, soon, the remaining vacant beds are likely to get filled. Naresh Mehra, 71, a resident of Andheri, was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Wednesday, along with his 45-year-old son. His oxygen saturation dropped below 90% and considering he has diabetes, his family physician suggested he be admitted to the ICU. But even after approaching two-three hospitals, they couldn’t find a bed. “We enquired at private hospitals, including Holy Spirit and Apex Hospital in Andheri. Then we scouted for beds in Thunga Hospital in Malad, but didn’t get an ICU bed. Later, through BMC, we admitted him at Dahisar jumbo centre,” said Sukanya Mehra, daughter-in-law of the patient. “Many hospitals are complaining of shortage of ICU beds. So, on priority, the civic body should increase the ICU beds to provide timely treatment to patients who have been severely infected,” said Dr Amit Thadani, a general surgeon in Chembur who is currently in-charge of Covid care at a private hospital. Major private hospitals like Lilavati, Nanavati, Saifee, Bombay hospitals, among others, have run out of ICU beds who keep patients on waiting lists. “The flow of patients has increased. As soon as a patient gets discharged from the ICU, we admit another one. So, we don’t have any vacant bed at the moment,” said Dr V Ravishankar, chief operating officer, Lilavati Hospital. Due to the growing fear, many mildly symptomatic patients who can be treated at home are also requesting for beds. To address the issue, the BMC has issued a circular instructing private hospitals to admit patients only through the respective civic war rooms. “There is a growing fear among people due to the second wave and misinformation about the mutation of the virus. Mildly symptomatic patients also want to get admitted. Some even provide incorrect information about symptoms to get a bed,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, in-charge of covid beds in private hospitals. City hospitals are also struggling with manpower crunch. Compared to last year, the workload is more this year due to the second wave and rising footfall of non-Covid patients. “Last year, when the pandemic started, due to the lockdown, the footfall of non-Covid patients fell by almost 90%. But now, with the starting of public transport, we are getting a large number of non-Covid patients. So, the workload has doubled, which is too much to handle,” said a senior doctor from BYL Nair Hospital. With the flattening of the pandemic curve post October 2020, many hospitals have reduced their Covid bed strength to make space for non-Covid patients. Now, they are struggling to make arrangements for it. “When the pandemic started, we had more than 150 Covid beds. But with the drop in daily cases, we reduced the bed strength to 15. Now again, we are increasing Covid beds in the hospitals. At present, we have 39 beds, including 11 ICU beds. Soon, we would add another 40 beds,” said Dr Bhansali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/80-of-icu-beds-occupied-in-mumbai-need-more-to-fight-2nd-wave-101617304499930.html
02-04-2021||Other||Mob attacks two men for transporting Cattle in K’taka, Five arrested||Bengaluru: Police in coastal Karnataka’s Dakshin Kannada district, on Thursday, arrested five people for attacking two men alleging they were transporting cattle. The incident took place on Wednesday morning and the two victims -- Abdul Rahim and Musthafa have been hospitalised. According to officials of Dakshin Kannada police headquarters, the attack took place when the two men were returning home in a pick-up truck after repairing the vehicle at a garage in Belthangady. The men had gone to visit Rahim’s relative near Belthangady when their vehicle broke down and they had given it for repair on Tuesday. “Around 10 am, when the two men reached Melanthabettu village, two men on a motorcycle waylaid them. They questioned where they were going and as per the victims, the two men started attacking them,” said a police official. Soon, few more men joined the duo. “They damaged the vehicle claiming the two men were transporting cattle. They attacked them using clubs and hit them with slippers as well. Our officials were informed about the attack and we rescued them,” police added. The police have registered a case under Indian Penal Code Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 341(wrongful restraint), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) 323 (hurt) 324 (hurt by dangerous weapons or means) 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 355 (assault intending thereby to dishonour a person). Five men -- Rajesh Bhat, Rakesh Bhat, Guruprasad, Lokesh and Chidanand – have been arrested. They are on the lookout for few more suspects, police added. The BS Yediyurappa-led state government had passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act on February 8, which widens the existing provisions for punishment for killing of cattle and offers protection to those “acting in good faith” to save them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mob-attacks-two-men-for-transporting-cattle-in-k-taka-five-arrested-101617304438793.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||37,563 aged 45-59 vaccinated in Mumbai||As the city started to vaccinate all citizens in aged 45-59, irrespective of their comorbidities, on Thursday, the turnout of beneficiaries in this age group increased drastically compared to the figures so far. On Thursday, Mumbai vaccinated 37,563 beneficiaries in this age group, of which 270 beneficiaries received their second dose, in comparison to the earlier average of 5000-6000 beneficiaries from this age group in the past week. The average turnout was even lower in the beginning of March. On March 31, 4,896 beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group were vaccinated; on March 30, 4,792 and 3,023 on March 29. Effectively, the overall number of beneficiaries vaccinated increased on Thursday increased to 55,870 across 116 centres, in comparison to the average of 40,000 to 45,000 beneficiaries vaccinated per day in the past few weeks. Of the 55,870, 3,050 received their second dose; 10,203 senior citizens received their first dose, and 373 senior citizens received their second dose; 3,556 frontline workers received their first dose, and 1,867 frontline workers received their second dose; 1,768 healthcare workers received their first dose, and 540 healthcare workers received their second dose. 12 beneficiaries reported minor side effects after receiving their shots. In the first week of March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation began vaccinating senior citizens and citizens between the age of 45-59 with comorbidities. Overall, 4,000,000 Mumbaiites are above the age of 45 years, 2,300,000 are senior citizens, and 300,000 are citizens between the age of 45 and 59 with comorbidities, as per data collected by the civic body during the My Family, My Responsibility drive. Until Wednesday, 102,475 citizens between the age of 45 and 59 years were vaccinated. This figure shot up to 139,768 on Thursday. Many vaccination centres saw crowds. At Dahisar jumbo vaccination centre, the crowd was a mix of senior citizens and those above 45 years. Among them, many were above the age of 45 and wanted to rush to get vaccinated on the first day itself. Vimal Patel, 45, Dahisar resident, said, “I do a lot of field work for sales, and hence I was waiting to get myself vaccinated.” Rakesh Srivastava, 47, an advertising professional from Kandivli, said, “I have been taking medicines for blood pressure, but I did not have any doctor’s certificate, and hence my vaccination got delayed. The process was very smooth.” Four vaccination centres in the city – Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital, KEM Hospital, and the jumbo facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) – are now working in two shifts to accommodate the increased load. Mohan Kataria, 67, who came to KEM hospital in Parel, said, “It was smooth once we entered the vaccination centre, but the registration process took a lot of time.” Meenal Chavan, 48, who came with her husband Manohar to KEM hospital, said, “We don’t have any comorbidities. There are other senior citizens in my family, but they will decide on taking the shot based on our experience.” So far, Mumbai has vaccinated a total of 1,054,825 beneficiaries with their first dose, and 154,172 beneficiaries with their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/37563-aged-45-59-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101617304439331.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||NCP men in Maharashtra home dept and their tryst with controversy||In the recent past, there were at least four occasions when the Maharashtra home minister and home department were under severe criticism for allegations of corruption or mishandling. Significantly, every time such allegations were made, the department happened to be headed by a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister. Over the past two decades, two home ministers had to resign over controversies while the third one, incumbent home minister Anil Deshmukh, is on the verge of losing his portfolio after narrowly surviving the opposition’s onslaught over the allegations made by IPS officer Param Bir Singh. A probe panel headed by a retired high court judge KU Chandiwal will now probe allegations against Deshmukh. During the formation of the Congress and NCP government in 1999, the latter was insistent on the home department along with finance. The party believed that finance department helps keeping financial control, while the other empowers in social control with the help of police administration. Barring the five years of the previous government led by Devendra Fadnavis during 2014-19, the NCP handled the home department for more than 16 years, and its four senior leaders were appointed as home ministers. Past incidents One of Deshmukh’s predecessors, Chhagan Bhujbal, also faced allegations of corruption in transfers but none of the charges against him were proven. Bhujbal had to resign from the post in the wake of the multi-crore stamp paper scam, also known as Telgi scam, in December 2003. Though the resignation was taken following an attack on a Marathi TV channel’s office in central Mumbai for satirical depiction of the home minister’s involvement in the scam, it is believed to be just a trigger. Bhujbal’s four-year tenure saw many controversies including Telgi scam, arrest of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray and the allegations of corruption levelled by then opposition leader in the Assembly Narayan Rane who was in Shiv Sena then. A group of NCP workers had attacked the office of Alpha Marathi, belonging to the Zee group, after the channel aired a satire on Bhujbal’s alleged role in the multi-crore stamp paper scam. NCP chief Sharad Pawar had said that Bhujbal offered to resign on moral grounds after the attack. “Everyone knows that the resignation was taken after a lot of controversy over the scam. It had dented the party and the government’s image when the Assembly elections were just a few months away,” said a senior Congress leader. RR Patil was another home minister from the NCP to resign in December 2008, just a few days after the 26/11 terror attack on Mumbai. The resignation came after his remarks kicked up a controversy. He had said, “Bade Sharon mein chhoti bate hoti rehti hai. (Small things do happen in a big city).” He was speaking in the context of alleged intelligence failure. Later he clarified that he meant that it was difficult to keep tabs on each and every movement in a big city but he was misquoted. The remarks led to controversy and Patil had to resign. Many in NCP maintain that Patil was made to resign by Pawar to diffuse the anger among the people that government had failed to protect them from the terrorists. Patil, one of the longest serving home ministers (from December 2003 to December 2008 and October 2009 to September 2014), was made the home minister within a year of his resignation after the Assembly polls. “He was not sacked on the allegations of the corruption, but for his failure to handle the situation post the terror attack which was unprecedented. His statement was just a reason. In fact, in the backdrop of today’s mess, Patil is perceived to be a successful home minister. He was not a taskmaster as political boss, but his clean image helped him gaining respect in the police force,” said an official from the home department. Soon after RR Patil had resigned in 2008, his senior party colleague Jayant Patil was made home minister for about ten months. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis too held the portfolio for five years from 2014 to 2019 when he was at the helm as chief minister. Fadnavis and Patil handled the department without much of the controversies. Way back, during the first Shiv Sena-BJP government during 1995-99, home minister Gopinath Munde’s term too had been controversial. “The breed of ‘encounter specialist officers’ in the police force had shot to fame after police started cracking down on gang war in the city. The free hand given to these encounter specialists was questioned as some of them were believably involved into extortion as well as illegal activities related to real estate and some other businesses. Transfers in key postings too had been the subject of murmuring in the police force then,” said another NCP minister. Former Mumbai Police commissioner MN Singh said the home department is very sensitive and needs to be handled by the home minister sensitively. “The minister should never break the chain of hierarchy as it leads to the breaking the discipline, which is the very key in the uniformed service. Whenever the ministers tried meddling with it, they had to pay the price. The political interference in police transfers and postings is badly affecting the efficiency and credibility of the police force. The current episode of the allegations against the home minister has greatly ruined the image of the Mumbai Police and the state government. People’s confidence in the police has shaken. When we say that the politicians should understand this, the police officers at the commanding positions too should have the courage to safeguard their powers and bring it to the notice of politicians,” he said. Current state of affairs Leaders from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) believe that Deshmukh failed to gain command over the police force and indulged in too many announcements. A senior NCP leader said that Deshmukh announced a probe in phone tapping during Fadnavis government’s rule as well as a special investigation team to probe Bhima-Koregaon violence, but nothing happened. “Deshmukh was never known for his administrative skills in the departments he handled in previous government. His choice as home minister surprised many, even in the NCP. Maintaining law and order and social peace in Mumbai is very important while handling home department. The home minister appears to have failed in command over Mumbai Police commissionerate and its vital crime branch, leading to the mess the police force is going through right now,” the leader said. The leader added that the home department, under Deshmukh, failed to pre-empt the challenges in cases like Antilia explosives scare, Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, Pooja Chavan’s suicide cases. “The opposition could damage the state government in SSR death case by handing it over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and registering a case in Patna, because the home department failed in the proper strategy. In Antilia and Mansukh Hiran case, the home department could not even face the opposition properly on the floor of the Assembly. Home minister’s response time was poor,” said the minister. Why the portfolio is so ‘lucrative’ While in the government, the NCP always ensured that the home department remains with it. The party believes that by holding the department, it gets leverage in state politics. Many a times transfers of local officers are done as per the convenience of the party in control, and thus the party has power over local administration. The ruling party leaders also believe police administration plays a key role in elections at local level, making the portfolio important. “Transfers and promotions of police officers are directly controlled by the home minister and it gives him enormous power. The home department is assumed to be very important in keeping control in Mumbai, Bollywood and industries. Allegations of monetary considerations for transfers of police officers are not new for the department. The menace is believed to be prevailing in the police force,” said political analyst Hemant Desai. Political implications The controversy embroiling the home minister has led to rifts within the ruling parties. Congress leaders, in their meeting of senior leaders last week, expressed their dismay over the beating the MVA government was facing because of the NCP. The leaders said that be it their government between 1999 and 2014 or the incumbent three-party government in the state, the alliance faced embarrassment because of the controversies related to the departments handled by the NCP. Deshmukh, during his meeting with party chief Sharad Pawar, believably complained about interference by Sena leadership in his department. He reportedly said that a Sena minister would take meetings with key officers, bypassing him. In turn, Sena leaders pointed at transfers of a few deputy commissioners of police in Mumbai by Deshmukh without taking permission from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last year. Fadnavis, leader of opposition and former home and chief minister, said, “Home department is a very delicate area. One has to be always careful in dealing with the force. Minimum interference in positing and discipline related to the hierarchy are the keys. If postings are done for some considerations, it is bound to create mess. It is a disciplined force, and the home minister has to maintain the discipline and follow the sanctity of the hierarchy. If the juniors are dealt directly, they tend to undermine their senior officers. It is not minister’s private force but it is for maintaining law and order in the interest of general public.” Former minister of state for home and senior Congress leader Manikrao Thakre said the home department should always remain with the chief minister. “When I was minister of state for home, Sharad Pawar was chief minister with home department with him in 1993. He used to tell me that there should not be interference in the police department. The home department is the face of the government, and its administrative image is largely dependent on the law and order in the state. I think the political interference in the force increased in later years. To avoid it, the department should always remain with the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-men-in-maharashtra-home-dept-and-their-tryst-with-controversy-101617304380213.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Demand for plasma soars again amid Covid wave||Amid the second wave, the demand for convalescent plasma therapy, often termed as debatable, for treatment of symptomatic patients has increased. However, the demand is much higher than the supply, leading to harassment of patients’ relatives, claim insiders. Convalescent plasma is an experimental treatment where antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from the coronavirus are given to those battling the virus. It is believed that it helps produce an immune response to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted a trial called PLACID, involving 464 Covid patients in 39 hospitals across the country. Following which, the council declared the plasma therapy didn’t help in reducing mortality or progression to a severe case. It is the largest convalescent plasma therapy trial in the world to be completed. Although this had initially discouraged doctors from treating Covid-19 infected patients with convalescent plasma, with the start of the second wave, they believe, it would contribute to faster recovery of infected patients. “Plasma therapy is effective for moderate to severely ill patients. For the treatment to be effective on patients, the selection of candidates and timing plays an important role. If the therapy is given to patients (moderate to severe) within the first three days, the mortality rate reduces to 8.5%. But if it is delayed, the mortality rate can be around 11.5%,” said Dr Farah Ingale, director, internal medicine, Fortis Hiranandani Hospital Vashi, where almost 15% rise in demand has been observed. Talking about ICMR’s clinical trial, a senior doctor who is associated with the state Covid task force refuting the findings: “During the clinical trial, the researchers did not check antibody levels of the donors. In fact, most of the donors were asymptomatic patients.” Since the start of the pandemic, doctors in Mumbai have treated over 4lakh Covid-19 infected patients. So public health experts believe doctors have gained enough expertise to decide the treatment protocol for patients. “Firstly, as this is a new virus, we still don’t have a specific medicine for its treatment. It is a trial-and-error process for doctors across the globe. So, after over a year of treatment, these doctors have the expertise to decide if a patient needs plasma therapy or not. Some decision has to be left to doctors,” said Dr Subhas Salunke, state advisor for Covid-19 treatment. Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer of LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said plasma therapy can’t solely be attributed to the treatment of patients. “At our hospital, we have found that the early induction of convalescent plasma in moderately severe cases, in combination with Remdesivir and anticoagulants, showed very good results,” he said. But finding a donor has turned into an uphill task, as only 1% of the total 3.5lakh recovered patients in the city have donated plasma. Subhas Nandi, 28-year-old from Dahisar, has been helping people in arranging for plasma donors since last year. Post-October, when the pandemic curve flattened, he was getting one-two queries about donors. But last month, when the city witnessed over 300% rise in active Covid-19 patients, on a daily basis, he has started to get 20 calls seeking help for plasma donors. “Unlike last year, the number of donors has decreased. People aren’t so enthusiastic to donate plasma to help other patients. Also, due to vaccination, many interested public don’t get qualified as after a jab, they can’t donate their plasma. Somedays, it takes us four-five days to arrange for a donor,” he said. Dr Ingale said a person can donate plasma twice a week with a gap of 48hours. However, the doctor needs to identify the patient wisely for donation. “The donor’s antibody levels should be good. Also, probable donors shouldn’t have any Covid-like symptoms for at least four weeks. They should test negative for RT-PCR for at least two weeks in advance and be free from any infection or comorbidities,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/demand-for-plasma-soars-again-amid-covid-wave-101617304378815.html
02-04-2021||Other||HC lauds speedy trial in Pocso case; rejects convict’s appeal||abbas.dodhiya@htlive.com Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the appeal filed by a 31-year-old man against his conviction in a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) case by a special court in 2016. The court also applauded the police’s speedy investigation and the subsequent trial, and said that it was an ideal case of delivering speedy justice. A single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere was hearing the appeal filed by Jitendra Mazi from Bihar, who was convicted for kidnapping and raping a seven-year-old in September 2015. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s parents on the intervening night of September 30 and October 1, 2015, the appellant had kidnapped the survivor from Sindhudurgnagari station, where they were sleeping after missing their train. The complaint stated that the appellant took the minor to a forest area and sexually assaulted her. After she returned to the platform, she informed her parents about the incident, following which the station master was alerted. Mazi was later arrested, and the special Pocso court convicted and sentenced him to 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment. The court was informed by advocate Nasreen Khalique that her client was falsely implicated in the case at the instance of his employer. Mazi, who worked as the driver of a railway contractor, claimed that his employer had not paid him for three months, as a result of which there was a fight between them, and he was removed from the job. Khalique argued that the prosecution had failed to establish the identity of her client as being the perpetrator and also challenged the DNA report which showed that the blood found on Mazi’s clothes was that of the minor. Additional public prosecutor PH Gaikwad-Patil opposed the plea. After hearing the submissions, justice Mohite-Dere held, “I am of the opinion that no interference is warranted in the impugned judgment and order of conviction and sentence passed by the learned special judge.” HC, while appreciating the speedy investigation and trial, observed, “If cases are investigated with diligence, alacrity and promptness – in the manner as aforesaid – and trial conducted in the manner, in which it has, the perpetrators of crime can be brought to book at the earliest. Probably, this case can be used as an `ideal case’, by the police, on how an investigation can be done.” The judge also warned special courts from falling prey to the slow-motion syndrome, which is lethal to the administration of justice regardless of the ultimate outcome. The court then directed the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to compensate the survivor within six months and rejected Mazi’s appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-lauds-speedy-trial-in-pocso-case-rejects-convict-s-appeal-101617304318843.html
02-04-2021||Other||Brace for traffic diversions on Mumbai’s WEH on Saturday night||htmetro@hindustantimes.com Mumbai A stretch of the Western Express Highway (WEH) at Borivli will remain closed for traffic on Saturday night to facilitate the work of the proposed foot overbridge (FoB) at Magathane metro site. The traffic police have issued restrictions for all vehicles from 11pm on Saturday night to 6am on Sunday. During this period, heavy vehicles plying towards Vasai-Virar can turn right on Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR) then move towards Powai and take a left on the Eastern Express Highway (EEH) and move towards Vasai-Virar via Ghodbunder Road. Light vehicles moving towards Vasai-Virar from Mumbai can take a turn from Kandivli slip road at Akurli subway towards Kandivli railway station and turn left at Thakur House, and then turn right at about 100 metres to Rajguru flyover and reach SV Road. These vehicles can then take a right turn and move towards Poisar Depot, take a right turn to Sumer Nagar junction and then turn left at WEH. Vehicles from Vasai-Virar can take Ghodbunder Road and move towards Thane and then to EEH and then enter the Anand Nagar check naka. Light vehicles coming from Vasai-Virar can turn right towards Pavaskar flyover and move towards Link Road, then take a left turn from Mith Chowky signal at Malad and reach SV Road, take the Malad subway and reach WEH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brace-for-traffic-diversions-on-mumbai-s-weh-on-saturday-night-101617304260542.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||MU colleges gear up for another semester exam online, get new online exam providers||A week after the University of Mumbai (MU) announced that the upcoming semester exam too will be conducted in the online mode, colleges are slowly gearing up for the same.“We have dropped Google forms and instead, the exam will be conducted using another software this semester. Proctoring will not only be conducted by the software. Our teachers too will be monitoring exams through the day,” said Neha Jagtani, principal of RD National College, Bandra. She added that the college has decided to set up a war room, where teachers will be monitoring students on various screens while the exam is conducted. “Over and above monitoring, the war room will also act as a helpline for students if they face trouble during the exam,” added Jagtani.Once again, MU has asked colleges to conduct exams in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format and avoid descriptive questions. This decision has not gone down well with colleges. “Since the exam will be in MCQ format, we will continue to shuffle the question numbers and the answers in order to avoid any form of malpractices. We will be stricter with the proctoring process as well,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate.In a circular issued last week, Vinod Patil, director of board of examination and evaluations, MU, said that summer semester exams will be conducted online using the same guidelines issued earlier for the winter semester exams held last year.The exams for semester 1 to 4 for both regular and repeater students will be held between April 15 and May 5. Semester 6 exams for regular and repeater students will be conducted from May 6 to 21 while semester 5 repeater exams will be held from May 24 to June 2. A separate circular will be issued to announce the dates of the remaining exams.All theory exams are to be conducted online. For degree and post-graduate exams of traditional students (arts, commerce and science), an online test will be held consisting 50 MCQs for 50 marks and the students will be given one hour to complete the same. For vocational courses, an online theory test for a total of 80 marks will be conducted of which 40 marks will be for MCQs and the rest will be for descriptive answers. For inter-disciplinary courses, exams will be held for 60 marks of which 30 will be for MCQ and 30 for descriptive questions. While institutes are trying newer ways to enhance the online examination system, some are worried that proctoring software will not work for larger batches, especially in aided courses. “There are 300 students in our third-year BCom batch, and switching on the camera for all of them for proctoring purposes is impossible because most students don’t have that kind of internet bandwidth. We also need to think about students appearing for their exams from their hometowns where internet will be slow, so video proctoring might be a task,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mu-colleges-gear-up-for-another-semester-exam-online-get-new-online-exam-providers-101617304259391.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||PMLA court keeps warrants against Nirav Modi’s sister, her husband in abeyance||The special court under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Thursday kept the non-bailable warrants issued against fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi’s sister and a Belgian national Purvi Mehta and her husband Maiank Mehta, a British national, in abeyance till further order.The Mehtas had approached the special PMLA court in February this year seeking to cancel the non-bailable warrants for their arrest on the grounds that they had turned approvers in the money laundering case registered against Modi in connection with the ₹13,500-crore fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB) where Modi is a prime accused.The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing the money laundering case, claimed that Modi has diverted around ₹1,201.18 crore (USD 175.1 million) through Mehta. The agency had made Mehta and Maiank accused in the case and sought to issue non-bailable warrants against the two.ED, in its charge sheet, claimed Mehta was an active participant in the generation of proceeds of crime and the process of money laundering. It further claimed that Mehta was a director in Dubai and Hongkong-based companies which received funds obtained through letters of understandings issued by PNB in favour of Modi’s firms.Mehta has, however, maintained that she had no knowledge of the transactions. In a response filed before the designated court which is hearing ED’s plea for confiscation of Modi’s properties, she claimed she had nothing to do with the alleged proceeds of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmla-court-keeps-warrants-against-nirav-modi-s-sister-her-husband-in-abeyance-101617304259909.html
02-04-2021||Other||K’taka minister’s letter fans new political row||Bengaluru Leader of of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday urged the Karnataka governor to immediately remove chief minister B S Yediyurappa and recommended President’s rule in the state, a day after rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa accused the chief minister of running an authoritarian government. “The governor must immediately intervene, remove the chief minister and recommend for President’s rule,” Siddaramaiah said in a statement. In a strongly-worded letter to governor Vajubai Vala on Wednesday, Eshwarappa had said that the chief minister had indiscriminately sanctioned funds to various MLAs and other persons in violation of rules. In his statement on Thursday, Siddaramaiah said that Eshwarappa, who belongs to Yediyurappa’s home district of Shivamogga, had provided evidence of corruption and his allegations had shown a collapse of the administration. “Eshwarappa has provided evidence for the allegations of corruption, nepotism and illegalities against the BJP that I have been making as the leader of opposition. He should not bow down to any pressure and stick to his statement,” the former chief minister said. The Congress leader also referred to the Karnataka high court’s Wednesday order, allowing a probe against the chief minister in a 2019 corruption case wherein he allegedly tried to lure a Janata Dal (Secular) MLA to the BJP by offering him money.Yediyurappa is alleged to have lured opposition legislators, in an exercise termed ‘Operation Kamala’, with the promise of giving them plum portfolios and other monetary rewards. At least 17 legislators from the JD(S) - Congress coalition had defected and helped Yediyurappa come to power after weeks and months of high drama in the southern state.“This proves our allegation that the BJP government in the state is an illicit child from an immoral act called ‘Operation Kamala’,” Siddaramaiah said.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa already finds himself in a corner over the recent sexual harassment case involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, non-performance of his two-year-old government, cash crunch and growing calls for his removal among other problems.The three bypolls on April 17 have presented the 78-year-old with an opportunity to silence growing dissent and consolidate his position for the remainder of the two years in power.However, at least four Cabinet ministers extended their support to the chief minister on Thursday. “The chief minister has allocated RDPR funds to the MLAs and it is an administrative issue. Since Eshwarappa heads the department and is unhappy over this, it has to be resolved among ourselves,” Karnataka home, law and parliamentary affairs minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Another minister claimed the matter could have been resolved through discussion. “If he (Eshwarappa) had any problems with the decisions taken by the chief minister… I think it could have been resolved within five minutes through a discussion. This situation has caused some sort of embarrassment to the government and the party,” state health & family welfare and medical education minister K Sudhakar said. Political analysts believe that the inaction against BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), who had earlier sought the removal of the chief minister, and Eshwarappa’s letter were an indication of how the central leadership of the party allowed these attacks against Yediyurappa. “We do not know if there is Centre’s sanction but there are some invisible hands operating. Yatnal and Eshwarappa are only mouths and the hands operating them are unseen,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-minister-s-letter-fans-new-political-row-101617304258767.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Grant flexibility in bonus mark criteria, request students||Students from Maharashtra who are set to write their Class 10 (SSC) exams this year have requested the state education department to grant them flexibility in allowing bonus marks for the exam.Students said that with a lot of cultural and sporting events not taking place all of last year , the department needs to consider achievements in various areas in the past for granting bonus marks. “For instance, even the drawing grade exam did not take place last year. The department should allow students to produce documents of participation in events and exams before 2020 and should consider such letters for awarding bonus marks too,” said a student from a suburban school.In 2017, the state education department had, for the first time, decided to grant additional marks up to 25 to students for excelling in areas in addition to sports. It announced bonus marks for arts and cultural activities. In 2018, after scores of students soared high with bonus marks, the department amended the rules and reduced the maximum bonus scores to 15 marks. For intermediate examinations, students now get three to seven bonus marks depending on the grade that the student gets in the exams. Last year (2020), more than 188,000 students were awarded bonus marks in various categories.Officials from the education department said a decision in this regard is awaited. “We have received several requests from students, but the government will take a decision in this regard,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/grant-flexibility-in-bonus-mark-criteria-request-students-101617304199790.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||Third leatherback turtle sighting reported in Maharashtra in 35 years||Fishermen in Palghar district inadvertently caught and released an endangered leatherback turtle (dermochelys coriacea) into the ocean on March 12 this year, about 70 to 80 nautical miles off the coast of Narpada village in Dahanu. The incident was brought to the attention of the forest department’s mangrove cell earlier this week. It marks the third record of the species in Maharashtra in 35 years and the second record with photographic evidence.Previously, a leatherback turtle had been captured and released by fishermen at Raigad’s Bharadkol beach in July 2019. The first-ever record of the species in Maharashtra, however, dates back to 1985 when a four-and-a-half foot long specimen was found on Devbagh beach in Malvan, as per the records of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI).The leatherback turtle is a Schedule-I species under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. This particular species of oceanic turtle is also listed as vulnerable in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species.Marine biologists from the Mangrove Foundation explained that little is known about the species’ occurrence along India’s west coast and that they are known to nest in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. They are the largest of the seven oceanic turtle species and can grow six feet in length and weigh over 500 kg.Within the wider Indian Ocean region, they are also known to nest in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, and South Africa. As per the IUCN, the status of the species in the northeast Indian Ocean is categorised as “data deficient”, while in southwest Indian Ocean they are categorised as “critically endangered”.“There is very little data about the species from India’s west coast, so it is definitely exciting to see them. While these sightings are uncommon, the two in the recent past have come from fishers. We should engage more with fishing communities to try and understand how often they see it. Perhaps that could be a first step to understand their distribution.” said Shaunak Modi from the Coastal Conservation Foundation.Modi’s view was echoed by Dhanashree Bagade, a marine biologist with Mangrove Foundation, who said, “There are several questions that an incident like this prompts. Is the turtle feeding in the area? Are they nesting? Is the area part of a migratory route that we don’t know about? Unfortunately we do not have answers just yet. Further study is required.”Prakash Tandel, the fisherman who released the turtle into the water on March 12 and filmed the process, will be entitled to a compensation of ₹25,000 under a scheme launched by the state government in December 2018 which reimburses fisherfolks for damage sustained to fishing equipment when an endangered marine animal has to be released. A total of 178 endangered marine organisms have been released after incidental capture under the scheme so far.Around 10 years ago, researchers also documented leatherback turtle nests in Raigad and Sindhudurg districts, but were unable to establish that they were nesting in the area. A similar incidental capture of a leatherback turtle was also reported from Kerala in 2008, albeit without photographic evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-leatherback-turtle-sighting-reported-in-maharashtra-in-35-years-101617304199319.html
02-04-2021||Other||man hacked to death in public in hyderabad||Hyderabad A 40-year old man was hacked to death in broad daylight by some unidentified miscreants in the old city of Hyderabad on Thursday afternoon, the police said. The victim has been identified as Asad Khan, a leader of the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party, from Mailardevpally area in the old city. According to Mailardevpally police, Khan was going on his two-wheeler at around 1 pm, when a group of persons waylaid him near Indian Function Hall at Shastripuram road. They pushed him down from his vehicle and assaulted him with arms. “Preliminary inquiries revealed that Khan had rivalry with some persons in the area and was arrested in the past in connection with the murder of one Amjad Khan in Shastripuram. We suspect that the relatives or friends of the victim must be behind the murder of Asad Khan,” a police official from the Mailardevpally police station said. A 10-second video clip of a man attacking Khan repeatedly on his head with a sickle-like weapon went viral in the social media. The attacker was seen throwing the weapon on the road before fleeing the spot. Though there was normal traffic on the road, nobody bothered to come to the rescue of the victim. On receiving the information, the police rushed to the spot and shifted Khan to Osmania General Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The Clues Team of the Hyderabad police was pressed into action to find out the evidences. “We are also examining CCTV cameras to identify the assailants,” the police said. The police have lodged a case of murder and have started investigation. Unconfirmed reports said the police have picked up six persons suspected to be linked to the murder and are questioning them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-hacked-to-death-in-public-in-hyderabad-101617304138729.html
02-04-2021||Other||50% of Covid cases from rural areas: ACS||LUCKNOW About 50% of the fresh Covid cases were coming from rural pockets of UP while people who have had their second dose of vaccine were reported to have very low level of infection, may be below 1%, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, at a press conference on Thursday. “Do not accept any myth that infection is reported only in urban areas. Of the total cases, 50% are from rural areas. Last time, this ratio was three-fourth and one-fourth among urban and rural areas,” said Prasad. “This time, contacts of a positive case are getting infected fast and in large numbers. But in case of those vaccinated, fewer of their contacts are getting infected. Hence vaccination is necessary for all whether in rural or urban areas,” he said. “Those infected after second dose did not have serious illness,” he added. Stressing on complete vaccination, Prasad said gram nigrani samitis in rural pockets were being activated to keep a check on the spread of infection. “Do not skip the second dose as first dose does not give the expected protection. Do make use of the vaccination facility being provided for all people above the age of 45 years,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-of-covid-cases-from-rural-areas-acs-101617304079838.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||MU releases exam dates for professional UG, PG students||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday released dates of commencement of examinations for professional undergraduate and postgraduate courses. For the first time in the past one year, the university has announced that they will be sharing a question bank for select few courses and share the same with affiliated colleges.As per the notification, exams for BPharm, MPharm and Master in Engineering will begin in April whereas exams for BEd, MEd and LLM will take place in May 2021. After admissions to first-year law courses got delayed until March 2021, semester 1 exams for both the LLB three and five-year courses will take place in June 2021.“After delaying admissions, the university has had no choice but to give law students at least three months to complete their first-semester curriculum. However at this rate, their second-semester exam will not take place before October, and by that time the next first-year batch will have joined colleges. How is the university planning to handle two first-year batches in the same classroom?” asked a first-year law student.Last week, the university released a circular clarifying that the upcoming summer exams will once again be held in online mode, keeping in mind the increasing Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mu-releases-exam-dates-for-professional-ug-pg-students-101617304078687.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||State sees record one-day Covid spike||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 43,183 new infections. Similarly, Mumbai also added a record number of 8,646 new infections. The state’s active case count rose to 366,533, while its total rose to 2,856,163. As Maharashtra continues to record daily highs, in terms of new infections and fatalities, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government, at this point, does not intend to go for a complete lockdown. Instead, the restrictions will be made stricter, the minister said.For a second day straight, the state added over 200 fatalities. Maharashtra saw 249 deaths—highest in a day since October 17—on Thursday, taking the death toll to 54,898. Nagpur city had the highest deaths with 50 fatalities and 10 from its rural areas. Aurangabad city reported 35 deaths.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 18 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 11,708. Mumbai’s active case count rose to 54,807. The state also reported recoveries of 32,641 patients on Thursday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 2,433,368. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 183,198 samples, and had a positivity rate of 23.57%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 14.3%. Pune, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad districts have contributed majorly in Thursday’s surge. Pune district added 8,025 new cases, while Nagpur district added 3,696. Nashik saw 3,039 new cases. Aurangabad district added 1,454 new cases. Tier-two cities and rural areas, too, have added considerable number of new cases on Thursday. Nanded added 1,322 new cases, Ahmednagar added 1,279 new cases, Jalgaon district added 1,065 new infections, Nandurbar added 466, and Satara added 528. Meanwhile, districts and cities in Vidarbha region (excluding Nagpur district) added 3,553 new cases and 10 deaths. Tope said that the state government will not immediately impose a complete lockdown.“At the moment, the restrictions will be made stricter for a few days. The chief minister takes the final call on the lockdown. He consults health department, task force, and others. The pros and cons of a lockdown will be weighed. Depending on the situation, a call will be taken. Lockdown is always the last alternative... There is no separate lockdown plan for Mumbai. It is true that cases are increasing but the BMC has increased testing and vaccination. Besides that, there is no shortage of beds in the city as of now,” Tope said. The minister added that a lockdown would also be imposed if the bed capacity of the state is exhausted. However, there are several steps before reaching the ultimate step.Senior bureaucrats, who are involved in the discussions, said that the government will gradually ramp up existing restrictions. The state government is deliberating on options including closing down markets, shops, malls, religious places theatres and even local trains in Mumbai, keeping it only for the workforce in the essential services category. A bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named, said that these options will be presented before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a day or two, when he reviews the situation.“There are several options on the table right now. But we cannot take the last step of closing down as our first step. The idea is to gradually tighten the existing restrictions, while enforcing the existing ones. A lockdown is not an immediate option; we have to look at the economy and epidemic. We are not using the word lockdown now, instead, it should be looked at in terms of severity of the restrictions. In those terms, the restrictions that will follow could be between 25% and 50% of what were there last year,” he said, requesting anonymity. The increasing death numbers are particularly a concern for state authorities. In the past two days, Maharashtra has added over 200 deaths daily. Health department officials and state Covid task force members attribute this to late detection and late admissions in hospitals. Maharashtra was seeing a decline in fatality figures since October 2020, which showed an upward trend in March. The state recorded 7,249 deaths in October, 3,240 deaths in November, 2,370 in December, 1,561 in January, 1,072 in February and 2,495 in March. Similarly, Mumbai has seen an increase in fatalities month-on-month. Mumbai saw 1,310 deaths in October, 645 in November, 232 in December, 236 in January, 123 in February, and 215 in March.Tope said that people should get tested early and seek medical advice if there is any major health issue, such aa breathing difficulty, etc. “I appeal to the people that they should get tested if they have any symptoms. If any positive case has low oxygen saturation, then they must get admitted immediately. If they delay then they will reach the hospital in a bad condition. Because of such cases, the fatality rate is increasing,” he said. A senior health department official said that people get tested late despite experiencing symptoms. “We have seen many late presentations [at hospitals] and they fall die within 24 hours of admission. If we have to stop the deaths, early detection and paying attention to any symptom are two important steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-sees-record-one-day-covid-spike-101617304018775.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||State aims to inoculate 400,000 citizens a day||With over 27% or 33.8 million people having qualified for Covid-19 vaccination after those above 45 years of age were allowed to get a vaccine from Thursday, the Maharashtra government has set a target of vaccinating 400,000 beneficiaries a day. To help achieve the target, the state government has asked all vaccination centres, both private and public, to operate seven days a week.As a result of the new group of beneficiaries, the state witnessed its highest number of vaccinations in a day. More than 300,000 citizens were inoculated at 3,295 centres, with the highest, 57,000, in Pune. There were 216,211 beneficiaries on Wednesday. “With more than 6,500,000 vaccinated, the state remains on the top in the country,” a statement issued by the public health department stated.“Although the exact figures of beneficiaries inoculated on the first day are yet to come, the response has been very good in the state. We are asking private and government facilities to implement the vaccination drive all seven days of the week for the entire month of April. Some government facilities were implementing the drive three days a week. With operations for seven days a week, we expect the daily vaccination numbers to go up to 400,000 in the next few days,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission.Currently, the daily average of beneficiaries is around 225,000. DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said they are planning to increase the number of vaccination centres by 300 gradually over the next few days. Until March 31, Maharashtra had inoculated 5,495,934 beneficiaries, while 749,926 have been given a second shot too. Dr Ramaswami said the vaccination centres have already been allowed to operate 24x7 as per their convenience and the call over it was being taken at local level. “There will be more hospitals added to the list of vaccination centres. The hospitals have also been told to manage the drive in such a fashion that the wastage rate of the vaccine is reduced from the current 6.5%,” he said. When asked if the corporate houses will be allowed to hold vaccination sessions on their premises, he said that the decision about it has to be taken by the Centre. “Centre has told us that although Maharashtra tops in the terms of vaccination beneficiaries in the country, we need to double the rate of vaccination. They have assured us adequate supply of doses. We have been appealing people to come forward in large numbers for inoculation. Political parties and social outfits should ensure the people come to the centres like they beeline at polling booths,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Dr PD Gandhal, deputy director, Nashik Division, said, “We have around 500 vaccination centres in five districts in north Maharashtra with the daily average of vaccination of 22,000 beneficiaries. We expect it to increase after the addition of the new category of the beneficiaries. Since 90% of the healthcare and more than 80% of frontline workers in our division have been inoculated, we would not have any problem in taking addition load of beneficiaries.”State received 2,627,000 more doses on Wednesday ahead of the new phase that started from Thursday. State health department said that most of the centres received the additional stock of vaccines on Thursday. Until March 23, the stock of vaccine with the state was the 7,601,500 doses it received from the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-aims-to-inoculate-400-000-citizens-a-day-101617303958669.html
02-04-2021||Other||Despite pandemic, Mumbai civic body meets 98% property tax target||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has managed to meet 98% of its target for property tax collection in 2020-21 despite the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. BMC has collected property tax worth ₹5,135.44 crore against its target of ₹5,200 crore, a statement from the civic body stated on Thursday. This is the highest property tax collected in the past 10 financial years, data from BMC revealed. Prior to this, the maximum amount of property tax, ₹5,132 crore, was collected in 2017-18. In the 2019-20 fiscal, BMC had collected property tax worth ₹4,161 crore.The highest tax collection of ₹2,545.94 crore for 2020-21 has been from wards in the western suburbs, followed by those in the Island city ( ₹1,509.52 crore) and in the eastern suburbs ( ₹1,076 crore).The highest property tax – ₹540.28 crore – was collected from K-East ward (Andheri East), followed by ₹454.52 crore from K-West ward (Andheri West). “The civic body had to take various measures to ensure property tax collection, including attaching the property whose owner failed to pay tax, disconnection of water supply and confiscation of movable property such as vehicles and goods,” the BMC statement read. Action was taken against 11,661 properties, with the highest instances being from Bandra (East), against 2,053 properties. BMC collected property tax worth ₹411.25 crore from the area.BMC also collected ₹3.04 crore as dues from government properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-pandemic-mumbai-civic-body-meets-98-property-tax-target-101617303539244.html
02-04-2021||Other||Fresh cases in UP at five-month high, 9 more die||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh recorded 2,600 fresh Covid cases, taking the caseload to 6,19,783 while nine more deaths due to the virus pushed the fatality count to 8,820 on Thursday. It was after a gap of over five months that the state recorded over 2,500 fresh cases in a day. On October 17, 2,880 new cases had surfaced while there were 2,503 fresh cases on October 18, after which a downward trend was seen, according to data from the state health department. Post Holi, Covid testing also went up and 1,24,135 samples were tested in the past 24 hours while over 3.49 crore (34922434) samples had been tested in UP till now. The state had 11,918 active cases, of which 6,722 were in home isolation, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. During the day, only 510 patients were discharged in UP, including a maximum 162 in Lucknow. A total of 5,99,045 people had so far recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals in the state. Lucknow logged 935 fresh cases, Kanpur 103, Prayagraj 242, Ghaziabad 19, Gautam Buddh Nagar 93, Meerut 68, Varanasi 198, Barabanki 63, Jhansi 45 and Gorakhpur 61. The state capital saw two deaths, Kanpur one, Prayagraj two, Varanasi one, Gorakhpur one and Ghazipur one.  Only two districts – Hathras and Hamirpur – reported zero fresh cases, according to the data from the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-cases-in-up-at-five-month-high-9-more-die-101617303358677.html
02-04-2021||Other||NCP: Sharad Pawar responding well to treatment||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is said to be responding well to treatment, following an endoscopic procedure, and is likely to get discharged from Breach Candy Hospital in the next two days, doctors said on Thursday. The doctors allowed the veteran politician to walk and have solid foods on Thursday evening. “Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb is responding well to the treatment in hospital and is in the pink of health. He was checked upon by Dr Amit Maydeo at 7pm and he is now allowed to walk and take solid foods,” party’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik tweeted on Thursday. Dr Maydeo, a gastroenterologist and endoscopy expert, said it will take a few days for Pawar to recover completely. “He [Pawar] is doing fine and recovering from the issues, but it takes some time [to recover]. We will be able to consider discharging him only after two days,” he said. Pawar was admitted to Breach Candy on Tuesday night for the endoscopic procedure. He will have to be operated upon for a gallbladder surgery, for which he will have to be admitted again. This may take more than a week as he has swelling and inflammation in the pancreas. He was also suffering with jaundice when he was admitted to the hospital. On Thursday morning, his daughter and Baramati Member of Parliament Supriya Sule went live on Facebook, during which Pawar was seen reading a newspaper while sitting on the hospital bed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncp-sharad-pawar-responding-well-to-treatment-101617303299727.html
02-04-2021||Mumbai||PIL challenging CRZ 2019 notification filed in Bombay HC||Environmental action group Vanashakti has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the constitutional validity of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification, 2019 issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The PIL has claimed the new CRZ regulations drastically reduces protection granted to coastal areas in the country by reducing No Development Zone Areas on the coast thus reducing the number of prohibited activities in CRZ areas. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing in due course. The PIL has claimed that the CRZ 2019 notification is unconstitutional, arbitrary and violates the right to live in a healthy environment and right to life. The PIL claims that some of the provisions in the notifications have already been struck down by the Supreme Court in earlier judgements and contrary to the recommendations of the various committees appointed by the government of India to review the CRZ regime. The petition also claims the provisions are in violation of section 5(3) of the Environment (Protection) Act and were not part of the draft CRZ notification. The PIL has further claimed that the 2019 notification reduces the limits of protected areas near tidally-influenced water bodies, dispensing with the requirement of conducting an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report in many instances, diluting essential components of Coastal Zone Maps, diluting protection granted to mangroves, increasing FSI in CRZ areas, deleting special protections granted to traditional fishermen communities, and deleting special provisions relating to Greater Mumbai. The PIL is expected to be heard for urgent interim reliefs in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-challenging-crz-2019-notification-filed-in-bombay-hc-101617303179190.html
02-04-2021||Noida||The new normal: Co-working spaces become popular workstations in Noida||When the Covid-19 outbreak brought the world to a standstill last year, no one imagined it would bring irreversible changes to people’s lifestyle, including work culture. Though office spaces in the country closed after the lockdown was imposed and many have still not opened up fully, coworking spaces in Noida are fast becoming a preferred place for working professionals.Coworking spaces provide readymade office space for small teams or individuals which are available on rent – starting from ₹200-400 per hour to ₹5,000 per month for a work station.Till 2020, coworking spaces in Noida were beginning to make a mark till the lockdown flattened their clientele. However, from September, these spaces again started seeing a surge in queries from people wanting to hire desks. “When the lockdown was imposed, it was a very depressing time for all coworking operators as there was no footfall. By January, however, occupancy at our coworking spaces almost equalled to that of the pre-Covid era,” said Mukul Parischa, founder of Springhouse coworking that has several such outlets in Noida,Those who run coworking spaces also ensure proper Covid norms are followed. “Due to social distancing norms, the seating arrangements and the number of people occupying a floor has changed. For instance, a desk that earlier had three seats now has two. Wearing a mask is mandatory and several awareness posters have been put up across the facility to remind people to follow Covid guidelines,” says Tejashwi Bansal, who runs a coworking space called ‘Unboxed’ in Sector 65.Though many working professionals were exulted with the work-from-home (WFH) arrangement which became a necessity due to the lockdown, a year on, it turns out that the new structure has not only led to a work-life imbalance but also resulted in lower productivity and output.“At home, my work would get delayed and I would end up sitting with my laptop for over 12 hours. By working out of a coworking space, I am able to focus better,” said Rajat Saxena, currently working out of a coworking space in Sector 41.“Working alone at home was taking a toll on me. Now, I work from a coworking space at least thrice a week,” said Janet Jose, a resident of East Delhi who works with an MNC in Noida’s Sector 16.Those who operate such spaces agree that most of the clientele are professionals working with MNCs who are tired of the WFH module. “Working professionals are opting for flexible options which allow them to work out of a coworking space at least once or twice a week,” said Vinayak Agarawal, co-founder of MyHQ, which collaborates with other co-working spaces.Many companies gave up their offices last year but are now looking to go back to their previous setups.For Ghaziabad resident Abhilash Singh, moving from his rented office in Noida’s Sector 2 to a coworking space called ‘Hackerspace’ in the same area was a logical decision. “After working from home for almost ten months, we decided to resume operations from an office in January. However, this time, renting a space was off the table. Coworking spaces came to my rescue because now, I do not have to worry about operation costs, which have reduced. Opting for a coworking office reduced operation costs by almost 60%,” said Singh.Kavita Sharma, who runs an online platform called Ziyyara Edutech Pvt. Ltd, has shifted from a rented office in Sector 2 to a coworking space in Sector 16 with her team of 10. “This has been a boon. If it wasn’t for the pandemic, I wouldn’t have shifted to a coworking space but continued paying rent out of my earnings,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/the-new-normal-co-working-spaces-become-popular-workstations-in-noida-101617302938615.html
02-04-2021||Noida||Noida achieves 85% of daily target on day 1 of vaccination for people above 45 years||NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar achieved almost 85% of its target on Thursday, with 8,583 people being inoculated out of the goal of 10,000 beneficiaries for the day across 88 booths. The district is to vaccinate at least 1.62 lakh people above the age of 45 years in the month.District magistrate Suhas LY said: “We’ve already chalked out a micro plan to achieve this target on time. There is no need for a co-morbidity certificate for people aged between 45 and 59 years in the April vaccination drive. Although nearly 15% of the target was missed, we hope it will pick up pace in the coming days. We have already planned to increase the daily target to 10,000 for Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays and 3,500 for Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays, which will cover over 40,000 people in a week,” he said. Suhas further said that the number of booths will also be increased to 120 in the coming days. “The daily vaccination per booth will also be doubled from 125 at present to 250. Our officials are repeatedly making appeals to all eligible citizens to get themselves registered to get their shots,” he said.Echoing similar views, Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the number of vaccination booths will be increased in private hospitals as well. “In Thursday’s vaccination drive, the number of booths in private hospitals was 39, while there were 49 booths in government facilities. We are trying our level best to allot vaccination booths in hospitals in close to where beneficiaries live,” he said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the in-charge of vaccination in the district, said that out of the 8,583 persons inoculated, as many as 3,240 were senior citizens while the remaining were in the age group of 45 to 59 years. “The Government Institute of Medical Sciences inoculated 410 persons while 180 were vaccinated at Sharda hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-achieves-85-of-daily-target-on-day-1-of-vaccination-for-people-above-45-years-101617302518650.html
02-04-2021||Noida||Noida admin asks private hospitals to get ready with Covid-19 beds||NOIDA: Taking note of the surge in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has asked all major private hospitals in the district to prepare beds for Sars-Cov-2 patients in their premises. A final call on whether these private hospitals need to restart their Covid wards is yet to be taken, said officials.Till January this year, several private hospitals in the district ran Covid-19 wards in the district. However, on January 13, the administration had de-notified most of the private Covid facilities in the district – except for the District Hospital in Sector 39, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, Yatharth hospital in Sector 108 and Fortis hospital in Sector 62.In January this year, the district had a total of 2,964 beds for Covid-19 patients. As of now, the district has a total of 250 beds for Covid-19 patients – 200 in government facilities and 50 in private ones.According to district magistrate Suhas LY, the decision was taken in light of the increase in cases, which he said was almost three-fold in March (564 new cases) as compared to February (179 new cases).“At present, both the government hospitals – the District Hospital and GIMS – have a capacity to accommodate nearly 600 patients. However, to tackle an emergency situation, all major private hospitals in the district which were serving as Covid-19 facilities during the peak of the pandemic, have been asked to ready beds again. If the graph of new cases increases at the same rate, we’ll take the final decision on making private hospitals dedicated Covid facilities in a week,” he said.However, they did not specify how many Covid beds each of these private hospitals needs to be ready. As per information received by late Thursday, however, Sharda hospital had been readied a 350-bed Covid facility.The district’s chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said: “At present, only two private Covid facilities – Yatharth and Fortis hospitals – are operative in the district, but their joint capacity of beds is only about 100. If new cases keep coming up at the same rate, we’ll have no option other than to ask private hospitals to restart their Covid-dedicated wards in their premises,” he said.Additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Lalit Kumar, who is also the in-charge of home isolation in the district, said that as of Wednesday, out of 331 active Covid-19 patients in the district, as many as 131 were asymptomatic and were permitted home isolation. “The remaining 200 are under treatment in different government and private Covid-19 facilities in the district,” he said.The country on Thurs reported about 72,000 new cases, with neighbouring Delhi as many as 2,790 fresh cases at a positivity rate of 3.57%. While the national Capital recorded nine deaths, the country recorded an overall 459 Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-admin-asks-private-hospitals-to-get-ready-with-covid-19-beds-101617301978536.html
02-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Ghaziabad sees 66% coverage on day 1 of vaccination for people above 45 years||Ghaziabad: On Thursday, when Ghaziabad district was to vaccinate 14,000 beneficiaries against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, only 9309 beneficiaries could be administered the jab across 96 centres. Thursday was also when the vaccination drive for people aged above 45 years was initiated. The Ghaziabad district is to achieve a target of inoculating 216,000 beneficiaries by April 30.According to official figures, out of the 96 centres, 29 were at private, where 2794 persons were inoculated, while 67 were government facilities, where 6,515 beneficiaries got their jabs. The day’s coverage was about 66.49%.“We are trying to cover more beneficiaries per day, and will improve our coverage in the coming days. We have already asked our officers to spread awareness among the public to take up vaccination. Ahead of the upcoming panchayat elections, we have also issued an advisory to contesting candidates to spread awareness about vaccination among the masses and help us bring more people to vaccination centres,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.As per the target given by the Uttar Pradesh government, the district has been given a target of inoculating 216,000 beneficiaries this month, with the weekly target being 54,000. On Thursday, some of the vaccination centres reported a huge rush in the morning, and officials had to depute home guards and also call up local police control room vans to help control the crowd. “There was a huge rush in the morning hours and people who were lined up were hardly maintaining social distancing. Even after repeated appeals made by us and intervention by home guards, they did not listen. So, we called up the local police for help. Once the PCR van arrived, the queues came in order,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the government-run Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.The hospital was able to vaccinate 440 people on Thursday, exceeding its target of 400 for the day. It also started functioning as dedicated Covid L2 category (for mild and moderate symptomatic Covid patients) hospital from Thursday and doubling up as a Covid testing centre. The primary health centre at Shastri Nagar, meanwhile, vaccinated 376 beneficiaries against its target of 300 for the day. Health centres at Vasundhara, Makanpur (Indirapuram), Rajbagh and Vijay Nagar (1) also exceeded their respective targets of vaccinating 200 beneficiaries each on Thursday. The performing health centres are in city areas. On the other hand, none of the 15 government-run health-and-wellness centres (additional PHCs) in rural segments of Loni, Muradnagar, Bhojpur and Dasna could achieve their target of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries each on Thursday. They could vaccinate only between 10 and 90 beneficiaries, official data shows. Regarding the ongoing vaccination drive, state officials said they will be starting with “focussed vaccination” for beneficiaries of specific groups such as bankers, teachers, vendors, drivers, media persons and lawyers, among others, for whom specific days for inoculation will be chalked out by next week.“We are chalking out a calendar for focused vaccination of specific groups and they will be requested to come for the shots to their nearest centre. Although such people aged over 45 years can always go to their nearest centre for taking up vaccination any day. But on days chalked out in the calendar, we will request specific groups to come and take up vaccination,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-ghaziabad-sees-66-coverage-on-day-1-of-vaccination-for-people-above-45-years-101617301858490.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Man found hanging, his wife and children with throats slit; cops say it was murder-suicide||The body of a 31-year-old contractual Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus driver was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his home in a village near outer Delhi’s Rohini early Thursday, while his wife and two sons – aged 3 and 6 years – were found dead with their throats slit in the same room, police said.The police said a “suicide note”, purportedly written by the man, was found in the room and the contents of the note suggested that he allegedly murdered his wife and children before killing himself. Since the room was locked from inside, as of now, neither the family members nor the police is suspecting any foul play. The man had allegedly attempted to die by suicide, by slitting his wrist around three years ago, his family told police.The one-page note mentioned that the man was upset that his two sons had developmental challenges. It went on to talk of other personal and family issues that he had, apart from concerns about his parents and grandmother, said a senior police officer who asked not to be named.“Prime facie, it appears that the note was written by the man before he took his life. However, it will be examined by experts before it is confirmed as his,” the officer said, adding that they have learnt that apart from the man and his two children, his mother and grandmother too had mental health issues.Police said the family lived in a single-room flat on the second floor of the building, while the first floor is occupied by his elder brother, a government hospital employee, his wife, a teacher, and their two children. Their parents and grandmother live on the ground floor.The man’s brother said he was sleeping when he heard his brother quarrelling with his wife on the second floor around 2am on Thursday. He sent his wife to pacify the couple. “My wife returned after a few minutes and we went to sleep,” said the brother.In the morning around 5am, the man’s father went to wake him up as he had to leave for his morning DTC bus duty. The father found the door locked from inside. When nobody responded to his repeated knocks, the father panicked and peeped into the room through a ventilation space after climbing onto a container drum. He found his son hanging from a ceiling fan and immediately raised the alarm, said the dead man’s uncle.“The police were informed. A team arrived and broke open the door. My nephew’s wife’s body was on the floor while the bodies of their two children were on the bed. The police cordoned off the entire floor,” said the uncle.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the bodies were shifted to a nearby government hospital for autopsy. “A case of murder was registered and it is being probed. The suicide note recovered from the scene is in the police custody,” said Tayal.According to the man’s brother, the DTC driver often had quarrels with his wife, mainly over the health issues of their sons. “Our mother and grandmother also have mental health issues. My brother thought that his sons’ problems were genetic,” the brother said.Around three years ago, the brother said the man had slit his writs at his workplace in Paharganj over what seemed to him “ a trivial issue”.Psychiatrist Samir Parikh, director of Fortis National Mental Health Programme, said, “The concern about mental health issues is that we are either frightened by them or try to hide them. It is the responsibility of society, family, friends, relatives and neighbours to identify an individual’s mental issues early and get such persons timely treatment. Ensuring a support system for such patients may help avoid suicides.”If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-found-hanging-his-wife-and-children-with-throats-slit-cops-say-it-was-murdersuicide-101617301260763.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Trial of faceless transport services a hit, helps RTOs reduce pendency||In a first, the Delhi transport department has been able to clear 64% (49,653) of the 77,421 online applications it received for services related to driver’s licence (DL) and vehicle registration certificate (RC) between February 18 and March 30, government data showed.The online system for applying and getting clearance for transport documents is a new project undertaken by the Delhi government through which it aims to take nearly 70 essential transport services completely online in two phases over the next few months.The data cited above is part of the findings from an ongoing trial run, which began from February 19. Currently, 12 services, including renewal and duplicate DL or RC, permit or RC transfer, among others, have been shifted to the online mode completely. The second phase will include 58 services.“The low number of pending application is quite encouraging given the fact that this is the first time that a state is attempting to provide 100% faceless transport services. The project aims to decongest all RTOs (regional transport offices) of the city as it will allow people to get important documents from the comfort of their homes,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.Data showed that of the 77,421 applications, only 22,466 (29%) were pending as on March 30. While the RTO at Surajmal Vihar cleared 72% of online applications, the Burari auto unit RTO had the highest pendency of applications at 78%.As for DL related documents, the department received 29,441 e-applications and only 1,070 (3.63%) are pending as on March 30.During the period between February 18 and March 30, the transport department received 47,980 online applications for RC related documents of which 21,396 (44.6%) are pending. The applications ranged from change of address, renewal of RC, addition/termination of hypothecation, issue of NOC for sale of vehicle in a different state, duplicate RC and so on. The RTOs at north Delhi’s Mall Road and Central Delhi’s Indraprastha had cleared 65% and 60% of the applications, respectively.Special commissioner (transport) KK Dahiya said in the pre-Covid times, Delhi’s 13 RTOs together used to witness a footfall of at least 100,000 every month. “The trial period itself has ensured that at least 77,000 people did not have to visit any RTO. All these applicants received or will receive their RC or DL related documents at their homes via speed post,” he said.Once fully implemented, only applicants seeking a learner’s licence or permanent DL or vehicle fitness certificate will have to physically visit the RTOs as these documents require applicants to appear for tests, Dahiya added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/trial-of-faceless-transport-services-a-hit-helps-rtos-reduce-pendency-101617301260016.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Enthusiastic start to inoculation of all above 45 years, many centres achieve 100% target||Hospitals and dispensaries across the city saw long queues outside Covid-19 vaccination centres on Thursday, when the city’s immunisation drive was opened up to all those who are above the age of 45 years. To ensure maximum turnout, Delhi government-run hospitals are informing patients arriving for doctor consultations about the inoculation drive and urging them to take the jab, and also inviting residents’ welfare associations to book bulk slots for entire societies.So far, only people above the age of 60 years and those between the ages of 45 and 59 years with a combination of 20 specified comorbidities were being administered the Covid-19 vaccine. There are nearly 4.5 million people between the ages of 45 and 59 living in Delhi, health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Wednesday.The city plans to immunise everyone in this age group within 40 days.“The government has set a target of immunising everyone over the age of 45 years within the next 40 days. To ensure that this happens, we will start creating more and more vaccination centres, training more vaccinators to man these centres, keeping centres open for 12 hours, and motivating people to come and get immunised,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, asking not to be named.The Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Vasant Kunj has sent out invitations to all residents’ welfare associations in neighbouring areas to book bulk slots for those living in their societies. “Initially, when the drive opened to those above the age of 60 years and those above the age of 45 with comorbidities, we had immunised over 800 to 900 people a day, but the numbers dwindled gradually. This time, we have invited RWAs to book slots for residents to come and get the shot,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS.The number of people being immunised at trans-Yamuna region’s Guru Teg Bahadur hospital jumped by nearly 150 on Thursday. “We had people queuing up outside the vaccination sites since morning -- usually the sites are not full even by 11am. The hospital vaccinated over 400 people today (Thursday),” said Dr RS Rautela, medical director, Guru Teg Bahadur hospital.He said doctors in the out-patient clinics are now routinely telling all patients over the age of 45 years to get vaccinated. “I’m urging more and more people to get the shot. There are very minor adverse events such as body ache or redness at the site of injection,” Dr Rautela said.At Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, which has immunised over 10,000 people so far, announcements are being made in the out-patient clinic urging people to get vaccinated. “In addition to doctors advising their patients, we are also making announcements in the OPD urging people to get their shot the same day once they are done with their consultation. Sometimes, patients do not have their ID cards on them; we ask them to bring them when they come next to give their samples or collect medicines,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak Hospital.Other than that, there are five persons posted at each of the floors of the hospital OPD imparting to people information about the vaccines.An official from the east district said on condition of anonymity, “Today, there was a lot of enthusiasm among people and we saw over 100% vaccination at many of our sites. However, that was the case when the drive was opened to those above the age of 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities. But, the turnout gradually dwindled. This time around, maybe we can sustain the pace because people are now scared by the increasing number of Covid infections. But we also need to create awareness among people.”Talking about the awareness campaign, he said, “We have a list of all the people over the age of 45 years in our area, and we are sending them text messages. The booth level officers have been asked to call at least 10 people daily and urge them to get vaccinated. The ASHA (accredited social health activists) and ANMs (auxiliary nurse-midwives) are going door to door to motivate people. In addition, we are distributing pamphlets with information on how to get registered and nearby vaccination centres. We are making announcements through police speakers in marketplaces as well on the speaker system on garbage vans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/enthusiastic-start-to-inoculation-of-all-above-45-years-many-centres-achieve-100-target-101617301258508.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||AAP, MCDs play the blame game over lack of irrigation measures in parks||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday hit out at the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) for failing to create adequate alternatives for irrigation purposes in parks, after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2019 disallowed the use of tube wells for the purpose. While AAP members alleged that around 14,500 parks that come under the civic bodies were turning barren due to inadequate alternatives, members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations said it is the failure of the Delhi government to provide treated water, as per the NGT orders.Senior AAP leader and party’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday said that “MCDs were closing tube wells” in their parks on NGT order and it would “ruin” greenery in parks. He criticised the NGT order but stressed that the three municipalities “failed” to develop alternative methods of irrigation using treated water.“The BJP-ruled MCD did not deploy tankers even after two years of NGT’s order. Delhi government is ready to provide water free of cost from its Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) but BJP-ruled MCDs want these parks to dry up. Now, MCD plans to close all these tube wells. The NGT had said that while the tube wells need to be closed, MCD should alternatively use the sewer water, after it is processed at STPs, transport them using MCD tankers and use it for irrigation purposes. The lack of irrigation is turning these parks into dry lands. Saplings that would have potentially turned into big trees tomorrow are not able to fully bloom and trees too are drying up,” he said.He said that the NGT in 2019 ordered a shutdown of all tube wells used to irrigate parks and directed MCDs and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to draw water supply from the STPs.Till last week, at least 700 tube wells across the three civic bodies were sealed on the directions of the NGT.Bharadwaj said that the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) was also asked by the NGT to create the necessary infrastructure to implement this plan. Within a five-kilometre radius of every STP, the scheme should be implemented and the DJB should take initiative for its efficient implementation.“Following this, DJB decided that water from the STPs will now be provided free of cost for irrigation work, for lake construction or water recycling purposes. Thus, DJB completed its end of the bargain and opened the way for MCD to send its tankers and irrigate the parks,” Bharadwaj said.However, the three municipalities blamed the city government for the current state of affairs.BJP leader and leader of the House in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), Narendra Chawla, said that the AAP is making baseless allegations regarding the supply of water in parks. “It is the Delhi government’s duty to ensure supply of treated water. The NGT, in its earlier order, has clearly asked them to ensure water supply from STPs to the parks. Despite having a duty to supply water, the Delhi government has failed to comply with the order. The DJB has been sealing bore wells but not maintaining the supply of water,” Chawla said.After reports started emerging on parks drying up, Chawla said the SDMC had approached the DJB but to no avail. “Finally, we have approached the NGT for extension in sealing of bore wells till the DJB ensures supply of water to parks,” Chawla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mcds-play-the-blame-game-over-lack-of-irrigation-measures-in-parks-101617301200403.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||East civic agency penalised ₹40 lakh over fire at Ghazipur landfill||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Thursday, on the orders of Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai, issued a penalty of ₹40 lakh to the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) for its alleged “carelessness” in preventing a fire that broke out at the Ghazipur landfill on Sunday.The DPCC noted that several incidents of fires at the Ghazipur landfill indicate a lack of preventive measures. The order was issued on Thursday after Rai asked DPCC to conduct an inquiry into the incident.“EDMC’s carelessness was the major contributor in the Ghazipur landfill fire. This incident has extensively contributed to the pollution in the area. The findings of DPCC clearly show that the EDMC was extremely careless. Based on the probe, the DPCC has issued a penalty of Rs.40 lakh to EDMC,” Rai said.Nirmal Jain, mayor of EDMC, said, “We have only got a notice from the DPCC regarding fire at Ghazipur landfill and have been asked to reply in 15 days. We will submit our reply and explain about measures being taken by us to control such fires. In the notice, there is no mention about the money. It is a statement of Gopal Rai that we have been fined with ₹40 lakh. This statement shows his political malice towards the EDMC.”The pollution control committee also sought a detailed report from the EDMC on the necessary steps taken. “The EDMC should submit this report within 15 days of getting the notice. The DPCC report also shows that the MCD had no proper arrangements to douse the fire,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-civic-agency-penalised-rs-40-lakh-over-fire-at-ghazipur-landfill-101617301199780.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal to inaugurate revamped Chandni Chowk stretch on April 17||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the revamped and redeveloped section of Chandni Chowk on April 17. The 1.3km main carriageway between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque in the heritage market has been beautified and made pedestrian only on all days between 9am and 9pm.“It is a historical heritage site and the entire area has been beautified, in an effort to bring back its glory days of yore. Now that the project is complete, tourism will get a major boost as people coming to Delhi would most definitely want to pay a visit to Chandni Chowk,” said Kejriwal in a statement shared by the government.Conceived by the Congress-led Delhi government in 2006, the ₹99 crore project was much delayed and work finally started only in December 2018, on the directions and monitoring of the Delhi high court. In December 2018, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia laid the foundation stone for the redevelopment project.In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric cables and other networks were taken underground, and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, benches for visitors etc, have been provided in the redeveloped space. The Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), which is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, plans to start work on improving the façade of the heritage market in the second phase.Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said while some work is remaining, it would be completed in the next two weeks. “The work is almost complete now. The project includes various stages and things will keep happening simultaneously. In another 15 days, we should be able to complete the work in all respects,” said Gupta.A senior Delhi public works department (PWD) official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We have to install a few CCTV cameras, some streetlights and get the basic cleaning done. All these will be done in the next few days. Traffic police is making arrangements to ensure that vehicles don’t enter the revamped stretch.”While the first deadline for the project was November 2020, it was later revised to March 2021 due to several delaying factors such as the Covid-19 pandemic and the legal hurdles in removing encroachments, including a few religious structures.Gupta said, “There have been various reasons due to which delays had occurred. The Covid-19 pandemic hampered the work progress as well.”Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said while the government is planning to inaugurate the project in the next two weeks, a significant amount of work is yet to be done. “On the ground, there is so much work that needs to be done. Lights and CCTV cameras have to be fixed. There are plans for stopping vehicular movement between 9am and 9pm, but there is no clarity on how this will be implemented. There are encroachments at Fountain Chowk and a few other points that need to be removed. I’m not sure if all that work can be completed in about 15 days,” he said.But government officials said a detailed plan is being worked out to stop vehicles from entering the redeveloped area. As vehicular movement will be banned during the daytime, the Delhi government plans to introduce electric vehicles for public convenience. In a meeting held on March 25, the Delhi Integrated Multimodal Transit System was asked to submit a detailed report on plying electric vehicles on the 1.3km stretch.A senior Delhi government official said there were many challenges in the redevelopment project such as taking the electric cables underground, shifting transformers and replacing sewage and water lines, among others. “A dedicated water line has been installed for the fire hydrants on both sides of the road and inside the very congested and inaccessible markets,” said the official, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-to-inaugurate-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-on-april-17-101617301198533.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to chair emergency meeting on Covid-19 surge today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will chair an emergency meeting with health minister Satyendar Jain and other senior officials on Friday in light of the surging Covid-19 cases in the Capital, a statement issued by the chief minister’s office said.Delhi, on Thursday, recorded 2,790 new Covid-19 cases and nine more deaths, with the positivity rate — the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested — in the city hovering around the 3.57% mark, the government’s health bulletin said. The positivity rate, which is indicative of the ongoing spread of the infection, had remained below 1% consecutively for 82 days between December 28 and March 19.Friday’s meeting, officials said, is scheduled to take place at 4 pm in the chief minister’s residence and is likely to touch on plans concerning containment, vaccination and hospital beds in the city to arrest the fresh Covid-19 surge. The chief minister has also directed department heads to prepare action plans regarding the same, the statement added.“In the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has been closely monitoring the situation. Expressing grave concern over the matter, he has decided to hold an urgent meeting on April 2, 4pm onwards. Health Minister Satyendar Jain, along with his department officials, will be a part of the meeting,” read the statement issued by the government on Thursday.It further said, “Including Delhi, the entire country is witnessing a surge in cases in the recent past. CM Kejriwal is ensuring a daily review by receiving regular updates from the officials. In furtherance to the orders given by CM Kejriwal, the health department has increased its vigilance measures, and has taken a number of monumental steps to combat Covid-19.”Expressing concerns over violation of Covid-19 rules, such as wearing of masks and social distancing, the statement goes on to add, “At the district level, surveillance teams are overseeing that people follow Covid appropriate behaviour, the most important of them being wearing masks. Also, after orders by CM Kejriwal, a target of conducting as many as 80,000 tests has been set on a daily basis, so as to contain the spread of the virus.”As Delhi continues being in the grip of what experts call the fourth wave of Covid-19 cases, the number of active cases in the Capital has increased exponentially from 1,404 on March 1 to 10,498 on April 1, government records showed.Last week, state health minister Satyendar Jain had, however, ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in Delhi. Senior officials of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), on their part, maintained that at this stage, the government has plans to scale up testing, tracing, isolation, containment and vaccination drives.Experts expressed concerns over the sharp increase in cases in Delhi.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “There is a steep increase in numbers in this particular phase of surge in cases. It strongly suggests that mutant variants of the virus can be playing a role. Delhi needs to further scale up contact tracing and tests, especially RT-PCR tests which are more accurate.”Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said: “Compliance is low when it comes to wearing masks, maintaining social distance and adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. That has to be taken care of at the earliest. Other than that, the government has to increase the pace of immunisation. For that, it has to invest more on mobilisation and awareness campaigns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-to-chair-emergency-meeting-on-covid-19-surge-today-101617301141548.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||New academic session to be online for now, orders Delhi government||The Delhi government directed all schools in the national capital to continue classes in the online mode for the new academic session — it started on Thursday — and not to call students in-person to attend classes till further orders. The government has asked all schools to strictly comply with the directive.Schools in Delhi have been conducting online classes and exams for all students till class 8 since March last year, owing to restrictions put in place to check the spread of Covid-19. Between January 18 and February 5, the Delhi government, however, had allowed schools to reopen for students of classes 9 to 12, to allow practical work and remedial lessons.In a circular issued for all private and government schools on Thursday, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said students of classes 9 to 12 (session 2020-21) may continue to come to school, with the due consent of parents, for their exams and practical work and will strictly and compulsorily adhere to Covid safety norms.“It is again clarified that no student should be called to school for the fresh academic session 2021-22 till further orders. However, teaching-learning activities may be commenced from April 1, 2021, for students through digital modes,” the circular stated.A majority of Delhi schools, both government and private, started their new academic session virtually on Thursday. Schools that had prepared to begin their session with in-person lessons for students of classes 9 to 12 also announced a switchback to online mode, following the government directive.HT had on Wednesday reported that the government has not taken any decision of allowing in-person classes for students in the new academic session.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini, where in-person classes were scheduled to begin for students of classes 10 and 12, said, “As per the government’s directive, we will now continue online classes from Monday onwards.”The principals of several schools welcomed the government decision. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “Considering the rising Covid-19 cases, we had started online classes. Our priority at the moment is to cater to students appearing for their boards this year because their exams are less than two months away and they were away from schools for a whole year. It is sad that we have to start another academic year without having our students physically present in school. But that is the best decision to ensure their safety.”Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School, said, “We are hoping that this surge in Covid-19 cases subsides before the beginning of the (CBSE) board exams. But right now, continuing with online classes is the best alternative.”Many students were disappointed to learn that they would be starting another academic session online. Nine-year-old Sehas Singh attended the introductory session of her new class virtually at the Indian School on Thursday. “Our class teacher showed us our new classroom virtually and introduced us to other students. I miss my school, especially the playground. We also prayed that the situation becomes normal soon and we can return to our school,” said the class 4 student.Some students also felt that students scheduled to appear for their board exams next year might be at a slight disadvantage.“We had online classes for class 9 and now it seems that virtual classes will continue in class 10 as well. That means nearly two years of online education in a crucial period of our lives. Besides, while the current class 10 students are appearing for their boards in May with a reduced syllabus, we may not have the same luxury and may have to appear for the boards next March with the full syllabus,” said Amrita Arun, a class 10 student at a private school in south Delhi.Experts too raised concerns over the lack of peer-to-peer interaction among younger children. Anubha Rajesh, chair professor at Jamia Millia Islamia’s Centre for Early Childhood Development and Research, said, “The pandemic has affected children in different domains of their development, especially the younger ones whose early years lay a foundation for lifelong learning. These children are in a home environment while having no opportunities for games and physical exercise and interaction with peers. Since schools have had time to develop emergent measures, care must now be taken to address these psychosocial issues in innovative ways too. Also, a one-size-fits-all approach cannot be used and schools must devise means to address the digital divide and facilitate learning for disadvantaged children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-academic-session-to-be-online-for-now-orders-delhi-government-101617301140888.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||A year and 908 convictions later, Nizamuddin Markaz reopens with strict Covid protocols||Every evening since Sunday, a representative of the Nizamuddin Markaz diligently visits the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station with a list of 50 names and their accompanying identity papers. These 50 are the only men allowed to enter and pray inside the building during Shab-e-Barat this year, as part of a March 24 Delhi high court order, which allowed the conditional reopening of the Markaz, almost a year after it emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot and had to be sealed.Until the building was sealed last year on April 1, it housed around 2,500 people, including foreigners, belonging mainly to the Tablighi Jamaat — a transnational Sunni Islamic missionary movement.A management official of the Markaz building, who asked not to be named, said, “Earlier, we would give the police the names and details of only foreigners who came to the Markaz. This was the standard practice. But now, we do it for everyone. After months of approaching various courts, we got permission to reopen on March 28. Looking back at what happened here last year, we can say that the Markaz attendees were in the right place at the wrong time,”The Delhi government had declared the Markaz one of Delhi’s first hot spots of Covid-19, prompting Nizamuddin basti and other nearby areas to be sealed and contained to prevent the spread of the virus. The evacuation of Tablighi Jamaat attendees ended on April 1, 2020, after a 36-hour evacuation drive, during which 2,358 people were shifted to quarantine centres and hospitals across the city.Records seen by HT show that as part of the contact tracing of Markaz visitors, police analysed 2,850 cellphone numbers of people who were inside the Markaz, or had come in touch with those inside the building, and tracked down 39,300 people using call records. Of these, police teams on the ground got in touch with at least 25,050 people.Delhi Police officers call it the “biggest contact tracing exercise” till date for the city.After the building was identified as a hot spot, the Union government had in April last year said the infection in places outside Delhi — such as Telangana, Mumbai and Andaman Islands — were also linked to people who had visited the Markaz. In mid-April last year, at least 1,000 of the 1,578 Covid-19 cases in Delhi at the time, were related to the congregation inside the building, Delhi government data showed.THE INVESTIGATION As part of the investigation, the Delhi Police’s crime team had on March 31 filed an FIR under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and under sections of the Indian Penal Code, which included those of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and criminal conspiracy. The people named in FIRs as on March 31 included Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, and six other top officials of the religious sect,for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.Records seen by HT show that the Delhi Police charged 952 foreigners from 36 countries. The crime branch registered the FIR on March 31. Police and court records show that while 908 foreigners entered a plea bargain and pled guilty to the charges, 44 people chose to face trial and contest the charges, and were later acquitted. HT spoke to several officers in the crime branch who confirmed that Maulana Saad has not been charged in any of the charge sheets till date.Delhi Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal, said, “On the acquittal of the 44 people, we are going to appeal in a higher court. The police’s case has resulted in the conviction of 908 people. The cases were presented in court and they were convicted. We do not want to name any individuals because =we are still investigating the case.”A Tablighi Jamaat attendee from Indonesia, who refused to be identified, on a phone call said, “Had we stayed on in India, even we would have been acquitted. But we had a difficult choice to make. We could either wait several months for the trial to get over or enter into a plea bargain, serve a minor sentence, and return home. We had already spent 100 days in the quarantine centre and wanted to go back home. The allegation that Tablighi Jamaat attendees deliberately spread the infection is wrong.”All those who pled guilty and were convicted by the courts were not sent to prison. The courts said that the attendees had already served their sentences during their stay in the quarantine facilities.Shahid Ali, a spokesperson of the Markaz, who is also a lawyer, said, “It was a political conspiracy by the Delhi government. The Delhi government misused its power and wrote to the L-G to file an FIR against Markaz. This is how everything started.Police had no evidence against Maulana Saad and others in the first place because of which, he was never charged. Even those people evacuated from the building were the ones trapped inside because a nationwide lockdown was imposed suddenly and everything closed down in Delhi. But we do not want to dwell in the past. We are glad that the Markaz is finally open again. Tablighi Jamaat is not a political organisation. People who were charged have been acquitted, while foreigners who were living away from their families entered a plea bargain and have returned to their families back home. We hold no grudges against anyone.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for a comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-year-and-908-convictions-later-nizamuddin-markaz-reopens-with-strict-covid-protocols-101617301140199.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to install the tricolour in schools to mark 75 years of Independence||Moving ahead with its plan to install the tricolour across the national capital to mark 75 years of Independence, the Delhi government has decided to put up the national flag in all its schools.Last month, the Delhi government presented its seventh annual budget and termed it a “deshbhakti budget”, in view of the nation celebrating 75th Independence Day this year. It announced a range of programmes and measures to evoke patriotism in citizens and finance minister Manish Sisodia also proposed ₹45 crore for installing the national flag at 500 different locations across Delhi.In a circular issued to the district education officers on Thursday, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said, “India will be celebrating her 75th Independence Day in 2021. In the budget speech, the finance minister set up a special component for deshbhakti and in order to make the occasion memorable, it has been decided to install the national flag at all schools run by the Delhi government. Accordingly, heads of all the government schools of Delhi are hereby directed to identify a suitable and conspicuous space to set up the flag mast.”Schools have been asked to identify 3-5 square metres of space near the “assembly grounds or at a suitable place on the top floor of the building where it is easily visible to all”. “In no case, the platform, thus identified, should obstruct a playground or any normal activity of the school,” the circular stated.“The normal size of the national flag which is hoisted on government/public utility service buildings is either 2X3 feet or 3X4 feet and the height of the mast which holds the tricolour is generally 10 feet or more,” it further said.Schools have been asked to identify the space by April 9. “The land and estate branch will coordinate with the PWD for construction of the national flag at all government school buildings in a timebound manner,” the circular added.Heads of several government schools welcomed the move. Devendra, principal of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Rouse Avenue, said, “It’s good that the national flag will be installed at all government schools before the introduction of the Deshbhakti curriculum. We normally unfurl the flag at school only on the Independence Day and the Republic Day. But now it will be there throughout the year, encouraging students to contribute to the country. We have space on the rooftop and we will install our flag there.”Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the government schools’ teachers association, said, “It won’t be difficult for schools to spare 3 to 5 square metres space for the installation of the flag. All schools can, in fact, put up the flag on the rooftop to save on ground space.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-install-the-tricolour-in-all-its-schools-to-mark-75-years-of-independence-101617301139045.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||JNU teachers decry directive to recoup transport payment||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Thursday criticised the university administration for issuing a circular on recovery of transport allowance from staff members who did not attend office in person during the nationwide lockdown enforced in March last year to curb the Covid-19 spread.The circular, issued by the JNU administration on Wednesday, referred to an office memorandum by the Union finance ministry that said transport allowance was not payable to those who did not attend office for a whole calendar month during the lockdown period. The varsity circular also sought details of “physical attendance” of teaching and non-teaching staff from March 2020 to May 2020.In a statement on Thursday, the JNUTA said the administration should acknowledge the “hard work” put in by the faculty for continuing their duty since March 2020 without any break.“There are a number of other circulars that have been issued by the ministry of finance, which are of particular benefit to all employees, such as grant of advance/special festival package, or the special cash package equivalent in lieu of leave travel concession dated October 12, 2020. However, unlike the circular dealing with recovery of transport allowance, the university administration has not shown the same alacrity in dealing with matters that directly benefit all employees,” the teachers’ body said.When contacted, a senior university official said on condition of anonymity, “The circular was issued in accordance with the directions issued by the Union ministry of finance. The university has no role in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-teachers-body-decries-move-by-varsity-to-recover-transport-allowance-given-during-lockdown-months-101617301138495.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Man killed by family of seven after quarrel over ₹100 in Sadar Bazar||A quarrel over ₹100 cost a 21-year-old man his life after he was allegedly thrashed by a family of seven, including four minor siblings, and then slashed to death in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar in the early hours of Tuesday, the police said.The seven members allegedly involved in the crime included a couple, their three daughters and son -- all four are minors – and a woman relative. All the adults have been arrested while the minors have been apprehended, said a senior police officer. Since the family allegedly involved in the murder includes minors, HT is not revealing their details as that could help identify the children.The victim, Manish Charan, lived with his mother and five siblings in Motia Khan neighbourhood of Sadar Bazar. His father died a few years ago and Charan, a courier delivery agent, was the primary earning member of the family.According to police, the problem began around 11 pm on Sunday when a man from their neighbourhood visited Charan’s mother, Geeta, with a ₹500 note and requested change. “I gave him a 200 rupee note and three 100 rupee notes,” said Geeta, a 60-year-old homemaker.Minutes later, the man returned to complain that Geeta had not given him the full change. “It could be possible that one of the currency notes was stained with Holi colours, but I am sure I gave him the full ₹500 in loose currency,” said Geeta.But the man was unwilling to believe her. “He insisted that he was paid ₹100 less and demanded the money,” said a senior police officer.Geeta stood her ground and the argument soon turned into a quarrel involving both families. Charan tried to defend his mother while the man’s wife, four minor children and a woman relative came to his defence.“The family manhandled my son, but neighbours intervened to separate them,” said Geeta. But by then, Charan happened to be in the centre of the quarrel.Though the quarrel ended then, the seven-member family returned a little after midnight on Tuesday to raise the issue again. “They barged into our house and pulled Charan out. They then kicked and punched my brother,” said the victim’s sister, Sarika.In the melee, the accused family allegedly got a meat cleaver from their home and slashed Charan. He sustained a deep wound in the thigh and started bleeding profusely even as the suspect family fled the spot. “After looking around for an auto-rickshaw for several minutes, we finally found a three-wheeler to take my son to Lady Hardinge Hospital where he died during treatment,” said Geeta.The police, meanwhile, learnt of the incident and reached the hospital, but Charan had died by then. They went on to register a case of murder and house trespass at Sadar Bazar police station.Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said police quickly arrested the three adults and apprehended the four minor siblings for the murder.Last year, there were 472 murders in Delhi. Forty-four per cent of them were over enmity or disputes, while 21% were the result of sudden provocations and “trivial issues”. Almost 90% of the 472 were solved, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-by-family-of-seven-after-quarrel-over-100-in-sadar-bazar-101617301079790.html
02-04-2021||Delhi||Doors open to sportspersons, artists at proposed virtual school||Nearly a month after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced the first virtual school in the capital during the annual budget, the Delhi government on Thursday said in addition to school drop-outs, the institute will also cater to sportspersons and artists who want to finish their formal education.“The school will cater to a wide cross-section of students, including students interested in studying from home, sportspersons, artists who need to devote adequate time towards honing their skills, school drop-outs and other youth who would want to complete their formal education,” Sisodia said on Thursday, after a meeting to discuss the modalities and scope of the school.The school aims to offer “excellent education to students remotely through personalised teaching-learning, effective assessments, and use of cutting-edge technology”.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, constituted a six-member committee comprising school principal, teachers, and IT officials. “The committee will study global best practices in virtual schooling and submit a blueprint for Delhi’s virtual school within a week,” the government said in a statement, adding that existing models of virtual schools in the United States and New Zealand were discussed.The proposed school will have an ID, and dedicated staff, and students too will be allotted unique IDs. The school will operate with the principle of “anywhere living, anytime learning, anytime testing”.“Extensive work on remote learning carried out by Delhi teachers during the pandemic year has developed the system’s capacity in handling online education effectively and our teachers have also learned to use technology for teaching-learning purposes. This online teaching-learning during the pandemic has created a fertile ground for the establishment of the country’s first virtual school in Delhi,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doors-open-to-sportspersons-artists-at-proposed-virtual-school-101617301079132.html
