03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Murder case: HC denies bail to 2 juveniles in custody for two years||The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to interfere with a Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) order denying bail to two minors facing trial in a murder case.The court took note of the social investigation report summoned from the principal magistrate, JJB, which said that in one case, the father was dead and the boy was living with his mother, who works at a tea stall and is as such out of the home the whole day. It said there was no strong male influence at home to guide the boy. In the second case, it was said that the boy did not go to school or was otherwise employed. The father remained away from home for long hours for work and the mother stayed at home. Therefore, there will be no effective check over whom he could come in contact with. It also stated that the reason for committing the offence was ‘peer-group influence’. The two boys have been in judicial custody since March 2019. On February 18, 2019, four people, including the two juveniles, allegedly attacked a person with a sharp weapon near EWS Colony, Mauli Jagran. Police said the fatal attack had been orchestrated by the victim’s wife in connivance with her paramour.Taking note of the report, the high court bench of justice Jaishree Thakur said if the minors were released on bail, there was a likelihood of them going back to the same environment, which in turn would put them in contact with the same peer group that they were in association with at the time of allegedly committing the offence. “Thus, their release would in fact defeat the ends of justice, as they would be exposed to moral, physical or psychological danger,” the bench added dismissing bail pleas. The court, however, directed that trial be concluded as expeditiously as possible and preferably within four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-case-hc-denies-bail-to-2-juveniles-in-custody-for-two-years-101617474308720.html
03-04-2021||Lucknow||NEP-2020 focuses on employment-oriented education: Dy CM||Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Saturday said the new National Education Policy-2020 (NEP) not only laid special emphasis on the all-round development of students but also focused on employment-oriented education so that children can get jobs while studying.Sharma said this during the 10th anniversary celebrations of GD Goenka Public School. He said, “Ethics needs to be developed from the very beginning in children and family and school play a very important role in this.”The deputy chief minister said in the new education policy, special emphasis has been laid on employment-oriented education, research, professional courses and training of teachers. On this occasion, Sharma also expressed his views on social problems of the country and the world.He said a teacher will have to play more important role in the education system. “If the quality of a teacher is lacking then the future of thousands of students will be spoiled. Along with this, there is a need to provide regular training to teachers. Teachers should be craving for continuous learning,” Sharma said. On this occasion, chairman of GD Goenka Public School, Sarvesh Goel, thanked all those associated with the school including teachers. He said his only aim was to provide such education to the students where they could be prepared for the future challenges and also to connect them with family values.Principal Raveen Pande addressed the people with her motivating words. Some fun games were also played for the teachers and staff and gifts were given to the winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nep2020-focuses-on-employment-oriented-education-dy-cm-101617473828106.html
03-04-2021||Other||With 606 cases, Ggm records highest single-day surge since Nov||Gurugram: At least 606 new Covid-19 cases were reported from across the district on Saturday, the highest single-day spike since November last year, shows the data from the daily health bulletin. The number of cases reported on Saturday was a steep jump from the 398 cases reported on the previous day, indicating fast transmission of the infection in the urban areas of the city. The increase in Covid-19 cases pushed the daily positivity rate — total number of positives out of the samples tested in a day — to 10.8% from 7.2%. The weekly positivity rate has also reached 7%. Due to the increasing positivity rate, the district health department conducted as many as 6,109 tests on Saturday. Such a high number of tests in a single day was last conducted on December 12 last year. “More tests, both RT-PCR and antigen testing, will be conducted in the urban areas. Cases are mostly emerging from urban areas, especially from the sectors falling under Tigra and Chanderlok urban primary health centres. These health centres cater to people mostly living in condominiums and gated societies,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19. As per the data of the health bulletin, at least 2,426 confirmed Covid-19 cases have been detected in the last seven days, up from 1,446 cases reported the previous week. On person succumbed to the viral infection this week, taking the death toll to 367. Due to the high positivity rate, the health department has increased testing and is focusing on isolating infected people to prevent the transmission. Over 34,275 tests were conducted in the last one week, 80% of which were RT-PCR tests. On an average, 800 antigen tests are also being conducted every day in the densely populated areas of the city. “More tests will be conducted in the areas worst affected by Covid-19 to prevent the infection spread. More micro-containment zones will be drawn up. If adequate tests are not conducted, those infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus will go on infecting others,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Currently, Gurugram is among the worst-affected districts in Haryana, which has already been listed as one of the 11 states with grave concern by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Dr Asruddin, director of health services (training), who has been deputed by the state health department to monitor the Covid-19 situation in Gurugram, was also in the city on Saturday. Controlling the infection spread has become all the more vital now as there has been a surge in hospitalisations following an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. At least 200 moderate to severely ill patients are currently undergoing treatment in different private hospitals. This has also escalated by 43% from the previous week when the district reported at least 116 patients who are hospitalised for Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-606-cases-ggm-records-highest-single-day-surge-since-nov-101617473648728.html
03-04-2021||Other||DTCP issues over 100 notices to owners for building violations||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Saturday issued notices to over 100 property owners in DLF Phase 5 over alleged building plan violations. The department said that a detailed survey was conducted in the area after receiving complaints from local residents that owners were allegedly making changes in structures after obtaining occupation certificates, or were operating commercial operations in residential units. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that these property owners were given notices to take corrective measures. “These property owners must restore their properties as per building plans or else action such as sealing and demolition would be taken against them,” he said. The department also issued notices to four property owners in Uppals Southend for allegedly operating guesthouses without any permission from the authorities. “Complaints were lodged in this matter by local residents and after inspection, the owner were sent notices. The owners will have to stop violations else these properties would be sealed,” he said. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement, said that they were also conducting a detailed survey in private colonies to check violations. “A survey is underway in Palam Vihar where recently, flats were sealed for violations. Commercial activities and OC violations would not be allowed,” he said. DTCP officials said that there is provision for operating consultancy services from residential units but for this permission needs to be taken and fee paid to the state government. “Rampant commercialization will make life difficult for residents and would not be allowed,” said another department official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtcp-issues-over-100-notices-to-owners-for-building-violations-101617473648083.html
03-04-2021||Other||Gurugram: Discom, admin asked to ensure regular power supply, other facilities to mandis||Gurugram: With the procurement of wheat having started in the state from April 1, the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (DHBVN) has directed its sub-divisional officers to ensure that electricity is supplied to anaj mandis (agriculture markets) without disruptions.Balkar Singh, managing director, DHBVN, said that power will be supplied round the clock and if any market falls in the purview of a feeder, where continuous supply is not possible, arrangements should be made to supply electricity through diesel generator sets. “The DHBVN officials must coordinate with local officials of these markets and identify areas where power from gensets needs to be supplied, and look for space to install and operate these gensets so that procurement of crops takes place without a hitch,” he said in a statement issued on Saturday. A spokesperson for the state government, meanwhile, said that within two days of the start of Rabi crop procurement, as many as 3,574 farmers brought about 2.5 lakh quintals of wheat to the procurement centres, which was procured by government agencies at minimum support price. The state government also said that farmers who wish to bring their wheat crop next week for procurement can register on the e-kharid portal and can choose the date and mandi as per their wish. Besides, the farmers can also choose their schedule by contacting the secretary of the respective market committee or the mandi call centre.The spokesperson also said that the payment will reach directly in the accounts of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-discom-admin-asked-to-ensure-regular-power-supply-other-facilities-to-mandis-101617473590588.html
03-04-2021||Other||Activists raise concern over animal abuse||Two cases of cruelty against animals were reported in the Taj city within a short span of time raising concerns among activists who feel concrete action was the need of the hour to save animals from abuse. In one case, acid was thrown on two bulls and a cow under Jagdishpura police station limit. Distressing pictures of the ruminates were doing the rounds on social media prompting angry reactions from activists. “An activist Sanjay Malhotra had lodged an FIR on March 24 at Jagdishpura police station against unidentified accused. The two bulls and the cow have been sent for treatment at a center in Dayalbagh. Efforts are on to nab the accused,” said Sunil Verma, incharge of Jagdishpura police station. In another case, three dogs were attacked by acid in Nau Ki Sarai village within limits of Khandoli police station of Agra recently. Vineeta Arora, the city coordinator for Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation (FIAPO) flayed the state of affairs when it comes to controlling animal abuse. Arora, who runs a home for stray dogs-- Casper’s Home-- finds police often falling short in assessing the sensitivity of matter. “Recently acid was thrown on three dogs in Nau Ki Sarai village and we approached the Khandoli police. The case was not registered and I have been called again to meet a senior cop,” said Arora. Arora said she has placed her complaint on ‘Jansunvayi portal’ as an alternative. “The villagers claim that thieves coming to village throw acid on dogs. Out of three dogs, one is in critical stage having 65 % burns. But nobody has been arrested so far. Till such accused are handled with toughness, not much could be expected for these speechless animals,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/activists-raise-concern-over-animal-abuse-101617473589964.html
03-04-2021||Other||Belongings, livelihoods lost, shanty residents stare at uncertain future||Gurugram: With their belongings lost, ID documents burnt and source of livelihood gone for those with shops facing the main road, hundreds of shanty residents are staring at an uncertain future after the Saturday morning fire.Among those who lost not only their homes but also their source of income was Pawan Kumar, who had purchased 15 coolers on Thursday that he intended to sell from his shop this summer. Both his shop and the coolers stored inside it were gutted on Saturday.“I purchased the coolers just two days ago. I had to take a ₹1 lakh loan from the bank to buy these, but it was all for nothing. Both my shop and house are now completely gutted. I don’t know how I will repay the loan. My only source of income is gone and so is the roof over my head. I am left with nothing,” said Kumar.Noor, a differently abled resident, also lost his shop - a general store - and his house in the blaze.“My life has been a struggle right from birth. Despite my limitations, I had just started supporting myself with the help of this shop, and for the first time, there was hope for a better future. Now that too is gone, along with my belongings. My life has never been so uncertain and hopeless,” said Noor.Several residents said that they left their shanties in the initial moments after the blaze only as a precautionary measure since the fire was initially limited to one section. However, with the fire spreading quickly, they lost all their belongings.“My wife, two children and I were all asleep when the fire broke out. We woke up due to the commotion outside. The fire was far away from our shanty and we left it as a precautionary measure. At that moment, we only picked up whatever was in front of us and left immediately,” said Amit, who works in a shoe shop.He said that the blaze grew after LPG cylinders inside the shanties started bursting. “Within minutes, the fire grew tremendously. There was nothing we could do except watch our home and belongings burn away. My years of hard work and earnings disappeared in only a few seconds,” said Amit.On Saturday morning, various residents, NGOs and citizen volunteers gathered at the site of the fire to provide relief and aid.After speaking to the six contractors who owned the shanties as well as those whose shanties and shops were gutted, they said around 184 structures were gutted in the incident. “Through various social media platforms, we have asked people for help and donation and have received a lot of support. Food was procured from two gurdwaras and makeshift tents have been prepared for temporarily accommodating the affected,” said Prerit Rana, chief executive officer (CEO), Agrasar, a non-governmental organization (NGO).Rana said that the NGO and citizen volunteers spoke to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) officials who have agreed to clear the debris from the area and level the ground with earthmovers within the next two days so that residents can once again have a place to stay.Sarika Panda Bhatt, associate director, Nagarro, who was one of the volunteers providing aid, said that a team of MCG officials, including joint commissioner Hariom Attri, visited the spot and added that the civic body has agreed to clear debris from the area. After the team’s visit, she said the civic body placed portable mobile toilets and drinking water outlets in the area on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/belongings-livelihoods-lost-shanty-residents-stare-at-uncertain-future-101617473589303.html
03-04-2021||Other||Hundreds of shanties gutted in fire in Nathupur||Gurugram: Hundreds of shanties and makeshift shops were gutted in a fire in Nathupur village, next to DLF phase 3, early Saturday morning. Fire department officials said only one person suffered minor burn injuries in the fire which was doused after a nearly six-hour operation.The corrugated tin sheet shanties and makeshift shops had been set up at a vacant plot near the Bengali market and local sabzi mandi in Nathupur village, behind the Sikanderpur furniture market on Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road. While the fire department claimed over 500 shanties and makeshift shops were gutted in the fire, relief volunteers on the ground said only 184 structures were affected.“We received a call at the sector 29 fire department around 2.08 am. Two fire tenders were sent to the spot immediately. Within a few minutes of the call, bystanders also contacted me about the fire. While I was speaking to them, I could hear loud noises in the background, which sounded like bursting LPG cylinders and hence, more fire tenders were rushed to the spot,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO), Gurugram fire department.Fifteen fire tenders, 13 from the Gurugram fire department and two from DLF fire services, were used to douse the blaze, said Kashyap.“Despite continuous dousing operations, sporadic bursting of LPG cylinders aggravated the fire, and we were finally able to control it around 6 am, saving around 400 shanties from harm. By 8 am, the fire was completely doused and subsequently, fire tenders returned,” said Pankaj Prashar, fire safety officer, Gurugram fire department.The fire department said that the blaze is likely to have been caused by leakage in an LPG cylinder or through a short circuit.“We found illegal electrical connections in the shanties. There is a possibility that one of the loose electrical wires had a short circuit which led to the blaze. Our investigation is underway,” said Kashyap.Meanwhile, relief volunteers said they assessed the damage on the ground. “With the help of the six contractors and people whose shanties were gutted, we prepared a list of 184 shanties and shops that were gutted in the blaze. Relief provisions for the affected have been initiated,” said Prerit Rana, chief executive officer (CEO), Agrasar, a nongovernmental organization (NGO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hundreds-of-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-nathupur-101617473588719.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Residents raise concern after sanitation workers set garbage on fire||Residents of Sector 63, who have been complaining of illegal dumping and burning of garbage on the roadside, said they spotted sanitation workers engaged by the Noida authority resorting to the hazardous activity. The residents’ welfare association (RWA) members of Bahlolpur, which further connects to FNG road, on Saturday also shared videos on social media of a sanitation worker burning garbage. Pointing out that garbage dumping and burning have become a major menace in their area, residents said the waste from the local vegetable market was burnt at night and the refuse kept smouldering till morning.“We had been complaining that garbage is often dumped on the roadside and set afire. Just about two weeks ago, a large pile of garbage was set on fire and we had to call the fire department to douse the flames. Officials put the blame on unknown miscreants but we saw the authority’s worker setting the garbage afire. How can we sensitise ragpickers when hired sanitation workers are resorting to this illegal activity,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur RWA, Sector 63, who shared the video on social media.According to environmentalists, the issue is an old one and persists due to lack of sensitisation of sanitation staff.“It’s a continuing issue and happens primarily because the authority has hired contractors to pick the garbage or clean roads and these contractors don’t sensitise their staff. The staff are often clueless about what to do with certain waste, like horticultural or other dry waste, so they burn it. In their mind, they are doing the right thing. The authority must give clear directions to contractors to guide the ground workers,” said Vikrant Tongad, Noida-based environmentalist.He further said garbage burning is one of the most common sights in the city.“Take any random road in Noida, travel for some distance and you will find garbage burning on the roadside at any point of time,” Tongad said.Meanwhile, the officials state that they are taking strict action on the complaint. “The incident was reported from FNG road and we are taking strict action against the supervisor and workers. They have strict guidelines to not burn garbage. We will also ensure that such incidents are not repeated,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty (health), Noida authority.Noida generates around 700 tonnes of domestic waste daily. The door-to-door garbage collection covers 220 high-rises having 140,000 apartments, about 98 RWAs having 40,000 houses and about 70 small and big villages within the city, the officials said. After collection, the garbage goes to 21 different transfer stations of the Noida authority, where the unsegregated waste is separated manually with help of ragpickers and later sent to the main storage facility at Sector 145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-raise-concern-after-sanitation-workers-set-garbage-on-fire-101617473588187.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Gzb to start surveillance, contact tracing within 12 hours in areas with high Covid caseload||The Ghaziabad district administration on Saturday initiated a plan -- Red Alert -- to deal with the high Covid-19 caseload in the residential segments of Carte, Raj Nagar, Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and Sahibabad. The officials said they have devised a 12-point agenda, which they believe will help contain the virus spread. The high caseload areas were identified on the basis of total cases in the month of March and the two days of the current month. These areas -- Carte (90 cases in March), Raj Nagar (86 cases), Indirapuram (63 cases), Vasundhara (29 cases), Vaishali (51 cases) and Sahibabad (37 cases) -- reported 63% of the total 565 cases in the district the month of March. In the first two days of April, Carte reported 14 Covid cases, Raj Nagar nine , Indirapuram 20, Sahibabad 17, Vasundhara 10, and Vaishali eight new cases. “We have decided to fast-track surveillance measures, contact tracing and facility allocation in these areas. Our rapid response teams will visit these areas within 12 hours of each new case being reported and carry out their procedures. All protocols related to containment zones will be strictly enforced in these areas,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.According to the health department officials, once a person tests positive, the facility allocation is done generally within 24 hours and the next 48 hours are devoted to surveillance and contact tracing. “In high case load areas, these activities will start within 12 hours and this will help in checking spread of infection,” said an official from the district health department. The administration officials further said they will start extensive door-to-door survey in these areas and also step up testing of people with co-morbidities, senior citizens, pregnant women and people having Covid-like symptoms. “We will also take up 100% contact tracing of each patient and they will also be given prophylactics. Besides, our teams will also get in touch with hospitals and chemist shops in these areas to get the details of patients having Covid-like symptoms,” Pandey further said. According to the state control room figures of April 2, Ghaziabad district has seen a total of 27,396 Covid cases of which 355 are currently active cases. The virus death toll in the district is 102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gzb-to-start-surveillance-contact-tracing-within-12-hours-in-areas-with-high-covid-caseload-101617473529328.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Seven booked for attacking businessman in Dadri||Seven persons were booked for allegedly attacking a shoe shop owner who refused to pay ₹20 lakh as extortion money in Dadri. The complainant Atul Kumar Goel, a resident of Ghaziabad, runs a shop on GT Road. On Friday, a group of men barged into his shop and allegedly attacked him with sticks and rods. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras and widely circulated on social media. The victim said he was dealing with customers at his shoe shop when the men barged in. “They were armed with sticks and rods and started beating me without any provocation. They also beat up some customers and my staff who rushed to my help,” he said. In the CCTV footage, the victim is seen helplessly defending himself and then fleeing the shop to save his life. Goel said some suspects were trying to extort ₹20 lakh from him and when he could not pay the money, they attacked him. The suspects had reached the shop on three motorcycles and fled the spot after committing the crime. The suspects had earlier made a video call to the victim demanding the money, police said. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO, Dadri police station, said a case has been registered against seven persons under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and Section 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have launched an investigation into the matter. The suspects will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-booked-for-attacking-businessman-in-dadri-101617473530074.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Quirky cafes and art gallery give Noida’s Sec-104 a Hauz Khas feel||A year after the lockdown, Noida’s sector-104 has become the talk of the town as it boasts of a new normal with its quirky cafes, pubs and bars, and an art gallery that attract people of all age groups from as far as Delhi.Sapna Khanna, who is a regular to sector-104 since the last three years and works out at a premium gym outlet here, says she hasn’t seen the market transform this much except for the past year since the lockdown. “While most eateries and hangout spots were earlier found only in one commercial complex, now many eating joints and recreational spots dot the entire area,” she said.Art galleries, quirky cafes add a niche to sector-104What makes sector-104 akin to Delhi’s Hauz Khas village are an art gallery and ‘insta-worthy’ cafes.Divyaman Singh, an artist who has been running the only art gallery in the area called ‘Art By Divyaman’ since 2018, says, “I reopened my gallery in June last year after the restrictions that were effected following the Covid-19 outbreak were lifted. Visitors started coming in after November. Though the footfall has increased, it is yet to match to what it was before the pre-Covid era.”The lockdown hit Raghav Modi badly who opened his dream café with his wife in sector 104 in January last year. “I got good response and also got customers from Delhi for the short span my cafe was open. I have again mustered courage and reopened the cafe last month,” he said.Bark Street, a pet-friendly café that was opened in September 2019 and reopened only last month, brings people from across the city as well as Delhi to sector-104. “Lockdown was a low point for all those in the hospitality sector. However, the footfall at our café is better than the pre-Covid era. As we have a unique concept and peculiar décor, we are quite popular on social media, which helps put sector-104 on the map,” says Nikhil Pratap Singh, who runs the café along with three of his friends.Ashish Bhargava, who runs an Instagram page about trendy places in Noida called ‘Noidagram’ with over 60,000 followers, said, “A year ago, sector-104 did not have such eccentric and concept-based cafes. However, with the emergence of ‘insta-worthy’ cafes in the last one year, not only do their pictures get high engagement on social media but also attract youngsters from as far as Delhi. This has made sector-104 market a popular hangout destination now.”It is not just small ventures that are opening up in the sector. Furniture e-tailer WoodenStreet, that has stores all over India, chose sector-104 to launch their store spanning over 3,000 sqft. “We believe the market here has the potential to flourish. We expect the store in sector-104 to contribute around ₹1 crore per month in sales,” said Lokendra Ranawat, CEO of WoodenStreet.The launch of a ‘BYOB (bring your own booze) concept’ kitchen bar here has been a major crowd-puller after the lockdown. “Ever since we started operations in December last year, the business has been thriving. One of the major factors behind this is the concept of BYOB, which cannot be found anywhere else in Noida,” said Sunil, a manager at the joint.The coming up of new joints has also helped older businesses in the area. “Footfall at our restaurant has improved than what it was during the pre-Covid times,” said Kalyani Das , partner of Dasaprakash-- a fine dining South Indian restaurant that opened in sector-104 in 2017.‘Sector 104 is a sought-after location’So, what makes sector-104 this sought after? Monika Rawat, who is the co-founder of India Artisans Studio in the area, “We zeroed in on sector-104 to launch our store because of its location. Since we sell home décor and lifestyle products, we chose this area as it is surrounded by new apartments. However, today, our customer base has expanded to as far as Greater Noida, Noida Extension and Delhi as people find our store accessible and feasible to visit because of the expressway.”Flanked by premium residential societies and located near the Noida-Greater Noida expressway, property consultants term sector-104 as the ‘centre’ of Noida. “The location is accessible to not only those living in Noida but also those living in Greater Noida. Moreover, most young people are now moving to new apartment complexes located along the expressway or in Noida Extension,” says Sumit Rathi, a property consultant.He adds the market has had a quick turnaround in terms of footfall and business after the lockdown.“Starling Mall, which houses premium brands like Oxford Bookstore, Theos bakery and Café Delhi Heights, was a major crowd puller in sector-104 before the lockdown. After the lockdown, this market has expanded beyond that one commercial complex and several more eateries and lifestyle outlets have opened here in the past one year,” said Rathi.Vinod Nagar, a real estate consultant, said the rentals in sector-104 market are one of the highest in the area. “Unlike other commercial complexes in Noida, the rentals in sector-104 market area have stayed as high as pre-Covid times. For per sqft area, the rate is somewhere between ₹150 to ₹200 per month. For a second or third floor, it is between ₹100 to 150 per month. A floor at these spaces is at least 500 to 600 sqft which brings the minimum rental to at least ₹50,000 per month. However, all the premium spaces that are facing the road have a minimum rent ranging between ₹80,000 and ₹1,00,000 per month,” he said.He added most commercial complexes in sector-104 have a high demand despite not having a lift. “Vendors or tenants are ready to shell out ₹75,000 per month for a second or third floor space that does not even have a lift. The demand for this place is growing day by day and right now, all of the premium locations are occupied. Many more commercial complexes are coming up in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/quirky-cafes-and-art-gallery-give-noida-s-sec-140-a-hauz-khas-feel-101617473528648.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Drop in road accident related deaths in Noida||NoidaThe number of road accidents and related deaths in the first three months of this year has significantly decreased as compared to the same period last year, Noida traffic police data show. From January to March 2021, 69 people died and 98 people were injured in 155 road accidents in Gautam Budh Nagar. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said the corresponding period last year saw 241 road accidents in which 123 died and 219 others injured in the district. In 2019, 136 people died and 257 were injured in 289 accidents.“We studied the reasons which led to such accidents and started making corrections. There are around 35 ‘black spots’ or accident prone areas in Gautam Budh Nagar. We have fixed the black spots by placing barricades and dividers. The U-turns too have been made encroachment free. We also conducted awareness programmes which led to positive results,” Saha said. The month-wise data provided by the traffic police department for in Gautam Budh Nagar showed that in January 2021, 50 accidents took place in which 22 people died and 30 others were injured. While 25 people died while 41 others were injured in 59 accidents in February, March saw 22 deaths and 27 people suffering injuries in 46 road accidents. The year 2020 saw a total 380 deaths and injuries to 528 people in 745 road accidents. Rohit Baluja, President of Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE), said the number of accident deaths coming down is commendable. ”People had restricted their movement from March-November 2020 due to Covid. Now the traffic runs normally. In this scenario, if the accidents and deaths have decreased, it’s good,” he said. However, Baluja said that many small accidents are not reported to the police, adding that the actual numbers may be higher.The traffic police said that they also conduct enforcement drives and challan violators. Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police issued 4.96 lakh challans -- totalling fines of ₹17.90 crore -- to traffic violators in 2020.In the first three months of 2020, the traffic police had issued challans to 1.09 lakh violators, amounting to ₹1.43 crore. During the same period this year, the department issued 1.52 lakh challans and collected ₹69 lakh. Noida Traffic police on Saturday also conducted an awareness drive in association with a road safety NGO – TRAX - on use of branded helmets for two wheelers. “A team visited Sector 12-22 junction and held an awareness programme. People were advised to use only branded ISI marked helmets. The shop owners were also told to sell only branded helmets which can ensure people’s safety,” said Anurag Kulshrestha, president TRAX.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/drop-in-road-accident-related-deaths-in-noida-101617473528060.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||One held for attacking man with cricket bat, robbing him in Chanakyapuri||A 20-year-old man was arrested for attacking a man with a cricket bat and robbing him in central Delhi’s Chanakyapuri late Thursday night, police said on Saturday.Police said the suspect, identified by a single name as Ankit, is a drug addict and lived with his parents in the staff quarters of the Bihar Bhawan where his father worked. Additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) [Addnl DCP] Vikas Kumar said that the police control room was informed about a quarrel near Samrat Hotel in Chanakyapuri on Thursday. The caller said a man injured in the incident was sent to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. Police found out that 21-year-old Sita Ram, a member of Chanakyapuri’s The Leela Palace hotel housekeeping staff, was the victim of a robbery and had suffered an injury above his right eye.Ram’s complaint, filed with the Chanakyapuri police on Friday after treatment, said that he was attacked without provocation while waiting for a bus on Vinay Marg at around 10.30pm.“The attacker had snatched Ram’s mobile phone and fled. He had kept a copy of his Aadhaar card, hotel ID card and ₹300 in the phone’s cover, which too was gone with it. Ram was crying for help when a passerby, Pradeep Singh, stopped to help him, sent him to the hospital and called the police. A case of robbery was registered,” said Kumar.The investigating team scanned CCTV footage in the area and tapped into its network of informants to nab the suspect within 24 hours of the crime, police said. The cricket bat used in the crime, the stolen mobile phone along with his Aadhaar Card and hotel ID card were recovered, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-held-for-attacking-man-with-cricket-bat-robbing-him-in-chanakyapuri-101617473409244.html
03-04-2021||Other||Assam health minister’s shocker, says ‘no need to wear masks against Covid-19’||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said that there wasn’t any need to wear face masks for protection against Covid-19. Sarma’s comments came during an interview with a news outlet.“The Centre might give its directives but in the context of Assam, as on present date, Covid is almost non-existent. So, why this need to create panic among people?” Sarma said.“When the need to wear masks will arise, I will tell people to do so. At present, we have to focus on reviving the economy. If people wear masks how will beauty parlours run? They too need to sustain,” he told the news outlet.The minister’s statement came at a time when several states in the country are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Assam, however, hasn’t witnessed a similar surge in fresh Covid-19 cases.The daily Covid-19 cases in Assam had fizzled down to single digits last month but in recent days the figure is gradually witnessing an upward trend.On Saturday, the state reported 68 new cases of Covid-19. Assam has 598 active cases of infection at present. So far, the state has recorded 218,601 cases and 1107 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-health-minister-s-shocker-says-no-need-to-wear-masks-against-covid19-101617473108627.html
03-04-2021||Other||Teachers in a fix over panchayat poll duty and recruitment exam||The clash of schedule of panchayat polls due on April 19 and the written exam for the recruitment of teachers and headmasters set to take place on April 18 has left thousands of UP government-run primary and upper primary school teachers in a limbo as they are undecided whether to attend the mandatory poll duty or write their papers.Panchayat polls in 16 districts are due on April 19 and for which a bulk of teachers and even government employees of other departments will have to leave along with polling parties on April 18— the very day of the exam—making it almost impossible for them to appear in it, said Sanjeev Tripathi, one such worried teacher. The exams will be held for recruitment against 390 posts of headmasters and 1504 posts of assistant teachers in 3049 government-aided junior high schools of the state. Around 3.25 lakh people are aspiring for the jobs.The teachers posted in the 16 districts that have panchayat polls on April 19, including Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Badaun, Etah, Mainpuri, Kannauj, Etawah, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Varanasi and Azamgarh are surely to get impacted, said Balaji Tiwari, another such primary school teacher. The teachers say the reason that they were keen to be part of this recruitment process is the fact that eligible assistant teachers of government primary schools getting appointed as assistant teachers in government-aided schools draw a better salary while the teachers of government-run upper primary schools have a chance to become headmasters/principals at these government-aided institutions thereby also gaining both, a promotion and a better salary. “The Exam Regulatory Authority, UP should take a decision in the interest of the affected teachers immediately,” said Abhishek Tripathi, another teacher. However, secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority, UP, Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi said so far no application requesting postponement of the exam date has been received by the authority. K Sandeep Kumar 9415235145||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-in-a-fix-over-panchayat-poll-duty-and-recruitment-exam-101617473048085.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of ‘vaxing’ eloquent and ‘valfies’||There was a time when ‘update-ism’ divided haves and have-nots on the basis of status symbols such as a new Merc, Mountain Mansion or Maldives vacation. The pandemic has changed all that.Maldives vacations were gone with the wind, Mercs gathered grime in garages and the recession made maintaining mansions an uphill task.Earlier, ‘selfie-ism’ was made up of prized pixel moments such as the Twitterati’s first ‘shot’ at the Beverley Hills, Broadway or Barcelona games. However, the post pandemic,or rather corona’s second coming, has changed all that. It has tossed up a new emblem for 15 minutes of ‘frame’— the first shot.‘Selfie-ism’ boasts of a new status symbol for segregating haves and have-nots — the vax selfie. Or if I may coin the term — the ‘valfie’! The pandemic’s ‘valfie’ comes in all shapes, sizes and surmises.Of vaccine and verbosityThe first kind of ‘valfie’ is defined by content. This ‘valfie’ narrative exhibits symptoms, not of Covid, but of verbal diarrhoea. In which Twitterati are driven by a new art of lipping: How to vax eloquent.This status ‘update-ism’ or ‘selfie-ism’ suffers from severe symptoms of verbal diarrhoea that spouts or shouts the vaccine’s four Ws – when, where, wows and woes.The nitty-gritty defining this narrative reads thus – a mini essay on the ambience of the clinical destination where the tryst with the vax is kept, a long ‘short list’ of who’s who in the waiting room, portraits with your pet accompanying you in the car for moral support; and a thesis on the mood or Vero Moda you sported on the trip for the prick near your ‘moda’.If you’ve scrutinised a poodle or Persian cat preen ‘n’ pose for the paparazzi at a pet show before being put through a hurdle race, you will get the drift of what this Valfie looks like. The curious case of ‘When Hari Met Vaxy’.Of shots and side-effectsAnother kind of vax selfie is the one defined by intent. This ‘valfie’ endeavours to either inform or inspire.If the ‘valfie’ shows a vaccine recipient flashing a toothy smile exposing all 32 ceramic crowns studding the faux jawline, it is meant to inspire, by assuaging apprehensions as ‘teething’ problems. If the ‘valfie’ narrative reads like a long list of sordid side-effects, then it’s driven by the intent to forewarn, not to make a martyr of your forearm. The curious case of ‘for whom the alarm bells toll’.Of vax and vexWhen the vax comes, can our loud yet loveable ‘Punju’ couple, Lamba ji and Lollita, be far behind!Lollita goggles glacially at Lamba ji getting ready for their first shot. Obviously, this is not a honeymoon-ish first shot, rather the vax first shot, wherein the honey in the nuptial narrative has long since dried many moons ago.“What is this canary yellow shirt for?” Lollita gapes.“Oye, for the vax selfie, honey!” Lamba ji gurgles.“You’re teaming it with a hooker lipstick-red tie?!!!” Lollita looks visibly vexed at his vax wardrobe.“If Trump can carry off this couture, why can’t I?” Lamba ji prattles, piqued.“Dump Trump! To go get protection from corona, must you look like a jaundiced Amaltas tree!”The curious case of ‘who moved my kameez!’chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witeratiof-vaxing-eloquent-and-valfies-101617472208983.html
03-04-2021||Jaipur||52 IIT-Jodhpur students who returned to attend practical classes test positive for Covid-19||A total of 52 IIT-Jodhpur students have tested positive for coronavirus infection over the last week following their return to the institute to attend practical classes, an official said on Saturday. The students, most of them from Gujarat and Odisha, had returned to the institute to attend their mandatory laboratory sessions after undergoing online classes in their home towns, he added. All these Covid-positive students have been quarantined and made to stay in one of the hostels on the IIT campus, an IIT spokesperson said, adding all anti-Covid precautions are being taken. Two hostel buildings have been reserved for keeping the students and staff, both academic and non-academic, after the contact-tracing of the positive students, spokesperson Amardeep Sharma said. He said with the coronavirus infection again on the rise, the IIT administration started taking utmost precaution to keep the campus free from the infection amid the students returning to the campus. “We ensured that every student coming from home went to a designated isolation ward directly from the main gate, where the swab samples of students with symptoms were taken and sent to AIIMS for the tests,” said Sharma. “If the samples tested positive, we sent the student directly to the super-isolation ward from the isolation ward for the next 14 days,” he added. Considering the seriousness of the situation, Jodhpur Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Sharma and Deputy Director (Medical & Health) Sunil Kumar Bisht visited the campus on Saturday afternoon and reviewed the situation and arrangements undertaken by the IIT administration.“We have asked for a mandatory 10-day quarantine for every student coming from home and have also given directions for random sampling of the staff,” said Sharma. He said as the students from hostels have been reported positive, directions of contact tracing have also been issued to the IIT administration. IIT, Jodhpur has 11 hostel buildings on its campus and with students coming in hoards for practical sessions, the administration has been taking every possible measure to keep the situation under control, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/52-iit-jodhpur-students-who-returned-to-attend-practical-classes-test-positive-101617467875240.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 10,873 new Covid cases||PUNE Pune district reported 10,873 new Covid cases on Saturday, which was also the first day since the curfew of seven days was imposed in the district. This is twice the number of new cases reported on September 16, 2020, when 5,049 new Covid cases were reported.Pune’s active caseload has also crossed 73,000-mark and the progressive count has gone up to 5.64 lakh out of which 4.82 lakh have recovered and 8,473 people have lost their lives to the virus.Pune city reported 5,778 new cases which took the count to 29,1947 and 37 more deaths taking the death toll to 4,779.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 2,798 new cases which took the progressive count to 14,2944 and with six more deaths, the toll went to 1,389.Pune rural reported 2,297 new cases which took the count to 129,395 and with nine deaths the toll went up to 2,257.77,000 vaccinated in districtPune district reported its highest vaccination numbers so far as 76,954 people got the jab on Saturday.The 76,000 beneficiaries include 36,698 from Pune rural, 25,442 from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 14,814 from PCMC.The vaccination was conducted in 431 session sites. Out of the total beneficiaries, 76,916 beneficiaries got Covishield and the remaining got Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-10-873-new-covid-cases-101617471427977.html
03-04-2021||Other||Kashmir to Kanyakumari in 50 days: Indian Army soldier to attempt 4300-km run||Indian Army soldier Naik Velu P of 60 Para field hospital, has decided to attempt a 4300-kilometre run from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. If he succeeds, the feat will get his name straight to the Guinness Book Of World Records. Velu P, an ultra runner, was given a grand welcome by Brigadier KJ Singh, Commandant and the all ranks at 166 Military Hospital in Jammu on Saturday. Later, he was flagged off by Brigadier KJ Singh for his further journey to Samba and onwards.Velu P would be running 70 to 100 kilometres daily and is determined to create a new record by covering the mammoth distance of 4300 kilometres from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in less than 50 days, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.Also read: Farooq Abdullah hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19, tweets his sonHe is travelling with a message of Clean India-Green India and will also serve as an inspiration to the youth to be a strong contributor in the Fit India mission, he added. Velu has won several ultra-marathons, Tuffman runs and stadium runs across India. He was flagged off from 92 Base Hospital at Srinagar on April 1 with a heartwarming gathering of enthusiasts who accompanied him in his solo run for the initial 5 kilometres, carrying the national flag and boosting his morale. Velu P has been representing the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) in long-distance runs for the past four years. In September, he will be representing India for the stadium run at the World championship in Romania. He already won a trial run of the 24-hour stadium running in Bengaluru. In June last year, he ran 1600 kilometres in 17 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmir-to-kanyakumari-in-50-days-indian-army-soldier-to-attempt-4300-km-run-101617470111606.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||26,483 get jabbed on Day 1 of mega vaccination drive in Ludhiana||Ludhiana district recorded the highest single-day vaccinations on Day 1 of the two-day mega vaccination drive on Saturday. As many as 325 camps were organised, where 26,483 eligible residents were vaccinated. Of these, 125 mobile camps were organised in different parts of the city. Health officials said that the district has topped the state in the number vaccinations recorded.The camps were organised at residential areas, clubs, factories and offices among others. Selfie points were setup to encourage residents’ participation. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar and councillor Mamta Ashu visited various camps to encourage people to take the vaccine. On Saturday, 9,240 front-line workers, 9,377 people aged between 45 and 60 years and 6,545 senior citizens (above 60-years-old) took the first dose. Also, 397 healthcare workers got the first dose, while 143 got the second. As many as 316 front-line workers, 92 people aged between 45 and 60 and 373 senior citizens got the second dose. So far, 2,10,970 eligible residents have been vaccinated since January 16.Ashu and Sharma said the “Vaccine at doorsteps” camps were started by the administration on March 26 and the response on the first day of the drive has been overwhelming.IMA holds 5 campsIndian Medical Association Ludhiana in association with district administration and public representatives organised free camps at five locations in the city. A large camp was organised at the senior citizen’s home in ward number 90 which was inaugurated by the deputy commissioner. They were also organised at Khalsa Senior Secondary School , Shahpur Road, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Associations (UCPMA) office in Gill Road and factories of Hero Cycles and Sportking knitwear. The UCPMA has started an eight-day free vaccination drive at its office from Saturday onwards.The members stated that over 600 industrialists, factory workers and other eligible residents were vaccinated on Day 1 of the camp, which was inaugurated by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.MLA Talwar, his brothers take vaccineCamps were also organised in different wards of east constituency. MLA Sanjay Talwar and his brother Ajay also took the vaccine. The camps were organised in ward numbers 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15, 19 and 23 wherein 1,192 people were inoculated. Congress leaders including Gaurav Bhatti, Happy Randhawa and Kanwaljit Bobby also took the vaccine. CICU inoculates 856 so farDay 3 of the five-day free vaccination camp being held at the CICU complex in Focal Point was conducted on Saturday. CICU members stated that 856 industrialists and workers have been vaccinated till the third day of the camp against the target of 750. General secretary Pankaj Sharma said that CICU might extend the camp for a few more days as per the demand of the industrialists. Bindra inaugurates four campsChairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) Sukhwinder Singh Bindra on Saturday inaugurated four vaccination camps at Model Town Community Centre, Hero Ecotech Limited, Kay Jay Forging Limited and Garg Acrylics. He was accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (developement) Sandeep Kumar among others.Bindra said that mass vaccination is the only way to build herd immunity and break the transmission chain of the infectious disease. He added that people must not believe rumours surrounding the vaccine as scientists have left no stone unturned to develop it to protect us from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/26483-get-jabbed-on-day-1-of-mega-vaccination-drive-in-ludhiana-101617469940372.html
03-04-2021||Other||Matrimonial fraud: Man who duped Ludhiana woman of ₹20 lakh held||A Delhi resident, who allegedly duped a city-based woman of ₹20.37 lakh after approaching her through a matrimonial website, has landed in police net. Police said the accused, Surinder Kumar Chopra, of Tilak Nagar, Delhi, had introduced himself as Pradeep Anand to the complainant, a resident of Sant Fateh Singh Nagar, Dugri Road.According to the 33-year-old woman, Chopra had claimed to be a businessman living in Birmingham, UK, and had expressed interest in marrying her. However, on reaching India in December last year, he, along with his accomplices, contacted her, claiming he had been detained at the Delhi airport for carrying 200,000 British Pounds. Chopra also spoke to her and urged her to deposit ₹20.37 lakh in some bank accounts as fine, so that he could be allowed leave the airport, while promising to return the money soon.However, after receiving the money, he severed contact with her.Having received a complaint on February 19, the Model Town police initiated a probe and nabbed the accused in Delhi on Saturday. A point of sale machine was recovered from him. Police suspect he may be involved in several such cases.The accused has been booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/matrimonial-fraud-man-who-duped-ludhiana-woman-of-20-lakh-held-101617469868541.html
03-04-2021||Other||Two men eyeing greener pastures overseas duped of lakhs by wives||Dreams of settling down abroad with the help of their spouses cost two men from Ludhiana and Barnala dear. Despite funding the women’s move overseas, with the hope of joining them later, the men only ended up losing lakhs.In the first case, the son of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was duped of ₹12 lakh by his wife, who left for Australia with his financial help. ASI Roshan Lal complained that his son, Rakesh Kumar, was introduced to the woman by his childhood friend. The woman’s father, Pardeep Kumar of Captain Colony, Meharban, told him that she had cleared IELTS, but he didn’t have enough money to send her to Australia for higher studies.But, offered that his daughter will help Rakesh move abroad on spouse visa, if he could bear her expenses. He promised that soon after his daughter completes her first semester, she will marry Rakesh, which will facilitate the spouse visa.The ASI said he spent ₹12 lakh on the woman’s visa application, college fee, laptop and air ticket by selling one of his plots and securing a bank loan. His son married her in January 2020, following which she returned to Australia in February 2020. But thereon, she stopped taking his calls.Meanwhile, her father started demanding another ₹10 lakh for arranging the spouse visa for his son. Realising he was being defrauded, the ASI filed a police complaint on August 25, 2020, and an FIR under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Pardeep at the Meharban police station following investigation.In a similar case, the Raikot City police booked a woman of Sodhiwal village, Sidhwan Bet, her parents and two siblings for duping her husband of ₹24 lakh.The complainant, Harvinder Singh of Bank Colony, Barnala, said after he married Manpreet Kaur on March 24, 2018, he spent ₹24 lakh on sending her to Canada, as she promised he would soon join her there on a spouse visa. But, she later backtracked from the agreement.On Harvinder’s complaint, police have booked Manpreet, her father, Jasvir Singh, mother Sukhwinder Kaur, sister Manjit Kaur and brother Lovejit Singh under Sections 420, 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Police teams have started further investigation to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-men-eyeing-greener-pastures-overseas-duped-of-lakhs-by-wives-101617469508759.html
03-04-2021||Other||11 of 17 newly appointed ministers own guns||PATNAOf the 17 newly appointed ministers in the state during cabinet expansion in February, 11 possess weapons like rifle, pistol and revolver, costing ₹50,000 to ₹4 lakh, as per their affidavits uploaded in the cabinet secretariat department website on Friday.In terms of movable and immovable assets, richer ministers’ worth range from ₹2 crore to ₹7 crore, and leading the lot are water resources minister Sanjay Jha, science and technology minister Sumit Singh, excise minister Sunil Kumar, labour resources minister Jibesh Kumar and panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary.Industries minister Shahnawaj Hussain, road construction minister Nitin Navin and rural development minister Sharavan Kumar are poorer than their spouses. While Hussain owns assets worth ₹22 lakh, his wife has net assets worth around ₹1.78 crore. Sharavan Kumar’s wife has net assets worth around ₹1.16 crore while Kumar himself owns assets worth ₹1 crore. Nitin Navin’s assets are worth around ₹22 lakh while his wife’s assets are worth around ₹51 lakh.Ministers Subhash Singh, Samrat Choudhary, Pramod Kumar, Shravan Kumar, Ram Surat Kumar,Leshi Singh , Janak Ram, Jayant Raj, Narayan Prasad, Sumit Kumar Singh and Mohammed Zama Khan own guns and revolvers.Earlier, 14 ministers, including chief minister Nitish Kumar, had submitted their affidavits pertaining to their assets soon after the government formation in November last year after the NDA returned to power in the Assembly polls. At present, there are 31 ministers, including the CM, against the maximum number of 36 ministers permissible as per the strength of the state Assembly.Recently, state officials from different cadres of services have also submitted their assets declarations through affidavits as per government norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-of-17-newly-appointed-ministers-own-guns-101617469388653.html
03-04-2021||Other||Fire at Tajpur landfill chokes parts of Ludhiana||Residents living in the vicinity of the landfill at Tajpur Road were left gasping for air after a fire broke out at the site on Saturday morning.Thick plumes of smoke rose from the dumping ground through the day, affecting the air quality in nearby localities, including Mahavir Colony, Kakka village and Sandhu Colony.Fire station officer Jaswinder Singh said firefighters were working to douse the flames since 10am, but it was smouldering through the day due to presence of highly combustible methane gas across the landfill.“Three fire tenders were deployed at the waste ground on Saturday morning and the flames were put out by 7.30pm,” he added.Notably, with the rising temperatures, residents have been reporting repeated fires at the landfill, which encompasses over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste on over 45 acres.Satish Malhotra, husband of Congress councillor Kanchan Malhotra, said residents, in the areas around the dump, had been complaining of respiratory problems due to smoke and fly ash rising from the fires.“I received a lot of calls from residents and factory workers after subsequent fire incidents were reported at the dump on Friday night and Saturday morning. While firefighters have been struggling to douse the flames every other day, authorities seem to be oblivious to the damage being caused to the health of residents and the environment at large,” he said.Apart from the legacy waste piled up for years, over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is dumped at the site on a daily basis, as the refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant and compost plant established at the site are lying closed since the solid waste management contract, handled by A2Z company, was terminated on February 4 this year.“Fires have been erupting frequently at the site, due to which smoke engulfs the entire area, leading to respiratory problems among locals. The daily waste only compounds our troubles, as it leads to stench, causes breeding of mosquitoes and invites stray animals. Leachate leakage, every time it rains, makes matters worse,” said Rajvir Singh, a resident of nearby Kakka village.Municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the civic body was working to appoint a new firm to manage the city’s solid waste and process the legacy waste dumped at the site. “I have directed the fire brigade staff to depute more fire tenders at the spot if required and control the flames as soon as possible,” he added.PPCB to issue noticeTaking note of the frequent fires at the landfill, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) will be issuing a notice to the MC due to the damage caused to the environment. “MC will be directed to deal with the waste properly, else it will invite action, including fine,” said Gulshan Rai, chief engineer, PPCB, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-at-tajpur-landfill-chokes-parts-of-ludhiana-101617469268959.html
03-04-2021||Ranchi||₹1L-cr to be spent on highway projects in state in three years: Gadkari||The central government will spend ₹1 lakh crore on various highway and bridge projects in Jharkhand over the next three years, said Union road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday. The minister was speaking at a webinar organised to inaugurate seven projects and lay foundation for seven others in the state worth over are ₹3,500 crore. Responding to chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren’s suggestion of increasing the annual budget for highway construction in the state, Gadkari said, “When we took over in 2014, the total national highway length in the state was 2,178km and now it is 3,290 km. We have plans to spend ₹1 lakh crore on road projects in the state in three years. Currently, 756km long road projects worth ₹7,500 crore are under way in the state, while projects worth ₹10,000 crore will be approved by year-end.”The event was attended by the Jharkhand CM, besides members of Parliament from the state, including Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda.Gadkari, however, advised the CM to expedite the process of land acquisition and forest clearance for road projects in the state, as they were proving to be major causes behind the delay in projects. Elevated corridors to come up in Jamshedpur, RanchiDetailing on the major upcoming projects in the state, the Union minister said work for multi-storeyed elevated corridors in Jamshedpur and Ranchi was expected to begin by year-end. “There have been repeated requests from Ranchi and Jamshedpur MPs for elevated corridors. The detailed project report for double-decker elevated corridor on NH-33 in Jamshedpur is being finalised. Work on it is likely to be started this year. A similar elevated corridor will also come up on Ratu Road Piska More in Ranchi,” Gadkari said.The minister also suggested the state government to provide public works department (PWD) engineers on deputation to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the nodal agency of the Union ministry of roads, to work dedicatedly on highway projects in the state. Protect elephant corridors: SorenMeanwhile, CM Hemant Soren raised concerns over loss of tree cover and loss to environment caused due to highway construction, besides demanding the minister to provide high speed corridors to connect the state from neighbouring states in order to promote industrialisation in the state. “The tree cover alongside highways is almost negligible now. We also have elephant corridors in some of the forested areas that need to be taken care of. Upcoming roads are affecting movement of elephants and they are forced to get waylaid and enter urban settlements,” Soren said.The CM also advised officials to look into viability of changing alignment and constructing subways to protect the elephant corridors in the state. Responding to the, issue Gadkari said his ministry has zero tolerance towards loss of tree cover and warned officials and contractors of action if found failing on that front. “The cost of compensatory tree plantation is included in project cost. Use drones to record ground situation and take action under default clauses,” the minister directed NHAI officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/1lcr-to-be-spent-on-highway-projects-in-state-in-three-years-gadkari-101617469208511.html
03-04-2021||Ranchi||Active cases breach 4k-mark in state; RIMS ICU beds full||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand crossed the 4,000-mark for the first time this year on Saturday even as the state discovered 873 new cases, including 472 cases in Ranchi alone, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.With this, the state’s tally on April 3 rose to 126,458 cases, including 120,723 recoveries, 4613 active cases and 1,122 deaths. The steep growth in positive cases has led to high bed occupancy that has posed a challenge in front of district administrations to set up dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, especially in state capital Ranchi that accounts for over 50% of the state’s total active caseload.Jharkhand’s government-owned premiere medical college and hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was now running with full bed occupancy in its intensive care units (ICU). “All beds in Covid-19 ICU are now full. All beds in Covid-19 wards are also occupied. It appears that two Covid-19 wards in the medicine department, which were closed when cases dipped, will have to be made functional. There are paying wards also for stable patients,” said a RIMS doctor deputed in Covid-19 ward.Besides RIMS, Ranchi has currently three government-owned dedicated--Sadar Hospital, CCL’s Gandhinagar hospital and an isolation centre at Khelgaon.The Sadar Hospital has 59 ICU beds, RIMS has 25 and CCL’s hospital has 10 ICU beds. However, ICU facility was not available at the 700-bed isolation centre at Khelgaon.“The isolation centre at Khelgaon is kept ready for patients. Doctors have also been deputed. This centre has oxygen support facility but not ICU beds,” said Ranchi civil surgeon VB Prasad.Jharkhand, after the recently concluded festival of Holi, reported 3,368 cases in the last five days with a daily average of over 673 cases. Ranchi alone discovered 1,822 cases during this period, registering a daily average of over 364 cases.Ranchi has so far reported 36,679 positive cases, including 2,622 active cases, 33,795 recoveries and 262 deaths.On Saturday it reported 472 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/active-cases-breach-4k-mark-in-state-rims-icu-beds-full-101617469207933.html
03-04-2021||Patna||Covid curbs return Schools, colleges to stay shut till April 11||Amid an upsurge in the Covid-19 cases, the state government on Saturday issued an order directing all schools, colleges and coaching institutes to remain closed till April 11 while also restricting the number of attendees in marriages and shraddh ceremonies. Most of the schools were planning to start their new academic session from next week, including for junior classes.Earlier in the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state in which he directed the crisis management group, headed by chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh, to look into the option of keeping schools closed and also suspend public events for some time.Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said only 250 people would be allowed at marriage functions and 50 people at shraddh ceremonies.He said heads of government departments would take a call on regulating the attendance of employees coming to office. The CM also asked officials to ensure testing for the virus through RT-PCR is ramped up along with the vaccination drive. He instructed that facilities at the Covid dedicated hospitals should be proper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-curbs-return-schools-colleges-to-stay-shut-till-april-11-101617468848013.html
03-04-2021||Other||Five years of Prohibition: Govt counts its benefits, Oppn counters with black market charge||PATNAMunni Devi, a 30-year-old woman from Santhal tribe, lives in a small hutment along with her husband Yogendra Soren (37) and two sons Apit 9 and Sagar in Dharhar Jamunia village in Dhamdaha block in Purnea district. Traditionally involved in toddy trade, which served as their only source of income, Munni Devi had to stop selling toddy after Prohibition came into force in Bihar on April 6, 2016.After facing initial hardships, she, aided by self-help group Jeevika, opened a small grocery kiosk in 2018. Recently, Munni Devi took 10 kathas of land on lease and started cultivating maize. She has been linked with a maize producer company. She has also enrolled both her children in school and is able to earn ₹5,650 per month. She is not alone. Ranjan Devi has been running a small grocery shop for two years in her village Khutaha in Kumarkhand block of Madhepura district. With a total investment of about ₹78,000, she manages to earn about ₹7,500 per month. Her family, traditionally involved in toddy sale, too faced initial hardships after the ban on sale of liquor was imposed. “It was difficult to even arrange for two square meals a day for the family of seven,” she recalls. As Bihar completes five years of Prohibition, there has been a raging debate over the success of its implementation amid reports of easy availability of liquor and deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor. However, the Nitish Kumar government has stood firm amid calls for easing total Prohibition. In fact, the Bihar government has intensified its campaign against the illegal trade and started targeting big suppliers instead of small-time smugglers. In the last four months, no less than 15 big liquor suppliers from Haryana, Punjab, Assam, West Bengal and Jharkhand were arrested by the state police. Kumar recently fended off criticism that Prohibition had failed to make any impact and said it would continue in the state in a more stringent manner. “The Prohibition in Bihar was enforced from April 6 in 2016 in the larger interest of the society and it is set to continue. Strong action will be taken against violators,” the CM said at a recent event. Excise and prohibition minister Sunil Kumar, a former director general in Bihar Police, says the ban on liquor has had significant positive impact as far as women empowerment and domestic violence are concerned. “The objective was empowerment of women who were the most vulnerable group alcoholic related violence. As per a World Health Organisation report of 2018, 39% of women faced violence in 2016, which came down to 25% in 2018,” he said. Prohibition has left more money in the hands of families and women and incidents like eve-teasing have virtually stopped, the minister claimed. Saloni Subha, a student of one of Patna’s prominent girls’ colleges, agrees. “The ban on liquor has affected our life in a positive way. I remember that during my school days, when alcohol was not banned, people used to create nuisance on roads and on public transport and misbehave with girls. But now we don’t face all these problems and can move freely,” she says. “We cannot forget the days when most of our family income was spent on liquor. That had changed after Prohibition. However, things are now back to square one now, albeit illegally. The ban has remained only on paper and liquor smuggling is rampant,” said Phudena Devi, a woman who took active part in the anti-liquor agitation at Konar village, located 12 km away from Sasaram district headquarters. “The environment was scary earlier. Women would face violence at home as well as in the village. Drunk men would harass us when we went out into the fields to relieve ourselves. We wouldn’t let girls’ study earlier. Our honour is everything for us. But after Prohibition, there is security for women. And there is more money for food and education,” says Ranjan Devi. Meanwhile, under fire from all quarters on the easy availability of liquor in state, the NDA government in the state has intensified its crackdown on the liquor mafia since it took charge in November 2020. “Since January till March this year, 4,41,053.76 litres of liquor have been seized; 2,788 people have been arrested and 877 vehicles used in carrying liquor seized,” said excise commissioner B Kartikey Dhanji. However, the Opposition is not impressed. “No less than 50 lakh litres of IMFL has entered Bihar ever since Prohibition was imposed in the state. A parallel economy is running in the state,” said RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, also the leader of Opposition. The excise minister concedes there are shortcomings. “It’s a social legislation. There will be violations. We are now trying to hit the supply chain,” said the minister. “By and large, the five years of Prohibition have been effective. It has helped the state on various social parameters. Domestic violence has come down, women empowerment has increased and women have started feeling safe. But the government needs to curb illegal supply of liquor and become stricter while imposing punishment on violators,” said Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor and head of sociology department, College of Commerce in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-years-of-prohibition-govt-counts-its-benefits-oppn-counters-with-black-market-charge-101617468667993.html
03-04-2021||Other||Illegal firearms factory busted in Muzaffarnagar, one held||A team of Charthawal police in district Muzaffarnagar, on Saturday, busted an illegal firearms factory, which was being operated inside the sugarcane field in the jungle of village Mahabalipuram. The police have arrested a wanted criminal in the case, stated a communique of Muzaffafarnagar police media cell.The police have recovered 12 finished and semi-finished country-made pistols (CMP) of different bore, barrels, empty cartridges and tools used in manufacturing illegal arms.The communique reads that recovered arms include 6 CMPs of 315 bore, 1 of 12-bore, 5 semi-finished CMPs, 6 barrels, 11 empties of cartridges of different bore and tools used in manufacturing illegal arms.It claimed that the arrested person Ajay aka Badal is a hardcore criminal and wanted in more than a dozen cases of attempt to murder, loot and theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-firearms-factory-busted-in-muzaffarnagar-one-held-101617467887913.html
03-04-2021||Other||PRAYAGRAJ: Only online teaching at varsities, other edu institutes till April 11, says DM||Amidst a resurgence of Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj, the district administration has instructed all universities, colleges and other educational institutions of the district including coaching institutes to henceforth start holding only online classes till April 11. The schools and colleges, where practical or written exams are scheduled, can however continue to hold the same following strict Covid-19 norms while the rest of the institutes would conduct only online teaching, the order makes plain.The instructions have been issued by the district administration late on Friday night.In the past four days, the number of corona cases is on an alarming rise. The number of Covid positive cases in the district was 69 on March 28, 33 on March 29 (Holi festival day) and 60 on March 30 before suddenly jumping to 213 on March 31 and further rising to 222 cases on April 1 and 296 on April 2. Under these circumstances, district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami held a high-level meeting on Friday evening and issued the guidelines by late night. According to these guidelines, only online classes will be conducted in all colleges, coaching institutes and training institutes, including the university from today onward, said ADM (City) AK Kanaujia.Until further order of the government and administration, only online classes will be conducted till April 11, he added.The government had on Thursday ordered that district magistrates concerned could decide on classes in the university and also in the colleges given the corona infection in the district. This includes all educational institutions from universities to primary schools, coaching and training institutes. Along with this, where the examinations or practical examinations are being conducted, the school authorities have been instructed to strictly follow the norms laid down under Covid-19 protocols. A distance of six feet, wearing of facemask, sanitisation of the school premises and the classes etc are to be followed by the students and school staff.“In no case should there be a violation of the ongoing guideline for the corona epidemic,” said ADM City AK Kanaujia. Likewise, the district inspector of schools (DIoS) too has issued instructions on Saturday instructing all coaching institutes of the district to follow only the online mode of teaching. The DIoS has also warned that strict action against institutes found violating the instructions.In terms of Allahabad University, AU’s public relation officer Jaya Kapoor said, “As per the instructions of the UGC, AU is already functioning on online mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-only-online-teaching-at-varsities-other-edu-institutes-till-april-11-says-dm-101617467647896.html
03-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Three pvt hosps, 22 commercial establishments served notices for violating Covid norms||The district administration, on Saturday, issued notices to 22 business establishment of the city for violating norms laid down under the Covid-19 pandemic. The protocols like wearing of facemask, observing social distancing and sanitisation of their premises were not being followed by these business establishments, informed officials. The 22 business establishments include prominent malls of Civil Lines area of the city which have a range of shops like showrooms of digital goods, jewellers, readymade garments and fashion stores to even multiplex cinema halls. Besides, the administration has also issued notices to many prominent shops selling sweets, coaching institutes, hair cutting saloons, shops selling paints etc—all of which were found violating the norms laid down to control the spread of the pandemic. Likewise, the chief medical officer (CMO) of the district also has served notices to three separate private hospitals for violation of coronavirus norms.CMO, Prayagraj Dr Prabhakar Rai informed that during treatment a patient admitted at SRN Hospital was found Covid positive and it emerged that he had undergone treatment at a Naini-based private hospital for few days sans the mandatory Covid-19 test before being referred to SRN Hospital.A CMO office team inspected the hospital and established this major lapse after which its manager was served a show-cause notice. Two other private hospitals in the area were also found running sans Covid helpdesk, flu corner and social distancing etc and these institutions were also served notices, he added.The CMO said that all medical establishments including pathology labs have been ordered to strictly observe the laid down Covid-19 prevention norms. He warned of strict action against institutions found violating these norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-three-pvt-hosps-22-commercial-establishments-served-notices-for-violating-covid-norms-101617467467922.html
03-04-2021||Bangalore||Six including 4 children burnt to death after drunk family member sets house ablaze in Karnataka||Six people, including four children, died while four others suffered burns after their house was allegedly set ablaze during the early hours of Saturday near Ponnampet, 60 km from here, by an inebriated family member, police said.The four injured are being treated at Madikeri and Mysuru Hospitals, they said, adding the 50-year-old accused Yeravara Boja is absconding.According to police sources, Boja, an estate labourer, had frequent fights with his wife Babi, following which she had left home a week ago and stayed at her brother Manju's house in the same village.An inebriated Boja went to his brother-in-law's house at 2 am on Saturday and locked the house from outside.He is said to have climbed the roof of the house, removed the tiles and poured petrol into the house and set it ablaze, they said.Manju and another family member Thola who were not in the house, rushed to the spot and brought four people outside.Babi (40), Boja's aunt Seethe (45), a relative's daughter Prarthana (6) were charred to death.Manju's sons - Prakash (6), Vishwas (7) and son of Thola - Vishwas (6)-- were rescued from the house, but they succumbed to injuries at hospital, police said.Four others related to the family are being treated at Madikeri and Mysuru hospitals, officials said.Mysuru IGP Praveen Madhukar Pawar and Kodagu SP Kshama Mishra visited the spot.Police have registered a case and are on the lookout for Boja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/six-including-4-children-burnt-to-death-in-karnataka-s-kodagu-101617463904284.html
03-04-2021||Other||Shoes, pens hurled at Odisha Assembly Speaker; BJP MLAs face suspension||The Budget session of the Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed an ugly spectacle after several BJP leaders allegedly hurled shoes, headphones and pens at Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro’s podium to protest the hurried passage of some bills in the House.Deputy Leader of Opposition, Bishnu Sethi, said whatever happened in the House was due to the undemocratic attitude of the Speaker. “We wanted a proper discussion on the mining and other issues in the House. Similarly, bills were passed without prior discussion. Though I am aware that shoes were hurled, I have not done it. I only threw a headphone,” he said.BJP MLA Jayanarayan Mishra said the Speaker’s conduct of the Assembly was not appropriate as all the rules and norms were being flouted. “No permission was granted to the Leader of Opposition to speak in the House. The Speaker doesn’t have the minimum qualification to hold the post,” said Mishra.After an adjournment motion brought by the Congress over mining was rejected by Patro, the ruling BJD got two bills passed - Lokayukta Amendment Bill and Societies Registration Amendment Bill. The opposition alleged that the bills were passed without any debate.The situation turned ugly when some BJP MLAs stood on their seats and hurled shoes, papers, pens and earphones at the Speaker as a mark of protest.Government chief whip Pramila Mallick alleged that shoes, earphone and papers were hurled by the deputy leader of opposition Bishnu Sethi, BJP MLA Jaya Narayan Mishra and opposition chief whip Mohan Majhi. All three have been suspended from the Assembly. However, the suspension order could not take effect as the Budget session of the Assembly concluded, five days ahead of the schedule.Meanwhile, BJP members staged a demonstration near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the Assembly premises, protesting the suspension order.“I am not favouring the shoe hurling incident. We could beg an apology for any such incident but I am unaware of who all were involved in the incident. But the Speaker has curtailed all the constitutional guidelines today. He is acting like a worker of a party. As a Leader of Opposition, I was not allowed to speak. The bills were passed arbitrarily amid heavy ruckus. On Monday, we will meet the Governor and apprise him about arbitrary passing of bills,” Leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik said. He added that the BJP members would spend the night at the statue of Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Assembly premises and hold a press meet at 10 am on Sunday at BJP state headquarters.BJP MLA Jayanarayan Mishra said he does not care about the suspension. “We are opposing injustice in the Assembly. If I am suspended for opposing injustice, I would welcome it. The Speaker didn’t allow any of the Opposition members, including the Leader of Opposition, speak during the passage of the bills, which is unconstitutional,” he said.Mohan Majhi said, “Today is a black day for Odisha as the Speaker has murdered the democracy by gagging the Opposition. I don’t repent or bother about the action taken by the Speaker today”.Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra condemned the incident and called it “an unfortunate development”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shoes-pens-hurled-at-odisha-assembly-speaker-bjp-mlas-face-suspension-101617465550125.html
03-04-2021||Other||279 micro-containment zones in Pune city||PUNE There are 279 micro-containment zones in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits as of Saturday.Micro-containment zones are declared by ward offices if there are a minimum of five active cases in a building and if there are a minimum of 20 active cases in a housing society.“Currently, there are 279 micro-containment zones in the city. These are mostly housing societies. We have overall increased testing. Our daily test count has reached up to 20,000. Last year maximum testing rate was 7,000 per day,” said Dr Sanjeev Vavre, assistant health officer, PMCOn March 26, there were 206 micro containment zones in Pune.Ward office orders state that if a building or a society is declared as a micro-containment zone, then certain protocols have to be followed by the residents of that building or society. They are expected to track their oxygen level, children, the elderly or people with comorbidities are expected to get immediately tested if the oxygen level drops below 94. Also, the ward office has to be notified if any resident is hospitalised elsewhere even for non-Covid diseases. Observance of social distancing and mask are mandatory.“In my zone currently the most number of micro-containment zones are housing societies. When we get the contact information of the patients we issue letters to the chairman of the society. Our war rooms call the patients. If a Covid patient is found to be roaming outside then there is provision to file a complaint against him,” said Nitin Udas, deputy commissioner of zone 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/279-micro-containment-zones-in-pune-city-101617465307766.html
03-04-2021||Other||From glamour to grass roots politics: Panchayat election set for model turn in Jaunpur||An actress and former Miss India contestant is looking to make a seamless transition from the world of glamour to grass roots politics and rural development. Deeksha Singh will contest the panchayat election in Jaunpur district this month. She will try her luck for the post of zila panchayat member from ward number 26 in Buxa development area and file her nomination on Sunday. Voting for the panchayat elections is scheduled on April 15 in Jaunpur. “There is no rule that a person from the glamour world cannot join politics. A few things happen automatically. In childhood, I had no idea that I would enter the glamour world, but I did. I participated in the Miss India contest. Now, I am going to contest an election,” she said in response to a query from reporters in Jaunpur. Deeksha is known for her popular album “Rabba Mehar Karen”. She has also acted in a web series, written the story of the film Ishq Tera and featured in a number of TV commercials. “I am entering politics with an aim to play a long innings to bring transformation in my entire district, including my village,” she said. Her Jaunpur connect comes from the fact that her father Jeetendra Singh, a Goa-based businessman, belongs to Chitaudi village in Buxa area of the eastern UP district. He was the motivating force for her entry into politics, she added. Talking about her new aim, she said, “My village has lagged behind and I will work to make it well developed.” She also has plans to promote girls’ education in the region. Dismissing notions that she was not aware of life in the hinterland, she said, “Don’t think that I am not acquainted with my village and the entire area. Till the age of eight, I lived in Jaunpur. I studied in a Montessori school here. Thereafter, I, along with my parents, went to Goa. I and completed my education there and my graduation in English literature from a college in Goa.” She said that she used to visit her village several times every year. “I have participated in political debates in my college days. Equipping villages with basic facilities is the solution to many problems. I want to transform my village and the adjoining areas. Therefore, I am going to contest the panchayat election,” she said. Asked about her role model in politics, Deeksha said, “As a politician, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is very good. He is working tirelessly. His hard work inspires me.” She also praised the UP government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-glamour-to-grass-roots-politics-panchayat-election-set-for-model-turn-in-jaunpur-101617464827753.html
03-04-2021||Pune||First day of restrictions in Pune: People scramble for essentials, health staff stranded at bus stands||Pune: Long queues of health workers were seen at bus stands as Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses go off roads as part of stricter curbs and 6 pm to 6 am curfew imposed by the Pune district administration for seven days beginning April 3. The first day of what many believed as “mini-lockdown” on Saturday also saw deserted roads during evening and shutters of cinema halls and restaurants down at many places across the city. The administration, however, has decided against imposing complete lockdown similar to last year even as Covid positive cases are rising sharply in Pune. During the morning hours at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) headquarters bus stop, there was a long queue of health workers from various hospitals planning to return home after completing the night duty. At Swargate bus stop too, there was crowd waiting for the public transport utility buses. “I came from Kolhapur in the morning and was waiting for PMPML bus to go to Pimpri. However, upon arrival I got to know that PMPML has suspended its service as part of fresh curbs,” said Vilas Sontakke, an engineering student. At Swargate state transport bus stand, there was more than usual rush with many seen leaving for hometown. “I was planning to return home in June for a few days. However, I had to advance the plan as it seems there will be lockdown again. The restaurant where I was working is closed for a few days,” said Nagesh Uttargi, a Hubli resident working as waiter in one of the restaurants. By evening, some roads in the city witnessed heavy traffic as people were rushing home before the 6pm curfew deadline came into effect. At DP road near Rajaram bridge, there was heavy rush of people scrambling to return home before the curfew was imposed. Post 6pm, police vans were seen roaming around in many parts of the city asking shops to down shutters. At some places, there was chaos with people rushing to grocery stores during evening when the curfew came into effect. Some grocery shop owners too returned to the old practice with customers standing outside in designated box painted by shop owners. Wholesale stores in Market yard were also seen serving many customers, more than the usual numbers, as the chief minister in his address to state on Friday evening warned of complete lockdown in the coming days. At Market yard, many godowns were seen piling products, with goods being unloaded and families making a beeline to stock up groceries for the coming weeks.“With the announcement of curfew, we decided to stock for at least a month unlike last time when it was difficult to source things,” a resident said.DMart at Satara road as well as Aundh and Baner also witnessed long queues of shoppers and the staff were assisting people in maintaining social distancing.Many cloud kitchens were also facing problems. “Cloud kitchens which are allowed to do delivery of food are being asked to put down shutters at 12 noon only when the order says 6 pm onwards, while delivery is allowed through online delivery channels,” said Renuka Agarwal, who runs a kitchen in Dhanori. Impulse shopping has made people rush to shops and malls as many were seen buying vegetables and essentials for a month.Rahul S waited in a queue to get essentials for his baby daughter. “I want to make sure we have enough of the necessary baby things during this period,” he said. This time though there were hardly any queue outside liquor shops. “The curfew announcement has hit us bad too, for we have to shut shop by 6 pm. Though towards closing time we get some regular buyers, but it seems that people are abstaining from drinking,” said Raju Bhagya of GSP Wines. Restore PMPML service: BJPThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged an agitation on Saturday with leaders Pune MP Girish Bapat and city unit chief Jagdish Mulik demanding restoration of PMPML bus service. “Government does not realise that by suspending PMPML bus service, many workers who travel to the city from far-off areas will face inconvenience. We have submitted a memorandum to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to restore the public transport utility service,” Bapat said.With inputs from Prachi Bari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-day-of-restrictions-in-pune-people-scramble-for-essentials-health-staff-stranded-at-bus-stands-101617464407870.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Specially abled children narrate challenges of online education||Online education has had its own set of challenges for teachers and students in the last one year. However, for special students who have hearing, visual and learning disabilities, these challenges have been multi-fold. Teachers struggled to clarify concepts for special students through the virtual medium. Maharashtra has 8,196 special students appearing for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and 6,087 special students appearing for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) scheduled from April end. Pune division alone has registered 859 students in HSC and 1,074 students in SSC as per the state board. Athang Bhandare, a visually challenged student of class 12 Arts said that as the entire academic year was online, the exams should be too. “Online examination would be better. Even though I am in Pune, I live far away from my college; going there itself is a challenge. There is a problem of transport and the fear of Covid-19. My parents also are scared about how I will give the paper. I also feel that the paper should be online with multiple choice questions (MCQ),” said Bhandare. He added that getting a writer is important in offline and online mode. “Not all software supports a talk back. So, there is a need for a writer. In my case, my sister is writing for me but for my other friends who are living in Latur and Hingoli, they have to get a writer who is in Pune. They haven’t found writers,” said Bhandare. Meera Badve, director of Nivant Andh Mukta Vikasayala said that students have struggled a lot to get a hang of difficult concepts this year. “It is difficult to teach various concepts to special children. For example, special students with visual disabilities, how can we explain the concept of planes in Mathematics or finance in commerce? All of this we have done at offline classes so far, and in the last one year, there was no option for these students to learn everything online. There were challenges, and now the syllabus is almost finished but there is less time for the child to revise,” said Badve. She added that final exams should be taken online to make things easier for the students. “There should be question banks and the students should get multiple choice questions to make the paper easier. Many students with special needs are living in rural parts. If the exams are offline, how are these students going to manage to come and give the exam in the city?” questioned Badve. She added that as the hostels are shut and the hostel mess are also shut, where will the students stay to give the offline examination? “There is also the question of writers. How can the schools and college arrange for writers during the pandemic?” said Badve. Medha Kulkarni, managing trustee of NGO Make My Dream Foundation who works with students of hearing disability said that students with hearing problems have suffered more. “These students, unlike visually challenged students, cannot listen and learn. Teachers have struggled to reach them. Many parents are still confused if the students have understood the concepts or not. In such a scenario, how can the offline examination help these students,” said Kulkarni. Prakash Mali, a class 10 student who is visually challenged said that he is preparing his best for the upcoming examination. “Online learning has its own challenges, and it took us a few weeks to get accustomed to it. Now, that exams are here, for online or offline, we will need writers. As some software don’t support screen readers. So, in that case, we will need a writer to help us. The pandemic is a difficult situation, let’s see how things go for offline exams,” said Mali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/specially-abled-children-narrate-challenges-of-online-education-101617464287757.html
03-04-2021||Pune||No plan to reintroduce e-pass system: Pune Police||PUNE The implementation of the 6 pm to 6 am curfew has brought the focus back on e-pass, a system which the police had introduced last year during the lockdown period for those interested in travelling during the curfew hours. The city police however maintained that currently there are no plans to reintroduce the practice.Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner (law and order), said, “Presently there are no plans to start the e-pass system.”“During the curfew period, only those engaged in essential services are allowed to commute. But common people could have a genuine reason to travel. So the e-pass system should be introduced,” said Sachin Patil, an IT engineer from Hinjewadi.“During the next seven days, this is going to major challenge as there are many people with ailments, pregnant women, senior citizen, children and ill patients who need to step out during night time. We request the police to adopt a humane and kind approach towards such genuine cases,” he said.Last year during the Covid outbreak Pune city police had asked citizens to apply online for getting permissions for vehicle movement during the lockdown.The stated aim was to facilitate digital pass/permissions where citizens filled in details on www.punepolice.in If approved, the citizens received an SMS with a QR code that was shown to policemen whenever asked. Exemptions were given only in exceptional circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-plan-to-reintroduce-e-pass-system-pune-police-101617464047707.html
03-04-2021||Other||OTS evokes best-ever response: UPPCL||Lucknow: Despite energy minister Shrikant Sharma expressing displeasure at the ‘slow progress’ of the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) in a meeting last week, the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management has claimed that never did a surcharge waiver scheme evoke such an overwhelming response in the past. “More than 45 lakh consumers have availed the OTS and cleared their dues worth around ₹5,000 crore so far,” UPPCL chairman M Devraj said, adding, “Both the number of consumers availing the OTS and the amount recovered from them as dues is the highest ever.” He said under the Asaan Kisht Yojana (name given for the OTS) launched in November, 2019, only 24 lakh consumers participated in the scheme, paying only ₹2050 crore dues. “Earlier in 2018 also only 27 defaulters availed of the OTS,” he said. Holding a virtual meeting on March 27, the energy minister pulled up the officials for tardy progress of the OTS, warning that the performance of the scheme would be linked to their performance. Giving discom-wise OTS figures, he said, “The Agra discom’s progress is 20.39%, Lucknow discom’s 17.25%, Varanasi discom’s 15.75%, Meerut discom’s 35.29% and KESCO’s 57.40% even as the scheme is going to end.” UPPCL announced the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme in the end of February for all urban and rural domestic consumers as well as private tube wells (farmers) providing for 100% waiver of surcharge/interest on their electricity dues provided they cleared the principal amount at one go by March 31. Devraj said while the OTS this time had evoked the best-ever response, there was certainly scope to do even better by encouraging more consumers to participate in the scheme. “This is why we have extended the OTS till April 15, asking our engineers to reach out to more consumers and ask them to avail the opportunity,” he said. Though the cash-strapped UPPCL brings the OTS almost every year to boost its revenue, the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) in 2018 said the OTS was a bad practice that benefited dishonest consumers who did not pay their bills regularly in anticipation of the OTS. The commission ruled that in future it would not allow the UPPCL to include its loss of interest/surcharge on defaulters’ bills into its deficit to claim higher tariff to make up for the deficit later. “In 2019, the UPPCL recovered ₹3,700 crore dues from 22 lakh consumers but also ended up surrendering ₹1,800 crore interest on defaulters’ bills because of its inability to make them pay their dues regularly,” people dealing with the issue said. Devraj said the financial position of the UPPCL was certainly not good and urged consumers to pay their bills regularly on time to enable the corporation to provide better services including uninterrupted power. “Now, we have asked discoms to ensure that each field employee contacts at least ‘five never paid consumers’ everyday under his jurisdiction, encouraging them to clear their pending dues and disconnect their power supply if they do not oblige,” he said. As per the status till five months ago, as many as 82.27% of rural consumers had not paid even a single electricity bill since April 2020 while only a little more than 17% of the total around two crore rural consumers had paid their bills at least once during the same period. “Now our focus is on these ‘never paid consumers’ both in the villages and cities,” Devraj said. He said UPPCL had abundant electricity to meet the summer demand. “The only thing is that the electricity we supply must be paid for,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ots-evokes-best-ever-response-uppcl-101617463867743.html
03-04-2021||Other||Four UP districts attract investment of ₹1583 cr||Lucknow: The UP government has succeeded in bringing investment of ₹1583 crore to four small districts of the state, including Hardoi, Hamirpur, Barabanki and Gorakhpur. The department of industrial development informed on Saturday that the government had received investment proposal of ₹1583 crore for Hardoi, Gorakhpur, Hamirpur and Barabanki and had given its consent to the proposal. Britannia Industries will start its production in Barabanki by January 31, 2023. The company will invest ₹340 crore and it will provide employment to around 1000 locals. Similarly, JK Cem Central will invest in Hamirpur and start production by March next year. It will make an investment of around ₹381.22 crore and provide employment to 204 locals. Berger Paints will invest in Hardoi and give employment to around 150 people. The company will invest around ₹725 crore in Sandila, Hardoi. Apart from this, Gallant Industries in Gorakhpur will start production from April next. It will invest ₹134.74 crores. The project will provide employment to 250 people. Units of readymade garment will come up in Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Jalaun, Badaun, Amroha and Ghaziabad. The companies producing readymade garments have proposed to invest ₹940 crore. Around one lakh youths will get employment in these factories within a year under the investment and employment scheme of the textile industry. The state government is also planning to set up textile parks in Agra, Meerut, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Lucknow and Jhansi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-up-districts-attract-investment-of-rs-1583-cr-101617463687703.html
03-04-2021||Other||Sikh bodies endorse SGPC resolution on RSS bid to create a Hindu nation||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) convened a meeting of the Sant Samaj, Nihang sects, Kar Sewa organisations and traditional Sikh bodies at its headquarters on Saturday. The agenda was to discuss preparations for the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh Master Guru Teg Bahadur.At the meeting, SGPC honourary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami proposed that all those present endorse the resolution that the general House of the gurdwara management body had passed on March 31. The resolution was against the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) and claimed that it was attempting to establish a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ (Hindu country).Accepting Dhami’s proposal, all attendees endorsed the resolution by raising their hands, amid chants of ‘Sat Sri Akal’. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur was not present in the meeting. In response to the resolution, RSS has said that the SGPC was raising the bogey of ‘Hindu Rashtra’ to cover up its failures. In his address to the gathering, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh touched upon this issue without naming the RSS. “At the time of the martyrdom of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib, communalism was rampant. The rulers of the time were forcibly converting Hindus. The ninth Guru defended the religion by his martyrdom. Even today an atmosphere of communalism is being created in the country and minorities are being oppressed under the patronage of the government. This is not right,” he said.The jathedar added, “Seeds of hatred are being sown in the minds of people of one religion against people from other religions. The few bad elements doing this have the patronage of the government. I appeal to the entire Sikh panth to unite at this time. when attacks are being launched directly and indirectly.” In October 2019, the jathedar had sought a ban on the RSS, saying, “Its aim of a Hindu Rashtra is against the country’s interests.”At the gathering, representatives of Sikh bodies also passed a resolution expressing their commitment and cooperation to the 400th celebrations. They added whatever work the SGPC would allocate to them for the event, would carried out with responsibility and enthusiasm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-bodies-endorse-sgpc-resolution-on-rss-bid-to-create-a-hindu-nation-101617463628528.html
03-04-2021||Other||Gang rape accused shot while trying to escape, re-captured||MEERUT One of the four people accused of gang rape with a teenage girl was injured in police firing after he attempted to escape while being taken to be presented in a court here on Saturday. The accused sustained bullet injury in his leg and has been admitted to district hospital for treatment. SP (rural) Keshav Mishra said that Lakhan,18, and his aide Vikas were were arrested for committing gang rape with a student of Class 10 in a village of Sardhana on Thursday evening. The girl later consumed poison and died during treatment in a hospital the same night. A suicide note recovered from her room held Lakhan and three others responsible for her death. Two other accused are still at large. Mishra said that a team of the district surveillance department and Sardhana police was taking the two arrested accused to present them in a court in Meerut on Saturday when Lakhan snatched the pistol of a cop and escaped towards roadside bushes and sugarcane field. A manhunt was launched and finding himself surrounded, the accused opened fire on police . In retaliatory firing, he was injured and arrested. He had been admitted to a hospital for treatment, said Mishra. Lakhan is a student of Class 12 and both he and the girl were residents of the same village and also taking tuitions in the same coaching institute in the village. He and his three aides allegedly dragged the girl to a secluded place on Thursday evening when she was returning home after tuition and gang raped her. A case under Sections 376D, 302 and 328 of the IPC and POCSO Act was registered against the accused in Sardhana police station on Thursday night on the complaint if the girl’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-rape-accused-shot-while-trying-to-escape-recaptured-101617463507730.html
03-04-2021||Lucknow||Police arrest rape convict who fled before his sentencing 25 years ago||A man who absconded on the eve of his sentencing in an abduction-cum-rape case in 1995 was arrested here on Saturday, police said. Sahid Hasan disappeared soon after his conviction and before his sentencing by a court in the rape case 25 years ago, police said. He absconded even as his accomplices were sentenced to ten years each in jail in the same case, they said. Asked about a legal provision that a man is presumed dead, if he is not heard of for seven years and if his whereabouts are not known during this period, and its application to the case of Hasan, a senior police official said, “The man had been declared a proclaimed offender by the court.” The court had even ordered the confiscation of his property after declaring him a proclaimed offender and none of his family members went to the court to have him declared dead, he added. This legal provision does not apply to the arrested accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-arrest-rape-convict-who-fled-before-his-sentencing-25-years-ago-101617462385441.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Parents unhappy over decision to scrap final exams for classes one to eight||Parents in the city are unhappy about the decision to promote all students from class one to class eight without any examination. On Saturday, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on the backdrop of rising cases of Covid-19 that students from class one to class eight will be promoted without any examination. The decision for class nine and class 11 will be taken soon, said Gaikwad Archana Kakade, a city-based parent said that schools should conduct online examinations for students. “The entire year has been online so what is the harm in taking online examinations. At least on the backdrop of examination, students will remain engaged and try to clarify the concepts. Classes one to eight are crucial in building the concept of the child and so online examinations should be conducted,” said Kakade. She further added that if the students have to pass without any examination, then why are parents paying exorbitant fees? “Though this year, the increase in fee was not imposed but the existing fee for library, sports and other activities were included. In such a scenario, if the schools are not even conducting examinations, then why are we paying them the fees? The students prepare and work hard because of the fear of examination. In such a scenario, the examination should not be cancelled,” said Kakade. Another parent, Mrunal Kulkarni, said that examinations are a crucial part of the curriculum. “If schools can teach online, conduct the midterm exams online, then they should also conduct the final exams online. Exams help students understand where they lack. In any case, under the Right to Education (RTE), students were promoted till class eight. So why not conduct the exam and then promote students,” said Kulkarni. Jayashree Deshpande, president of the parents’ association of Pune said that if the school is not taking any exam, then why are parents paying such huge fees to the school? “I firstly condemn the brutal violence of students who were protesting at Mumbai against offline examination. Secondly, if all the schools are just going to promote the students to the next class without examination, then what is the point? The schools should conduct online examinations for class one to class eight. These standards are important for the overall education of students,” said Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-unhappy-over-decision-to-scrap-final-exams-for-classes-one-to-eight-101617461707668.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Experts: Online education adversely affected students in pandemic year||According to teachers and experts, online education throughout the year has adversely affected students’ abilities to learn and grasp various things. The lack of understanding among students about various topics and subjects came to fore during various assessment exercises for class X and XII. This has led to worries among teachers and parents at a time when final exams are approaching. Speaking about the performance of his child, a city-based parent Manoj Tangadpalliwar said that there was no way of clearing the doubts of the child this time. “My son is in class 12 and it is not prepared for the upcoming examination at all. He has not done even a single offline practical this time, and many concepts of Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics are not clear to him as the classes were completely online this time,” said Tangadpalliwar. He added that during online classes, not all children could clarify their doubts. “Now, that the examination is just three weeks away, the students are asked to complete the practical journals. They have not performed even one practical even after the schools started offline classes briefly. During the offline classes, teachers focused on other syllabus completion and then immediately the schools were shut due to a surge of Covid-19 cases,” said Tangadpalliwar. Talking about how online education has been ineffective, Hearmb Kulkarni, director, strategy and education technology, Council for Creative Education (CCE), Finland who works actively in the field of education said that last year when online classes started, the teachers were not ready to start online education. “There has been no training for teachers as to how to teach online. Their teaching is restricted to using different platforms and teaching through presentations, but this is not sufficient to keep the students interested in online education. The focus of teachers should have been on skill-based teaching last year,” said Kulkarni. He added that his team did a small survey among teachers last year. “Many teachers noted that students do not pay attention during class. They mute the teachers or browse through internet while the teacher is teaching. All of this happens due to the teaching technique being only theory based,” said Kulkarni. He emphasized that students should be taught in asynchronous teaching process so that they get a clear understanding of the concepts. “75 percent teaching should be asynchronous, that is concepts should be taught by easy experiments that students can do at home. As students participate, all of this becomes easy for them to understand,” said Kulkarni. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that though online education was a challenge, the focus of the teachers was to clarify doubts of the child. “As the schools started offline, more students participated. We immediately started revising important topics. Our teachers also clarified doubts as per examination pattern. We started taking writing practices, the revision helped from offline classes,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-online-education-adversely-affected-students-in-pandemic-year-101617461347614.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze’s brother says ‘have complete faith in NIA, judiciary’||Sachin Vaze’s brother on Saturday expressed confidence in the investigation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the former’s alleged role in Mukesh Ambani security threat case as well as an associated murder probe."We have complete faith in NIA and judiciary," Vaze’s brother told news agency ANI hours after a special NIA court extended the suspended Mumbai Police officer’s custody in the case till April 7.While the federal investigation agency had sought six more days of custody, the court granted only four. The NIA court has also directed the agency to submit a detailed report on Vaze’s health with specifics of health conditions and ailments on April 7, the last day of custody, ANI reported.The court was also informed that the federal agency has found that an amount of  ₹26.50 lakh was withdrawn from the joint bank account of Sachin Vaze and his aide on March 18, five days after his arrest, according to news agency to PTI.Earlier in the day, the special court also allowed the application of Sudharam and let him meet Sachin Vaze for five minutes to hand over fresh clothes in the courtroom.Sachin Vaze was arrested by the NIA on March 13 for his alleged role in abandoning a Mahindra Scorpio with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threat note near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai on February 25.Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, the NIA lawyer, said the agency had recovered incriminating evidence such as digital video recording (DVR) of CCTV footage and laptops and it needed to be examined, according to PTI.The NIA took Sachin Vaze to Mithi river near Bandra-Kurla Complex last week and recovered two CPUs of computers, the number plate of a vehicle, two DVRs, and a laptop among other things.The suspended Mumbai Police officer was also named by the wife of Mansukh Hiran, the Thane auto parts dealer who claimed ownership of the sports utility vehicle found outside Ambani’s home and was found dead in a creek a week later on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-s-brother-says-have-complete-faith-in-nia-judiciary-101617459348529.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharastra may divert all oxygen supply for medical use: Uddhav Thackeray||With Maharashtra recording over half of the daily coronavirus cases in India, the state government is considering diverting all industrial use oxygen supply for medical use, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday.In an online interaction with newspaper owners, editors and distributors, Thackeray said a decision on imposing stringent measures to tackle the pandemic will be taken soon but did not confirm if there will be a statewide lockdown.Maharashtra on Friday reported 47827 new cases, the highest daily rise in around six-and-a-half-months and a chunk of the 89,129 new cases in a day recorded in India.With the demand for oxygen surging, the state public health department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80 per cent of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20 per cent for industrial purposes.Thackeray said the state government is considering diverting even that 20 per cent for medical use, because of the surge in cases and the "alarming" situation in the state.The daily demand for oxygen in Maharashtra has touched 700 metric tonnes against the state's production capacity of over 1200 metric tonnes, an official said.A notification stating 80 per cent of capping for medical use was issued on Tuesday. It said that the rule would apply to all of Maharashtra and stay in force till June 30.Thackeray said the state government is increasing testing and also not keeping "even a single positive" case under wraps.The government is also considering steps like opening e-ICUs and increased use of telemedicine in these trying times, he said."If there comes a time when someone's livelihood has to be snatched, there is bound to be anguish. But if there is a dilemma on whether to save a life or a job, then it is important to give priority to life," Thackeray said."We have been telling people since last one year. I feel that if all people, be it private offices or shops, had implemented our directives of staggered duty hours, then maybe the situation would not have reached such an alarming level," he said.The chief minister said office timings should have been divided into 24 hours. "If staggered timings had been followed, there would have been less strain on local trains and BEST city buses. Unfortunately, this did not happen," he said."We have also stressed on wearing masks, using hand sanitisers and keeping a safe distance. Even the WHO says so. It says that even a person who has been vaccinated needs to follow these rules," Thackeray said."So it is not that we did not try. Last year we sent teams to houses. It was possible as there was a lockdown. Even contact tracing of affected persons has become difficult now," he said.Referring to election rallies in some states amid the pandemic, Thackeray said, "In other states, political rallies of thousands and lakhs of people are happening, but the coronavirus cases are more in Maharashtra than these states."He said the media should make people aware that the fight against coronavirus is not only the responsibility of the government but also of the masses. Fear of coronavirus from the minds of people should be replaced by awareness about the pandemic, he added."There should be no politics in this fight against coronavirus," Thackeray said, in an apparent reference to the claim by BJP leaders over his government's handling of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharastra-may-divert-all-oxygen-supply-for-medical-use-uddhav-thackeray-101617460042392.html
03-04-2021||Other||No regular flights from Bathinda, at least till October 26||In just over four years of its introduction with much fanfare in December 2016, air connectivity to Bathinda district from Delhi and Jammu has been grounded indefinitely. The summer schedule of domestic flights for the next seven months (March 29 to October 26) does not have any flight to or from the district. Bathinda airport director Varinder Singh has confirmed the schedule, adding that it was only district in southern Punjab with air connectivity. Alliance Air (AA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, was the sole service provider from Bathinda. Air service to Bathinda was started as part of Centre’s ambitious regional connectivity scheme (RCS) of Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (Udan) under which the fares were kept low.Sources said that AA chose not to extend operations after the contract ended last year. The airline had discontinued air services on the Delhi route from November 28, 2020, whereas flights to Jammu were suspended on October 27, 2019. Flights from the Bathinda airport were grounded after a lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020.Before the suspension of the flight service, Bathinda-Jammu flight was operating five days a week, barring Tuesday and Thursday.“In January this year, the authorities had written to two private players to consider running the Delhi-Bathinda flight after the AA decided to stop services,” the airport director said, adding that there had been no response yet. “Only chartered planes have used the airport over the past few months,” he added.Set up at a cost of ₹5 crore at Virk Kalan village, about 30km from Bathinda city, in October 2012, the airport is adjacent to the Indian Air Force station in Bhisiana.Bathinda was connected to New Delhi with a thrice-a-week schedule and the route had an average occupancy of 80%. Flights to Jammu had an average occupancy of 70% with most visiting the pilgrimages of Vaishno Devi and Amarnath. Sources added that with fully functional central institutes like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Central University of Punjab, Bathinda district had a lot of scope for growth in air connectivity, especially from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-regular-flights-from-bathinda-at-least-till-october-26-101617459608570.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar gets discharged from hospital, advised 7 days rest||National Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar got discharged from Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital on Saturday four days after he underwent an urgent endoscopic procedure for removal of gallstone on Tuesday night.Doctors have advised him complete seven-day rest. He is likely to be operated on for gallbladder surgery if his vitals remain normal after 15 days.“Sharad Pawar saheb was checked by a team of doctors today and his health is stable. He will be discharged from the hospital today. He has been advised rest for 7 days and after 15 days if all his health parameters are stable, surgery on his gallbladder will be performed,” Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister, tweeted.Malik also urged the party cadre and Pawar’s wellwishers to refrain from visiting Pawar as he needs complete rest to recuperate.Pawar looked as he walked up to his house and climbed stairs without any help after getting down from the car on Saturday afternoon.The former Union minister was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder. On Tuesday night, he underwent an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of the pancreas called pancreatitis.The 80-year old veteran leader had been recovering at the hospital since then. From Thursday evening, he was allowed by the doctors to walk and have solid foods.Pawar will be operated on for gallbladder removal for which he will have to be admitted again. This may take two weeks as he has swelling and inflammation in the pancreas. He was also suffering from jaundice when admitted to the hospital, the doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-gets-discharged-from-hospital-advised-7-days-rest-101617459308184.html
03-04-2021||Other||IIT-Guwahati student allegedly raped, student arrested||Assam Police on Saturday arrested a student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati (IIT-G) in connection with a case of alleged rape of a woman student studying in the same year. The incident took place on March 28. “We have arrested one student and booked him under rape charges. Four other students are being questioned. Further investigation is on and more arrests could happen,” superintendent of police (SP), Kamrup, Hitesh Chandra Roy said. Mukut Baishya, in-charge of Amingaon police outpost in Kamrup district, said that the statement of the victim was recorded on Saturday, six days after the incident. Police refused to divulge details of the victim and the accused since the matter is under investigation.The IITG authorities, in a statement, mentioned that they submitted a report on Friday after conducting an internal inquiry into the matter. Officials didn’t divulge any details of the report. Though the IITG claimed having filed an FIR in connection with the case, the police denied it. “They just submitted their internal inquiry report. We had registered the case on March 29 and the student was arrested based on our investigation,” said Baishya. Also read: EC tones down gag order on Himanta Biswa Sarma to 24 hours after apologyThe incident happened on the day of Holi (March 28) at the institute’s campus. The victim was admitted to the IIT-G hospital and was later taken to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for treatment. On Saturday, the institute issued a statement and termed the incident “unfortunate” without giving details of the assault or the nature of the victim’s injuries. However, doctors at the GMCH said that it was very likely a case of serious sexual assault. “The victim was brought to GMCH around 12:50 am on March 29. She was initially unconscious and in a state of shock after regaining her senses. She told doctors on duty that she had been sexually assaulted. We immediately followed protocol and carried out a test by a gynaecologist as well as a forensic examination,” said a senior GMCH doctor on condition of anonymity. “However, she was taken from GMCH by IIT-G authorities later in the day saying she will be treated at the institute’s hospital. Since this was against our advice, we immediately informed the local police about it,” he added. Though the victim’s medical report is yet to be out, GMCH sources said that it was a clear case of sexual assault. It is believed that the victim was given some drink laced with drugs or was forced to consume alcohol before the assault. Since the incident took place at the IIT-G, the Bhangagarh police station (the closest to GMCH) informed the Amingaon police about it as the institute falls under the latter’s jurisdiction. “The student is now safe and recovering well,” said the IIT-G statement, adding that her parents have been informed about the incident. It mentioned that the victim, as well as her guardians, refused to file an FIR and asked IIT-G to take up the case. “The fact-finding committee, which was constituted on March 29, submitted its report to the institute on April 2 pm while the institute has filed an FIR. The police have initiated their investigation and the institute is providing full cooperation,” the statement read. In a similar incident that took place years back in February 2017, two students of IIT-G were arrested for allegedly raping three girls of Gauhati University by lacing their drinks with drugs during ‘Alcheringa’, the institute’s annual cultural festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitguwahati-student-allegedly-raped-student-arrested-101617458708318.html
03-04-2021||Pune||No restrictions on those travelling from Pune during curfew hours: PMC commissioner||PUNE Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday, announced new restrictions for seven days (from April 3 to April 9) to curb the spread of Covid, but travel agencies are confused regarding restrictions during the curfew timings between 6 pm and 6 am.The order did not mention any travel restrictions for people moving out of the district or state, however, it did mention that intra-district state transport buses would ply.Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents’ Association, Pune, said, “Since the order has been issued we are getting multiple calls from customers asking if there any restrictions on travel during these seven days during the curfew hours.”“Some clients will travel by flight, rail or road and have booked tickets well in advance. So if their arrival and departure timings are during this restricted timing what needs to be done,” he said.Clearing the confusion, Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner, said that there are no travel restrictions in private vehicles for those wanting to leave the city.Kumar said, “Since people who travel out of the city do not do it frequently, so it has been allowed. Travelling in private vehicles out of the city or via any cab service to get to the railway station or to get to the airport is allowed.”“The travellers have to follow all Covid-appropriate behaviour while doing so,” he said.The new order restricts movement for the citizens from 6 pm to 6 am for seven days starting from April 3, except for essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-restrictions-on-those-travelling-from-pune-during-curfew-hours-pmc-commissioner-101617458468107.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s district information officer Rajendra Sarag passes away due to Covid||PUNE District information officer of Pune Rajendra Sarag succumbed to Covid infection on Saturday, his colleagues in the administration said.Sarag, 54, was admitted at Sassoon general hospital and was on oxygen support for the past three days, a doctor treating him said.He is survived by his wife and two sons. While Sarag was detected with diabetes, his wife too has tested positive for Covid and currently hospitalised for the treatment, said family members.He was posted as a district information officer at Pune twice with his current tenure lasting for three years.Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar expressed grief over the demise. “Despite the efforts by the doctors in Sassoon hospital, we had to lose a good officer like him. This is really unfortunate. May his soul rest in peace,” Pawar said in his condolence message.He pursued his journalism degrees from Aurangabad and had worked in Tarun Bharat, a Marathi daily as a cartoonist before joining the public information services. Though being in the government service, he pursued his love for cartoons and received many awards for his published cartoons, especially in Diwali magazines.“My father was a good man and never hurt anyone,” said Vaibhav Sarag. His elder son, who has recently gone to pursue a masters’ degree from the United States has left from there to reach Pune after receiving this news.Many other staff members from the district and divisional commissioner information offices which have a team of approximately 25-30 people have tested positive for Covid so far. The staff includes drivers, photographers and clerks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-district-information-officer-rajendra-sarag-passes-away-due-to-covid-101617458467528.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||In highest single-day jump, Mumbai reports over 9,000 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mumbai on Saturday reported 9,090 fresh cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic, the city’s civic body said in a report. Mumbai currently has 62,187 active cases. The city on Friday reported 8,832 new cases of Covid-19, according to the data of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The death toll in Mumbai also rose to 11,751 with 27 fresh fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. The city recorded 5,322 recoveries taking the number of recovered people to 366,365, while the recovery rate has fallen to 83% — in a slight fall from Friday's 84%. The data shared by the civic body also shows that the doubling rate in the city is currently at 44 days.The number of deaths (27) reported in the last 24 hours is the highest since the beginning of December 2020, according the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. The city had witnessed 20 deaths on December 2 following which there was a decline in the daily death toll.Mumbai's highest single-day rise in number of daily cases came in the backdrop of 43,597 tests which is 731 lower than the number of tests conducted between Thursday and Friday (44,328). The city has conducted 4,217,856 tests so far. Thane and Nagpur also reported a surge in the number of cases. Thane reported 4,371 new cases of Covid-19 while Nagpur reported 3,720 fresh cases. Maharashtra chief minister has urged people of Mumbai as well as the entire state to adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures. He also warned on Friday that the present surge may lead to a lockdown if the state's Covid-19 situation deteriorates. Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 49,447 fresh cases of Covid-19. The state also recorded 277 fresh fatalities taking the death toll in the state to 55,656. The state recorded 37,821 recoveries which took the total number of recovered people to 2,495,315.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-highest-single-day-jump-mumbai-reports-over-9-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-101617457996008.html
03-04-2021||Other||Gurdaspur man held with 150kg poppy husk in Ludhiana||Police nabbed a Gurdaspur man after he was found in possession of 150kg poppy husk and 150gm opium in Lehra village on Friday night.The accused has been identified as Baljit Singh Bhutto of Sidhwan village, Gurdaspur district. He had been living in Khera village, Dehlon, for past some time, and drove trucks for a living, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said police received secret information that the accused was out to deliver a consignment of drugs. “A checkpost was set up in Lehra village and Baljit was intercepted while carrying 30kg poppy husk and 150gm on a motorcycle. Following his disclosure, another 120kg poppy husk was recovered from his house in Khera village,” the ADCP said.The police official added that the accused had confessed to procuring the contraband from Jharkhand. “He himself is a drug addict and turned to drug peddling around a year ago to fund his addiction, but was never caught,” he added.An FIR under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been lodged against the accused at the Dehlon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurdaspur-man-held-with-150kg-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana-101617457928295.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC collects nearly ₹50 crore as fine for not wearing mask in public||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said that it has collected more than ₹49 crore as fine from people not wearing masks in public places.“These numbers aren’t ‘fine’ at all,” the body tweeted, referring to the amount collected as fine for not wearing a mask in public places. “While these numbers are quite high, we’d be happier if more Mumbaikars masked ‘up’ & helped bring ‘down’ the virus,” the civic body added.Replying to a tweet, the BMC also clarified that the amount of collection of fine for non-adherence to Covid-19 safety protocol is the total amount collected as on Friday and not just one day.These Numbers Aren’t ‘Fine’ At AllAs on 2 Apr 2021, more than Rs.49 Crore has been collected as fine from citizens not wearing mask in public places across MumbaiWhile these numbers are quite high, we’d be happier if more Mumbaikars masked ‘up’ & helped bring ‘down’ the virusThe municipal corporation made it mandatory to wear masks in public places last year. A fine of ₹200 is levied in case of non-adherence.Mumbai has been witnessing a massive surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. On Friday, the metropolitan city reported the highest-ever Covid-19 infections in 24 hours -8,832.Following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is a must in the city as it is also one of the top 10 districts that contribute significantly to the active coronavirus caseload of the country. Mumbai accounts for 8.75 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in the country, according to the data of the Union health ministry. Amid this rise, the use of masks and social distancing is very crucial.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday warmed of a lockdown if no alternative is found and the Covid-19 curve in the state keeps on rising. The chief minister mostly blamed citizens' irresponsible behaviour towards Covid-19 norms as the cause of the upward trajectory of daily Covid-19 cases.Currently, a statewide night curfew has been imposed by the government to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-collects-nearly-rs-50-crore-as-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public-101617456140280.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Mangalsutra thief sentenced to18 months rigorous imprisonment||A Pune court sentenced a mangalsutra thief to eighteen months rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of ₹500. The thief was booked for stealing mangalsutras of two women on the auspicious occasion of Vatvriksha pournima. The accused identified as Mohsin Shaikh (31), a resident of Ganj peth had stolen mangalsutras in Pashan and Baner and two cases were lodged against him with regards to the theft. The first incident took place on June 27, 2018, at Sai Chowk when the victim had stepped out of the house to buy leaves for puja when the accused struck and stole her gold mangalsutra worth 25 grams in Pashan, the second incident took place in Baner. Advocate Vishal Muralikar represented the prosecution while police naik Ramakant Baramatikar helped in the investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mangalsutra-thief-sentenced-to18-months-rigorous-imprisonment-101617457387526.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Two money lenders booked for extortion, arrested||The Pune police crime branch has arrested two moneylenders for demanding ₹14 lakh in lieu of a loan of ₹2 lakh given to a client. The accused also threatened to kill him and took possession of a vehicle belonging to another person who stood as the guarantor. The Anti Extortion Cell (AEC) of Pune police arrested Umesh Ghare, a resident of Sinhagad road and Sandeep Ghare, a resident of Warje Malwadi in connection with the case. According to the AEC officials, the victim needed money and had taken a loan from the duo in 2019. Umesh had taken a signed blank cheque from the victim and took possession of a four-wheeler as against the loan issued at the rate of 10 per cent interest. The victim could not pay the loan in time following which the accused asked him to pay the principal amount with interest for 24 months totaling ₹14 lakh. They went to his, destroyed furniture and issued threats to his relatives seeking the loan amount with interest, AEC officials said. Based on the information, a police team attached to AEC raided their premises and recovered blank cheque, documents, blank papers, Aadhaar card, stamp paper, and other incriminating documents from their possession. The AEC officials have appealed to the citizens to lodge complaints against the accused citing that they were allegedly involved in full-scale money-lending business and might have harassed many people. The citizens harassed can approach the crime branch or the local police station of their residence, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-money-lenders-booked-for-extortion-arrested-101617457267503.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Enabling a smart reading of map data||PUNE An avid Geography-subject lover, Abhishek Rathod has chosen a path very few entrepreneurs dare to take – of doing business with the government. Iowaaska Technologies is a deep-tech, product-based, startup building a robust Geographic Mapping Intelligence platform named “Intelligent Map”, with cloud-based and near real-time technologies. In the beginningAbhishek Rathod is originally from Gujarat, but his family settled in Pune. Rathod did his schooling from MIT Gurukul and later went to study BA Geography from the Sir Parshurambhau (SP) College. Having a geographer’s background, Rathod also enrolled for an MSc in GeoInformatics course in Symbiosis College. Says Rathod, “I was very bad in Science, so I shifted to Geography in Arts. Later I shifted to Science again as there were not many avenues in Geography. Since I loved Geography and always wanted to work or do business which involved that subject. So, the combination of Science and Geography led me to explore the Geographic Information System (GIS) Mapping and Geospatial industry.”“My dad is a government consultant for ILS Law college for hardware and software infrastructure. He also wanted me to go into business. Coming from a business family background and being brought up in that environment from childhood, helped me to start my own ventures at a very early stage. I did get many opportunities to work abroad, but I want to work for our country and hence, I decided to stay back. So far, I have nine years’ experience of working with international companies and government institutes.”Early business lessonsRathod says, “From childhood we are seeing Google Earth which was first developed by the US Navy and later, it was commercialised and available for common citizens. I wanted to create something similar for our country. During the Covid crisis and the challenges at international borders, the Indian government banned several Chinese applications. What if in the future other countries take some detrimental actions due to which their apps need to be banned? The entire Indian business ecosystem will collapse, but if we have indigenous technology-based applications then we can sustain the ecosystem. So our vision is to create a Geographical Information System (GIS) eco-system for analytics and effectively transform the decision making process. We are on a mission to empower global employment with GIS-driven technology while consulting national and international communities with better environment and self-sustainable living.”“I started my first company Arianrhod GeoSpatial Solutions. It failed as I was driving that company with the service sector. I suffered huge losses while doing surveys for the national highways, coal mining, etc. After learning my business lessons for three years, my advisors suggested I close down the company. After my service-based business model failed, I started to work on the product-based model and Iowaaska Technologies was formed in 2018,” says Rathod.Understanding importance of productOn his team building experience, Rathod says “Currently, we have about 10 members in our team including Rinkal Pramani, Akshay Morab, Shaik Najeebuddin , Abhimitra Birru and Ajay Morab. We have engaged interns too. We are working on the B2G2B model and hence, it is very important to generate revenues as we deal with the government sector. We are focussing on advisors and consultants rather than hiring salaried employees. Our advisors are Dr Suyog Lohakare, Jasraj Kalaskar and Rishab Malhotra.”Explaining the importance of product-based startup, Rathod says, “Our first project was providing consultancy to government agencies and it was during this first project we understood the importance of the product. So, we are developing a product for smart cities and smart villages. We are developing an operating system through which we can transform the ways communities operate.”“GIS is all about temporal data. Temporal data means data with time of past, present and future. If we have the data of past and present then we can give better prediction of future events. For example, we get traffic data on Google Maps. ‘Live’ traffic data is derived from past data and present road conditions, and future predictions are made by combining these two. We want to create temporal data for India which the government agencies can use it for analytics and decision-making processes. The government can balance its resources according to the demand-supply from the citizen’s side. Some applications for example would be road condition mapping, vaccination progress monitoring, development of educational and healthcare facilities,” he explains.Incubated at Bhau Institute, COEPThe Bhau Institute at College of Engineering Pune (COEP) in 2019 had invited applications for startups working in the deep-tech sector. Rathod applied and got selected. Vijay Talele is Rathod’s team mentor and helps them keep on one page and in sync with the market reality. Iowaaska also got selected in the top five startups representing India in Munich, Germany, in 2019 at an event conducted by the German Indian Business Forum. Product and revenue model Says Rathod,” Our product is the ‘Intelligent Map (I-Map) which is in the development stage. It will host, monitor evaluate the Geo-Informatics Science (GIS) data for various decision-making processes. We will be certifying the product with basic ISO/ICE standards, Make in India and Atma Nirbhar Bharat. We are looking for investment of USD 1 million against equity for further product development stages.”“Revenue generation is based on subscription-based Software as a Service model with Intelligent Map as the product. Monitoring and evaluation of the entire administration and operation of the community in these private and government smart cities will be done with the help of our services. The evaluation monitoring data generated of the smart cities will be beneficial for corporates and CSR activities to understand how the city is transforming. Suppose we have a problem related to pollution, government schemes or health issues, the intelligent map will help solve the issue fast. Data needs to be collected for this. This data will be the satellite imagery, drone and field survey data and statistical data. Based on this data and an algorithm, we will be able to analyse and predict future events,” Rathod explains.Mentor speak“Iowaaska is focussing on providing services for smart villages and smart cities projects using GIS technology. It will be useful and has huge potential looking at the way villages and cities have started utilising such data to control and manage their areas better and provide services to the citizens. It also can be used by industries which are looking for geographically mapped roads, underground-utility-service pipelines, to aid their decision-making process. They are working with the Zilla Parishad and working to develop the product for five villages. Bhau Institute is also helping team Iowaaska to raise funds.”-Vijay Talele, CEO, Bhau Institute, COEP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-enabling-a-smart-reading-of-map-data-101617455109681.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Angry at God, vagabond throws stones at temple in Delhi; arrested||Holding a grudge against God for giving him a life of vagabond, a 28-year-old man allegedly threw stones and bricks at a temple in west Delhi's Punjabi Bagh on Saturday, police said.The man identified as Vicky Mal has been arrested, they said.Ranjeet Pathak, the priest at Vaishno Mata Mandir, found that two statues of Lord Shiva, which were kept in an open area of the temple, were broken Saturday morning.Stones and brick pieces were also found lying inside the temple premises, police said.During investigation, police analysed CCTV footage and found that Mal, who worked as a ragpicker, was behind the incident.The accused used to work with his father before the coronavirus-induced lockdown. His father later went back to Motihari in Bihar.Mal started holding grudge against God for giving him the life of a vagabond, a police officer said.An FIR was registered against the accused under IPC sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), he said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/angry-at-god-vagabond-throws-stones-at-temple-in-delhi-arrested-101617454051361.html
03-04-2021||Other||5 jawans die in encounter with Maoists in Bastar, IAF choppers deployed for rescue||Five jawans were killed while twelve others got injured in a fierce gunfight between security forces and Maoists in the jungles at the border of Bijapur and Sukma districts in Bastar, Chattisgarh, officials said on Saturday. The Indian Air Force has deployed Mi-17 helicopters to help the paramilitary forces in the rescue operations.“As per the information received so far, five security personnel have been killed and twelve others got injured. Those who lost their lives in the gunfight include a jawan of CoBRA, two personnel each from the district reserve guard (DRG) and Bastariya’ battalion of CRPF,” said Director-General of Police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed sadness over the loss of lives of the security personnel in the encounter. “My condolences are with the families of the martyrs. Their martyrdom will not go in vain,” the chief minister tweeted.  <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”hi” dir=”ltr”>बीजापुर-सुकमा जिले की सीमा पर सुरक्षा बलों और नक्सली मुठभेड़ में 5 जवानों के शहीद होने का समाचार दुखद है।<br><br>मेरी संवेदनाएं शहीदों के परिजनों के साथ हैं।<br><br>हमारे सुरक्षा बलों की शहादत व्यर्थ नहीं जाएगी।</p>&mdash; Bhupesh Baghel (@bhupeshbaghel) <a href=”https://twitter.com/bhupeshbaghel/status/1378340309361258496?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>April 3, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script> As per the officials, the encounter broke around noon on Saturday between security forces and PLGA (Peoples’ Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists, near Jonaguda village under Jagargunda police station area of Sukma district. The body of a woman Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot, police said. Awasthi said a joint team of state police and CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) was out on anti-Naxal operations when the encounter took place between Maoists and security forces near the jungles of the district. Police said that separate joint teams of security forces launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests. These areas are considered as Maoist strongholds. “The encounter lasted about three hours inside the jungle. The injured were airlifted to Raipur and an operation was underway to evacuate the injured jawans and bodies from the forest through helicopters. More details are awaited,” the DGP said. On March 23, five DRG jawans were killed while fourteen others were injured in serial IED blasts when Maoists allegedly targeted a bus ferrying security personnel in Naryanpur district of Bastar region. On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel, including 12 from the DRG, were killed in a Naxal ambush in Sukma district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-jawans-killed-in-encounter-with-maoists-in-bastar-s-bijapur-101617453789578.html
03-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal polls: BJP, TMC engage in battle of nerves||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and its arch-rival the Bharatiya Janata Party engaged in a battle of nerves even as the first two phases of the assembly elections have already been held with six more rounds remaining. Reports of political clashes between the two parties continued to pour in from across the state ahead of the third phase polls scheduled on Tuesday when 31 constituencies are slated to go into elections. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah claimed during public rallies on Thursday and Friday that TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee was sure to lose in Nandigram and the TMC would be defeated this time, the latter hit back on Saturday. Former BJP veteran Yashwant Sinha, who recently joined the TMC, said in a press conference at the Trinamool Congress headquarters in Kolkata that late on Friday night Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda held a meeting in Delhi to discuss the ongoing polls in Bengal. “It was an internal meeting and there was a frank exchange of views. The BJP troika has concluded that the party’s performance in the first two phases would be very disappointing. They know that their performance in the remaining six phases would be all the more disappointing, as they were pinning their hopes on the first two phases,” said Sinha. Earlier on Thursday, while polls were being held in 30 constituencies, including Nandigram in East Midnapore, Modi said in a public rally that there were rumours about Banerjee planning to contest from a second seat as defeat was imminent in Nandigram. Also read: Mamata’s “obstructionist mindset” deprived Bengal of jobs, industries - PM Modi“With every phase of polls, Didi’s nervousness will increase. On the cricket field, if a player repeatedly questions the umpire, it means that the player is at fault. In elections, if someone blames the EVM and the ECI, it means the game is over. Didi, defeat is in front of you. Accept it,” Modi said on Saturday while addressing a rally in Hooghly. “I have heard, not verified, that brainstorming is going on within the TMC. Some of the wise children who are still left in the TMC were discussing that Didi’s hasty decision to contest from Nandigram proved to be a blunder. I have been told that sensing defeat in Nandigram, some people had decided that Mamata should contest from another seat. But some wise men told didi that it would be her second blunder. Some people told her that if she loses from two seats in Bengal then TMC’s political future would be at stake,” said Modi while addressing a rally in south Bengal. On Friday, Shah had said that it was clear from the first two phases that the BJP would win more than 50 seats out of the 60 constituencies and didi was losing from Nandigram. Banerjee and top TMC leaders were quick to refute the claims with Banerjee herself saying that she was confident of her win from Nandigram and that Modi shouldn’t advise her as she was not a BJP member. Countering the BJP’s claims, a TMC tweet on Thursday triggered speculation over whether the West Bengal chief minister would contest against Modi from Varanasi or the party would field someone to challenge him in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “Didi is winning Nandigram. The question of her fighting from another seat doesn’t arise. @narendramodi Ji, retract from your efforts to mislead people before they see your lies with the end of nomination in WB [West Bengal]. Look for a safer seat in 2024, as you will be challenged in Varanasi,” the TMC tweeted. “It was Banerjee who challenged the BJP by announcing that she would contest from Nandigram. Now that the TMC is certain that they are going to lose they are putting up a bold phase to boost the morale of the workers. But the trend is clear and people of Bengal know who would win the battle,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. At Katwa in Burdwan district, TMC workers even went to the extent of distributing sweets among themselves on Friday, claiming that the battle has already been won. “Such psychological wars are common during the polls and have also been seen in the 2019 elections. While this is used to boost the morale of workers, it also has some effect on the swing voters,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University. While the two parties were fighting a war of words, clashes among the party workers continued across the state. BJP candidate Motibur Rahaman from Harishchandrapur in north Bengal’s Malda district was allegedly heckled by TMC workers on Friday night. Both parties have lodged complaints against each other with the local police. Earlier in the day, BJP’s candidate Dipak Halder at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas was allegedly thrashed by TMC workers. The ruling party, however, rubbished the allegations. Clashes also broke out at Bhangar in South 24 Parganas and Krishnanagar in Nadia. At Barjora on Bankura clashes broke out between the BJP and the TMC on Friday night leaving at least two injured. At Sabang in West Midnapore, a former TMC supporter’s wife was allegedly heckled on Saturday. While the TMC alleged she was thrashed by BJP workers, and had to be rushed to the hospital, the latter rubbished TMC’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-polls-bjp-tmc-engage-in-battle-of-nerves-101617453188071.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||UK strain behind surge in Punjab’s Covid cases||The high presence of the UK strain of Covid-19 has led to a steep rise in active cases in Punjab with the state already registering a bigger surge in cases this time as compared to the first wave last year. Though the state health department is still not sure if the strain, which spreads 70% faster, made its way to Punjab through travellers from the United Kingdom, the government is considering its high prevalence as the prime reason for the spike. 80% of samples of Covid positive people sent for genome sequencing to the Pune laboratory in March were found having the UK strain. The strain was found in 10 of the 22 districts of Punjab with a maximum of 106 samples belonging to Mohali district. This was followed by Amritsar (94), Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (56), Faridkot (18) and Patiala (15). Also read: Punjab saw 12-fold hike in active Covid cases in 2 months, higher than MahaHow the UK strain bumped up cases “During our meetings with the Government of India as well, we haven’t heard much about the high presence of the UK strain in other states as is there in Punjab. So obviously the strain can be termed as the main reason behind the faster surge,” state principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal said. According to the Union health ministry data released on Saturday, Covid-19 cases increased 12-fold in Punjab between February 3 and April 3 at a rate that surpasses Maharashtra’s nine-fold case growth rate during the period. The faster rate of infection due to this strain can be judged from the fact that in the past one week, the state has added more than 20,000 new cases. When the state had hit the peak in September last year, the maximum single-day hike was of 2,896 infections on September 17. With experts predicting the second wave peak in the third week of April, the state has already broken last year’s records by registering a single-day hike of 3,176 cases on March 26. In the past week, the state’s ratio of active cases reached 10%, which is the highest ever of the first and the current wave. In September, Punjab saw a single-day spike of more than 2,000 cases a day on nine occasions, in this wave, between March 15 to April 3, the state has seen more than 2,000 cases for 12 occasions. SBS Nagar, where the maximum cases of the UK strain were detected, has at present the highest number of active cases of 3,414 in Punjab, followed by 3,297 in Amritsar, which is at the second spot in terms of the presence of the UK strain. NRI belt bears the brunt, more samples sent Punjab nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said that inappropriate Covid behaviour along with the UK strain of the virus is the second major reason behind the surge in cases. “You will notice that in Jalandhar, where less presence of the UK strain was found, cases are very high. The same is the case with Patiala and Hoshiarpur. To understand this better, we are sending 400 more Covid samples for genome sequencing,” Dr Bhaskar said. The Doaba belt, comprising the four districts of Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, account for 25% of Punjab’s Covid cases in the second wave. Jalandhar civil surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said the UK strain is the biggest reason behind the surge and has mainly hit Phillaur and Nurmahal towns that reported a high number of cases and have now been turned into containment zones. Similarly, Hoshiarpur, where 31 cases of the UK strain were detected, has seen a sharp increase in Covid deaths with nearly 100 fatalities in the past two weeks. Procedures flouted by visitors could be cause The state authorities are not sure how the UK strain reached Punjab and if the non-resident Indians (NRIs) brought it to Doaba, the winter hub of foreign visitors with almost every family having relatives abroad. The state’s principal secretary, health, says the department has been tracking NRIs and foreign travellers. Apart from allowing their boarding only after the RT-PCR test, the travellers undergo the test again on arrival, he said. Before international flights from the UK were suspended by India in February due to the strain, Punjab had eight UK returnees tested for the strain, but it was not found in any case. The samples that tested positive for the UK strain were randomly taken from containment zones where a high number of Covid-19 cases surfaced. The head of Punjab’s expert group on Covid-19, Dr KK Talwar, said since the strain has originated from the UK, it could have come from foreign shores only. “Someone must have brought it from outside. We follow set procedures to quarantine foreign travellers but the way people flout the procedures can be the reason behind the presence of the strain,” Dr Talwar said. No data on number of positive travellers The health department does not have the exact data of foreign visitors that landed in Punjab over the past three months. “Even as all districts have been asked to provide the data about NRIs and foreign travellers, half of them have not reported it yet,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. In view of the surge in the mutant variants of Covid in Punjab, the Centre had directed the Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, authorities in February to conduct the RT-PCR test on each and every passenger arriving from Europe, especially from the UK and West Asia. According to the airport authorities, 22,561 passengers from such countries were tested for Covid-19 from February 23 to April 2. How many of them were found positive is not known. Districts with high active Covid cases Mohali: 3,414 Amritsar: 3,297 Jalandhar: 3,292 Ludhiana: 2,943 Patiala: 2,638 Hoshiarpur: 1,663||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uk-strain-behind-surge-in-punjab-s-covid-cases-101617451688029.html
03-04-2021||Lucknow||Health worker, busy on a phone call, gives two doses of Covid vaccine to woman in Uttar Pradesh||In a major goof-up, an auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) was on a phone call as she administered two shots of Covid-19 vaccine to a woman at a primary health centre in Akbarpur area of Kanpur Dehat district, officials said on Saturday.As the news reached the woman's family members, they created an uproar at the centre and later senior officials including the district magistrate and chief medical officer were informed about the alleged negligence.The family members told reporters that Kamlesh Kumari, a woman in her 50s, had gone to Marhauli PHC on Thursday to get her first vaccine shot where ANM Archana ended up giving her two doses.When Kumari inquired about two injections being given to her, Archana reprimanded her instead of apologising for the mistake, they alleged.The family members further said that due to the double dosage of vaccination, Kumari developed mild swelling in her hand, although, no serious symptoms were reported.District Magistrate Jitendra Pratap Singh told PTI that he has taken serious cognisance over the negligence. The CMO has been asked to inquire about the incident and submit a fact finding report to him by Saturday evening, the DM added.He said further comments over the incident will be made only after findings based on the inquiry.Kanpur Dehat CMO Rajesh Katiyar said the Covid-19 vaccination drive was being conducted at Marhauli primary health centre and a senior doctor has been asked to inquire about the matter and submit a report.The inquiry report would be submitted to the DM who will take action on his end, Katiyar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/health-worker-busy-on-a-phone-call-gives-two-doses-of-covid-vaccine-to-woman-101617450547766.html
03-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: KS Eshwarappa says there is no question of CM Yediyurappa resigning||There is no question of B S Yediyurappa resigning as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, senior Minister K S Eshwarappa said on Saturday, as he termed his letter to the Governor as an administrative matter.He said Congress leader Siddaramaiah was demanding Yediyurappa's resignation, under the illusion of becoming the CM.Following Eshwarappa's recent complaint to the Governor against Yediyurappa, alleging direct interference in the affairs of his department, Siddaramaiah, who is the leader of opposition in the state assembly, has demanded that the Chief Minister step down from his post.He had also urged the Governor to intervene and recommend for the President's rule in the state."Siddaramaiah is in an urgency to become the Chief Minister. People have rejected him, he was defeated in Chamundeshwari (constituency in 2018), he lost the Chief Minister post.He is now under the illusion that if Yediyurappa resigns, he will become the Chief Minister," Eshwarappa said.Speaking to reporters, he said there is no question of Yediyurappa resigning and Siddaramaiah should not be under the illusion of becoming the Chief Minister.The former Chief Minister is unable to digest our organisational strength, also he doesn't have anything to criticise Modi-led government at the Centre or the government here with as both are doing a good job, he said."That's the reason he (Siddaramaiah) is latching on the letter to Governor and is demanding for CM's resignation.Eshwarappa, who is Rural Development Minister in Yediyurappa's cabinet on Wednesday had complained to the Governor against the Chief Minister alleging direct interference in the affairs of his department.He had met Governor Vajubhai Vala and submitted a five- page letter on serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration by the Chief Minister, in which he pointed at three instances where Yediyurappa sanctioned funds without taking him into confidence.Commenting on his meeting the Governor and submitting a letter, Eshwarappa said, minor administrational differences were there and efforts are on to rectify them, nothing else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-ks-eshwarappa-says-there-is-no-question-of-cm-yediyurappa-resigning-101617449975110.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Pune police book nine under MCOCA||PUNE The Pune police have booked gangster Shubham Kamthe of Hadapsar, along with eight other gang members under the provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The accused were booked after the orders for a complete crackdown on the crime syndicates by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.The crackdown is a part of series of combative measures being undertaken by the city police after the arrest of gangsters Gajanan Marne, Balu Andekar and Nilesh Ghaywal.According to the Hadapsar police, the arrested have been identified as Datta Bhimrao Bhandari (24), Saurabh Vitthal Gholap (22), Rutwik Vilas Chaudhary (21), Sahil Fakira Shaikh (21), Shubham Kailas Kamthe ( 26), Shubham Barkade and two more unidentified accused were involved in organised crime activities with the motive of spreading fear and terror in the area. Additional CP (Crime) Ashok Morale, said: “We are taking strong action against organised criminal gangs members and our policy is of a complete crackdown on illegal activities and sending them behind the bars.”Kamthe was involved in an attack on one of the rival gang members recently and a case has been lodged regarding the same at Hadapsar police station.Kamthe and his gang were under surveillance ever since at least 150 of his supporters took out a rally after his release from Yerawada Central Prison after two years. The massive rally went through the city from the central prison to his residence in Loni Kalbhor. The local police swung into action and booked him along with others under various sections of the Disaster Management Act and in violation of Covid rules. The case was registered under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of an offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 37 (1), (3)/135 of the Bombay Police Act.After the arrest of Marne alias Maharaj, the city police have lodged as many as eight criminal cases against him. Earlier, there were 23 cases lodged against him at different police stations, the crime branch stated.Pune rural police, meanwhile, have arrested gangster Nilesh Bansilal Ghaywal (44), from Sonegaon in Jamkhed tehsil of Ahmednagar district and lodged him in Yerawada prison for one year under the MPDA Act. The Pune police arrested gangster Ghaywal and eight of his henchmen in connection with forcibly whisking away a four-wheeler for a rally. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) 395,294 (b), 109, 506 (2), 504, Maharashtra Police Act 37(1) in a separate FIR lodged at Kothrud Police Station. Besides, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked against Ghaywal and he was arrested on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-book-nine-under-mcoca-101617451087319.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Class 1 to 8 students in Maharashtra to be promoted without exams due to Covid-19 pandemic||All students of classes 1 to 8 of the Maharashtra state board will be promoted to the next class without examinations this year due to the coronavirus pandemic, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Saturday.“In view of the ongoing situation due to #Covid 19, all state board students across Maharashtra state from Class 1st to Class 8th will be promoted to the next class without any examinations. A decision regarding students of class 9th and 11th will soon be taken,” the education minister wrote on Twitter.Varsha Gaikwad’s announcement comes a day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that stricter rules will be imposed in the state over the weekend following a massive increase in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As the cases surpassed 47,800 on Friday, Thackeray warned that a complete lockdown cannot be ruled out if no alternative solution is found over the weekend and if citizens fail to follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior.“We will issue guidelines for stricter curbs in the next couple of days. The decision on the lockdown will be taken after talking to political leaders and experts from various fields in two days. Political parties and industrialists have been opposing the lockdown and warning government against it. We are in a catch-22. If a lockdown is imposed, we face economic crisis. At the same time, lives are more important to us. Many countries, including France, United Kingdom, Belgium and Brazil, have imposed a strict lockdown for many weeks in their fight against the second wave,” Thackeray said in his address to the people of Maharashtra.Several Maharashtra districts including Palghar and Pune have ordered a temporary closure of schools.Maharashtra is among the 11 states designated by the Centre as ‘states of grave concern’ as it has recorded a nine-fold increase in cases and described the situation in the state as ‘particularly worrying.’ On February 3, there were 42,830 active Covid-19 cases in the western state and they shot up to 3,91,203 on April 3, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-1-to-8-students-in-maharashtra-to-be-promoted-without-exams-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-101617450022115.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two injured as farmers clash with police during Haryana CM’s visit||A farmer and a policeman were injured when farm law protesters clashed with police outside the Baba Mastnath University campus, where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s helicopter was to land, in Rohtak on Saturday afternoon. Police said on getting information about Khattar’s visit, protesters started gathering outside the private university on the city’s outskirts, prompting them block the road to the university. This led to a scuffle followed by stone-pelting by the protesters. The police resorted to lathicharge in which the elderly farmer and the policeman were injured. In view of the tension, Khattar’s chopper landed at the Police Lines from where he went to the Canal Rest House to interact with BJP workers. Khattar and other senior BJP leaders, including state unit chief OP Dhankar, addressed the meeting amid heavy security. The chief minister proceeded to the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) to attend a condolence meet in memory of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma’s father, who passed away recently. The protesters headed towards the ITI but police prevented them from proceeding. Later, they called off the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-injured-as-farmers-clash-with-police-during-haryana-cm-s-visit-101617448747826.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 3,567 fresh Covid-19 cases, 10 new deaths in last 24 hours||Delhi on Saturday reported 3,567 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 10 people died due to the infection in the last 24 hours, according to the city health department. The positivity rate mounted to 4.48%, amid a massive surge in cases in the span of last few weeks.The number of cumulative cases on Saturday stood at 6,72,381. The number of people who have been discharged form hospital, recovered or migrated now stand at 6,48,674.Delhi reported 3,594 Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, and 14 deaths, taking the death toll to 11,050. The national capital recorded 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday.The number of active cases rose to 12,647 from 11,994 a day before.According to the latest bulletin, a total of 79,617 tests, including 57,296 RT-PCR tests and 22,321 rapid antigen tests were conducted.The number of people under home isolation rose to 6,569 from 6,106 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 2,618 from 2,338 on Friday, the bulletin said.On December 8, last year, Delhi had recorded 3,188 cases and 2,706 cases on December 6.Amid the surge of coronavirus cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the national capital will not go into lockdown.Kejriwal said that Delhi is witnessing the fourth wave of coronavirus and cases are increasing exponentially. He further affirmed that the government is not considering a lockdown and if the need arises in future, the government will take a call after also consulting the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-3-567-fresh-covid-19-cases-10-new-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101617446505536.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze, held in Ambani security case, to remain in NIA custody till April 7||Sachin Vaze, the suspended Mumbai Police officer arrested for his alleged role in parking the explosives-laden vehicle near Mukesh Ambani's residence in February and in the death of Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, will remain in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till April 7, a special court on Saturday orderedThe central probing agency sought an extension of his custody by six days. But the special NIA court granted only four days' extension.Mansukh Hiran, the man who claimed ownership of the explosives-laden vehicle outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, was found dead in a creek in early March. NIA, which is probing the death case as well as the bomb scare case, arrested Sachin Vaze after he was named by Hiran’s wife. Also, according to people cited by the NIA, the gelatin sticks found in the vehicle near Ambani's house were procured by the suspended police officer.According to NIA’s initial findings, Hiran was smothered to death before being thrown into Thane Creek, which is consistent with the findings of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) which was initially investigating the murder, people familiar with the development told HT.“Several handkerchiefs had been stuffed in Hiran’s mouth and it appears his face had been covered ‘tightly’ with another big cloth, due to which he could not breathe. There was some struggle but he seems to have been overpowered,” an official said earlier.Sachin Vaze was taken to the Mithi river near Bandra-Kurla Complex by the federal agency last Sunday, from where they recovered two CPUs of computers, the number plate of a vehicle, two DVRs, and a laptop among other things.The NIA has also questioned the suspended Mumbai police officer’s former colleagues, including crime branch officer Prakash Ovhal, who reportedly purchased a Mitsubishi Outlander from Vaze.Sachin was arrested by the NIA on March 13 for his purported role in abandoning a Mahindra Scorpio with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threat note near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-held-in-ambani-security-case-to-remain-in-nia-custody-till-april-7-101617447312191.html
03-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka health minister says no relaxation in new Covid-19 guidelines||Hinting at no relaxation in the new set of guidelines issued by the state government, amid pressure from various sectors, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said it was inevitable to take certain strict measures so that things don't go out of control.He said the guidelines have been issued on the advice of the technical advisory committee consisting of experts, after examining the situation, and if things are under control by April 20, activities will be allowed to resume."The government is not happy by restricting activities.I have been requesting through the media for the last one month that a second wave is at our doorstep and if we don't understand and take precautionary measures, the government will have no other options and may have to take serious measures," Sudhakar said.Speaking to reporters here, he said Karnataka was the first state to resume all the business activities, but the state is today reporting about 5,000 cases per day and 3,500 of them are from Bengaluru alone."The technical advisory committee has said this will be there for another two months, till the May end and the graph will start declining from June first week.If we don't take measures and something untoward happens, won't it be the government's responsibility?" he asked.Aimed at curbing Covid-19 with the spike in cases, the government on Friday in a new set of guidelines had ordered the closure of gyms and swimming pools while capping the seating capacity in theatres at 50 per cent in certain districts.It has also ordered apartment complexes to shut common facilities such as party halls and clubhouses.The new restrictions imposed by the government through the guidelines will be in force till April 20.Noting that the government has issued guidelines after getting several reports from the technical advisory committee, and after consulting senior officials and ministers, Sudhakar said it was not done at one go."People from several sectors are saying their activities should not be restricted and should go on freely. Yes, we (govt) too understand, but things should not go out of our control, so it was inevitable for the government to take certain strict measures.We request for cooperation from everyone," he said.The Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce has decided to meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to bring to his notice about the impact of capping the seating capacity in theatres at 50 per cent, on the industry, and is likely to seek relaxation so that it doesn't impact films that have just been released.Also, gym owners have demanded the government to reconsider the decision or allow them to operate with 50 per cent capacity or announce a package so that they can make payment for staff and use it for maintenance.There is pressure from some private schools to allow them to function, similar is the demand from gym, swimming pool and club owners, also people want to hold marriages with large gatherings, the Minister said."These measures are not permanent, let's follow these temporary measures for some days... I'm not saying it (Covid- 19 spread) can be controlled 100 percent by these measures, but we can try to bring things under control," he said.Responding to a question, the Minister said there are guidelines for elections, and religious places too, there is no concession for any sector or activities."The government is only trying to control this pandemic that's all, there is no politics or any malicious intent behind this," he said, as he evaded questions on night curfew or weekend lockdown stating that he doesn't want to speak on what measures will be taken in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-health-minister-says-no-relaxation-in-new-covid-19-guidelines-101617445283478.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: More than 1,000 fined for three days in a row for violating Covid norms||Delhi Police on Saturday said it penalised at least 12,000 people in the last two weeks for not following Covid-19 preventive measures as cases continue to rise across the Capital. The police issued 11,800 challans in the last two weeks to people for flouting the face mask rule and 125 people were fined during the same period for not adhering to social distancing rules.The police also said that in the last 15 days at least 842 people have been fined per day for flouting the face mask rule. The Delhi Police said that earlier in March, 272 people per day were fined for flouting the face mask rule, marking a steep rise in the number of violations.Delhi Police data showed that between March 10 to March 19, a total of 2,720 challans were issued to people for flouting the face mask rule but the number rose to 11,800 between March 20 and April 2. The number of people fined for violating the social distancing measures between March 20 and April 2 rose to 125 while earlier, between March 10 and March 19, 33 people were issued challans.The Delhi Police also said that more than 1,000 people have been fined in the last three days for not wearing masks. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer (PRO) Chinmoy Biswal said strict action is being taken against violators in the Capital in the interest of the public as cases are rising. “We are taking strong action by sensitising and prosecuting the violators in the interest of the public. We have enhanced the checking and issuing challans to people who are not following the Covid-19 norms since cases are again rising in the national Capital,” Biswal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.According to data shared by the Delhi Police, 536,256 people have been fined since June 15 for not wearing masks and 38,631 people have been fined for not adhering to social distancing protocols. The Delhi Police have issued 578,324 challans since June 15.Delhi reported 3,594 cases of Covid-19 on Friday recording the highest daily count this year. The city’s death toll touched 11,050 with 14 fresh fatalities.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-more-than-1-000-fined-for-three-days-in-a-row-for-violating-covid-norms-101617445790955.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Learning pet etiquette a must to avoid conflict with co-residents in societies||Discord between pet owners and their fellow residents is a recurring issue in Noida, often spoiling neighbourly goodwill. It is often triggered over minor episodes such as a pet scaring a neighbour or late-night barking by a pet dog disturbing neighbour’s sleep or even over an overturned or broken flowerpot.For any pet-parent, their pet is no less than a child, but for others, it is an animal, often a source of inconvenience to others.According to the Animal Welfare Board of India guidelines: “A pet is akin to a perennial toddler and therefore deserves the same attention throughout its life as is reserved for a human toddler during infancy”. It is therefore important to understand the pet etiquettes that must be followed for their smooth parenting.“Whenever someone adopts a dog from us, we ensure that we tell them all the dos and don’ts of raising a pet. No one will tolerate it if you take your dog out and let them poop wherever they want and then don’t clean after. Such issues can then escalate within the community,” says Kaveri Rana from People for Animals, Gautam Buddh Nagar chapter.Srishti Sharma, a certified dog trainer from Delhi, conducts pet etiquette sessions daily.“A pet is only as good as its parents. So, both require training. I organise various workshops and online courses where the owners are taught how to handle their dogs under different situations and their various responsibilities towards their pet and the society so that all can co-exist,” says Srishti.Pet parents agree that following certain etiquettes not only help them keep the pet’s behaviour in check, but also help them live in harmony with others.“I took up the classes because I want to be able to understand my pet and its body language in order for it to feel safe and calm when in public. No pet parent wants their pet to be a nuisance to others. All of us want to be able to coexist in the same environment,” says Gyandeep Chaudhary, a resident of Gaur Saundaryam in Greater Noida West, who has two dogs. “Before my classes with Srishti, I was not aware that many of my actions, which I thought were right, were actually training my dog to be more aggressive. For instance, when he would bark at someone, we would comfort him to stop but after training we got to know that we were actually encouraging him to bark at strangers by patting him.”Anubha Majethia, who has a pet Basset Hound named Elvis, says learning her pet’s body language has helped her keep trouble at bay.“There are some particular body language characteristics that can tell us what the pet is feeling. For instance, often when I take Elvis for a walk, some kids want to pet him. But instead of letting the kids have their way, I first check how my pet is feeling. If his tail is between his legs and he shows his teeth or growls, it means he is not comfortable and I ask the kids to step aside. On the other hand, if Elvis is wagging his tail and wants to just sniff the other person, I let him do that because I understand that he is comfortable and wouldn’t harm anyone,” says Anubha, a resident of Great Value Sharnam apartments in Sector 107, Noida.Noida Sector 48 resident Rita Arya, who has a Pug Simba, recalls how one of her neighbours – also a pet owner- was not aware of the ‘scoop after your pet poops’ rule.“It was embarrassing to see that RWA was blaming all pet owners living in the area for mess created by one person who wasn’t aware of a simple pet etiquette. I took it upon myself to teach the person that it is our responsibility to clean up after our pets relieve themselves in public. The pet owner was quick to learn and there were no complaints thereafter,” she says.Another Noida resident Neelam Aggarwal who has a Labrador named Tutu adds that pet owners take every precaution to ensure their pet does not create a problem for others.“A key issue that comes up with pets is that the people around get scared by the pet walking around and react which often ticks off the poor dog. As a rule, I ensure my dog is always on leash and if someone is passing by, I keep Tutu several metres away. We also pick up poop and throw into a designated dustbin in a well-packed manner,” she says.Resident welfare association (RWA) members also feel that if pet owners follow the simple etiquettes, there will not be much left for others to complain about.“The major issue is that many owners still do not know about the rule of scooping after their pet is done. However, gradually such complaints have gone down as pet owners have become aware of their responsibilities. Hygiene is very important whether you are a pet owner or not. Even if they go outside, they should always scoop after their pet,” says Rajiva Singh, President, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association.A set of pet etiquettes as per experts and trained professionals:1. Always make sure to walk your dog on leash in public places, no matter how well-trained your dog is. Do not let them loose with other dogs they haven’t met before. Just because your dog is friendly, doesn’t mean other dogs will be.2. Always make sure to pick up your dog’s poop. This is another major reason why many societies do not allow dogs in the park, making it difficult for pet owners to exercise them.3. Teach your dog loose leash walking. Any person who is not confident with dogs will easily get uncomfortable around one, who is constantly pulling and lunging at people passing by.4. Teach obedience. Ensure that you start working on your dog’s obedience as soon you get them home, which includes both indoor and outdoor training.5. Timely vaccinations and regular grooming to ensure the well-being of your pet.6. Regular exposure to different places and working on your pet’s obedience in each new location helps boost their confidence ensuring a well-behaved and balanced dog.7. Take help from a professional for any issue regarding your pet which you are unable to deal with. It is always best to start early as soon you sense a new or bad behavior/habit.What the Animal Welfare Board says on guidelines for pet owners:1. No amount of pressure should lead to abandonment of a pet animal. Doing so is a violation of law.2. Barking is a natural form of expression of a dog and has to be tolerated in a society. However, incessant barking can disturb neighbours. Hence, pet owners are advised to make every effort to keep their dogs quiet, particularly during night hours.3. Pet owners are advised to ensure that their pets are healthy and clean. Their vaccinations should be up to date. Sterilization is advised as India has excessive dog population.4. Pet owners are advised to either clean up when the pet defecates in public premises or participate in other solutions to maintain cleanliness. Pet owners are advised to take the initiative to discuss with their RWAs, ways and means to dispose pet excreta.5. Leashing of pets in public places is advisable. It assures passersby that they are safe and makes them feel more comfortable when walking in the vicinity of an owner with his pet or dog on a leash. Leashing also ensures the safety of the pet from being run over by vehicles on streets, or worse still, being the cause of accidents.6. Whereas you cannot be debarred by RWAs from the use of lifts or elevators for your dogs, you are advised not to object to the use of ‘alternate’ lifts if there is more than one working lift or elevator in a building which is conveniently accessible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/learning-pet-etiquette-a-must-to-avoid-conflict-with-co-residents-in-societies-101617446168033.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab jail, Mukhtar Ansari gets summons from UP court||In a new twist to the Mukhtar Ansari case, a special court of Mau district in Uttar Pradesh has summoned the gangster-turned-BSP MLA, lodged in Punjab’s Ropar Central Jail, on April 13. A Mau police team visited the jail on Saturday morning to deliver the summons. Also read: Mohali court rejects Mukhtar Ansari’s plea for medical examinationAnsari is in the jail since January 2019 and undergoing trial for extortion and criminal intimidation on the complaint of a Mohali-based builder. The UP Police on Thursday night registered an FIR in Barabanki district against the owner of a private hospital in Mau after documents of an Uttar Pradesh registration bullet-proof luxury ambulance, which was used to take Ansari from Ropar jail to a Mohali court on Wednesday, were found to be fake. On March 26, the Supreme Court ordered shifting him to Banda prison within a fortnight. The court ruling came as a victory for the Uttar Pradesh government, which made marathon efforts to get him back so that he can be tried for the criminal cases against him. The UP government has been carrying out an extensive drive to demolish Ansari’s network in the state and has seized or demolished property worth ₹200 crore illegally occupied by him and his gang members. Several of his alleged gang members and aides have been gunned down or arrested since March 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-jail-mukhtar-ansari-gets-summons-from-up-court-101617444787821.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||In Ambani security threat probe, NIA now seizes a Mercedes||Another vehicle has been brought to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) office as a part of the ongoing probe into the Antilia bomb scare case.According to NIA sources, a white Mercedes was brought to the NIA office on Friday as a part of the investigation.Meanwhile, suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, whose NIA custody will end today, will be produced before the Special NIA court on Saturday.The NIA last Sunday had taken Vaze to the bridge over the Mithi river in connection with the probe of Mansukh Hiran's death case.The NIA divers had recovered computer CPUs, two number plates carrying the same registration number, and other items from the Mithi river in Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex.Hiran, the owner of the vehicle that was found containing explosives materials outside the house of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani, was found dead on March 5 in Thane. Investigation into his death was being probed by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), till the MHA handed over the probe to the NIA.Vaze, Assistant Police Inspector in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) who was in charge of the Hiran case, was in NIA custody till March 25, for his alleged role and involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of Ambani. Later his custody was extended till April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-ambani-security-threat-probe-nia-now-seizes-a-mercedes-101617442148247.html
03-04-2021||Bangalore||Cong's DK Shivakumar says Eshwarappa should be sacked for complaining against CM Yediyurappa to Karnataka governor||The Karnataka Congress President, DK Shivakumar on Saturday said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa should sack Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa forthwith if he still claims that he is running a stable administration. He was talking to reporters at the Mangaluru airport on his way to campaign for assembly elections in Kerala. Shivakumar said it is a serious matter that a minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet has complained to the Governor against the Chief Minister.The CM should sack him immediately or Eshwarappa should submit his resignation voluntarily, he said. Eshwarappa had on Wednesday complained to the Governor against Chief Minister Yediyurappa, alleging direct interference in the affairs of his department. The KPCC Chief said if Eshwarappa had written about his lack of confidence in the CM to the party leadership, it can be considered as their internal matter. But he has written to the constitutional head of the state. Shivakumar alleged that the administration has collapsed in the state. The guidelines issued to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state defies logic and is not practical, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congs-dk-shivakumar-says-cm-yediyurappa-should-sack-minister-ks-eshwarappa-101617440102848.html
03-04-2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar sends officials to Nawada to probe alleged hooch tragedy||A team of officials has been dispatched from here to Nawada for looking into the recent deaths in the central Bihar district after alleged consumption of spurious liquor, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said on Friday. Kumar was replying to queries from journalists about the death of at least eight persons in the days following Holi festivities. Family members of many of the deceased have alleged that the deaths had occurred following consumption of spurious liquor, triggering a furore since Bihar has been a dry state for the past five years. Officials, while confirming the deaths, have remained tight-lipped over the probable cause. Opposition has also trained its guns at the administration, questioning the governments enforcement of prohibition. "A special team of officials has been sent there with instructions to look into each and every aspect. Based upon their inputs, adequate action will be taken", Kumar said. He spoke after flagging off a bus carrying 21 children, along with their guardians, to Ahmedabad for treatment of congenital heart diseases. The children were aged between four months and 11 years and the cost of their treatment, including travel expenses was being borne by the state government, Kumar said. The endeavour was a part of "Bal Hridaya Yojana", that seeks to screen children for heart diseases so that treatment could take place early. The scheme falls under "sabke liye atirikt swasthya suvidha" (better health facilities to all) a component of Saat Nishchay 2 (seven resolves second part) that outline the governments agenda in the current term. The first part of seven resolves was unrolled in 2015, when Kumar, now in his fourth term as Chief Minister, had got re-elected for the third consecutive tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-sends-officials-to-nawada-to-probe-alleged-hooch-tragedy-101617439355112.html
03-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal polls: 'Catch us if you can', says Derek O'Brien to BJP||"Catch us if you can," said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O'Brien on Saturday responding to BJP President JP Nadda's claim that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led TMC is losing the assembly elections in West Bengal.Addressing the media, the TMC leader said "Mo-Shah" (Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister Amit Shah) are aware of the 'grim' situation of the party in the state after the first two phases of polling, and that is why they are playing 'mind games'."I am amused by the mind game of Mo-Shah. Overall in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamool had 3 per cent advantage in spite of all the big talks from the tourist gang. Trinamool has substantially built on that lead in 2021, so catch us if you can," he said."My sources in Delhi told me that Mo-Shah plus the BJP president have reviewed the situation in Bengal, and know that situation is grim after phase one and two. That is why they are using this mind game strategy. Though it won't work," O'Brien added.He added that TMC has gained 6 per cent advantage over other parties in the ongoing polls in the state.On BJP's claim of Mamata Banerjee looking for another constituency to contest as she might lose from Nandigram, O'Brien said, "We have won Nandigram. There is no other constituency and it's all BJP's mind games."Earlier today, BJP President JP Nadda claimed that people from TMC had told him that Mamata Banerjee is looking for another seat to contest as she is going to lose against former ally Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. He also extruded confidence that BJP would win the assembly polls in West Bengal. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-polls-catch-us-if-you-can-says-derek-o-brien-to-bjp-101617439654011.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||President Kovind ‘improving continuously’, shifted from ICU: Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind was on Saturday shifted to a special room from the intensive care unit (ICU) at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi and his health has been “improving continuously” after undergoing a cardiac bypass surgery earlier this week, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. “President Kovind was shifted from the ICU to a special room in the AIIMS today. His health has been improving continuously. Doctors are constantly monitoring his condition and have advised him to take rest,” Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.President Kovind was shifted from the ICU to a special room in the AIIMS today. His health has been improving continuously. Doctors are constantly monitoring his condition and have advised him to take rest.President Kovind underwent cardiac bypass surgery at AIIMS successfully on Tuesday. The 75-year-old President underwent a health check-up at the Indian Army’s R&R Hospital last Friday after he complained of discomfort in his chest and was later shifted to AIIMS. On Thursday, the President said he is recovering well after his bypass surgery and thanked doctors and caregivers. He tweeted to say he was touched by messages from citizens and leaders from across the country and abroad wishing him a speedy recovery. "I've been recovering well after the bypass surgery, thanks to the amazing dedication of the doctors and caregivers. I'm touched by messages, from citizens and leaders from India and abroad, wishing me speedy recovery. It’s difficult to express in words my gratitude to you all!" he posted on Twitter.Political leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh and, Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama wished him well after his successful bypass surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/president-kovind-improving-continuously-shifted-from-icu-rashtrapati-bhavan-101617431057094.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tremors in Lahaul and Spiti, no casualty||Tremors measuring 3 on the Richter scale occurred in Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh at 12.10am on Saturday. The epicentre was at a depth of 20km, according to the Shimla Meteorological Centre. District authorities said there was no casualty or damage to property reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tremors-in-lahaul-and-spiti-no-casualty-101617430867066.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala farmer murdered over money dispute at Tikri border||A 26-year-old farmer from Barnala in Punjab was beaten to death by another resident of his native village over a monetary dispute at Delhi’s Tikri border on the outskirts of Bahadurgarh on Friday night. Police said both the victim, Gurpreet Singh, and the attacker, Ranbir Singh, were protesting against the farm laws at Tikri and the incident occurred in their tent near Kasar village. “They had an argument over money exchange and Ranbir beat up Gurpreet with a lathi. Other protesters camping at the site rushed to Gurpreet’s rescue and got him admitted to the civil hospital in Bahadurgarh, where he died,” said Jai Bhagwan, the station house officer of Sector 6, Bahadurgarh. A search is on for Ranbir, who fled after committing the crime. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the victim’s uncle, Nahar Singh. This is the second murder at the Tikri protest site in a month. A 60-year-old farmer, Hakkam Singh, was stabbed to death at the protest site in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-farmer-murdered-over-money-dispute-at-tikri-border-101617430447291.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 190,000 Covid-19 cases this week||Maharashtra is bearing the brunt of India’s second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as cases continue to rise across the country. The western state, which tops the infection tally among all states and Union territories, also has the highest caseload of active Covid-19 infections. The state is also contributing nearly 60% of India’s daily cases of the viral disease.Here’s a look at Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers from this week:1. On Monday and Tuesday, there were relatively lesser new Covid-19 cases, with fewer tests done due to the festival of Holi, on March 29. On Monday, Maharashtra’s infection tally rose by 31,643 cases while there were 27,918 infections a day later. Related fatalities on the two days were 102 and 139 respectively.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage2. Cases rose again on Wednesday, with 39,544 infections being detected on the day. A day later, the state breached 40,000-mark for the first time, with its tally rising by 43,183 cases. On March 31, the viral disease claimed 227 lives while 249 people succumbed to it the following day.3. Then, on Friday, Maharashtra broke all records, witnessing 47,827 cases even as the number of new fatalities fell slightly to 202. At present, its infection tally stands at 2,904,076 while the related death toll has risen to 55,379. The active caseload, meanwhile, is 389,832.4. From March 29-April 2, a total of 190,115 infections were recorded in the state, while there were 919 deaths in the same period. In comparison, in the first five days this week, the corresponding figure was 158,053 and 234,193 overall.5. Mumbai is also witnessing a record surge of infections as more than 8,000 cases have been detected in the city in the last two days. On Thursday, the state capital tally’s rose by 8,646 and, a day later, by 8,844, its highest rise in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic.Also Read | Mumbai records 8,844 new Covid cases6. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state Friday night, saying that if the current spike continues, “a decision would have to be taken on the lockdown.” While Thackeray has warned of a lockdown on several occasions, he is yet to impose one.Also Read | Maharashtra is on verge of a complete lockdown: CM7. The chief minister is inclining towards an “alternative to the lockdown.” He said he would consult political leaders and experts over the next two days and take a decision on the issue.8. The city of Pune will observe a 12-hour daily night curfew from 6pm on Saturday, and the situation will be reviewed next Friday. During this period, all bars, restaurants, hotels, religious places will remain closed while all public gatherings, except funerals and weddings, are prohibited.Also Read | Pune curfew to start from today; restaurants, bars, malls to be shut for a week9. Pune district has the highest active Covid-19 caseload in the country, and several other districts from Maharashtra, including Mumbai, are in the top 10 nationally.10. Covid-19 related restrictions in Maharashtra have already been extended till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-190-000-covid-19-cases-this-week-101617424157387.html
03-04-2021||Jaipur||Boy handed over to Pakistan after inadvertently crossing over to India||An eight-year-old boy was handed over to Pakistani authorities after he inadvertently crossed the border between the two countries and entered India on Friday evening.ML Garg, deputy inspector general of Border Security Force (Gujarat Frontier), said the boy started crying and he was given chocolates and food when border guards found him on the Indian side in Barmer.The boy was identified as Karim, a resident of Nagar Parkar in Pakistan.Garg said they held a meeting with the Pakistani border guarding force before handing over the boy to them.Gemararam Meghwal, 19, from Barmer crossed the border on November 4 last year and is now stranded in Pakistan. Meghwal is believed to be in the custody of Pakistani’s Sindh police. Officials said efforts were on for his repatriation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/boy-handed-over-to-pakistan-after-inadvertently-crossing-over-to-india-101617421266834.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||13 Stephen’s students, 2 staff turn Covid-19 positive, college trip under lens||At least 13 students and two staff members of Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s College tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday morning, leading to enforcement of stringent Covid-19 protocols on the campus and questions if a college trip—suspected to be the reason behind the infections-- organised in late March was done without relevant permissions, said college authorities and staff.A member of the college’s governing body on Friday wrote to the principal questioning the timing of the trip.”Why was this trip organised by the college officials in the times of Covid pandemic? Was the permission of the University of Delhi and the State Government taken for organising such a trip in pandemic times?,” asked the letter.In response, college principal John K Varghese confirmed that the dean of residence and the security in-charge of the college, who accompanied the students on the trip, had also tested positive. The principal said the trip was organised after parents’ consent. “Please be informed that the Dean’s Office is aware of the situation and necessary steps have already been taken in consultation with medical and civic authorities,” he said.A college staff requesting anonymity said around two dozen hostel students returned from the trip to Dalhousie, organised by the college, on March 31 and were tested after developing symptoms.The development came on the day when the national capital reported over 3,500 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths with a daily positivity rate of 4.11%. The Delhi government has said that the fourth wave of the infection is underway in the national Capital but chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has ruled out imposing lockdown in the capital, however, experts feel regions such as Delhi, which are witnessing a rapid surge in cases, need to impose restrictions before it is too late.The college, earlier on Friday, announced that thirteen hostellers had tested positive, following which the dean’s office had put in place “necessary and stringent measures to ensure isolation and social distancing for all residents with the usual Covid protocols.”The college said its “inner perimeter” will be kept out of bounds for everyone on the campus “unless specific clearance was given by the principal.” The outer perimeter may be accessed “by those with relevant and regular work after due process at the security counter.”“Faculty who are scheduled to come to college may defer their coming till a notification informs them of an improvement in the situation. There is no reason for panic and please await further information on the situation…” Principal Varghese said in the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13-stephen-s-students-turn-covid-19-positive-stringent-restrictions-on-campus-101617419406669.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Pune curfew to start from today; restaurants, bars, malls to be shut for a week||Authorities in Maharashtra’s Pune, hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, will clamp a 12-hour night curfew from Saturday and shut down bars, hotels and restaurants for the next seven days in the district in an attempt to limit transmission. The administration introduced stricter restrictions on Friday in the district after more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases were reported in the two consecutive days.Pune’s Covid-19 cases rose by 9,086 in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day addition in the district so far, taking its tally to 551,508, data showed on Friday. There were 58 fatalities, taking the overall toll to 10,097, and 3,337 coronavirus disease patients were discharged. Pune city accounted for 4,653 of the new cases, and its tally stands at 278,099.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said a curfew will be in place across the district from 6pm to 6am, and malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will also be shut during this seven-day period. Rao said that essential services have been exempted from the curfew. “These stricter restrictions will be applicable for seven days from Saturday. As part of it, there will be a curfew from 6pm to 6am. Eateries, bars and restaurants will remain closed but home delivery of food will continue," Rao said, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Hoteliers, MCCIA, trade association unhappy with new restrictions in PuneThe senior official said that all public gatherings, except weddings and last rite rituals, have been banned in the district. He added that only 50 people will be allowed to attend a wedding and only 20 people can remain present for the last rites. The assembly of more than four people has been prohibited during the day as well.Rao said buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) will not operate for seven days. Intra-city buses will, however, continue to run for those engaged in essential services. State transport bus service and inter-district travel has been permitted. He also said that schools and colleges will remain closed till April 30. "Only the students of Classes 10 and 12, and the candidates preparing for MPSC exam will be allowed to carry out their regular academic activities," he added.Also read | Pune University online exams to begin on April 10, issues guidelines for studentCoaching classes for competitive examination will be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity and the same rule will be applicable to gyms. Swimming pools and clubhouses in societies have been asked to remain shut for now. Gardens will be opened only in the morning. Weekly markets in rural areas of the district and parts of the city have been asked to close but the Market Yard at Gultekdi will be operational."The situation in Pune district has been deteriorating. Until last week, Pune’s positivity rate was up to 27 per cent. But this week the positivity rate has reached 32 per cent," Rao said.Rao said experts have assessed that the district will surpass the 9,000-mark in the next two days if this growth rate does not change. The situation will be reviewed after seven days and further decision will be taken, the official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-curfew-to-start-from-today-restaurants-bars-malls-to-be-shut-for-a-week-101617418672474.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Interview: Illegal intrusions in state not acceptable, says Anil Vij||Firebrand Haryana home minister Anil Vij whose frequent run-ins with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar often make headlines, on Friday said there are occasions when they have differences of opinion, but it is the view of the chief minister which would always prevail. Vij on Friday spoke to Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak and Assistant Editor Hitender Rao on a range of issues including his relationship with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, the need for an anti-conversion law, sloppy police investigations, transfer of investigations from one district to another and farmers’ agitation. Excerpts: You are among the handful of politicians who have independently held the home portfolio in Haryana? How challenging has been this assignment? The home department has generally remained with the chief minister. Officials initially found it difficult to report to a home minister instead of the chief minister. There are many challenges, such as controlling organised crime, checking the proliferation of narcotics, improving the working condition of cops. Which one needs top priority?People should get quick relief. What I have found is that pendency has increased in many districts as the police failed to work out cases of crime. If this happens, public lose confidence in the system. The day people stop queuing up outside my house with complaints, I will acknowledge that police is performing. District police chiefs need to move out of offices and visit at least one police station a week. But why is the crime investigation rate unsatisfactory? Sloppiness and lack of follow-up are two major reasons. Cops should be held accountable for cases which are pending for years. People suffer due to slackness. The image of the police also needs a makeover. It needs to be people-friendly and improve public confidence. How do you view the increase in the incidence of crime against women in the last few years? This can be due to lack of a deterrent effect and also due to the patriarchal mindset in the state. You keep on having run-ins with the chief minister. And these things become public. Does the party high command approve such episodes in public?We do have difference of opinion at times on some issues. It happens at times. I am entitled to my views and always like to articulate my views. I have a good relationship with the chief minister. We are on good talking terms. But you often end up being overruled by the CM. Do you seek the intervention of party high command?The view of the chief minister would always prevail. I do apprise the party high command of my viewpoint or difference of opinion. Why there is a need to have an anti-conversion law in Haryana? Does it not infringe upon liberty and privacy of individuals?I know about cases where religious conversions were either attempted or took place forcibly, fraudulently or using allurement. We strongly feel there is a need for such a law. Nikita Tomar case is a case in point. The proposed law has a provision for sanctioning of consensual inter-faith marriages. What effect will the 75% private sector job quota have on the industry in the state? The RSS is opposed to this idea. Being a part of the cabinet, I would not like to comment on this. I was a part of the decision to roll out this law. The RSS is an independent body and entitled to its views. It’s not necessary for the Sangh to approve or support our actions. Why were you seeking the ouster of the incumbent DGP? Are there any differences?There are no differences. The DGP was appointed for two years. Once the term gets completed it was my duty to start the process for appointment of the new DGP. I only did that. But he was already granted an extension of tenure much before his two-year term ended?That extension was given by the state government till a new arrangement is made. A proposal containing names of officers eligible for appointment as the DGP has been sent to the chief minister. But the CM is not in favour of replacing the DGP?Well, he is the chief minister,and he may have a view on this. I would not like to comment on whether the DGP should be given extension or not. It is often alleged that a group of IPS officers influence your decision making? No one can influence me. I make my own decisions. What’s your stand regarding the Rohingya Muslim migrants in Haryana? You recently said India is not a dharamshala. Our information is that there are about 1,500 Rohingya Muslim migrants putting up in Nuh. Some Delhi-based NGOs are supporting them financially and help them inhabit. These NGOs get them asylee certification from the UN. So, there is a bigger gameplan at work, and we are in the process of identifying them and check their plans. Does this not smack of BJP’s Hindutva, anti-minority agenda? It’s not. Rather it is a nationalistic agenda. The district SP has been asked to submit a report to me after studying each case of Rohingya Muslim migrant. How well has the law on cow slaughter worked for the state government? There has been a drastic reduction in cases of cow slaughter. The law has proved to be effective. How’s your relationship with the deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. It is said that you are out to fix him — be it the liquor smuggling during lockdown or the hooch deaths. I have a very good equation with Dushyant and his father Ajay Singh. It’s not right to say that I have gone after him. If hooch deaths have taken place, they need to be investigated. Whatever comes out in an investigation has to be dealt with. I have nothing against anyone. The SIT probing the liquor smuggling had blamed both the police department as well as the excise. How do you view the threat to ruling coalition MLAs by protesting farmers? Even INLD leader Abhay Chautala made a provocative statement recently.Everyone has a right to protest but not to infringe upon the liberty of others. Others are also entitled to their viewpoint. It’s an agitation, not a brawl. Abhay Singh’s remarks are unfortunate. We have arrested a farmer leader who made a similar statement. With farmers laying siege to the national capital, do you foresee a potential law and order fallout?It should not happen. We have been telling farmer leaders also that it should remain an agitation and not a law and order problem. You have been ordering transfer of criminal investigations from one district to another. Is there a law to back your actions?Often the complainant is not satisfied with the investigations in a case. Thus, we get the investigation transferred. There is no legal hitch in doing this. The high court recently decried the move of state governments in ordering parallel investigations by setting up SITs and the state government does this frequently. How would you justify this? That’s not a parallel investigation. The case actually gets transferred to the special investigation team (SIT). For instance, the hooch tragedy was investigated by the police initially. But once the SIT was formed, all the cases were transferred to the SIT. What role has the police played in the pandemic?The police have the power to challan people who do not wear a mask. As per the latest data, the police have earned a revenue of about ₹50 crore by challaning mask violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interview-illegal-intrusions-in-state-not-acceptable-says-anil-vij-101617395465235.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||4th wave in Delhi, says CM Kejriwal, but holds off on Covid-19 curbs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday admitted that the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was raging in the Capital, but did not impose a lockdown or any curbs to control the spike on a day the city reported 3,594 cases, an alarming jump of about 30% over the previous day’s infection tally.Experts said Delhi’s strategy could fall well short of an effective mechanism to stop the pandemic, even as several other parts of the country considered stringent curbs to contain the fresh wave; Pune shut eateries, bars and restaurants for seven days in view of the spike. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state may face a shortage in health care infrastructure if the “alarming situation” continued, adding that stricter curbs will be imposed in a day or two.Experts have consistently recommended against a lockdown, but believe that regions seeing a surge in cases, such as Delhi, need to impose restrictions before it is too late, even as they try to accelerate vaccinations. Both, they stress, are important.Fresh waves in several parts of the India and the world have been worse than the previous surges, with mutating variants of the virus proving to be a bigger threat than the initial ballooning of the pandemic.“For the rest of the country, one may call it the second wave. But for Delhi, this is the fourth wave. We are heading towards the fourth peak. This wave is witnessing exponential increase in cases and spreading very fast. It is concerning but there is nothing to panic because this wave is also less severe in terms of number of deaths and cases that require hospitalisation, admission to ICU, etc,” Kejriwal said at a digital news briefing. The Delhi CM’s remarks came after he chaired an emergency meeting with health minister Satyendar Jain and senior officials in the health department.He also asked the Centre to remove the eligibility criteria for vaccines (currently those over the age of 45), opening up the inoculation drive to everyone.Delhi reported its first wave in June, the second in September and the third in November, which has been the worst so far, with the highest case tally of 8,593.On Friday, there were 89,030 new infections reported across India, the highest single-day increase since September 19. India’s highest single-day caseload was 99,181 on September 1, according to the HT Covid-19 dashboard.The Delhi chief minister said that while there was no plan for immediate curbs, people will be consulted if such a move was considered in the future.“Around October last year, when Delhi was recording 3,000-4,000 new cases each day, ICU admissions were around 1,700 – against that, around 800 people are in the ICU currently. Similarly, we were recording around 40 deaths per day then. Currently, we are recording around 10-12 deaths a day. This wave is evidently less severe compared to the old ones and the home isolation model is working well,” Kejriwal said.India is in the grip of a second wave, and case and death numbers are certain to rise through April in what is going to be a race between the virus and the vaccine. India’s vaccine drive has seen a slow start, relative to the size of the country and the number of people that need to be vaccinated.Kejriwal appealed to the people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and regularly wash hands to prevent getting infected.The chief minister said efforts were being made to ramp up the health care infrastructure to stop the surge. If the Centre allowed vaccination at non-health care facilities such as schools, immunisation can be taken up on a war footing to check the spread of the virus, he added.“I appreciate the Centre’s decision to operationalise both public and private sector Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) on all days of the month of April. However, I urge the government to remove the clause of vaccinating only those people aged above 45 years. I request the Centre to start the vaccination drive at a mass-scale,” the CM said.He also appealed to the government to allow the vaccination drive to be conducted in schools and community centres so that a larger number of people can be reached out.A little over a month ago, Delhi reported 94 cases on February 16. The positivity rate that day was 0.17%. On Friday, it was 4.11%.“At the current juncture, there is no plan to impose any lockdown. We are monitoring the situation. In the future, if needed, we will talk to people and only then take decisions. For ambulances, hospital beds, ICU beds and ventilators, we have made a detailed plan in a phased manner. It will guide us on when to increase beds in government hospitals, when in private hospitals, etc,” said the Kejriwal.“At this juncture, we have three broad objectives. How to arrest the spread of the disease at the earliest; we will aggressively follow the test, tracing, isolation strategy and scale up containment efforts.However, the biggest role is that of the people of Delhi. We have fought three earlier waves. We can do it again. I appeal to people to wear masks, adhere to social distancing and wash hands regularly. These are our biggest protection. The second objective is hospital management, for which we have chalked out a detailed plan today.”He added: “Third is vaccination. The government has now allowed all people aged over 45 years to be vaccinated. Delhi’s vaccination capacity is now 96,000 and yesterday (Thursday), we vaccinated around 71,000 people. But, in Delhi, we are facing some problems. We are not being able to open more vaccine centres because of strict guidelines of the central government. They allow vaccine centres to be set up in only hospitals. We urge the central government to be lenient in this matter. We can make all arrangements for emergencies. Also, vaccination should now be open for all, irrespective of age. I hope the central government will consider it.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “Looking into the current trends, some curbs, especially those targeting large gatherings, especially in closed spaces, should have been good at this point. People have to be more alert now and the government must scale up enforcement against violation of rules concerning face masks and social distancing. If such steps are not taken, things can get worse in the coming days. The current measures are evidently not enough. Delhi has to aggressively scale up tests, tracing, isolation, containment and vaccination efforts.”Delhi, which was one of the earliest hot spots in India’s Covid-19 outbreak, is the only region in the country that has reported three distinct waves of infections and is in its fourth wave. The first started in mid-June last year, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This receded by the end of July when it dropped to around 1,000 daily cases. The second wave started at the end of August, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17. This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, before the onset of the third wave. The third wave raged through October and November.With inputs from Anonna Dutt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4th-wave-in-delhi-says-cm-kejriwal-but-holds-off-on-covid-19-curbs-101617394765926.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Registration begins for Amarnath Yatra||Registration for the annual pilgrimage to the Himalayan cave shrine of Amarnath from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal, which began on Friday, has garnered an enthusiastic response. The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high shrine is scheduled to start simultaneously from both the routes on June 28 and will culminate on August 22. Devotees can register themselves through 446 designated bank branches across the country — 316 branches of Punjab National Bank, 90 of Jammu and Kashmir Bank and 40 YES Bank branches. At PNB’s Rehari branch in Jammu, devotees turned up in large numbers to submit their forms. Rajinder Kumar, 39, a first-timer, plans to undertake the arduous pilgrimage through the shorter Baltal route. “I am mentally prepared and look forward to undertake this pious pilgrimage. I got myself medically examined at the Sarwal Government Hospital and came to the bank branch to register,” said Rajinder, who will be part of the first batch. Another pilgrim, Vishal Sharma, 27, said he was eagerly waiting to pay obeisance at the cave shrine. “Five of us will be going to the cave shrine. We will make sure we follow all Covid protocols,” he said. Undeterred by threat perception On the threat perception in view of spike in terror attacks in Kashmir, Sharma said, “Come what may, we will pay our respects at the shrine. We are confident of a terror-free pilgrimage because our security forces are working round-the-clock for our safety.” The annual pilgrimage had been cancelled in 2020 because of the coronavirus pandemic and curtailed in 2019 ahead of revocation of Article 370. As many as 3,42,883 people had visited the cave shrine in 2019.In 2018, a total of 2,85,006 pilgrims had undertaken the pilgrimage. This year, the government is making arrangements for six lakh pilgrims. Thousands of pilgrims either trek the traditional and longer 45-km Pahalgam route in Anantnag district or the shorter 14m Baltal route in Ganderbal district to the holy shrine. Shiv Sena demands toll tax exemption The Shiv Sena has appealed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to exempt visiting pilgrims from paying toll tax at the five toll plazas on Lakhanpur-Jammu-Srinagar highway. “The visiting yatris should be exempted from paying toll at the five toll plazas on the highway as the Covid lockdown has hit the common man,” said a party leader. He also demanded that the Banihal-Qazigund tunnel be opened before the annual pilgrimage and the government come up with a permanent shelter for the pilgrims at the Baltal base camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/registration-begins-for-amarnath-yatra-101617394325086.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab govt, ADGP (traffic), others on plea against ‘faulty’ speed breakers||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion to the Punjab government, additional director general of police (traffic), Ludhiana police commissioner and the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) on a petition against faulty speed breakers that were allegedly resulting in road accidents. Rohit Sabharwal, an RTI activist, had moved the court seeking removal of such speed breakers across the state. He demanded that the speed breakers should be constructed as per the guidelines of the Indian Roads Congress in a way that they are visible to motorists from a distance. The petitioner stated that speed breakers are constructed to reduce the speed of vehicles and maintain an efficient traffic flow. “But illegal and faulty speed breakers are putting the lives of commuters at risk. These humps have been constructed at several points with no check on the height and width and the competent authorities have failed to take action against the same despite complaints,” he maintained.Ludhiana residents have been complaining against faulty speed breakers in Haibowal, Civil Lines, Model Town Extension, Dugri among other areas.Sabharwal also pointed out that the Bombay High Court in 2005 had dealt with a similar case and directed the Maharashtra government that all speed breakers be made as per the Indian Roads Congress specifications. The next hearing in the case was scheduled on July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-punjab-govt-adgp-traffic-others-on-plea-against-faulty-speed-breakers-101617394026161.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 517 cases, J&K sees highest single-day spike of ‘21||With 517 new virus cases, Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the highest single-day spike of the year on Friday. Five Covid-related deaths — four in the Valley and one in Jammu division, were reported in the Union Territory, taking the death toll to 2,003. Srinagar, the worst-affected district, recorded 473 deaths. Of the new cases, 421 are from Kashmir and 96 from Jammu. Srinagar recorded the highest number of cases (173), followed by Budgam (88), Baramulla (82) and Jammu (48). Over the last week, the UT has been reporting around 200 cases a day. March witnessed a 133% increase in infections as compared to February, indicative of a second wave of infections. Of the 1,31,928 infections recorded in J&K so far, 13,541 have been travellers. There are now 3, 215 active cases in the UT, officials said. There are 2,450 active cases in Kashmir division, of which 1,257 are in Srinagar.Of the 765 active cases in Jammu division, 542 are in Jammu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-517-cases-j-k-logs-highest-single-day-spike-of-21-101617393965418.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||MHA asks Punjab to act on BSF’s ‘bonded labour’ report||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has written to the Punjab government seeking action over a report of the Border Security Force (BSF) claiming that migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were being used as bonded labourers by farmers in the state’s border villages.In a letter to the Punjab chief secretary and the director general of police (DGP), the MHA cited the report that says these bonded labourers were drugged to make them work for long hours in the fields in Amritsar, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Fazilka districts. The BSF had informed the MHA that 58 such migrant labourers, who inadvertently entered the restricted areas near the India-Pakistan border in 2019 and 2020, were handed over to the Punjab Police. The letter reads, “It’s been informed that human trafficking syndicates hire such labourers from their native places on the promise of good salary. But after reaching Punjab, they are exploited, paid poorly and meted out inhuman treatment.”A senior BSF official said eight more such cases were reported this year. He added, “Most of these cases were reported in the Attari block of Amritsar district. Our personnel have been apprehending labourers from Bihar, UP, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh while roaming near the international border. During interrogation, it emerged that they were being exploited by the farmers. Some of them were found to be intoxicated. Most of the apprehended migrants were mentally ill. They used to tell that they were not aware where they were living.” These migrants were not being used for cross-border drug smuggling, he clarified.On March 13, the Amritsar (rural) police rescued two bonded migrants working in an illicit liquor manufacturing unit that was busted at Kotli Sakka village of Ajnala sub-division. Attari deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurpartap Singh Sahota said BSF hands them over a couple of such migrants every month. Deputy inspector general (DIG Ferozepur range) Hardial Singh Mann said no such case was reported in Tarn Taran and Ferozepur districts. “We are still looking into records to find any,” he added.Jamhuri Kisan Sabha vice-president Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “The farmers don’t force migrants to work for them. There are hundreds of migrants in the border villages who have been working voluntarily for the farmers for food, shelter and clothes. Most of these migrants are from poor families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mha-asks-punjab-to-act-on-bsf-s-bonded-labour-report-101617393788171.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K to fast-track vaccination in 4 districts||With the second wave of infections sweeping across the country, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday directed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to fast-track vaccination in Jammu, Srinagar, Budgam and Baramulla. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting with chief secretaries of all the states and UTs. They were asked to strictly implement the test, trace, and treat strategy, and to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination of eligible persons to address the spike in cases. Gauba said, “A clear message needs to go from the top-level to the entire state machinery that all weapons in the armoury need to be utilised along with vaccination to deal with the problem. “ DMs asked to take call on physical classes Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in different parts of Jammu and Kashmir, the Union Territory administration has asked district magistrates to take a call on the continuation of physical classes in schools in their areas, considering students’ safety.The J&K administration issued the direction after at least 90 students and teachers tested positive for coronavirus in different districts, mostly in Anantnag, Kulgam and Budgam over the last couple of days. “All district magistrates and district disaster management authorities’ chairpersons in J&K shall take a call on the continuation of academic activities (physical classes or online classes) in their respective jurisdictions, keeping in view the safety of students and present trend of pandemic in different districts,” a government order said. The order, issued by school education department deputy secretary Umesh Sharma, said the chief education officer and other authorities will assist the district magistrates in taking such decisions.Satwari school to reopen on Monday Five teachers of Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Satwari, whose results had returned unclear on Thursday, have tested negative for the virus. Principal Surjit Singh said, “The teachers were retested and they were found negative.”Now, the school will re-open on Monday for Class-12 examinations . Amid the spike in cases in J&K, two teachers of the same school had tested positive for the virus, as a result of which classes had been suspended and the school closed. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkto-fast-track-vaccination-in-4-districts-101617393727130.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Punjab DGP Saini, other accused appear in Faridkot court in 2015 police firing cases||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, suspended inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umaranangal and other accused on Friday appeared in the court of Faridkot additional district and sessions judge in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases. Among others who appeared before additional sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi are former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, SP Bikramjit Singh, former Bajakhana station house officer (SHO) Amrjit Singh Kular, ex-Akali Dal MLA Mantar Singh Brar. The matter was adjourned to April 27. Charanjit Singh Sharma had filed an application seeking copies of the chargesheets filed against co-accused in the firing cases, after which the court sought reply from the state. Saini on Friday also appeared in the court of Faridkot judicial magistrate (first class) Ekta Uppal for the first time in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case to furnish bail bonds. However, the court refused to accept his bail bonds stating the application was “not sustainable”. On April 26, the judicial magistrate had issued fresh summons against Saini for April 16, following which he failed to appear in person. At that time, the court had also disposed of Saini’s application seeking exemption from personal appearance, terming it ‘not maintainable’. Saini filed an application for taking up the judicial file on Friday saying he was ready to appear as per the directions and wanted to submit bail and surety bonds.The judge observed that the high court had stayed Saini’s arrest till next hearing in his anticipatory bail plea but the prosecution was at liberty to proceed in accordance with the law. “In the HC orders, there are clearly no directions regarding furnishing of bail bonds by the accused. The directions by the high court are that the arrest of the accused was stayed till the next date. Hence, the defence’s application on this aspect is not sustainable,” she said.The Faridkot district and sessions judge Sumeet Malhotra on Thursday transferred the police firing cases to the court of additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi for trial. In an order, Malhotra issued a list of cases, including those of police firing, which were transferred to the court of additional sessions judge “for disposal in accordance with law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expunjab-dgp-saini-other-accused-appear-in-faridkot-court-in-2015-police-firing-cases-101617393665826.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Bhandup mall fire: Oct audit highlighted flaws in firefighting system||A Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) inspection carried out last October in Bhandup’s Dreams Mall, where a fire last week killed nine Covid-19 patients in Sunrise Hospital located on the third floor, had found that the building’s manual fire alarm and automatic smoke detector system were not functioning. The MFB inspection report dated October 30, 2020 contained 23 observations that signalled the lack of fire safety norms in the building, including the absence of alternative electrical supply and rusted pipes in the firefighting system. A massive fire broke out on the first floor of the mall late on March 25 night which spread to the third floor that houses the Covid-designated hospital. The fire took 40 hours to douse. Of the nine patients killed, most were senior citizens and six were on ventilators. MFB officials at the time confirmed that the building’s fire system, including sprinklers, and fire safety equipment such as fire alarms and smoke detectors, were not functioning. The hospital was started as a Covid-designated hospital in October and was issued temporary permission to function inside the mall till March 31, 2021. The BMC has not extended its permission. The MFB conducted an inspection in several city malls after a fire broke out in City Centre Mall, Tardeo, on October 22. MFB’s October inspection report stated: “Large stock of various scrap materials/ waste materials / packing materials etc are found in the basement and staircase shall be removed with immediate effect and mall management shall not be allowed to keep any materials in the basement and staircase. Pipes used for firefighting systems are rusted at various places. These rusted pipes must be replaced immediately. Electrical shafts should be sealed at each floor level, to prevent spread of heat, smoke and fire at upper floors.”Besides the malfunctioning fire alarm system and automatic smoke detection system, the 23 observations in the report also noted that escape route lighting was not provided on a separate electric circuit and the building did not have a an alternative source of electric supply. The Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd, which built Dreams Mall, lost the property to the National Company Law Tribunal four years ago. The tribunal appointed Rahul Sahashtrabuddhe as an administrator to run the mall in Bhandup after HDIL failed to pay property taxes, water and electricity charges. Confirming that he was in the know about the MFB report, Sahastrabuddhe said, “I am running the mall with full responsibility and transparency. I have been filing reports with the court every 15 days [since 2018], and I am mentioning all the difficulties in the same. The Mumbai Fire Brigade inspection we are talking about, even there I was very clear that unless all the stakeholders do not comply with the orders of the court, I cannot do complete compliance. The Hon. NCLT has clearly mentioned in its order any stakeholder having any grievance related to functioning of the administrator may raise that before NCLT after making the payment.” The MFB’s October inspection report suggested several measures to make the building fire safety norms-compliant. It is as yet unclear whether the hospital management knew of the inspection report. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has undertaken a fire audit of all Covid-19 hospitals and health centres in the wake of the incident, there were 78 patients admitted in the hospital at the time of the fire, of whom two were already dead after failing to recover from Covid-related complications and nine died due to the fire. Currently, two departments of the BMC are conducting an enquiry into the fire: the Disaster Management Cell, which is expected to file its report to the municipal commissioner within the next 10 days, and the building and factory department which is looking into the structural violations of the mall. “The hospital had occupation certificate and also the fire compliance to operate, but we are told there were fire violations inside the mall. However, that is under fire department’s purview, but I have asked my staff to investigate whether there were any other structural violations inside the mall,” assistant municipal commissioner V Acharekar has said last week. The hospital issued a statement on March 27: “Sunrise hospital had filed a complaint against the administrator and appealed to the police to take action against him for not maintaining the mall as per the court orders. The mall was under NCLT and the court appointed administrator was ordered to look after the operations. All the operations at the mall and the licenses of the mall are the responsibility of the court-appointed administrator. All the hospital permissions and licenses were taken and are in order and have nothing to do with the mall compliances.” The Bhandup police booked several people in connection with the fire including directors of the mall, Rakesh Wadhwan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan, Sarang Wadhwan and Deepak Shirke, and directors of Privilege Healthcare Services Private Limited which owns the hospital, Amitsingh Trehan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain. The hospital management also called for an investigation to determine how the fire spread. “The fire was on the first floor of Dreams Mall, Bhandup, and not in the hospital. The smoke had reached up to Sunrise Hospital located at the top floor. All fire alarms beeped and hence all patients were safely evacuated due to the smoke to the fire refuge area .There were two dead bodies (due to Covid) which were also evacuated. There was no casualty due to fire. All patients were promptly shifted to Jumbo Covid centre (and some to other private hospitals). The patients were shifted alive, but there were few patients on ventilator and extremely critical. We believe that the casualties have not occurred due to fire, but either in transit or at other hospitals,” the hospital claimed. It further said that the hospital was started in “exceptional circumstances of Covid last year” and was “functioning with all due compliances”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandup-mall-fire-oct-audit-highlighted-flaws-in-firefighting-system-101617393484393.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K registers 2.94% growth in GST collections||The gross GST revenue collections for the 2020-21 financial year in Jammu and Kashmir stood at ₹4,890.35 crore against ₹4,750.60 crore in the previous year, registering a growth of 2.94%, officials said on Friday. A growth in goods and services tax (GST) revenue collections was registered despite constraints witnessed during the initial months of the fiscal due to the pandemic, indicating the revival of business and economic activities in the Union Territory, officials said. The revenue collection for April, May and June was ₹68.36 crore, ₹163.71 crore and ₹278.84 crore, respectively, against ₹521.69 crore, ₹393.55 crore, and ₹420.23 crore in 2019. Despite the pandemic, GST revenue showed growth during the second half of the financial year, officials said. The reasons for the buoyancy include several measures taken by the government along with the economic relief package announced in September 2020 for boosting the ailing sectors that had suffered due to the pandemic, they added. The surveillance and monitoring by the J&K tax department in preventing tax evasion also complemented the efforts of the government in this regard, the officials said. Under the motor spirit and diesel oil tax (MST), the collections for 2020-21 was ₹1,459.89 crore against ₹1,421.69 crore in 2019-20, the officials, adding that ₹268 crore was collected under stamps and registrations, Overall, for the financial year 2020-21, the total revenue collections stood at ₹6,618.53 crore as compared to ₹6,472.24 crore in 2019-20, showing a growth of 2.26%, the officials said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-registers-2-94-growth-in-gst-collections-101617393424993.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Illegal felling of trees in Marol: BMC probes claims||The tree authority of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is currently investigating allegations of large-scale tree-felling by a private developer in Marol, in response to complaints from citizens and a point of order raised by a member during the authority’s last meeting on March 23.After receiving complaints from multiple residents on Church Road near the Airport Metro station over the last few months, Abhijit Samant, corporator (ward no. 84) and member of the tree authority, had demanded on March 23 that an inquiry report be submitted in the matter. “Prima facie, it seems that a developer in the area has felled many more trees than they had been given permission for. Close to 292 trees had to be retained on site, but locals have levelled serious allegations that the plot is now empty,” said Samant. “The entire plot was completely green last September or October,” said Aldrin Lobo, resident of Everest Society on Church Road.In September 2020, the tree authority had granted permission to Rockfort Estate Developers to cut 11 trees at the site for a proposed commercial building. Another 41 trees were mandated for transplanting in the vicinity while 292 trees were to be retained at the site. A copy of the permission letter is with HT. An HT team visited the site on Wednesday and found that while 41 trees have been transplanted to the edge of the plot, at least seven of these trees were either dead or on the verge of dying. HT was unable to observe 292 trees on the plot as identified in the tree authority’s permission letter.Jitendra Pardeshi, head of the tree authority, confirmed that he is aware of the matter. “The BMC chief has taken cognizance of the complaint and a report will be submitted to him next week.”A spokesperson for Rockfort Estate Developers, however, refuted the allegations, maintaining that they have followed all instructions. “We have followed directions of MCGM in totality without any deviation. We are above board and extremely transparent in what we are doing,” said the spokesperson in a text message to HT.A member of the developer’s horticulture and landscaping department confirmed that they have also responded to the tree authority’s show cause notice on December 24, 2020. “Some trees like Subhabool can die naturally is adequate water isn’t available... During the lockdown the horticulture staff was not available to take care of the trees. Also, hutment dwellers from surrounding areas disturbed the trees by breaking the branches. They cut the branches and used for fire camps within our plot... All the trees dried/died are because of these reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-felling-of-trees-bmc-probes-claims-101617393364450.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: One accused held from Raj||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested from Kota in Rajasthan, Danish Merchant alias Danish Chikna, a south Mumbai resident, wanted in a drugs case, and allegedly recovered 200gm of hashish from him. Merchant is allegedly involved in supplying hashish, codeine and other drugs for more than five years and have registered several cases of extortion and attempt to murder against him in local and neighbouring police stations. Merchant is a son of alleged underworld Dawood Ibrahim aide Yusuf Chikna, a gangster from Dongri area. Merchant was on the run after the NCB busted a drug laboratory in Dongri in January and arrested drug supplier Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan and his associate Arif Bhujwala. The agency then allegedly recovered drugs worth ₹10 crore, two pistols each from Pathan and Bhujwala during raids. Bhujwala was allegedly manufacturing MD from more than three years at the laboratory, said NCB officers. “During the raid, NCB also seized a dairy, in which codes and networks of the drug cartel were mentioned, and several drug suppliers were arrested from Thane and Mumbai. Merchant was wanted in the case,” said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB. In another operation, the NCB on Thursday intercepted a 35-year-old Nigerian national at Koparkhairane area in Navi Mumbai and allegedly seized drugs worth ₹1 crore from his possession. Wankhede said, “We recovered 260gm of heroin and 22gm of cocaine from possession of the arrested accused, Chiuwkadi Peter.” Based on a tip-off, another team of the NCB intercepted one Nashir Samiruddin in Jogeshwari (West) and allegedly recovered 55gm of Mephedrone from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-one-accused-held-from-raj-101617393304426.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses to detain missing woman who eloped with lover||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court refused to detain or pass orders against a woman who is an adult and had eloped with a man two years older than her after she presented herself before the court in a habeas corpus petition filed by her father. The court after verifying the age of the woman noted that as the woman had expressed unwillingness to speak or meet with her parents, they should not try to make her change her decision and also directed the father of the man from causing any harm to the parents of the woman. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar while hearing the petition filed by the father of the woman was informed that following its earlier order to the police to bring the woman before it, the woman had come voluntarily. The court verified the age of the woman through her Aadhaar card and confirmed that she was 18 years and six months old, hence an adult. On the query of the court, the woman informed that she had eloped with the man who is two years older than her as she was in love with him and they planned to get married once he attained the legal age for marriage. The woman further submitted that after she left her father’s house she had been living with the man at a location unknown to both parents and would prefer it to be that way till they got married. She also submitted that she needed protection from her father as he was furious at her relationship with the man and had also assaulted the man’s father. After hearing the woman and getting an assurance from the father of the woman that neither he nor his relatives would harm the daughter or her lover, the court noted, “if the missing girl or respondent No.5 (the man) suffer any physical harm and if they allege that the petitioner has caused the said harm, the petitioner would then be liable for action, in accordance with law.” The court while directing the father of the man to also show restraint said, “Since the missing girl is an adult and respondent No.5 is also an adult, though not of a marriageable age, we have no reason to detain the missing girl, considering the specific replies given by her, as recorded herein above,” and directed the police to escort the woman and the man till a bus so that they may go to the desired destination without being stopped or harmed by anyone and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-detain-missing-woman-who-eloped-with-lover-101617393304898.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||47,827 cases: Maha’s highest one-day rise||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 47,827 cases, the highest ever in a day so far. It has breached 2.9 million mark, pushing the count to 2,904,076. It was the second consecutive day when the state reported 40,000 plus cases and third consecutive day when fatalities crossed the 200-mark. Similarly, Mumbai also reported a record number of cases — 8,844.Terming the situation as worrisome, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that he will have to re-impose lockdown if the situation persists and cases continue to rise sharply.The ongoing surge has resulted in a sharp rise in active cases as well that rose to 389,832, which comes to 13.42% of the total cases. It means a rise of 12% in less than two months. On February 11, there were 35,633 active cases against 2,052,253 total cases, which comes to 1.73%. It was the day when daily cases in the state started rising after a gap of three months.Maharashtra saw 202 deaths taking the toll to 55,379. Nagpur city had the highest deaths with 24 fatalities and 6 from its rural areas. Nanded reported 22 deaths. Of them, 12 were recorded in the city and 10 in rural areas. Meanwhile, Mumbai added 19 fatalities, pushing its toll to 11,727. The city’s active case count rose to 57,687.“If no solution is found to contain the spread, the decision of lockdown will be taken after two days, the chief minister said, adding, “I am not announcing a lockdown but warning about it.”Pointing out towards an imminent health care crisis in the state, Thackeray during his social media live interaction said as cases are rising, there is a scarcity of healthcare workers. “As far as the health infrastructure is concerned, we have been ramping up continuously, but where will we get doctors and healthcare workers? If the current growth in Covid cases continues for the next 15-20 days, all the hospital beds will be full, there could also be a shortage of oxygen,” he pointed out.According to health experts, the cases will continue to rise sharply in the coming days before hitting a plateau.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of critical patients, said, “The sharp rise in cases will continue in the coming days. We are expecting to hit the plateau hopefully in this month after which the cases will start coming down gradually. The daily cases have shot up as the state has increased daily testing in big numbers and also improved tracking contacts of Covid patients.”He said the state will have to continue increasing testing figures until the positivity rate comes down to 5% or below to control the situation.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 183,378 samples, highest ever in a day, and had a positivity rate of 26.08%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 14.41%. It has also reported recoveries of 24,126 patients on Friday taking the tally of recovered patients to 2,457,494.Thackeray called a meeting of senior officials on Friday to review the situation. He discussed a slew of strict restrictions that can be imposed to break the transmission chain. Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba also chaired a high-level review meeting with chief secretaries, director general of police (DGP) and health secretaries of all the states/union territories with focus on 11 states/union territories including Maharashtra that have been reporting very high rise in daily Covid-19 cases and daily mortality. They were categorized as “states of grave concern” on account of their high and rising daily case and higher daily deaths.In the meeting it was pointed out the situation was particularly worrying in Maharashtra. The state was advised to take up immediate and high effective measures to ensure containment of active cases and daily deaths through adherence of the standard clinical management protocol shared by the Centre earlier with all the states and UTs, stated a release issued by the ministry of health and family welfare.With 4,766 cases, Pune city recorded the second highest cases across the state. The combined tally of Pune city and district went up to 6,723 in a day.From Saturday evening, stringent curbs will be imposed in Pune district with a curfew in place from 6pm to 6am and all eateries, malls, cinema halls and religious places to remain shut for the next seven days.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao announced fresh restrictions after reviewing the situation in the city, at a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/47827-cases-maha-s-highest-one-day-rise-101617393244395.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu resurgence: Sanctuary at Pong Lake closed amid avian deaths||With the avian death toll mounting by the day amid a resurgence of bird flu in Himachal Pradesh, all activities were banned in the Pong Lake Sanctuary area. Since March 25, 72 birds have died in the sanctuary. Divisional forest officer, wildlife, Rahul Rohane, said, “Ten more birds were found dead in the sanctuary on Friday. They have been disposed off as per protocol.” Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said five samples sent to the North Zone Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab, Jalandhar, had tested positive for the H5N1 strain. The report of carcass samples sent to ICAR’s National Institute of High-Risk Animal Disease Laboratory, Bhopal, is awaited. “The lake has been closed for visitors. We are taking all precautionary measures. We are conducting a throrough surveillance of the area,” Prajapati said, adding that there was no ban on movement of people in peripheral areas. The last bird flu outbreak in December had claimed the lives of at least 5,000 migratory birds in the sanctuary. The highest mortality has been observed in bar-headed geese that migrate from Mongolia to Pong Dam in winter. This season, 40,570 bar-headed geese were spotted at the lake, making it the most populous bird species on the lake. Birds from the south may have brought the infection: Officials Forest officials suspect that birds flying from the south may have carried the infection. These birds use Pong Lake as a stopover while returning to their homeland. The Pong wetland in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district is one of the largest man-made wetlands in North India. It was formed after the construction of a dam on the Beas river in 1974. This wetland offers a transitory resting reserve for migratory birds coming from the trans-Himalayan zone in winter when the temperature plunges in wetlands of Europe and North and Central Asia. Flocks of waterfowls that breed in these areas in summer undertake migration to Pong wetlands to spend winter in congenial climatic conditions from October to March every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bird-flu-resurgence-sanctuary-at-pong-lake-closed-amid-avian-deaths-101617393126364.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||City records 8,844 new Covid cases||After 8,646 cases on Thursday, the city on Friday again reported more than 8,000 cases, with its 24-hour tally at 8,844. The city also reported 19 deaths in the city. With the number of cases going up, the daily growth rate in the city has gone up to over 18%, with active cases going above 57,000. The increase in cases has also resulted in bed occupancy going up to around 72%, however, along with it, the recovery rate in the last one month has also fallen down to 84% from 94% in January. The growth rate in the city was around 5-7% that went up to around 8-10% mid-March, from where it has now gone up to 18%, as of Thursday. This is partially owing to tests and tracing, but also due to crowding at several places including markets, said a BMC official.The official added, “Despite urging citizens not to crowd, we are witnessing crowding in vegetable markets, including Dadar. We are conducting random testing citizens at crowded places, including malls, markets etc.”On Friday, for the second consecutive day, Dadar reported 100 cases. On Thursday, Dadar had reported 104 cases. According to BMC’s data, Dadar has reported 6,284 cases in the last one year of which 5,098 have been discharged. Neighbouring Dharavi on Friday saw 73 cases, taking the total to 5,058 cases, of which 4,047 have been discharged.According to the state health department data, the city’s case tally is 432,367 and the toll is 11,727 followed by 361,985 recoveries and 57,687 active cases. Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday had warned about strict restrictions, including shutting of malls, religious places, restrictions on opening of shops followed by travel restrictions for non-essential workforce. However, the BMC has maintained they have not received any such directive from the state.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician, said, “If the tests are doubled, we will see double the cases in February or January. To ensure the spread is limited, Central government needs to allow vaccination for all age groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-records-8-844-new-covid-cases-101617393124474.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Why offline exams, ask SSC students||Several students of Class 10 (SSC) protested at Dadar’s Shivaji Park on Friday morning against the education department’s decision to conduct offline exams this year.Students said with the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, the government should not conduct offline exams. “It is a big risk for students. The government should conduct exams online for students who have access to technology” said one of the parents supporting the protest.Students said they were disappointed as nobody from the education department came to speak to them regarding the issue. “We have been trying to meet the education minister but could not meet,” said a student.Meanwhile, in preparation for the board exams, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked schools under its jurisdiction to draw a list of 10 teachers on standby to undertake Class 10 supervision duty if needed.While the HSC (Class 12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, 2021, SSC (Class10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 33 lakh will students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-offline-exams-ask-ssc-students-101617393125095.html
03-04-2021||Other||PIL seeking door-to-door vaccine services for senior citizens, specially-abled moved before Bombay HC||Mumbai A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking directions to the Centre, state and civic authorities to provide door-to-door vaccination facilities for citizens above the age of 75 and specially-abled persons who are not able to go for the jab owing to age or lack of technological acumen to book a slot for themselves to get vaccinated. The PIL filed is expected to be mentioned on Monday before HC for urgent hearing. The litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari states that they approached HC after they discovered that the state government in its response to the civic body’s letter on starting door-to-door vaccine drive had refused permission on the grounds that there was no policy for initiating such a facility. “Facilitating such groups of people who need vaccine should be the responsibility of the respondent authorities. If they are unable to provide every citizen who are of advanced age and not in a position to go to the centres a vaccine, then they are violating such people’s right to life and good health under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the petition states. The PIL further goes on say, “There are specially-abled citizens across the country who are eligible for the vaccination but are unable to visit the Covid-19 centres due to their disability. If the door-to-door vaccination facility is made available to them, then they will get vaccinated in time without causing further health disaster.” Suggesting that a charge of around ₹500 could be fixed as home visit charges, the PIL also seeks directions to allow vaccination without Aadhaar /PAN cards and setting up of a helpline number for advanced age senior citizens to book an appointment for home visit of a doctor for Covid-19 vaccine. “Some senior citizens do not even know how to register online and are unable to book appointments independently. Some citizens who are medically sick and do not have Aadhaar or PAN cards and are unable to register and book appointments, due to which they are unable to get vaccinated,” the PIL states. The PIL points to the fact that after some senior citizens faced problems at vaccination centres like waiting in long queues for four-five hours for their turn to get vaccinated, the petitioners had raised concerns before local public representatives. The petition is likely to come up for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pil-seeking-door-to-door-vaccine-services-for-senior-citizens-specially-abled-moved-before-bombay-hc-101617393064370.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||‘Scam-tainted’ Cong leaders will be taken to task once SAD forms govt: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said all Congressmen “who indulged in scams and looted the state exchequer” would be taken to task once the SAD forms the government in the state.Addressing a “Punjab Mangda Hisab” rally in Attari on Friday, the SAD chief alleged that Congress leaders are involved in illegal liquor and sand mining, causing loss to the state exchequer. He said confidants of Congress MLAs were responsible for running illegal distilleries in the state and sand mafia from Rajasthan and Jammu have teamed up with Congress MLAs to loot the state. He also accused a Congress minister for perpetrating a seed scam. He said another minister had embezzled funds meant for the SC scholarship scheme, leading to the exit of lakhs of students from educational institutions.Sukhbir also took on chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and asked why people should repose faith in him again. He said forget doing anything for Punjab, Amarinder visited his office only 11 times during the last four years. The CM also failed to oppose the Centre on all issues concerning the state, including the recent Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), because he was afraid of being targeted by the Enforcement DirectorateSukhbir also announced Gulzar Singh Ranike as the party candidate from Attari for the 2022 assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scamtainted-cong-leaders-will-be-taken-to-task-once-sad-forms-govt-sukhbir-101617392825341.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Wall of times past||It’s like coming face-to-face with the indecipherable relics of a lost civilisation.The pale pink wall, here in Old Delhi’s Meena Bazar, is defaced with two acronyms: STD and PCO. A quick Google search confirms that STD stands for ‘Subscriber Trunk Dialing’ and PCO are the initials of ‘Public Call Office’.Those among us who aren’t millennials, and who have lived in the BM era—Before Mobile—might recall that STD and PCO used to be a way of life in every little lane of the city. The former was the dialing code of a city or town that had to precede the number of the person you were to call, and PCOs were little cabins where folks who didn’t have a phone at home would come to make a call. (Nowadays, romantic lovers have mobile phones to carry on clandestine affairs away from the prying eyes of the family. Earlier, they would have to go to a PCO, preferably not the one in the neighbourhood.)But the sight on this wall arouses more than just a little nostalgia. It is profoundly poignant. Usually, a PCO would have a proper board hanging on the wall, displaying the same acronyms. But here the letters seem to be crudely hammered into the concrete, like a bored student’s name etched with a compass on a wooden desk.Now a young man passes by. Nadeem lives and works in Meena Bazar, an extremely cramped market filled with little shops selling everything from pumps and juice mixers to bridal suits and chicken biryani. An eatery cook, the lungi-wearing Nadeem has noticed this sign but never thought much of it. “I didn’t know it was related to phones… I have my personal phone to call my family in Benares, and everybody else around me have their own mobiles too.”It is still early morning and most shops are still shuttered. The alleys are almost empty and the people going about seem to be of a generation not related to the PCO. One can only imagine that here was a very modest telephone booth, and since the area is home to a large number of labourers, the telephone must have been forever busy with men calling up their families and friends back home in the village.Whatever, you ought to come here to gaze upon this sign. In the age of mobile, it has the gravitas of a museum installation.And if you walk further along the market lanes, you will spot lots of names and numbers jotted on the walls. These are the mobile numbers of people living here as well as of stall owners, informs Nadeem. This wall has evolved with the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-wall-of-times-past-101617392565188.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali Golf Range trainees Ojaswini, Yuvraj shine||Adding another feather to their caps, Mohali Golf Range trainees Ojaswini Saraswat and Yuvraj Singh Hara bagged titles in the recently held North Zone Feeder Championship and the 109th Albatross Golf Tournament, respectively.Seven-year-old Ojaswini, a student of Manav Rachna International School, emerged winner in the girls Category E with a total score of three under par 69 in 18 holes during the Indian Golf Union North Zone 2nd Junior/Sub-Junior Feeder Golf Championship held at Panchkula Golf Club.A total of 140 players in the age-group of 4 to 18 years including boys and girls participated in the two-day golf championship. Playing nine holes each day in extremely windy and tough conditions on firm and fast greens, Ojaswini had scores of 3 under par 3 on day 1 and level par 36 in round 2 with 2 birdies.Meanwhile, another Mohali Golf Range trainee Sohrab Singh Talwar secured the second position in boys Category E with a score of 76. Rabab Kahlon secured the fourth position in girls Category D with a 2 round score of 90.In another junior golf championship held at the Jack Nicklaus Design ITC Classic Golf and Country Club in Gurugram, the 109th Albatross Golf Tournament, 19-year-old Yuvraj Singh Hara emerged as the winner in boys Category A with scores of 75 and 77.Coach Harmeet Singh Kahlon lauded the performance of the two trainees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-golf-range-trainees-ojaswini-yuvraj-shine-101617392586073.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||3% jump in Himachal’s revenue collection despite pandemic: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said that the hill-state had registered a 3% increase in revenue collection in the 2020-21 financial year despite the pandemic affecting economic activities. “The excise and taxation department had registered a 52% decrease in revenue collection in the first quarter. However, once the disruption caused by the virus in the initial months of the outbreak subsided, the revenue has consistently grown by 4%, 23% and 34% in second, third and fourth quarters, respectively,” the CM said. There was a 44% increase in revenue in March with the state collecting ₹1,006 crore against ₹699 crore last year, Thakur said, adding that revenue receipts under VAT and state GST had registered a significant growth of 182% and 31%, respectively, in March.The CM attributed the increase in VAT collections to the success of the legacy cases resolution scheme (LCRS). Under the scheme, the department has recovered ₹362 crore by disposing of cases of subsumed taxes, of which ₹182 crore has been collected in March alone.“The primary reason for overall growth in revenue receipts has been revival of economic activities, the government’s unlock strategy, compliance by taxpayers and better administration by the department,” Thakur said. “New initiatives by the department, especially monitoring of field units through performance cards, has created a healthy competitive environment across field formations, which has motivated officers to beat the assigned targets,” he said, adding that the department had recently started another initiative to evaluate its own performance using a performance card.The CM said the department had identified focus areas for augmenting the state’s revenue collections, including recoveries under LCRS, physical verifications of e-way bills, compliance of GSTR3B return filings, recovery of interest for late filing of returns, recovery of ineligible ITC, recovery of tax deficits and mismatches and identification of cases pertaining to tax evasions and erroneous refunds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-jump-in-himachal-s-revenue-collection-despite-pandemic-jai-ram-101617392525699.html
03-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra’s ruling alliance condemns Assam EVM incident, calls it BJP-EC nexus||The ruling coalition in Maharashtra have condemned an incident in Assam where an electronic voting machine (EVM) was found in a car belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate’s wife, following the second phase of the election on Thursday. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – on Friday said the incident puts the credibility of the Election Commission in question and that poll body should take steps to clean up its act. NCP has also demanded a criminal inquiry into the incident. “EVM in a BJP candidate’s car is a serious matter. People already have doubts over EVMs, and this [incident] has added to it. It is also a breach of the election code of conduct. This needs to be thoroughly investigated and a case must be filed against both the officials concerned and the BJP candidate in whose car the EVM was found,” said NCP’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik. The incident occurred at Karimganj district in Ratabari constituency, where the EC staff took a private vehicle without checking its ownership after the vehicle assigned to them broke down. The private car belonged to the wife of Krishnendu Paul, a BJP candidate from the nearby Patharkandi seat. The Shiv Sena said it was a classic example of how the BJP wins the elections. “They do this EVM tampering very selectively and this is how their whole poll machinery works,” said Sena parliamentarian and former Union minister Arvind Sawant. “Imagine, the EC officials took the car of a BJP leader to transport EVM to the store room and they claim they just took a random car. All this raises suspicion,” said Sawant. The Congress said such incidents only derail the faith of citizens in the democratic process. “All this is a part of the dirty game by BJP, and even the EC is unable to rein them,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. Former Union minister and Congress leader Milind Deora recalled the incident in 2019 when he had lodged a complaint with EC about the tampering of EVMs in Mumbai. “During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, I received reliable information that EC officials were in nexus with the NDA (National Democratic Alliance) candidates, and had done some mischief with EVM machines. In that case, however, no one got caught like in Assam, where it’s seems to be a direct nexus between EC officials and ruling party,” said Deora. He said that he does not believe in technological hacking, but physical hacking by such instances is possible,” said Deora, the former head of the Mumbai Congress, who had fought the Lok Sabha seat in 2019. The state BJP has refuted the allegations of party involvement in the incident. “If we wanted to manipulate the machines, how come the seal was intact? EC is an independent body and functions autonomously. If we had so much control on EC, we would have won all the states hands down. The problem with our opponents is EVMs are perfect where they win and manipulated when they lose,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtras-ruling-alliance-condemns-assam-evm-incident-calls-it-bjp-ec-nexus-101617392524405.html
03-04-2021||Other||Barara SDM among five booked for cheating, corruption in Yamunanagar||The Yamunanagar police have registered a case against an HCS officer and four officials of different government departments in a case related to fake certificate of a Zila Parishad member, who completed his term in February this year.The case was lodged on orders of Bilaspur sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM) Kanwal Kumar, against the then Bilaspur sub-division magistrate (SDM) Girish Kumar, who is the current SDM Barara; the then district education officer (DEO) Anand Chaudhry; the then Saraswati Nagar block education officer (BEO) Surender Pal Chauhan; the then Bilaspur police station in-charge Sunil Beniwal; and the then assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the police station Satpal.All five officials were booked for cheating and forgery under the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act at Bilaspur police station on March 30.As per the case, Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Muzafat village, had lodged a complaint in 2018 and alleged that Mam Chand obtained his Class 10 certificate from an unrecognised board in MP, the Board of Secondary Education Madhya Bharat in Gwalior.Kumar alleged that even after the FIR, a fair investigation wasn’t conducted and all officials, including the SDM, cleared the case and a closure report was prepared by police.Mam Chand completed his tenure as a member in February 2021 after being elected in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barara-sdm-among-five-booked-for-cheating-corruption-in-yamunanagar-101617392345050.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Good Friday observed in Chandigarh among Covid restrictions||Good Friday, a holy day for the Christians, was observed in the city with limits on congregations owing to Covid protocols in place.Some churches even organised their services online; similar restrictions are likely to be in place on Easter this coming Sunday.Speaking about this, bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said that this year at Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, their service had remembered the sacrifices made by the frontline workers in the past year: “We prayed for the safety of people, and the opportunity that the pandemic has given to bring everyone together.”Speaking about the precautions taken on Friday, the bishop added, “To maintain social distancing, the benches were marked. Some were placed outside the hall as well. During veneration, people were asked to just touch the cross and to sanitise their hands right after. For holy communion, similar preparations have been done. We also conducted a parallel programme at our Nayagaon church and urged people living nearby to go there.”The Sector-18 Christ Church conducted the service online like last year. Secretary Parkash Masih said, “The sermon was delivered online. For Easter, we will hold regular service from 11am to 5pm on Sunday, however, people will be urged to come and pray for five minutes only. No Easter lunch will be held and instead, packaged snacks will be provided.”The Tricity Church Association also held a simple event this year. Chairman Father Premanand said, “Our congregation on Friday was limited. In Manimajra, around 100 people were allowed; in the army cantonment area of Chandimandir, only 40 people were allowed and no civilians.”President of the association Lawrence Malik said they will keep the event lowkey on Easter Sunday as well. Churches in Mohali saw a congregation of very few people owing to the Covid restrictions imposed in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/good-friday-observed-in-chandigarh-among-covid-restrictions-101617392285558.html
03-04-2021||Other||Shiv Sena MLA Ravindra Waikar files ₹100-cr suit against BJP leader||Shiv Sena legislator Ravindra Waikar has moved a defamation suit in the Bombay high court (HC) against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya, seeking damages of ₹100 crore. In the suit, Waikar has claimed that Somaiya made “malicious” allegations about him not disclosing in his election affidavit the details of some property, which he allegedly purchased at Alibag, from late architect Anvay Naik. The suit has claimed that such “unsubstantiated allegations” by Somaiya has caused mental agony, and hence, Waikar sought a restraint on the BJP leader from making such statements, and to pay damages. The suit filed by Waikar and his wife Manisha, through advocate Tamsin Monis, has averred that since January, Somaiya through various social media platforms – television and print media and press conferences – started making allegations about the legislator involved constructing bungalows on the Alibag plot and being a beneficiary of a sizeable sum of money in the allotment of a development project by the civic body to two developers in Andheri (East). The suit has claimed that Somaiya had levelled ‘unsubstantiated’ statements against the plaintiffs, alleging non-declaration of assets and giving false information on oath before the Election Commission (EC). Refuting the allegations, the couple has stated that they have “at all times made full disclosures in their declarations filed before EC”. “The existence of the alleged 19 bungalows on Korlai plot is fiction of the defendant’s imagination, and the defendant is put to strict proof thereof as regards to all statements made by him. As for statements alleging benefit of ₹25 crore, the plaintiffs have no concern of whatsoever nature with the two developers and are not concerned with any development granted to these persons by BMC. The defendant is put to strict proof thereof for the statements creating grave attacks on the integrity of plaintiffs,” the suit stated. Enumerating the “agony” caused by such allegations by Somaiya, the Waikars have stated, “With haphazard knowledge, the defendant has claimed and attributed several illegal acts to plaintiff, which has caused immense embarrassment to plaintiffs. The plaintiffs believe and have observed on multiple occasions that these press conferences and blatant statements made by the defendant, is a modus operandi used by him against many others, to cause harassment and to unsettle them.” The suit claims that amidst the current issue surrounding Naik’s suicide, Somaiya has cooked up the stories only to divert the focus from actual perpetrators. The suit filed by Waikar, therefore, stated that every allegation made by Somaiya is “ex-facie defamatory and injuring reputation of plaintiffs…trying to portray an illusionary existence of several non-existing profitable transactions for commercial benefits.” In light of this, the Waikars sought direction from the court to order damages of ₹100 crore to be paid by the defendant, and permanently restraining from in any manner maligning the reputation of the plaintiff without substantive proof through social media, press conferences and pending hearing sought an interim relief of the same nature. The suit will come up for hearing in due course. Responding to the suit, Somaiya said that as suspended cop Sachin Vaze was in prison, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was trying to recover the ₹100 crore from him through the suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-mla-ravindra-waikar-files-100-cr-suit-against-bjp-leader-101617392284352.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University relents, reopens library||Finally relenting to the demand of the students, who had started an indefinite strike, the Panjab University (PU) authorities on Thursday decided to reopen the AC Joshi library.The decision was taken at a meeting held between varsity officials and student representatives. The development comes a day after the protesting students broke into the reading hall of the library.According to a circular issued by the office of the dean of student welfare, the outer reading hall of the library will remain open from 9am to 12am daily and the reading halls on the first and third floors of the library will remain open between 9am-8pm. Students, however, will be subject to strict Covid-19 protocols.PU had last week closed all departmental libraries and the AC Joshi library in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the city.Welcoming the decision, the students in their statement said the last ten days had been a lesson in patience and politically enriching for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-relents-reopens-library-101617392226332.html
03-04-2021||Other||Violence is unacceptable, but provocation is wrong too: Selja||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Friday said that violence as a way of protest is wrong but provocation of farmers by the BJP leaders is also condemnable.She was in Ambala’s Jandali to inaugurate a service center in ward 15 by party leader advocate Puneet, and was reacting to the incident where Punjab BJP MLA Arun Narang was allegedly beaten up and stripped by farmers.“Violence is unacceptable in any situation but BJP leaders leaving no stone unturned in issuing provocative statements against farmers is also wrong. First they provoked the farmers and now when there is a reaction, the leaders are trying to act innocent.”She hit-out at BJP for naming Congress in the incident and said that she was waiting to see when the saffron party will blame Nehru for the attack.On party’s organisational structuring in districts, Selja said the process has been started with appointments of observers, a report will be taken, and a decision is expected soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/violence-is-unacceptable-but-provocation-is-wrong-too-selja-101617392225242.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nanded violence: SGPC delegation to meet Uddhav||AMRITSARA five-member delegation of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will meet Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking cancellation of cases registered against Sikhs in Nanded on Hola Mohalla.Four cops were injured at Hazur Sahib Gurdwara in an attack by Sikhs after they were denied permission to hold a procession on Hola Mohalla due to Covid pandemic. In a release, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “The incident took place due to the resentment among Sikhs over non-approval to take out a procession. Around 300 Sikh pilgrims have been booked. Those arrested are being tortured, which is reprehensible.” She urged the Maharashtra government to cancel FIRs registered against Sikh pilgrims and release those arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nanded-violence-sgpc-delegation-to-meet-uddhav-101617392165009.html
03-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi an ideal govt; Oppn must emulate it in India: Sanjay Raut||Two days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to leaders of political parties to come together to fight the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut said that the formula used by his party, along with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress in Maharashtra, should be emulated in the country. The Sena leader called the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), an “ideal government”, where the three ideologically different parties came together to form a ruling coalition in the state. “MVA is such an experiment in the country’s political history that all non-BJP parties should learn something from. The Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena, which are three ideologically different parties, are running the government for the past one-and-a-half years, and I think it is an ideal government. Such an alliance through the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) should be created. Banerjee has suggested the same. Maharashtra has shown a new direction to country’s politics. What Maharashtra has shown must be emulated at the national level,” Raut said while speaking to reporters in Mumbai. In the letter, written on March 28, Banerjee said BJP wants to make it “impossible for non-BJP parties to exercise their constitutional rights and freedoms”. “It wants to dilute the powers of state governments and downgrade them to mere municipalities. In short, it wants to establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India,” her letter said. Referring to the Centre’s National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, which was recently passed in both houses of the Parliament an “extremely grave” development, Banerjee said that the Centre wants to snatch away power of a democratically elected government in Delhi. Raut said that Maharashtra has shown the direction, and now an MVA-like alliance at the national level under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) should be formed. He said that it is “crucial” for opposition parties to come together to address the challenges addressed by Banerjee in the letter. “All the opposition leaders must sit together and find a way. After the Emergency in 1975, Jayprakash Narayan brought all opposition parties together, but unfortunately there is no such leader today,” he said. The Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday also wrote that though Banerjee has written for all parties to unite, her Trinamool Congress and the Congress party are contesting against each other in the ongoing West Bengal Assembly elections. “In reality, Trinamool Congress and Congress are not hand in hand, but against each other in the West Bengal election. Therefore, the opposition should have started uniting from Kolkata. But if Banerjee thinks everybody should come together after BJP’s attack [during the campaign] in West Bengal, we respect the sentiments,” the editorial read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-an-ideal-govt-oppn-must-emulate-it-in-india-sanjay-raut-101617392105482.html
03-04-2021||Other||CBI court frames charges in 2019 hoax bomb call case||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Panchkula, has framed charges in a 2019 case, wherein a man had made hoax bomb threat call to the Indira Gandhi International Airport, alleging his girlfriend of planning to blow up herself in a flight.The accused is Nasrudeen, a tailor from Bihar’s Sitamarhi district who had been living in Chennai for the last 10 years.As per the Delhi Police, on August 8, 2019, he had called the control room of the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Gurugram, and claimed that one passenger, named Zabina alias Rafiya, is a ‘fidayeen’ and was on her way to set off a bomb at the airport.Following this threat, security was beefed up at the airport and a red alert was issued. The call was forwarded to the airport security officials, police station of the airport and other agencies.However, the call turned out to be a hoax. Following this, a criminal case under Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered in Gurugram.The investigation revealed that the accused was married to Zabina, who was going abroad to earn money.They used to fight often over financial issues and she wanted to go abroad to lead a better life. When his attempt to stop Zabina from boarding the flight failed, he made the hoax call.On April 2, Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge CBI Panchkula, framed charges under Section 3 r/w Section 4 of the Anti-Hijacking Act, 2016.“From perusal of challan documents, a prima facie case for commission of offences punishable under Section 3 r/w Section 4 of the Anti-Hijacking Act, 2016, is made out against accused Nasrudeen, to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial,” the order read. The case is now listed for July 6 for prosecution evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-court-frames-charges-in-2019-hoax-bomb-call-case-101617392105000.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mother can’t be denied child’s custody on infidelity allegations: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that allegations of infidelity against the mother can’t be a ground for denying her custody of children below the age of five years.The high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal observed that the Guardian Act as well as the Minority Act leave no manner of doubt that the welfare of the minor was the paramount consideration to be kept in mind by the court while appointing a guardian, and ordinarily to serve the best of interests of the children below five years of age, the custody should be with the mother.In the case at hand, a Panchkula woman had challenged a trial court order in which the custody of her daughter aged below five years and 11-year-old son was given to her husband. The trial court had observed that the allegations from either side could not be taken into consideration as they had not been proven through evidence. But the high court observed that the trial court had been influenced by the allegations made against the mother which was “a perversity requiring correction”.Quashing the trial court order of February 2020, the high court not only granted custody of the girl child to the mother, but also gave the custody of the boy to her, observing that the boy could not be separated from his sister as it would traumatise both of them.The couple were married in 2008, and the male child was born in 2009, the girl child in 2017. The couple got separated in February 2019. The mother had alleged that she had been thrown out of the house, harassed and tortured for dowry and had not been permitted to take the children along with her.The estranged husband had submitted that the wife did not possess the resources to maintain herself, and that she was a person of questionable character. If given the custody of the children, their normal development would suffer, the father had argued. Children miss their mother: Amicus curiaeAn amicus curiae was appointed by the court in the case, who had reported that the children missed their mother, and the male child was being indoctrinated against her. Despite that, he was keen on meeting her and enjoyed her company, it was reported.An amicus curiae is someone who is not a party to a case who assists a court by offering information, expertise, or insight that has a bearing on the issues in the case.The court found that the mother had been working for over 10 years after marriage and was still working. Based on this, it concluded that she possessed the means to maintain her children. However, court has allowed visitation rights to the husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mother-can-t-be-denied-child-s-custody-on-infidelity-allegations-hc-101617391986399.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mining operations yield ₹1,023 crore revenue in Haryana||Despite restrictions being imposed in the 2020-21 financial year due to Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana generated ₹1,023 crore revenue from mining operations - 31% more than the corresponding period last year.According to state mines and geology minister Mool Chand Sharma, rise in revenue generation was the result of stringent steps taken against the mining mafia and reforms introduced in the department to streamline the mining activities.In 2019-20, the revenue generated from the mining works was ₹702 crore and in 2018-19 the receipts from mining operations hovered around ₹583 crore.“Though no mining work was done for 26 days due to the lockdown last year, generating ₹1,023 crore revenue is an encouraging development. This is for the first time that the revenue from mining works have crossed the ₹1,000-crore mark,” said Sharma, who also holds the transport department portfolio.Ensuring availability of construction material at reasonable prices and curbing illegal mining top our agenda, he said. He said that stringent steps were being taken to bring illegal mining to zero level and prevent revenue loss.“The disposal of pending appeals at government level has been expedited and the focus is on recovery of arrears from contractors and lease holders,” he said.Sharma said that a special enforcement team, consisting of 55 police officers and employees, has been constituted to prevent illegal mining in Haryana.The online portal introduced for transportation of minerals is proving to be effective in curbing illegal mining and transportation, he added.Registration of mineral-filled vehicles has been made necessary, he said, adding that mineral loading will be done according to loading capacity of vehicles to prevent practice of overloading of vehicles.He said that contracts are being awarded to small mining units and blocks with an intention to increase competition in the area and to give opportunity to small entrepreneurs as well.To ensure transparency in the process of leasing or contracting mining units, e-auction has been started. He said that auctioning of four mines in Faridabad, where stocks of Yamuna sand are kept, will be done soon.Apart from this, the process of auctioning empty mines in other districts is also being implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mining-operations-yield-rs-1-023-crore-revenue-in-haryana-101617391985271.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||No hourly parking rates for now in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh municipal corporation has deferred the implementation of hourly parking rates.The decision came after the latest inspection of parking lots revealed that both contractors are yet to implement smart features, a prerequisite to impose the hourly charges.MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “Initially, the inspection committee had submitted that one of the contractors has installed most of the smart features. After the contractor claimed he has now completed the installation, I directed the committee to re-examine the parking lots and submit a report.”After the new rates kick in, the parking fee for the first four hours will remain the same as the flat rates charged right now: ₹5 for two-wheelers and ₹10 for four-wheelers. Thereafter, these will be doubled. The charges will be further doubled if vehicles are parked beyond 12 hours.Parking lots in the city have been divided into two zones: 32 in Zone 1 and 57 in Zone 2. The MC had auctioned both zones for around ₹10 crore annually. In October last year, the MC had directed parking contractors to offer all smart features at 89 parking lots being run by them within one month. The deadline had to be extended couple of times. Later on, the MC decided to implement hourly charges in a phased manner, which again has been deferred.The smart features include e-ticketing, HD night-vision CCTV cameras, smart card passes, LED display of real-time occupancy and online booking of parking space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-hourly-parking-rates-for-now-in-chandigarh-101617391925081.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupi Rana’s own men got killed in Ambala gang war: SSP||A day after gangster Bhupinder, alias Bhupi Rana, was brought on production warrants to Ambala in connection with the March 25 Kalka Chowk shooting, police have established that the targets from the Lawrence Bishnoi gang had managed to escape while those killed were in fact from Bhupi’s gang.It was a case of mistaken identity and the two shot dead — Pardeep, alias Panja, and Rahul, both from Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran and affiliated to Bhupi’s gang — were not the targets, said Ambala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hamid Akhtar on Friday.“As per our initial investigations, the shooters are from the Devinder Bambiha gang, who came to take revenge for the murder of Amit, alias Meet Bouncer, by the Bishnoi gang in Panchkula in 2017. The Bambiha gang orchestrated the shooting with the help of Bhupi and wanted to kill Maneesh and Amandeep, alias Manni, of the Bishnoi gang,” said the SSP.Pardeep and Rahul along with two others had come to Ambala in a Hyundai Verna car, with a Chandigarh registration number ending in 1620, for a hearing in a 2019 case of gang war inside Ambala Central Jail. As many as 84 inmates were booked after those affiliated to the Bishnoi gang allegedly attacked Bhupi’s men.Maneesh and Manni, who were also in Ambala for the same hearing, were also expected to arrive in a Hyundai Verna with the number ending in 2620, but came in another vehicle. The hearing did not take place as it was suspended after a court staffer tested positive.“The difference of just one digit in the car registration numbers led to the killings of Pardeep and Rahul, while Maneesh and Manni escaped in their car,” said the SSP. P’kula man had done recceThe police had arrested the first accused in the case — Rakesh Kumar, a history-sheeter facing 12 criminal cases — from Panchkula on Holi. He had done the recce on orders of Bhupi, who was lodged in the Kurukshetra jail.Rakesh had been an inmate with Bhupi in the same barrack in Ambala Central Jail in 2019, said the SSP.“Rakesh was also present at the court complex on the day of the shooting and had met Maneesh at an eatery. He told Maneesh to come with him, but the later refused apparently suspecting something was amiss and left in his vehicle,” he said.This is when Pardeep and Rahul, who had too left from the court, were followed by the shooters in their Maruti Suzuki Swift car and shot dead near Kalka Chowk. More than 20 rounds were fired on their car, which also left the driver and the person sitting next to him injured. The shooters, said to be two or three in number, are still absconding. Apology on FacebookMembers of the Bambiha gang had posted on social media about “avenging the killers of Meet Bouncer” soon after the shooting on March 25.However, after they got to know that those killed were not from the Bishnoi gang, the post was deleted and an apology was issued instead, the SSP said.A Facebook post written in Punjabi reads, “Due to a misunderstanding, two families were destroyed and we are responsible for it… We seek an apology from the families of our two brothers. May lord give enough strength to them…”Bhupi, who belongs to Handesra village in Mohali, is said to have been a close aide of Bambiha, who was shot dead during an encounter with Punjab Police in Bathinda in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhupi-rana-s-own-men-got-killed-in-ambala-gang-war-ssp-101617391805056.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Infections soar as Delhi adds 3,594 more cases, 14 deaths||The number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi have nearly doubled over the last two days, with the city adding 3,594 infections on Friday, as against 1,819 on Wednesday, with health experts calling for non-essential activities to be restricted to prevent the current surge from spiralling out of control.Friday’s spike was the highest single-day spike since December 4, when Delhi added 4,067 infections.The Capital added the last 10,000 infections in five days, the 10,000 cases before it in eight days, and the 10,000 before that in 33 days, shows data released by the Delhi government, indicating the exponential spread of the virus in the city over the past two weeks.This comes as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, during a press briefing on Friday, expressed concerns over the fourth wave of the infection in the city, and urged the Centre to open the vaccination drive for everyone above the age of 18.The city also recorded 14 deaths due to the viral infection on Friday, the most in a single day since January 12 when the city recorded 16 deaths. So far, the disease has killed 11,050 people in the city.As per the data, Delhi had added the last 100 deaths to its toll in 15 days as against 47 days for the 100 deaths before that. During the surge in cases in November, the city had reported the highest 131 deaths in a day.After addressing an urgent meeting with the health department to discuss the case surge in the Capital, the chief minister on Friday said infections during the current wave were less severe and less fatal than in the past.Currently, the cumulative case fatality rate (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive for the infection – stands at 1.65%. The city’s highest CFR so far was 4.1% in June, when health professionals were still finalising treatment protocol for the infection.“ICU beds in my hospital are filling up. I have patients who urgently need oxygen, I am seeing the same kind of CT scan that I saw last year. There is no evidence so far to suggest that the infection has become milder. Yes, the case fatality rate has definitely gone down across the country from 3 or 4% to around 1.5%. There are fewer deaths taking place because people are aware of the disease and are reaching hospital on time. Doctors have also gained experience in treating Covid-19 patients and know what works,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). He is currently the chairperson of PSRI Institute of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine.He said, “Another reason that fewer hospitalisations are taking place is that younger people are getting the infections at the moment. They are the ones travelling, going to the market and to parties.”The city has seen a steady increase in the number of hospitalisations, from just 489 at the beginning of March to 2,255 as on Thursday night, reported a day later in Friday’s health bulletin.In the same period, the number of active cases — those currently infected — went up from 1,404 to 11,994, according to data shared by the Delhi government.“If there is a susceptible population, the number of cases will keep going up and down. Although the seroprevalence in Delhi was 56% [according to the fifth sero survey in January] and many have been vaccinated, the infection started spreading among the others when those who had been at home started stepping out when cases fell in December and January... But a lockdown is not the answer,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.He added, “However, everyone needs to follow social distancing norms and mask up. Unnecessary gatherings should be curtailed.”The Delhi government last week introduced curbs on gatherings, limiting them to 200 people in open spaces, 100 in closed halls, and 50 people in funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/infections-soar-as-delhi-adds-3-594-more-cases-14-deaths-101617391592739.html
03-04-2021||Other||Coal washing charges: PSPCL releases ₹800 cr to private thermal plants||The Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) has paid about ₹800 crore as the first instalment of coal washing charges to private generators of thermal power at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo, as per the directions of the Supreme Court.On March 9, the apex court had directed PSPCL to clear the arrears, along with interest, of the difference between the actual cost incurred by the two private generators and the payment received by them for the supply of washed coal. As per the order, the arrears are to be paid in two instalments -- one before March 31 and the other on or before May 31.According to PSPCL officials, out of the total arrears of ₹1, 750 crore, Nabha Power Limited (NPL), which operates the Rajpura thermal plant, will get about ₹1, 100 crore, comprising ₹750 crore as the principal amount and about ₹350 crore as the interest amount while the rest will go to the Tawlandi Sabo power plant.PSPCL will inform the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) about the payments to the independent power producers (IPPs) in the last financial year, and the balance amount payable before May 31 this year.PSPCL paid ₹1, 423 crore as coal washing charges to the IPPs in 2020, and to recover the amount, it had brought in a hike of 30 paise per unit in the current tariff cycle (2020-21). For recovery of the remaining ₹1, 750 crore, PSPCL will have to increase the tariff by around 40 paise for another year, or adjust its Annual Revenue Requirement petition, if it doesn’t ask for tariff revision.As per the tariff proposal for the financial year 2021-22, submitted by PSPCL on January 25 to PSERC, the commission plans to recover the gap of ₹9, 807 crore during the next 2 to 5 years so that there is no tariff increase but some relief for domestic consumers with a load up to 7KW can be granted.After the regulator agrees to defer any amount for the next year, these become regulatory assets. Regulatory assets are those expenses of electricity distribution companies that they can legally pass on to customers with a hike in tariff but are deferred for the time being.“Now, the payment of coal washing charges to be recoverable from the consumers can lead to tariff increase or PSERC can be requested to add this amount also to regulatory assets,” said a power engineer.All India Power Engineers Association (AIPEF) spokesman VK Gupta said PSPCL lost the case of coal washing because of faulty replies to pre-bid queries during the tendering process. “The officials are responsible for this gross mistake, which has taken a toll of ₹3200 crore on the consumers’ pocket, should be punished for failing to protect the interests of state during the bidding process,” he said.PSPCL CMD A Venu Parsad said PSPCL has saved a lot of money with cost cutting, timely payment of interests, and efficient management of resources. “I assure you that we will survive the burden of this payment of ₹1, 750 crore through internal working, and won’t ask for tariff hike for this amount.”He said the PSPCL is studying the verdict and may go for fresh petition before the regulator on certain issues, as allowed by Supreme court, on certain issues which can save cost of power purchase from private thermal plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coal-washing-charges-pspcl-releases-rs-800-cr-to-private-thermal-plants-101617391626273.html
03-04-2021||Other||Panipat MC’s contractual supervisor killed||A 30-year-old man was allegedly killed by assailants at Dhoop Singh Nagar in Panipat.Police said deceased Shiv Kumar was a resident of Sitamai village in Kaithal and was working as a contractual supervisor with the Panipat municipal corporation (MC).The incident took place at around 11am on Friday when Shiv had gone to a construction site at Dhoop Singh Nagar and five people came on bikes and opened fire at him.He allegedly fell on the ground and the accused stabbed him with a knife before fleeing.He was rushed to hospital but doctors declared him brought dead.Police said on complaint of his family, a case was registered under Sections 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 54 of the Arms Act against five persons - Abhinav, his brother Anubhav, Sonu, Ashish and Bolt.Police said that from preliminary investigation, it seems to be a case of old enmity as the accused and the deceased had gotten into a scuffle last month and an FIR was registered in the case at Chandni Bagh police station.However, no arrest has been made so far and body of the deceased was handed over to his family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-mc-s-contractual-supervisor-killed-101617391624899.html
03-04-2021||Other||35% fare hike can impact air traffic: Experts||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has increased the airfares by 35% in a month. While the reason for increasing the first hike (of 30%) was not revealed, MoCA has attributed the second hike (of an additional 5%) to an increase in aircraft turbine fuel price. On March 21, aviation minister Hardeep Puri said that India has brought back 6.76 million stranded passengers with the help of the special Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) international flights since last May. According to the government, over 8,500 distressed Indians returned to the country on March 20 alone.Experts have said that though the hike is a good step for airlines, it might not go well with passengers. On contrary to the aviation minister’s claims, experts also said that the demand for air travel has not been good, and with the 35% hike, the demand might get affected further.Rajji Rai, chairman of Swift group of industries, said, “This is a steep increase on the lower limit of the airfare band from a passenger’s point of view. The ministry should have increased the lower limit of the airfare band at regular intervals. But because the government suddenly increased it by 30%, it hasn’t gone well with the passengers. Airlines have pushed their way through because they are finding it difficult to survive, but as an authority, the ministry should have increased the prices in parts instead of increasing it by 35% within a month.”CS Subbiah, former chief executive officer (CEO) of Alliance Air, said, “According to me, the ministry has taken a cautious call by increasing the lower limit of the band. The government has to allow the airlines to operate on their own. It has been nine months that the airspace has reopened after complete lockdown. Though everyone has suffered losses, the airlines have suffered more, and are financially weak. The government seems to be slowly moving towards deregulation, and increasing the airfares needed as per the market conditions. As long as maximum fares are not increased, increasing the lower limit of the band is not an issue, as it also gives confidence to airlines to run their business.”Commenting on continuing with the 80% flight capacity restrictions by the ministry, Subbiah said, “Flights are still not seeing full loads, hence the government might wait till the summer vacation to see the response. Even if the air traffic reaches 70% of that recorded in 2019, then they might slowly increase the flight capacity to 100%.”According to aviation expert Vipul Saxena the increase in Covid-19 cases as well as with more states making a test report compulsory for travel, the passenger traffic will be affected. “People will travel only in unavoidable situations. I see heavy fall in numbers till June. The increase in minimum fare cap will further impact passenger traffic. However, I am hopeful of an airfare war due to poor demand,” said Saxena.Thane resident Savita Yadav believes that with the air tickets getting costlier and states imposing more restrictions amid the rise in Covid-19 cases, the situation is too volatile to plan a travel. “A Mumbai-Dehradun roundtrip ticket for May 14 starts from ₹12,000. The rates for the sector in February first week were around ₹ 9,000.But I did not book my tickets then, as making travel plans in advance is risky these days. However, now the air tickets are costlier and the situation is too volatile,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-fare-hike-can-impact-air-traffic-experts-101617391564357.html
03-04-2021||Other||Karnal farmers protest delay in wheat procurement due to schedule||Even as the Haryana government claimed to have started the wheat procurement operations in around 400 mandis and purchase centres in state from April 1, farmers staged protests in Karnal alleging that government agencies are not ready to start the procurement process.Hundreds of farmers reached the Karnal grain market as government agencies did not procure wheat.“Our crop was ready for harvest but we did not get any SMS to bring it to the mandis yet. I brought wheat of three acre to the Karnal grain market but was not allowed to enter the mandi for hours,” alleged farmer Bhupinder Singh, of Bijna village.He said that he had done registration for 450 quintal and 14 acre is ready for harvest but he did not get any SMS yet.After the mandi officials did not give him gate pass, the protesting farmers unloaded their wheat outside the office of mandi secretary and said that they will continue their protests till government start procurement.Jagdip Singh Aulakh, a local BKU leader, alleged that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala are making tall claims that the procurement has started in all mandis in state but there are no buyers in Karnal grain market and farmers are not allowed to bring in their produce.“Four farmers brought their produce in Karnal mandi and six had brought their produce to Indri grain market on April 1 but not even a single grain was procured yet. Government should not make such misleading and false claims,” he alleged.The farmer union leaders have asked the farmers to bring their produce to mandis without SMS as they will force the government to procure it on MSP of ₹1,975. He alleged that SMS are being sent to farmers whose crop is not ready for harvest.After high drama of hours, Karnal additional deputy commissioner Veena Hooda reached the mandi. She told the farmers that she will take up the matter with higher authorities to sort the issue with the help of commission agents.However, officials said SMS are being sent to farmers as harvesting is yet to pick pace and the moisture content in wheat is also high right now.But harvesting will gain pace in next one week and farmers, who could not register themselves on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal will be given another opportunity to get themselves registered as the portal will reopen on April 5 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-farmers-protest-delay-in-wheat-procurement-due-to-schedule-101617391504905.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees sudden rise in Covaxin demand||With the Covid-19 vaccination drive picking pace in Punjab, after the inclusion of the 45-plus age group in the vaccination ambit, demand for the indigenously developed Covaxin has suddenly gone up, after initial hesitancy.Even though the Oxford-backed Covishield vaccine remains the main vaccine being administered throughout the state, with 9 lakh doses already being given to people of various categories, there has been a rise in the number of persons visiting sites where Covaxin shots are being administered. Senior health officials say the demand for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine is coming from health workers, especially doctors, who are opting for Covaxin because of its high efficacy in fighting the virus. “Covaxin has an efficacy of 80% against Covishield’s 70%. Those who are aware of the efficacy are visiting Covaxin sites. With more literature about the vaccine coming to the market, the vaccine’s popularity has increased in the last few days,” said Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Punjab had started giving Covaxin doses from March and so far, 90,000 doses have been administered across the state and interestingly, half of it, nearly 45, 000 doses, were administered in the last one week alone. “We are getting reports from our field staff that more people are asking for Covaxin. At present, there are five to six session sites for the vaccine in every district. We are increasing the session sites from next week in view of its increasing demand,” said the nodal officer. A medical officer involved in vaccination in Patiala said, “Earlier, only one session site in the city was administering Covaxin and that too was witnessing a low turnout as compared to Covishield sites, due to initial hesitancy. But now, this site is witnessing a huge rush.” Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Punjab chapter president, Dr Navjot Dahiya, also said the demand for Covaxin has increased. “Even as most of the private hospitals are giving Covishield, we are getting more queries now regarding the availability of Covaxin. Earlier, people had doubts about this vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-sudden-rise-in-covaxin-demand-101617391446878.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records coldest April night since 2008||Even as Chandigarh is seeing an early advent of summer this year, minimum temperature dropped to 12.3°C, four notches below normal, making the intervening night of Thursday and Friday coldest in April in at least 14 years.The temperature is likely to rise in the coming days, but with light rain expected early next week, it may fall again.Since 2008, for which data was readily available with the India Meteorological Department, April had previously recorded the lowest minimum temperature in 2011, when it went down to 13.1°C. The all-time low of 7.8°C was reported way back in 1965.“Just a couple of days back, it had snowed in parts of Himachal Pradesh. The cold winds blowing from the hills led to a drop in temperature in Chandigarh at night even as the day had remained warmer. Clear sky also leads to cooler nights,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh.The weatherman said the sky is likely to get cloudy from Saturday onwards, and light rain is expected on Tuesday and Wednesday. A dip in maximum temperature can be expected, but minimum temperature will remain on the higher side due to cloudy weather.On Friday, maximum temperature was recorded at 31.4°C. In the next three days, it will remain between 32 and 36 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 13 and 17 degrees, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-coldest-april-night-since-2008-101617391445486.html
03-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia security scare: Vaze’s ex-colleagues, south Mumbai club owner quizzed||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Antilia security scare case and the related murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, questioned prime suspect Sachin Vaze’s former colleagues, including crime branch officer Prakash Ovhal, who reportedly purchased a Mitsubishi Outlander from the suspended Mumbai Police officer. It also recorded the statement of the owner of a south Mumbai club which it had searched on the previous day.NIA questioned Riyazuddin Kazi of the crime intelligence unit, which Vaze headed till he was suspended and later arrested, and Ovhal, for around nine hours at its office on Peddar Road on Friday. The club owner was seen arriving at NIA office around 11am and left around 4.50pm, the Press Trust of India reported.NIA conducted searches at a hotel and a club in south Mumbai and a flat in neighbouring Thane on Thursday in connection with its probe into the Ambani security scare case, and also detained a woman, an alleged associate of Vaze, PTI reported.A team of the NIA, which is probing the recovery of an explosives-laden Scorpio near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the murder of Hiran, who is linked to the car, reached the Soni building, where the hotel and the club are situated, around 12.45pm.Customers and staff members of the hotel were asked to vacate the premises, located near the Babulnath temple.During the search, NIA sleuths also made inquiries with a few people at the club and the hotel, the official said. The probe team left the place after over three hours.Vaze, a suspended police official whom NIA arrested last month in connection with the case, had been recently brought by the probe agency to the Babulnath area as part of its probe, PTI reported.Another NIA team conducted searches at a flat in Mira Road area in Thane district.PTI reported that the flat was in a woman’s possession and was locked for over two weeks, and the same woman, an alleged associate of Vaze, was detained by the agency from the airport on Thursday evening. However, this was not officially confirmed by the central agency, PTI stated.NIA has arrested Vaze on March 13 for his purported role in abandoning a Mahindra Scorpio with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai.The gelatin sticks found in the vehicle near Ambani’s house had been procured by Vaze himself, NIA officials had claimed on Wednesday, PTI stated.The suspended Mumbai police officer is also suspected to be the prime accused in alleged murder of Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, linked to the SUV. Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which earlier probed the murder case, has arrested former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie murder Naresh Gor in connection with the murder.Mansukh’s body was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra on March 5, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and face covered by a scarf. All his belongings like golden ring, chain, mobile handset, wrist watch and valet were missing.Shinde and Gor have been arrested on March 21 and are accused of aiding abetting Vaze in killing the 48-year-old trader.Parambir Singh PILThe Bombay High Court on April 5 will pronounce its order on whether a PIL filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh should be heard further.Singh’s plea alleged that Deshmukh had asked police officers, including suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze who has been arrested in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence here, to collect ₹100 crore each month from bars and restaurants.The public interest litigation also alleged corruption in police transfers and postings and political interference in probes.A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on March 31 reserved its order on the issue of maintainability of the PIL (whether it should be taken up for final hearing or dismissed at the preliminary stage).The Maharashtra government’s lawyer argued that the petition was not maintainable as Singh had vested interests and the plea was a result of his transfer from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to Home Guard.The court will also give its ruling in three other petitions filed by lawyers Jayshri Patil and Ghanshyam Upadhyay and professor Mohan Bhide seeking independent probe into Singh’s allegations against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-security-scare-vaze-s-ex-colleagues-south-mumbai-club-owner-quizzed-101617391384307.html
03-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 889 Covid cases, highest since outbreak||The tricity recorded 889 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest since the outbreak in March last year.During the first wave, the peak was recorded at 865 on September 13. This figure was breached for the first time on Friday, as Mohali district logged 419 cases, followed by 287 in Chandigarh and 183 in Panchkula.Mohali continues to report bulk of the cases, which took its total to 27,521. With four patients succumbing, the district’s death toll has reached 440.While the number of active cases has climbed to 3,414, the number of those recovered stands at 23,667 (86%) after 298 patients were discharged on Friday. “While we continue to make critical progress, its important that we don’t panic, and follow Covid appropriate behaviour and government guidelines to fight this pandemic in the best possible way,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, adding that the district has seen a decline in positivity rate from 21.42% last week to 20.02% this week.Despite having the most number of active cases in the state, the district has been maintaining one of the lowest case fatality ratio, he said. “The district is gradually ramping up testing capacity through concerted efforts. As many as 1,700 tests per million are being conducted in comparison to 1,086 in Punjab and 747 in India,” said the DC.Meanwhile, 2,223 people were administered vaccine against Covid-19 on Friday, including 798 in the 45-59 age group. Subdivisional magistrate Jagdeep Sehgal said two static and mobile teams each were also deployed for vaccinating government employees and industrial labour. Active cases breach 3K mark in UT, 1K in P’kulaIn Chandigarh, the number of active cases went past 3,000 for the first time since September 17. As many as 27,543 people have tested positive so far, of whom 24,064 (87%) have recovered, 381 have died and 3,098 are still undergoing treatment. Among those dead is a 58-year-old man from Khuda Alisher who breathed his last at the PGIMER on Friday.As many as 2,938 people were administered the vaccine. Of them, 1,663 were aged between 45 and 59 while 745 were senior citizens.Panchkula reported 183 new cases, the highest this year, which took the total to 13,371. The number of active cases has climbed to 1,038 while the number of recovered patients stands at 12,179 (91%). Of 3,158 people vaccinated on Friday, 1,674 were in the age group of 45-59.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-889-covid-cases-highest-since-outbreak-101617391264899.html
03-04-2021||Bangalore||Ramesh Jarkiholi skips SIT questioning, cites illness||Former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who has been booked for sexual harassment, failed to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Friday. The SIT had issued notice to Jarkiholi to appear for questioning. In response, Jarkiholi said that he was unwell.A police officer familiar with the case said that Jarkiholi may apply for anticipatory bail in the coming week. However, the SIT has no plans to arrest him as he has been cooperating with the investigation, the official said. Another officer said Jarkiholi has sought two days to appear before the SIT. His lawyer, Shyam Sunder, who confirmed the BJP legislator’s illness, said that he has not been in hiding as claimed by some media outlets. He said Jarkiholi is in Gokak in Belagavi – his constituency.Days after filing a complaint of alleged sexual assault against Jarkiholi, the woman, who purportedly featured in the alleged sex tape, on Tuesday recorded her statement before a magistrate’s court in Bengaluru. Later, she was also questioned by the special investigation team set up to probe the case.On Wednesday, the woman’s father approached the Karnataka High Court, questioning the police recording his daughter’s statement.In his petition, the father said that his daughter was a victim of circumstances and politics and her video was aired by various media outlets. He said he contacted her only to realise that she has been victimised and was under tremendous pressure.The father said that he lodged a police complaint stating that his daughter was kidnapped by unknown influential people in Belagavi. His daughter, too, lodged a complaint with the police, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ramesh-jarkiholi-skips-sit-questioning-cites-illness-101617390904801.html
03-04-2021||Other||16 Covid deaths push UP’s fatality count to 8,836||LUCKNOW As many as 16 deaths, the maximum in one day this year, pushed UP’s fatality count to 8,836 on Friday while 2,907 fresh Covid cases took the caseload to 6,22,736. The state’s active case count crossed the 14,000-mark. UP had recorded around 3,000 fresh cases in a day in October second week, after which a downward trend was seen. Lucknow recorded 940 fresh cases, Kanpur152, Prayagraj 213, Ghaziabad 73, Gautam Buddh Nagar 70, Meerut 82, Varanasi 253 and Jhansi 144. Lucknow saw nine deaths, Kanpur one, 1 each in Mathura, Etawah, Pilibhit and Ballia and Varanasi two, according to the health department. As many as 782, one-fourth of 2,907 fresh cases, were discharged from hospitals hence the number of active cases crossed 14,000-mark (14,073) in UP. The maximum 4,587 active cases were in Lucknow, followed by Varanasi 954 and 871 in Prayagraj. UP had till now tested 35070062 Covid samples, including 1,47,591 in the past 24 hours. The maximum around 21 lakh samples were tested in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16-covid-deaths-push-up-s-fatality-count-to-8836-101617390064722.html
03-04-2021||Other||Nine deaths in Lucknow – maximum in a day this year||LUCKNOW Nine Covid patients in Lucknow succumbed to the infection on Friday – the maximum in a day this year – while 940 fresh cases took the caseload to 87,753. The fatality count reached 1,222. Fresh cases were reported from different areas, including the maximum - 156 from Aliganj, 102 from Alambagh, 104 from Indira Nagar, 90 from Chinhat, 55 from Aishbagh, 37 from Sarojininagar, 45 from Hazratganj, 58 from Gomti Nagar, 51 from Talkatora and 48 from Chowk, as per the health department. Of the total 87,753 cases, 81,944 have recovered. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 93.38%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. During the day, the number of patients in home isolation crossed the 3000-mark. At present 3,011 out of the 4,587 active cases were in home isolation. Among those admitted to hospitals, 108 were at Era Medical College. During the day, 74 patients were admitted to hospitals while 115 returned the ambulance opting for home isolation when the ambulance reached to shift them to hospital. Keeping in view the rising cases, the health department increased sampling. During the past 24 hours, 16,135 Covid samples were collected. This was the maximum number of samples in a day this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-deaths-in-lucknow-maximum-in-a-day-this-year-101617389824838.html
03-04-2021||Gurugram||New quota law applicable from May: Dushyant Chautala||Haryana’s job reservation law which allows 75% quota in the private sector will come into force from May 1, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Friday.“The job reservation act will come into force from May 1 and with this, every three out of four new jobs created from next month will go to the local youth from the state. The law has been made after holding detailed discussions with industries,” Chautala said, adding that jobs such as that of a security guard, driver or of similar nature do not require any special skills and there was no reason why they could not be given to the locals.Last month, Haryana governor Satydeo Narain Arya gave assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, allowing 75% reservation to locals for jobs that have a salary of less than ₹50,000 per month in privately owned companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms situated in Haryana. The quota will apply for 10 years.The assembly had late last year passed the bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party.Chautala said jobs for which the required skill set was not available locally would be exempted from the law. He added that the government is in talks with the industry ahead of the implementation of the act. “We have also sought written suggestions from entrepreneurs,” he said.“No law, when enforced, is perfect but the changes that are made thereafter ensure that it serves the purpose for which it is meant. We are flexible on the matter and the concerns raised by stakeholders will be addressed,” he said.Several entrepreneurs have also made suggestions regarding technical posts in industries or private institutions in which special skills are required, the minister said. The jobs which require a specific technical skill set will be kept out of the purview of this law, he reiterated.“This law already has many provisions to ensure that the existing industry does not face any trouble in sourcing manpower,” he said.Gurgaon Industrial Association president J N Mangla said there is a strong apprehension among industrialists that the new law would impact their operations in the future. “The law needs to be reviewed and the suggestions put forth by the industry incorporated into the proposed rules. A situation should not be created where the industry feels harassed in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-quota-law-applicable-from-may-dushyant-101617388624050.html
03-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 398 new Covid cases on Friday||For the second consecutive day Gurugram reported its highest ever surge in Covid-19 cases this year with 398 new infections on Friday. The number of active cases went up to 2,283 and the total tally to 63,792. One death was reported on Friday, taking the toll to 366. The district administration said it would go for aggressive containment and stricter enforcement of health protocols such as wearing masks and keeping social distance.The surge has led to an increase in hospitalisation. Currently, at least 195 moderate to severely ill patients have been undergoing treatment in various private hospitals of the city, while 91.2% are home-isolated. Only five positive patients are isolated in designated Covid care centres. Gurugram now contributes to almost 21% of Haryana’s active case load, which is around 11,000. The district’s positivity rate -- the number of positive cases per 100 tests --- was 7% in the last two days, and over the last week it was almost 6.2%. According to the World Health Organization, the infection is said to be controlled in a region if its positivity rate was 5% or lower over two weeks.Other districts like Karnal and Panchkula have also been reporting surge as well; the positivity rate of the state is 4.67%. “The administration will focus on an aggressive containment strategy. Cases are being mapped geographically to identify areas and source of coronavirus infection. Secondly, an inter-disciplinary approach will be adopted where different government departments will be involved once again to handle specific Covid-19 related duties as done earlier in the district to tackle the surge,” said Yash Garg, Gurugram deputy commissioner, who will meet with officials of different government departments on April 5 to take stock of the situation. “Hospitalisation facility is being strengthened to provide timely treatment to people. There will be strict enforcement of mask challans to bring behavioural change among people. Meanwhile, health department will continue with rapid vaccination and increased testing to control the transmission,” said Garg. From March 25, the health department has been administering almost 5000 tests a day to timely trace positive cases. Haryana was categorised as one of the 11 “states of grave concern” by the union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday. The state on March 15 had reported 440 new cases, on April 2, this was 1609. Earlier this year, when Covid-19 cases dramatically climbed up with a test positivity rate — proportion of positives out of the samples tested — of almost 22%, the Gurugram administration segregated activities like surveillance, delivery of timely test results, contact tracing, hospitalization and containment task among different government departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-reports-398-new-covid-cases-on-friday-101617388505819.html
03-04-2021||Other||Chautala inaugurates flyover on Gurugrgam-Faridabad road, says will boost connectivity||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday inaugurated a four-lane flyover on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road near Bandhwari village. He said it will be the fastest route between Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and the Jewar airport coming up in Uttar Pradesh. “Both Faridabad and Gurugram are the main business and industrial centres of Haryana and, therefore, road connectivity between these two cities should certainly be better and this flyover will help (in that front by) ensuring smooth traffic,” he said. The flyover is 514 metres long, 21 metres wide and was built in 21 months at a cost of about ₹11.5 crore. Interacting with the media after the inauguration, Chautala said the Public Works Department had been given two years to complete the project.. Officials said that flyover will make the main crossing between Faridabad and Gurugram stop-free. Apart from this intersection, there are two other intersections on Gurugram-Faridabad highway, which will be revamped after holding talks with the national highway authority of India, said the deputy CM.Chautala also assured the residents of Bandhwari village that if they were willing to provide land then the state government would make efforts to develop international level sports facilities in the area. He also announced a grant of ₹21 lakh from his personal fund for the beautification of the historic chaupal of the village.Referring to the recent surge of Covid-19 cases, he asked people to wear masks whenever they ventured outside, maintain six feet distance and regularly sanitize their hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chautala-inaugurates-flyover-on-gurugrgam-faridabad-road-says-will-boost-connectivity-101617388504722.html
03-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to resolve issue of OC, completion certificates in Malibu Towne by April 15||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) will decide on revoking the ban on issuing occupation and completion certificates to property owners of Malibu Towne colony by April 15. The ban was imposed in November last year after the department found violations and commercial structures in the residential colony, which is spread over 208 acres along the Gurugram Sohna Road.Senior town planner Sanjiv Mann said the violations were found after a complaint from a colony resident.Residents and members of the Malibu RWAs Federation met Mann on Friday and said they were facing many difficulties without the permissions. “Many owners want to construct houses on plots that they had bought 15 to 20 years ago but can’t do so without permission. Even those who constructed homes cannot start living there without occupation certificates,” said Niranjan Yadav, chairperson of the federation. He said that residents who had no legal issues should be allowed the necessary permissions. On the violations, Yadav said action should be taken against individuals who have committed violations instead of issuing a ban. “This matter has been discussed at the headquarter level and the issue pertaining to occupation certificates and completion would be resolved by April 15,” said Mann. In another development, an enforcement team led by district town planner RS Bhath on Friday sealed six shops constructed on MCG land in village Jharsa amidst stiff resistance by locals. Bhath said that these shops had no permission. “All such structures built on government plots illegally will be sealed and plots cleared of encroachment,” he said. The enforcement team also sealed several shops in a mall on Golf Course road for having built illegal mezzanine floors. “We are acting swiftly on complaints lodged by residents and if anyone has any issue then they can approach the department online or through phone,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-resolve-issue-of-oc-completion-certificates-in-malibu-towne-by-april-15-101617388505249.html
03-04-2021||Gurugram||Third fire reported from Sohna waste dumping site on Aravalli land in two weeks||A municipal waste dumping site of the Sohna municipal council suffered its third fire incident in two weeks on Thursday. No one was injured in the incident but environment activists say that it hurt the Aravallis.Sohna Municipal Council executive officer Sandeep Malik said, “We are investigating the potential causes of fire at the dumping site that has increased now. Fires were reported from the dumping site in the third week of March too. We are checking if anyone is intentionally setting fire, and if so, then appropriate action will be taken against them.” The council has appointed two full-time personnel to keep vigil at the dumping site. Environmentalists alleged that this dumping site on Old Alwar Road was on Aravalli forest land. Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, said, “The Aravalli forest land should be protected. Now, with these regular fires, not just the soil and underground water, but the air too is getting polluted. In March, the fire had raged for two days before the authorities took action and doused it.” Divisional forest officer of Gurugram Ranbir Singh said, “I have recently taken charge of the area and will not be able to comment (on Aravallis) without checking the details.” As per the sub-regional plan for Haryana sub-region of National Capital Region-2021, Sohna falls in category 3 for solid waste management. As per the plan, category 3 areas are estimated to generate solid waste in the range of 30 to 50 metric tonnes and it would be viable to adopt vermi-composting and other intermediate and low cost biotechnologies to effectively dispose waste in such areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-fire-reported-from-sohna-waste-dumping-site-on-aravalli-land-in-two-weeks-101617388504126.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Car containing 18 cartons of illicit liquor seized in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: The police on Friday seized a car and 18 cartons of liquor during a checking drive in Badalpur, Greater Noida. Dinesh Kumar, SHO Badalpur police station, said that a team was conducting checking near Ambedkar Nagar Park on Friday. “A man reached the spot in a Hyundai Creta car. The police team signalled him to stop but he tried to speed up,” he said. The police team chased the suspect and forced him to stop. “The suspect allegedly abandoned the car and fled the spot. The police searched the vehicle and found 18 cartons of illicit liquor, made for sale in Haryana, in the vehicle,” he said. The police seized the vehicle and the liquor. The police believe the suspect was transporting the liquor for use in local elections. A case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 60, Section 63 and Section 72 of the Excise Act. “We are trying to trace the vehicle owner using the registration number plate,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/car-containing-18-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-greater-noida-101617388384621.html
03-04-2021||Gurugram||Fire in sec 50 vegetable market||A fire broke out in a local vegetable market in sector 50 on Friday afternoon. A few vehicles were gutted but no one was injured, said fire department officials.As per officials, the incident took place at around 2.15 pm at a vacant plot behind Baani Square. Three fire tenders and firefighters from sector 29 were sent to the spot. The fire was doused in 90 minutes.“The fire originated in the market itself and spread due to strong winds. A bike, auto, and a hut were gutted. We were able to contain the fire from spreading to the remaining shanties,” said I S Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.Kashyap said that around 15-20 vendors sell vegetables and grains from the vacant plot.“The sellers simply spread a sheet on the ground and sell their goods from it. They did not construct any permanent or temporary structure there. From the manner in which the fire spread, we have been able to ascertain it originated in the market itself. However, we are yet to determine the cause of it,” said Kashyap.Visuals of the fire and smoke were circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-in-sec-50-vegetable-market-101617388385161.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Businessman injured in scuffle over payment issues||Noida: A man in his forties allegedly sustained injuries when he was attacked by three people over non payment of dues in an area under sector 39 police jurisdiction.According to police officials, the incident was reported from the Harijan Basti on Friday evening. The man who sustained injuries was identified as Mohamman Chaman Qureshi, a resident of the area, who runs a meat shop nearby.“In his complaint Qureshi has alleged that he was attacked without cause by three men belonging to a local committee to whom he owed money. They are all locals and known to each other and run similar businesses in the area,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, sector 39 police station.Police officials said that the two parties had met on Thursday to sort out the payment issue but the incident escalated and resulted in Qureshi sustaining injuries. The other group alleges that they had been called by Qureshi himself to settle his balance dues and he was not ambushed like he claims, said police.“We have sent him for a medical examination. The neighbours have been questioned but so far nothing concrete has come to light. A probe is underway in the allegations made by him. The suspects have been identified and we are bringing them in for questioning. Due legal action will be taken,” said the SHO.Police officials also said that Qureshi also owed money to lenders in Ghaziabad and had apparently settled in Noida a few years back to avoid them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/businessman-injured-in-scuffle-over-payment-issues-101617388384040.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Spa running prostitution racket busted, 10 held||Noida: Noida police raided a spa centre running a prostitution racket out of a mall in sector-61 and detained 23 people, 10 of whom have been arrested. Police also recovered marijuana and both used and unused contraceptives from the centre. The raid was conducted around 8pm after police received a tip-off about illegal activities at the centre. Noida police used decoy customers to catch the perpetrators red-handed. “The owner, two managers, including a woman, seven customers and 13 women working at the centre were found at the time of the raid. The workers were rehabilitated in a women’s shelter home. The 10 others were booked and sent to jail,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1. Police said the spa centre had been running in the mall for the last two years. It was using online advertisements and word of mouth to bring in customers. The suspects don’t have any prior criminal history, said police. None of the workers working at the centre were underage, said police. Most of them are from Delhi, Noida and Nepal. Police said those originally from Nepal are living in Delhi for the past few years. All the workers said the owner and the managers of the spa centre forced them into sex work for money. Officials from the anti-human trafficking unit lodged a complaint at Sector-58 police station. A case was registered against the suspects under section 370B of the IPC and relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and Prevention of Human Trafficking Act.“There are four more spas in the mall. Though no suspicious activity has been reported from any of them, they are still on our radar. We will also check if anyone from the mall management was involved and take necessary action,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Police said they are also looking for other customers visiting the spa centres. Teams have been formed to check for illegal activities in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/spa-running-prostitution-racket-busted-10-held-101617388324135.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Farmers’ protest at Chilla leads to traffic snarl||Noida: Following an attack on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday evening in Rajasthan, a group of over 50 farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Tikait faction blocked traffic at the Chilla border, leading to diversions and traffic snarls.According to a spokesperson of the faction, Tikait’s procession was attacked in Alwar district by unidentified persons. Several vehicles were damaged in the incident and one volunteer sustained injuries but Tikait managed to escape without any physical trauma. An FIR was registered in the case in Rajasthan and the police are working the case, the spokesperson said. Following the incident, Tikait supporters in several states protested at several locations, including Chilla border, Ghazipur, Singhu borders, etc. Traffic was blocked on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway for over two hours late Friday.In Noida, the protestors blocked traffic at the Chilla border around 8 pm. Appeals from Tikait finally had the protestors clear the roads and they left the area around 9pm. “The protest caused traffic snarls from the border to ahead of the Dalit Prerna Sthal. We diverted movement from the Sthal towards the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) loop completely by passing Chilla and the loop opening towards Chilla was closed. Delhi police was also turning the traffic back around,” said deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Ganesh Saha.Traffic police immediately shared updates with the public, urging them to use alternate routes of DND and Kalindi Kunj and the traffic begun to clear out by 9.30 pm.Noida police officials said that they are prepared to handle the situation in case protests continue.“The protestors blocked the traffic for a while before clearing out. Our teams are on alert,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay Singh.Police said that chances of the protestors returning are minimal but teams will remain vigilant just in case.The border had earlier remained closed from December 1 to January 27 during the farmer protest against new farm laws of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-at-chilla-leads-to-traffic-snarl-101617388266027.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Phase 4 of DME to drive CO2 emission away from Delhi-Meerut Road||Ghaziabad: The phase 4 of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) that opened to the public for the first time on Thursday will reduce the burden on the existing Delhi-Meerut Road (erstwhile NH-58) --- a route most commuters take to travel to Meerut. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said diverting vehicles to phase 4 of the DME will help reduce emission of about 120,000kg of carbon dioxide (CO2) per day. According to officials, an estimated 120,000 passenger car units (PCU) take the Delhi-Meerut Road stretching from UP Gate to Partapur in Meerut for about 50km on a daily basis. Officials of the public works department (PWD) said it is estimated that opening phase 4 of the DME will help shift 40% of the vehicles from the Delhi Meerut Road.  “We expect about 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles to get diverted to DME and a majority of long-distance travellers moving to Uttarakhand and western UP will start using the expressway. Hence, the Delhi-Meerut Road will get decongested. About 40kms of the road falls under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad district,” said Manish Verma, executive engineer of Uttar Pradesh PWD. The Delhi-Meerut Road passes through city areas, besides towns like Muradnagar and Modinagar in Ghaziabad. The DME, on the other hand, is a six-lane access-controlled expressway which spans about 32km from Dasna to Partapur in Meerut where the Delhi Meerut Road ends. “As per our calculations, diverting the vehicles to the DME will help reduce emission of about 120,000kg of CO2 per day. The phase 4 of the DME is expected to cater to around 50,000 to 60,000 PCUs. A majority of the vehicles will be diverted from the Delhi-Meerut Road,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. The highways authority is also planning to plant about 50,000 trees at the DME. “The DME is being developed as a greenfield expressway. We will plant 10,000 more trees against the previous target of 40,000. The plantation work is going on and will be completed before the beginning of monsoon,” added Garg. Residents said the DME will also fuel the local economy, besides reducing the pollution levels. “Previously, the air pollution levels would shoot up significantly as vehicles often got stuck in traffic jams on the Delhi Meerut Road. The traffic movement is also slow due to construction of the regional rapid transit system (RRTS). With the opening of the DME, commuters can easily bypass Ghaziabad city and move to Meerut. Once the RRTS project is complete, pollution will further decrease,” said S K Maheshwari, a resident of Surya Nagar. Ghaziabad is one of the 17 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh having high pollution levels. Officials from the UP Pollution Control Board said opening the expressway will ensure seamless connectivity, which in turn will help reduce pollution levels. “We hope our monitoring stations at Indirapuram and Vasundhara show a decline in pollution levels once the DME gets fully operational. The monitoring station at Sanjay Nagar is also likely to show a decline in pollution levels as it is near to Delhi Meerut Road and many vehicles will get diverted to DME. Overall, we are expecting considerable reduction in pollution levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UP Pollution Control Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/phase-4-of-dme-to-drive-co2-emission-away-from-delhi-meerut-road-101617388265331.html
03-04-2021||Noida||With cases rising, Ghaziabad and GB Nagar should test more, say experts||Ghaziabad: Even though number of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases is on the rise, the Ghaziabad district has been missing its daily testing target by almost half. The district presently has a target to conduct about 5400 tests per day – 3700 through rapid antigen kits and 1700 through the Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. However, the district on an average per day, conducted an average of 2,433 tests in January, 1,971 tests in February and 2,494 tests in March, officials records reveal.“As per the target given by state officials, we need to conduct 3700 RAT and 1700 RT-PCR tests. For the last 10-12 days, we have increased testing and are meeting the RT-PCR test target and also conducting about 2,200-2,300 tests via the rapid antigen kits. There are about 25 testing teams in operation,” said an officer from the district health department, asking not to be identified.According to sources, some of the hired lab technicians, data entry operators and even vehicles which help ferry the testing teams were detached due to the closing of the fiscal, which ended March 31, adding that this has also affected the overall testing. When asked about the issue, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey denied any shortage of resources. “There is no shortage of any resources and we are scaling up testing to the optimum level. If there are any issues, we will get them sorted out. Other than that, we are meeting our RT-PCR test target and also focusing on rapid antigen tests,” the DM said.According to official records of the health department, the Ghaziabad district in March saw about 565 new cases, with 90 from the Carte segment comprising localities like Shashtri Nagar, while 86 cases came from residential segments of Raj Nagar, 51 from Vaishali, 29 from Vausndhara and 63 from Karhera II, which also includes Indirapuram.Noida says increasing testing, tracingMeanwhile, officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration said they are ramping up testing and taking up tracing, testing and treatment to control the spread of the disease.“We have increased our daily testing and at present are conducting about 3,700-4,000 tests per day. About half of these are RT-PCR tests. Our teams are ensuring we conduct daily testing of about 4,000 and if need be, we will also increase daily testing. For past two days, the fresh Covid-19 cases have been on the higher side,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. According to the state control room figures of April 2, 73 new cases emerged in Ghaziabad and 70 in nearby Gautam Budh Nagar district. The Ghaziabad district has 355 active cases while GB Nagar has 434. “In present times, there is a need to increase daily testing and it should be about 10,000 per day. This is needed as more cases are emerging and authorities need to contain them. Aggressive testing will trace cases which can further be isolated for prevention of spread of the disease. This should be followed by extensive contact tracing to further control spread of the Covid-19,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-cases-rising-ghaziabad-and-gb-nagar-should-test-more-say-experts-101617388264726.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Noida allots 60k-sqm plot to Microsoft in sector-145||Noida: The Noida authority on Thursday allotted a plot spanning over 60,000 square metre to Microsoft India (R&D) private limited in sector-145 at a premium of ₹103.66 crore. The investment by Microsoft will create employment opportunities for 3,000 people in Nolida, said officials aware of the development. Officials from the Noida authority said plots A-01 and A-02 have been allotted to the company under IT/ITES category. “As per the agreement, the company will have to deposit 40% of the amount to furnish the sale deed within a month. The rest of the amount shall be paid in eight half yearly instalments. The allotment letter has been issued to the company,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of Noida authority. Maheshwari said the company will soon share a detailed project report. “They have informed that they will invest ₹3,000 crore in the project which will provide job opportunities to 3,000 people. We will soon hold a meeting and share more details,” she said.Officials said the investment will make Noida a software hub and also encourage other private players to invest in the region. Maheshwari said some other private companies and academic institutions have also put in requests for land allotment. Officials have not shared any information regarding date of construction project and estimated date of completion. A response from Microsoft India is awaited on this development. Meanwhile, the Noida authority has also allotted 11,683 square metres-land to Shiv Shiksha Samiti for ₹24.6 crore for development of a higher secondary school in sector-145.The Noida authority, the Greater Noida authority and the Yamuna authority have been coming up with schemes to allot industrial and institutional plots to companies to encourage private investment in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-allots-60k-sqm-plot-to-microsoft-in-sector145-101617388264102.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Teams to monitor compliance of Covid protocols in public places||With new cases coming in, the district administrations of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad have roped in enforcement teams to ensure Covid protocols are followed in educational institutions, malls, clubs, markets and all such places where there is a large congregation of people. According to the figures provided by the state control room as on April 2, 73 fresh Covid-19 cases emerged in Ghaziabad and 70 in Gautam Budh Nagar district. While the active case tally in Ghaziabad stands at 355, there are 434 active cases in Gautam Budh Nagar. “We have deployed teams comprising senior officers, who visited several colonies and residential areas on Friday to check if Covid protocols are being followed or not. Officers from different enforcement departments, like industries and labour, have also been roped into the teams,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. He said legal action will also be taken against operators of establishments where Covid-19 protocols are being flouted. “Our teams have been directed to seal all such places where the operators of the establishments are found not stringent enough to ensure the compliance of Covid-19 safety norms. We are also ramping our vaccination drive and have set a target of vaccinating about 2 lakh beneficiaries against the target of 162,000 given for the month of April,” added Suhas. Members of the market association said many people roam around without following Covid norms. “The showroom management mostly ensure people wear masks and sanitize hands before entry. There are open spaces where people roam around freely. The administration should launch a drive to ensure strict Covid-protocol enforcement,” said SK Jain, president of Noida’s sector -18 market association. He added that there are about 1,000 small and big showrooms, shops and offices in sector 18. The district magistrate of Ghaziabad too has instructed six officers, including the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs), to make surprise inspections in markets and other public places like malls, multiplexes and other commercial establishments. “The SDMs and officers will visit their respective areas and check if Covid-19 protocols are being followed or not. If not, they will serve notices to them for compliance. If they do not adhere to protocols, action will be initiated against them under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and also under relevant sections of the IPC. If need be, we will also recommend cancellation of their licences,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. The DM has also sought information on whether the Covid helpdesks are in operation, establishments are maintaining visitors’ registers, social distancing is being observed, enough provision of sanitisers and if people are being allowed entry into establishments without wearing masks. “There is hardly any social distancing in marketplaces. Many customers often come without wearing masks. Many traders have kept bundle of face masks , which they provide for free to the customers who don’t mask themselves. It is up to the administration to strictly enforce Covid protocols,” said Rajneesh Bansal, said Vyapar Mandal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Market in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/teams-to-monitor-compliance-of-covid-protocols-in-public-places-101617388204695.html
03-04-2021||Noida||Winds help improve air quality in Noida||Noida: The air quality of Noida and its adjoining regions improved on Friday due to high wind speeds and better ventilation, data from the weather department revealed. Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad’s air quality improved significantly on Friday since the past week, though the air quality in Ghaziabad continued to hover in the poor category. The pollution monitoring agencies stated that the air quality will oscillate between moderate to poor category for the next few days, with PM10 or larger particles being the prominent pollutant due to dust. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Friday was 153 against 187 a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida was 193 against 254 on Thursday. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 202 on Friday against 242 on Thursday. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the coarser dust particles will impact the air quality of the region. “Surface winds are high and blowing in the west and south-west. The AQI is likely to stay in the Moderate to Poor category for the next three days. Hence, no highly significant impact on AQI would be felt except transported coarse dust aerosols,” read a statement from SAFAR on Friday.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated that the maximum temperatures will rise by three to four degrees over the next few days. The maximum temperature may rise to 38 degrees Celsius by April 5. On Friday, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures of 33.9 degrees Celsius and 20.2 degrees Celsius respectively, against 33.6 and 21.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, the weather monitoring agency which calculates the average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded were 34.4 degrees Celsius and 16.2 degrees Celsius respectively.“High winds helped in keeping the daytime temperature in the region under control. The wind speed for the last two days has been oscillating between 30 to 45 kmph in the west and north-west direction. Though the winds are warmer now, the speed at which the winds is blowing is preventing the temperatures from rising. The wind speeds are likely to drop from Sunday onwards. The sky will be clear leading to a gradual increase in the mercury,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/winds-help-improve-air-quality-in-noida-101617388204133.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Crowded Khan Market has little space for social distancing||On Friday, when the national capital saw over 3,500 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths from the disease, the much-favoured Khan Market – popular for its bookstores, cafés, and luxury dining places – remained crowded till late, with people paying scant regard to social distancing protocols.Saroj Khanna, 42, a resident of south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park, said she had not expected the market to be as crowded as it was. “My friends and acquaintances told me that proper sanitisation protocols were being followed in restaurants and the market wasn’t as crowded as other areas of the city. So I thought of visiting here to run some errands and found it crowded,” she said.Fearing that cases will increase in the coming days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with health department officers on Friday afternoon, to take stock of bed availability and other hospital management measures. Kejriwal urged citizens to continue wearing masks and not let their guard down.In Khan Market, however, plenty of people were spotted not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. While sanitisers were placed outside eateries and restaurants, and service staff were stationed outside to carry out thermal checks, people were not following physical distancing while strolling through the market and many of them did not have their masks on the proper way.Prisha Seth, a class 10 student from Defence Colony, who met her friends after more than a year, said, “Our parents had to be convinced to allow us to come here. We were wearing our masks throughout and took it off only to get some group photographs.”Market association members too have geared up to enforce stricter measures to combat the new Covid wave. “We have been sharing all guidelines with shop owners and have told them not to allow more than five people in their outlets at a time. Shops follow sanitisation protocols and do not allow people without masks to enter. We are also arranging for more Covid stickers to put up in shops and ensure people stand at a distance from one another,” said Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ Association.On Friday, however, many shops were spotted flouting guidelines and allowing multiple people to enter. While eateries, restaurants, and a few high-end shops conducted temperature checks, other shopkeepers were not regulating the crowd or conducting temperature checks.A police officer on duty at the market, who asked not to be named, said, “We conduct regular checks and most of the people here wear masks properly. We ask people to maintain distance if we spot any overcrowding anywhere. There are fewer violations here than at other places. We also click photographs of people before issuing them fines if they are spotted without masks.”Sachin Narula, 41, who runs the Narula stationery which has been operational since 1958, said, “While markets are constantly being scrutinised, why are religious gatherings going unnoticed? Authorities and police conduct regular checks at Khan Market and issue fines to protocol violators. We all have to ensure that these rules are implemented stringently because we cannot have another lockdown.”Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant of pulmonology at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, said, “The number of cases is on the rise and it will continue to increase this month. This is mainly due to the pandemic fatigue; people are not wearing masks in public, social distancing is not being maintained, and many who have stayed at home until now have started coming out, once the cases went down. All these added to the current spurt in cases.”On Friday, Delhi Police across the city issued 1,203 fines for not wearing masks. Police said they have stepped up checks and enforcement across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crowded-khan-market-has-little-space-for-social-distancing-101617388145259.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Smooth ride from Delhi to Meerut on fully opened expressway||A day after phases 2 and 4 of Delhi-Meerut-Expressway (DME) was formally opened to public, HT on Friday travelled on the stretch and found that travel time to Meerut had reduced significantly, even as authorities were busy ironing out some last-minute issues regarding signage and jaywalking.The expressway was conceived to cut travel time between Delhi and Meerut to 45 minutes from the present almost two hours and a half hours.Other than for those going to Meerut, the opening of the expressway has also come as a relief to travellers headed to destinations such as Dehradun, Haridwar, Rishikesh, and also to western UP cities of Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur.On Friday, HT got on to the newly opened expressway from near Akshardham and experienced a smooth ride to Partapur in Meerut that was completed in 46 minutes -- earlier, the same journey would have taken 2.5 hours at the minimum.At certain points on the stretch, personnel from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) were seen completing minor works such as fixing cables, putting up CCTV cameras, painting crash barriers, and planting saplings. Some minor problems -- of confusing signage and jaywalking -- were noticed near Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. The expressway’s interchange with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) was also found blocked from all sides near Dasna.On Thursday — the day phases 2 and 4 of Delhi-Meerut-Expressway was inaugurated — roadblocks, jaywalking and traffic violations were aplenty, a spot check by HT had found.On Friday, too, in Dasna, a number of vehicles could be spotted being driven on the wrong side as motorists were clueless about which way they were supposed to go to reach Hapur and Meerut. At that location, the NHAI had installed a signboard marking out the directions for the road at-grade (going towards Hapur). But several travellers going towards Hapur failed to notice that and got on to the expressway stretch towards Meerut.“Due to the confusing signage, we entered the Meerut expressway instead of going to Moradabad via Hapur. We did not have any other option but to drive on the wrong side and return to Dasna, before switching lanes and going towards Hapur,” said motorist Nripendra Yadav.“More signage will be put up for better navigation, wherever needed. There is a restriction on the movement of two-wheelers on the expressway,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI.Jaywalking was also seen at two spots near Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad and officials said they have started fencing off a 1.5km area on each side of the expressway up to a height of about five feet.The 82km expressway is divided into four phases — Sarai Kale Khan to UP Gate, UP Gate to Dasna, Dasna to Hapur, and Dasna to Meerut. Phases two and four were opened on April 1, while phase one and three were inaugurated in May 2018 and September 2019, respectively.The DME comprises 14 lanes, with the three inner lanes on each side serving as a dedicated expressway to Meerut. The outer lanes, four on each side, will serve as a highway.With the opening of the DME, officials estimate that at least 60,000 passenger car units (PCUs) each day will be able to completely bypass Ghaziabad, Muradnagar, Modinagar and connect to Partapur bypass in Meerut directly.“The Delhi-Meerut Expressway has come as a huge relief to us. For over a decade, travellers had a tough time going to Meerut via NH-58. Even the erstwhile NH-24 (now part of DME and NH-9) was just a four-lane highway and commuters travelling to Delhi had to face regular jams there,” said SK Maheshwari, resident of Surya Nagar in Ghaziabad.Commuters travelling from Delhi to Meerut on the DME will have seven entry/exit points to move into or out of the expressway lanes. The speed limit on the DME has been fixed at 100kmph in the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh, while it is 70kmph in Delhi.“The toll collection on DME is yet to commence but we are conducting trials. It is likely to start once a notification on toll rates is issued. The rates are expected to be in the range of ₹1.55 to ₹2.15 per kilometre of distance travelled,” said Garg.NHAI Officials said for passenger safety, they have also provided emergency call systems every 2km distance on the expressway and have also deployed a mechanical road sweeping machine, ambulance, tow van, and highway patrol van on all four phases.In the future, commuters on DME will also be able to connect to the proposed Ganga Expressway project, which will connect Meerut with Prayagraj.“The connectivity will be given to Ganga Expressway about 8km before the DME’s Kashi toll in Meerut. The 14km link is proposed to be completed in two years,” Garg further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smooth-ride-from-delhi-to-meerut-on-fully-opened-expressway-but-minor-glitches-remain-101617388144088.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||New liquor policy targets proxy ownership of vends||Several individuals and groups in Delhi own multiple liquor retail licences but list them under different names and addresses, official records reviewed by HT show, highlighting a clear flouting of rules, proxy ownership and cartelisation.Under the Capital’s current 2010 excise policy, a retail licensee is prohibited from opening more than one liquor shop. If a licensee flouts ownership rules, their license is liable for cancellation.But official records show private vends are controlled only by a few individuals or groups, with some owning more than 20 shops across the city. The excise license name for each liquor shop in Delhi is different. Many of them list a private company, and others different individuals.“The problem right now goes beyond just the issue of proxy ownership. It has rather evolved into cartelisation with a few retailers even getting into manufacturing cheaper variants. It negatively affects the customer’s experience as many of the renowned and top-selling labels remain ostensibly out of stock in the shelves of Delhi’s shops,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.For example, the records show that one individual owns 30 retail liquor licences but lists them under different names, ranging from firms dealing in investment, insurance, communication, steel, fabric, automobile, travel, appliance, furnishings, export and wires. The addresses range from northwest Delhi, Shahdara, Vasant Kunj, Inderlok, Rohini, Seelampur and Saket.Currently retail liquor license are given simply through an application process, and pays ₹8 lakh. But experts say the process is opaque, and the same individuals own multiple shops, hold vend licences and manufacturing deals, making it difficult for the government to crack down on cartels pushing particular brands or suppressing revenue.“This happened through proxy ownership. It’s true that neither the existing rules nor the proposed one has provision to target proxy ownership. We will look into this and try to make the proposed rules more stringent,” said the official quoted above.The city government says that recommendations made by a group of ministers, made public last month, is aimed at doing away with this opaque process of allotting licences and make payments upfront. The recommendations are yet to be compiled into a draft policy or sent to the lieutenant governor.The new proposed policy divides Delhi’s liquor retail trade in 32 zones — including the airport and an NDMC zone — where the existing 849 vends will be redistributed equitably. It intends to end the system of collecting license fees separately for each store and instead plans to collect an upfront license fee on the basis of the 32 new zones created. Each zone will have at least 27 liquor vends - all of which will go to one successful bidder.“To prevent cartelisation and market capture, no entity will be allocated more than two zones. Also, no manufacturer will be allowed to own retail vends. This will curb the creation of syndicates which leads to overcharging and brand pushing,” a second government official said.But some of the vendors who own multiple shops said the new policy will not resolve the problem.“We agree that the new rules will ensure quality and premium liquor is made available to the people of Delhi in abundance. But, in Delhi we have a lot of consumers who do not continuously stock liquor from Haryana which has cheaper rates. Since that category of consumers form a large chunk, owners of several zones may mutually decide to keep prices of certain bottles high from time to time. In the end, they will recover the high license fee from the consumers only,” said the vendor who owns 30 stores under different names and addresses.Prashant Arora, a liquor trader in the city, said the new proposed policy will not end proxy ownership or cartelisation, but will merely change the set of people indulging in it. “Firstly, we need to understand that the Delhi government’s proposal will help bring only the biggest market players of the industry to the city. This is because they have kept the EMD [earnest money deposit ] as high as ₹30 crore which will be in addition to the bid price for the zone, whereas, at present, the license fee for a private liquor shop is ₹8 lakh only,” he said.“Secondly, the suggested rules have the scope of taking cartelisation and proxy ownership to new heights. For instance, my company won the bid for two zones which means I already have 54 vends with me. Now, I can associate or partner with another company to make it win the bids for other zones as well. So, what is allegedly happening now will happen then also, but in a much bigger and sophisticated way,” said Arora.Delhi government rejected the charges and said the new proposed policy would usher in transparency. “The plan is to end the system of fixing the maximum retail price (MRP) of alcohol, while leaving it to market forces, and allow retailers and wholesalers to offer discounts on the sale of liquor in the city - something which was never allowed in Delhi but is permitted in the neighbouring city of Gurugram,” said the first official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-liquor-policy-targets-proxy-ownership-of-vends-101617388084080.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Govt plans to open vaccination points in schools, community centres to ramp up coverage||To ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the national capital and to cover more people, the Delhi government has asked districts to identify more locations for vaccination sites. The district administrations have proposed to open new sites at community centres, government schools and offices, according to a senior revenue department official.The inoculation drive was opened up to all above the age of 45 on April 1. There are nearly 45 lakh people between the ages of 45 and 59 years living in Delhi, according to health minister Satyendar Jain. The government has set a target of 40 days to immunise them all, necessitating the expansion of infrastructure. There are nearly 600 vaccination sites in Delhi hospitals and dispensaries currently. Initially, when the vaccination drive had started in January, the government was planning to set up at least 1,000 vaccination centres in a phased manner. Officials said they are yet to take a call on how many new ones will be set up in community centres and schools, among others.At least 1.1 million people in Delhi have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine since the drive began on January 16, including those above the age of 60 years and those above 45 with 20 specified comorbidities.Currently, Delhi is vaccinating about 30,000 people, on average, daily. But with cases rising once again, officials said there is a need to cover as many people as possible in each age segment in the shortest possible time. On Friday, Delhi reported 3,594 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths, as per the state health bulletin.The Delhi government has also ordered all vaccination centres in Delhi – both government and private – to remain open on all days, including Sundays and gazetted holidays, in pursuance to a directive from the Centre.A detailed proposal with information on cold chain linkages, available manpower and nearby hospitals -- for treating anyone who suffers an adverse event -- will be sent to the health department. The matter was discussed in a meeting of the district officials on Wednesday.“So far, Delhi was immunising people in hospitals and dispensaries. However, to increase the pace of vaccination, there is a need to increase the number of inoculation centres and bring them closer to the people. This is the reason the district officials have been asked to identify community centres and schools that have appropriate space and linkages. Once that is done, immunisation can start at these locations after the health department is satisfied with the facilities,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.There will be no need to seek approval from the Centre for setting up the new centres. “The Central government guidelines on vaccination already allow immunisation in spaces such as community centres and schools; no additional permission would be needed,” the official said.As per the guidelines of the Union health ministry, any vaccination site should have three rooms – waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. The vaccination room must have vaccine carriers or ice packs to store vaccines at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, hand sanitisers and masks, vaccine vial opener, anaphylaxis kit, and appropriate bags and containers for disposing biomedical waste. Both the waiting and observation rooms must have adequate seating area to ensure social distancing.“We have started the survey to identify such facilities and will complete this in a day or two. In areas where there are no government dispensaries, we are looking at community centres or government schools and office. The sites are being identified as per the criteria set by the central government, which mandates that the facility should have three rooms. We are also looking at its proximity to the cold chain points in our districts,” said a district magistrate, who asked not to be named.District officials say one of the main challenges before them is to ensure vaccination of people living in unauthorised colonies and slums. Districts such as Shahdara, north-east, north-west, south, and east have a large number of unauthorised colonies and slums. Officials said these are densely populated areas and, in a majority of cases, don’t have government-run medical facilities nearby.“The idea is to increase the base of vaccination in these uncharted areas. We want people to walk up to the vaccination centre, but for that we need to provide facilities near their areas of residence,” said a subdivisional magistrate, also on condition of anonymity.The central Delhi district has the densely populated Walled City area where officials are looking at government schools and offices to be used as vaccination centres.Officials at the central district said they are currently organising registration camps and are also providing vans to take people to government-run facilities for vaccination. “With more centres opening in the area, it will be easier to get more people to the centre. Moreover, new centres are needed to cater to the increase in load as now anyone over the age of 45 is allowed to get vaccinated,” said a senior Central district official, asking not to be named.“In addition to the government creating capacity for vaccination, it is important to address vaccine hesitancy among people, due to all the wrong messages that are going around on social media. Then, there are reports of adverse events such as clotting happening with the AstraZeneca vaccine, whose Indian variant Covishield is being administered to most people. When it comes to taking the shot, people are perturbed and scared by such news,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, serion consultant of pulmonology at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals.He said, “The government is currently focussing on those who are at the highest risk of dying. However, it is the younger people who are stepping out and getting the infection currently. We have to start vaccinating them too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-plans-to-open-vaccination-points-in-schools-community-centres-to-ramp-up-coverage-101617388024049.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||Family meetings cancelled at Delhi’s three prisons in view of Covid-19 spread||In the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 cases across the city, the biweekly meeting between prisoners and their families at Delhi’s three jails -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- has been suspended, effective April 5, the director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel said on Friday.With 11,994 active Covid-19 cases across the city as on Friday, and a daily positivity rate of 4.11% -- up from 0.17% only a little more than a month ago (February 16) -- the Delhi government has said the fourth wave of the infection is currently underway in the national capital.Prison authorities said they decided to suspend the family meetings to ensure that the infection is not transmitted within the prison walls. According to jail rules, prisoners are allowed to meet their family members twice a week.After remaining suspended since the start of the lockdown in March 2020, the biweekly visits were resumed in October. Families were initially allowed inside the prison complex only once a week and that too in different batches. Prison officers said it is important to suspend the meetings because unlike last year, when around 5,000 prisoners were out on Covid-19 special parole or interim bail, almost 90% of prisoners have returned to jails in February and March. Last year, as one of the first measures to decongest jails, prisoners were released on bail/parole and were directed to surrender later.“We will review the situation a fortnight from now and take a call on restoring the meetings. We are monitoring the situation,” a senior prison officer said, asking not to be named.Currently housing around 18,000 prisoners, the Tihar prison complex is the most crowded jail across the country.Goel said while family meetings have been suspended, the meeting of inmates with their legal counsels will continue, with proper Covid precautions. “Also, telephone and the facility of e-mulaqat (virtual meetings) will continue to be available to inmates to contact their families,” he said.The prisons department has also started vaccinating prisoners within the complex. At least 60 prisoners have got the jabs in the past one week.There are 10 Covid-19 positive prisoners currently. Till date, the prison department has reported two deaths from the disease. A total of 423 prisoners and jail officers have been infected since March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/biweekly-family-meetings-cancelled-at-delhi-s-three-prisons-in-view-of-covid-spread-101617387845430.html
03-04-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal to attend World Cities Culture Forum||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will speak at the annual summit of the World Cities Culture Forum, the chief minister’s office said in a statement on Friday.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be representing Delhi and India at the World Cities Culture Forum. Recently, the CM has accepted an invitation by the Mayor of London, Mr Sadiq Khan, to represent Delhi at the World Cities Cultural Forum...This year’s theme, ‘The Future of Culture’, will play a crucial role in re-imagining the culture of Delhi, especially in the wake of several devastating challenges and Covid-19 crisis faced by the people in the last one year,” said the statement.The date for this year’s annual summit is yet to be announced in the forum’s website.The statement further said: “The forum comprises 40 world cities including London, Tokyo and New York, all of which recognise the impact and importance of culture and creativity, and seek to inculcate these values in public policy and city planning. The annual summit, attended by Deputy Mayors for Culture and Heads of Culture from the member cities, is at the heart of the forum’s activity. Delhi will also be part of the World Cities Culture report, the most comprehensive global dataset on culture in cities.”The World Cities Culture report is published by the forum every three years, with data and details on innovative projects from cities across the world. The last report was published in 2018, said the forum’s website.In the statement issued on Friday, Kejriwal said the theme of the forum -- ’The Future of Culture’ -- is a topic of relevance at this challenging juncture. As people around the world struggled in isolation, it has been art and music that helped people stay connected and cope with the crisis, he said.“Creativity and sharing provided hope and strength to respond to the Covid-19 with resilience. The unfortunate circumstances of the pandemic have posed new challenges and possibilities to reimagine the modes of cultural practice. As we move towards recovery, the arts and culture will play a vital role in rebuilding lives and society,” Kejriwal said in the statement.Calling Delhi a historic capital city seeped in diverse art and heritage which his government aims to transform into an artist-friendly city, Kejriwal said, “Delhi has been at the forefront of promoting and preserving our rich culture. Our government strongly believes in the role culture plays in shaping the city and positively impacting lives. Our goal is to transform Delhi into a world leader in the field of culture.”The decision to attend the World Cities Culture Forum comes at a time when the Delhi government is drafting a cultural policy for the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-kejriwal-to-attend-world-cities-culture-forum-101617387724037.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Hoteliers, MCCIA, trade association unhappy with new restrictions in Pune||After the district administration imposed new stringent restrictions of 6pm to 6am curfew, closure of restaurants, malls and public transport bus service, among others for next seven days; hoteliers, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) and Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) have expressed unhappiness over the restrictions.“At least 40 per cent of the restaurants in the city have been closed as a result of the lockdown in the last one year. Also, at least 50 per cent of the restaurants which reopened are suffering losses. In such a situation, the decision of the administration to close the hotels and restaurants for seven days is harsh,” said Ajinkya Shinde, vice-president of the United Hospitality Association.“The hotel and restaurant operators can’t even pay their rent. In such a situation, we are appalled by the restrictions imposed in today’s (Friday’s) meeting by the government,” he said.Sudhir Mehta, president of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said, “We are happy that there is no complete lockdown, but at the same time suspension of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus service will impact the industry workers who work in multiple shifts and use the public transport facility.”“It is difficult for smaller companies that do not have the resources to organise or hire private vehicles,” he said.Fatechand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said, “The restrictions will impact lakhs of people. There are more than 35,000 traders in Pune on whom lakhs of people are dependent for their daily bread and butter. We request the government to reconsider this decision and allow us operate business open till 9 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hoteliers-mccia-trade-association-unhappy-with-new-restrictions-in-pune-101617381303722.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Aundh-Baner ward in Pune sees rise in Covid cases||Aundh-Baner ward, which was in the green zone last year is now reporting a maximum number of Covid cases. On April 1, the ward reported 299 cases out of the 4,103 total cases that the city reported. Experts believe that the surge is among those who remained unexposed in the first wave.The wards with no Covid positive cases fall under the green zone.The ward also has maximum micro-containment zones of all the wards in the city. Currently, there are 57 micro-containment zones, including 15 buildings and 42 societies.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, said, “The herd immunity factor plays an important role in such cases. The population which remained unexposed during the first wave because they followed the protocol is now being exposed faster. People have let off their guard this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aundhbaner-ward-sees-rise-in-covid-cases-101617377403642.html
03-04-2021||Pune||6pm to 6am curfew in Pune from tomorrow; restaurants, malls, religious places to remain closed till April 9||Stringent restrictions will be imposed in the Pune district from Saturday (April 3) evening, as curfew will be imposed between 6pm and 6am. Also, eateries, malls, cinema halls and religious places will remain closed for the next seven days (till April 9).The administration, however, has decided against imposing a complete lockdown, similar to the last year, even as cases are rising sharply in Pune with a weekly positivity rate touching 32 per cent.Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, announced the restrictions after a review of the situation in Pune in a meeting chaired by Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, on Friday.Although new measures have been taken, all essential services are exempted from the restrictions. Besides curfew post evening, assembly of more than four persons has been prohibited during the daytime.The administration has also suspended the public transport service run by Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) for common citizens. The intra-city buses will, however, continue to run for those engaged in essential services. The state transport bus service and inter-district travel have been allowed.The new measures will come into force from 6pm, Saturday and will be reviewed by next Friday.During the press conference, Rao said while eateries, restaurants and bars will be closed for seven days, parcel service and home delivery will be allowed. The closure order will not apply to shops selling clothes and liquor.“The situation in Pune district has been deteriorating. Until last week, Pune’s positivity rate was up to 27 per cent. But this week the positivity rate has reached 32 per cent. According to the health experts, if this situation persists, we will have 9,000 positive cases per day from the existing daily caseload of 8,000. After the discussion in the meeting with elected representatives, these decisions have been taken. We are also focusing on increasing health infrastructure by ramping up beds,” said Rao.According to new measures, the weekly markets in rural areas of the district and parts of the city have been banned while Market Yard (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) at Gultekdi will be operational under the watch of authorities to ensure norms are being followed.The swimming pools and clubhouses in societies have been asked to shut.The schools and colleges will continue to be closed till April 30. Rao, however, clarified that students of Class 12 and Class 10 are exempted from these restrictions, while competitive examination coaching classes will be allowed to operate with 50 per cent capacity. In a separate order issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) all the gyms, sport complexes, swimming pools in Pune city will remain closed for next seven days. “We were eagerly waiting for the decisions. Though the official lockdown is not declared, I fear that the situation will be the same as the lockdown. The public bus transport service is closed. Roadside eatery stalls will be closed. It will surely affect our number of customers,” said Sanjeev Phadtare, secretary, Tulshibaug Traders Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6pm-to-6am-curfew-in-pune-from-tomorrow-restaurants-malls-religious-places-to-remain-closed-till-april-9-101617375064750.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Mission 100 days: Pune dist administration aims to inoculate all above 18 years||After a review meeting by deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar with district officials, and public representatives, the administration is now preparing to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 100 days, a senior bureaucrat said on Friday.“As per the plan, the administration will aggressively vaccinate everyone above 45 years in the first phase and then focus on all those above 18 years in Pune district,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, adding there are a total of 74 lakh people to be inoculated by the government machinery in the district“The administration hopes to vaccinate all in the next 100 days,” he said. Currently, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations, along with Zilla Parishad, have focused on increasing sites to vaccinate all above 45 years in April and the following months those aged between 44-18 years. As part of the process, the district on Thursday saw a record number of people – over 57,000 – getting the jab. According to Rao, while the permission currently is for people above 45 years, looking at the performance of Pune district in aggressive vaccination, he is confident that others will soon get permission to get vaccinated. Rao said, “The current trend of Covid cases is likely to continue for the next four to five weeks as per health experts. Although there is no scientific evidence, it looks like if the cases continue to rise, then in the next two days, Pune might see over 9,000 new cases daily.”“We will have maximum bed availability by April 5 after acquiring beds from private hospitals. However, if cases continue to surge, then we might have to declare a few more hospitals as dedicated Covid hospitals,” he said. Rao said that the administration will start preparing to vaccinate all above 18 years, which will take about three to four months. He said, “We have about 28 lakh people in the district aged above 45 years with and without comorbidities, and so if we start vaccinating about one lakh people daily, then ideally it would take a month to vaccinate this age group.”“The district vaccinated about 57,000 people on Thursday (April 1), which we hope to take to more than 80,000 in the next two days and then take it up to one lakh beneficiaries daily. Currently, Pune logs the highest daily vaccination in the country as compared to any district. The vaccination depends on the continuous supply of doses and also on the availability of the health infrastructure,” he said.Following up on their previous proposal to vaccinate all above 18 years of age, Rao said, “We are awaiting a nod from the Centre, but on our end, we have started micro-management for the same.”Rao also said that vaccination boosts confidence among people and that it has been found that even if someone gets the infection following vaccination, the symptoms are mild and more lives could be saved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mission-100-days-pune-dist-administration-aims-to-inoculate-all-above-18-years-101617371643280.html
03-04-2021||Pune||Pune police to focus on patrolling, nakabandi to avoid crowding||The city police will focus on patrolling and carry out nakabandi operations to avoid crowding at public places, as a part of the precautionary measures adopted by the administration to curb the spread of Covid cases.After a meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, joint commissioner in his order on Friday, urged the police officials to carry out intense patrolling post 6 pm urging residents to stay indoors and avoid stepping out unnecessarily.“The curfew order will be imposed in the city under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Act and also under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner (law and order).“We will also ensure that the establishments like hotels do not remain open during daytime as we have to ensure their closure as per the law. We are orienting our men for effective implementation of the restrictions on the ground,” he said.As per the established procedure, after receiving guidelines from the government, the district collector issues prohibitory orders using the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Prevention Act, 1897. Following this, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issues guidelines for the urban parts of the district and the police commissioners of respective areas bring out executive orders using Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code and other relevant sections of the acts in vogue during such period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-to-focus-on-patrolling-nakabandi-to-avoid-crowding-101617370863202.html
