05-04-2021||Delhi||Murder of electrician solved after 72 days, was killed by man who borrowed ₹1 lakh from him||Two months after the body of a 30-year-old electrician was discovered on a roadside in east Delhi’s Karkardooma, the police on Monday said his 49-year-old friend had murdered him over a ₹1 lakh debt. The friend and his associate was arrested in connection with the case, police said.The dead man, identified as Deepak Kumar, ran an electrical and motor rewinding shop in Shahdara. Those arrested were identified as tax consultant Rajneesh Kumar Jain, and his associate property dealer 51-year-old Shamsher Singh. The murder took place at Jain’s rented flat in Arjun Nagar near Karkardooma and the body was transported over a kilometer away to Karkardooma Institutional Area in a Santro car, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said on January 23, the Anand Vihar police were informed about an unidentified body near the MTNL building in Karkardooma Institutional Area. The body was preserved at a government hospital mortuary as nobody in the neighbourhood could identify it. The DCP said the police uploaded the dead man’s photograph and physical description on to the zonal integrated police network (ZIPNET)..Twelve days later, DCP Sathiyasundaram said, a person named Lalit approached the police and identified the dead man as his brother. The autopsy was conducted and its report confirmed that Kumar died of strangulation and blunt force trauma to the head. A murder case was registered, and the investigating teams questioned Kumar’s relatives, friends, and people working at his shop.“We finally zeroed in on Kumar’s friend Jain and interrogated him. Jain confessed to the crime and his interrogation also led to the arrest of his associate Singh,” added the DCP.Police said Jain revealed that he had borrowed ₹1 lakh from Kumar. As Kumar had taken the money on loan too, he was under pressure from private lenders to return it. To avoid the money lenders, Kumar had started living at Jain’s house from January 18, they added.On January 22 night, an argument allegedly broke out between Jain and Kumar over the issue. Jain allegedly hit Kumar with a blunt object and then strangled him to death. Jain later allegedly called Singh and the duo shifted Kumar’s body, said the DCP.“They threw Kumar’s bag, clothes, and an electrical equipment kit in the Yamuna from the Wazirabad area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/murder-of-electrician-solved-after-72-days-was-killed-by-man-who-borrowed-1-lakh-from-him-101617647358202.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Increasing water supply on Delhi govt agenda||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday directed senior government officials to expedite talks with neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ensure increased water supply to Delhi.“Our aim is to increase the availability of clean drinking water to every household in Delhi. For this purpose, we have to expedite all ongoing projects related to wastewater reuse and groundwater recharge,” Kejriwal said, after chairing a review meeting with senior officials of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) on Monday.A statement issued by the CM’s office said, “... 25 MGD [million gallons per day] treated water will be diverted from the nearby Rithala STP [sewage treatment plant] to the Auchandi canal (to Haryana), in return for the same amount of clean water that will be received from Haryana for drinking purposes. The chief minister instructed to expedite the negotiations with other states and Upper Yamuna River Board (UYRB). Similarly, in the case of Uttar Pradesh, 140 MGD of treated water through STPs will be provided to Uttar Pradesh for irrigation purposes in return for 140 MGD clean drinking water.”“The chief minister reviewed various projects of groundwater recharge occurring through lakes and water bodies and instructed the department officials to submit timelines of water extraction from the areas where the groundwater levels are high,” the statement read. “He also reviewed the upgradation of 13 common effluent treatment plants (CETPs). DSIIDC officials informed that the department is working on the scheme of converting the CETPs’ outlet water into drinking water by the installation of RO [reverse osmosis] units. This RO water will be supplied back to industries for running their units.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/increasing-water-supply-on-delhi-govt-agenda-101617647355511.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Greater Noida engineer robbed: Lawyer among four arrested||Noida: In a joint operation of the Noida and Ghaziabad police, four suspects, including a lawyer, were nabbed in connection with an engineer being robbed of his SUV in Greater Noida. According to the police, the suspects were allegedly travelling in the same stolen SUV when they were nabbed. The vehicle has been recovered. The incident took place around 6.45pm on March 14 in Greater Noida’s Sector Omicron. The victim, Nishant Dhanda, had left his house in Omaxe Palm Greens society in Sector Mu with his wife and four-month-old daughter in his Maruti Brezza to go to a nearby market. Kumar, an engineer with a multinational firm in Greater Noida, had stepped out of his vehicle, which he left running, near a vegetable vendor at the Migsun roundabout, when almost immediately, two armed men got into the SUV and drove the vehicle away. Inside the SUV, a gun was allegedly pointed at the wife. The suspects allegedly pushed the mother and daughter out of the SUV after about 200 metres, after which the family informed the police. A case of robbery (Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the Surajpur police station.The arrested suspects were identified as Yash Kasana, an LLB graduate, Gaurav Baiska, Praveen Devdhar, a mechanic, and Shahrukh Ali, all residents of Ghaziabad, who the police said are in their early twenties.According to the Noida police, they had zeroed in on the suspects.“We had input that the suspects were on their way to sell the vehicle in Ghaziabad, following which a team from Indirapuram police station apprehended them in Vaishali,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.He said that Kasana and Devdhar had allegedly robbed the vehicle and with the help of the other two, were working on disposing of it.The phone that was looted during the incident was also recovered. Police said they are working on tracing the weapon allegedly used in the incident. Police said that none of the suspects have a criminal history and were allegedly looking for a way to make a quick buck.The involvement of any other accomplices is being verified, said the police.“This seems to be an isolated incident. We will take them in remand for more information,” said the DCP.When contacted, Sanjeev Sharma, the station house officer of the Indirapuram police station in Ghaziabad said: “We had input about their movement in the area. They were planning to sell the vehicle. The number plate of the vehicle had been replaced by a fake one. We have recovered the license plate as well. All the suspects were apprehended from the spot.”Following the incident, four police personnel from the Surajpur police station were recalled to the police lines on allegations of negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-engineer-robbed-lawyer-among-four-arrested-101617647115642.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Four vehicle thieves nabbed in Noida||Noida: A total of eight suspects -- four involved in vehicle thefts and others in snatching cases -- have been arrested by the Noida police in the past 24 hours. The four suspects involved in vehicle thefts were arrested by Sector 24 police on Sunday. They were identified as Shahid Khan, Yogesh Kumar, Dimple Kumar and Rihan Khan. They were active in Delhi-NCR and districts of western UP, police said, adding that they were involved in over 100 cases of vehicle theft.“They would get the vehicles cut for parts and sell them to scrap dealers. The leader of the gang, Shahid, is a wanted criminal from Surajpur,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police said that two of the suspects are scrap dealers who would purchase vehicles from the gang at nominal prices. Police have recovered six stolen vehicles, two partially cut cars, multiple vehicle parts, and some countrymade weapons, among other things, from the suspects.Police are on the lookout for other members of the gang, the officials said. Another group of four people was nabbed by the Sector 58 police on Monday morning following an encounter in Sector 55. “They are members of Delhi’s infamous Durgesh gang which has over 60 cases against it. They would snatch phones, jewellery and valuables from pedestrians, morning walkers, etc., at gunpoint,” said Singh.Police said that one of the suspects, Amit, was injured in an encounter while the three others were nabbed later on. Police recovered 11 mobile phones from the suspects. A stolen motorcycle and a scooter were also seized along with countrymade pistols from their possession, police said.All the suspects were produced before a magistrate and sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-vehicle-thieves-nabbed-in-noida-101617647114960.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Life imprisonment for gangster Sunder Bhati, 11 accomplices in Harendra Pradhan murder||Greater Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar district and sessions court at Surajpur on Monday awarded life imprisonment for Sunder Bhati and his 11 accomplices for the murder of 35-year-old Harendra Pradhan alias Harendra Nagar of Dadopur village, Dankaur, in 2015.Pradhan and his gunner, 46-year-old Bhoodev Sharma, were shot dead at a wedding on February 8, 2015 in Niyana village in Greater Noida by armed assailants. One of the suspects, Manoj (identified by a single name), has been acquitted for want of evidence. Bhati and his accomplices were undergoing trial in the court of Dr Anil Kumar Singh, additional district judge, Surajpur. “The court has sentenced life imprisonment for 12 persons, including Sunder Bhati, while also penalising them for ₹1.8 lakh each,” Brahmjeet Bhati, district government counsel (DGC criminal) Gautam Budh Nagar, said.Half of the amount will be given to the gunner’s successor, said the court.At the time of the incident, Pradhan had gone to attend the wedding of the daughter of his friend Prakash Bhati, at a venue located under the Site V police in Greater Noida. His security guard, Sharma, was accompanying him. When they were about to get into their car the assailants sprayed bullets on the two, killing both. Sharma also opened fire in self defence, during which one of the assailants was killed, later identified as Jatan Khatri, an alleged sharpshooter of the Bhati gang.The case had been pursued by Pradhan’s younger brother Ravindra Nagar. He had filed a complaint against Bhati and his gang members under Section 302 (murder), Section 147 (rioting), Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) at the Site V police station.A spokesperson for the Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate said that Bhati has never been sentenced in any case prior to this and teams will continue to work against organised crime.Police sources said that Bhati is presently lodged at the Sonbhadra district jail. Pradhan’s widow Bevan Nagar, on February 9, 2021, had filed a fresh complaint alleging Bhati gang members had been pressuring Ravindra to withdraw the complaint. The family lawyer had also earlier alleged that witnesses had refused to testify against Bhati out of fear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/life-imprisonment-for-gangster-sunder-bhati-11-accomplices-in-harendra-pradhan-murder-101617646995480.html
05-04-2021||Other||Gzb:18-year-old woman stabbed multiple times, thrown into Upper Ganga Canal||Ghaziabad: Two men have been arrested after they allegedly stabbed an 18-year-old woman multiple times and threw her into the Upper Ganga Canal in Ghaziabad Monday afternoon. The police, on the basis of the complaint received, registered an FIR and arrested the two suspects. All three are from Pilkhuwa in Hapur district.The suspects were identified as Aman Malik and his friend Mohammad Shadab. According to the police Malik allegedly brought along the woman – identified as Sakshi (single name) – and Shadab on a single motorcycle to the Masuri in Ghaziabad on Monday. The distance between the canal and the Pilkhuwa is about six-seven kilometres. The incident took place around 2pm.“There, Shadab held her hands while Malik stabbed her in order to kill her. He was asking her why she wouldn’t speak to him. She sustained injuries to her hands and back. Thereafter they threw her into the canal. She was saved by several locals,” the complaint given by the woman’s mother alleged. The FIR was registered under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) against the suspects at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. “The victim was friends with the prime suspect (Malik) and had come to the canal area Monday afternoon. Thereafter, the incident took place. She was rushed to a healthcare centre and later referred to the district hospital in Ghaziabad. She is stated to be stable at present,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). Officers said the suspects are in the age group 19-20 years and that the police are questioning them to know. “Both were arrested after the FIR was registered,” the SP confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gzb18yearold-woman-stabbed-multiple-times-thrown-into-upper-ganga-canal-101617646994896.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Commuters troubled as part of CISF Road overflooded due to water pipeline damage||Ghaziabad: Thousands of commuters are facing a tough time for the last two days as a stretch of the CISF Road in Indirapuram has got overflooded due to the damage to a Ganga water pipeline in the area. Officials of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) said that the repair work is in progress and likely to get over by Tuesday. The CISF Road helps commuters from Vasundhara and Mohan Nagar reach NH-9. The carriageway from Vasundhara to NH-9 is already dug up due to a 2.5km pipeline laying project undertaken by the UP Jal Nigam since February last year and the road relaying work is likely to get complete by end of May. “Commuters were already facing issues with the dug-up road, and now they are suffering due to damage to the Ganga water pipeline which has overflooded a stretch of about 400 metres. As a result, residents of our high-rise have no exit left while vehicles often get stuck up on the flooded road,” said Kapil Tyagi, president of apartment owners association at Divyansh Pratham, a high-rise in Indirapuram. Residents said that the dug-up road and the recent damage to the water pipeline have compounded their problems. “We are not able to understand why the dug-up road is not being re-laid for over a year now. The water pipeline damage has further compounded problems. Thousands of vehicles are forced to use the other side of the CISF Road, resulting in snarls during peak hours,” said BK Pandey, a resident of Vaishali who works in Indirapuram. Under the Jal Nigam’s project, the newly laid pipeline will take the treated water from three sewage treatment plants in Indirapuram to river Hindon. Officials of GDA said that they have deployed teams to repair the damaged Ganga water pipeline. “It is likely that we will repair the damaged water pipeline by Tuesday morning. The damaged pipeline, however, has not hampered the water supply in the area,” said AK Chaudhary, executive engineer of GDA. Officials of the UP Jal Nigam said that the work for repair of the dug-up road is held up due to pending payments. “The payment is pending on account of share of local body which is the Ghaziabad municipal corporation. However, we have asked the contractor to get the road re-laid,” said Keshav Kumar, chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam. When asked, MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner, said, “The decision has been made about the payment to the Jal Nigam’s pipeline project at CISF Road. The payment will be released soon.”The project has been taken up under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme and proposed for laying pipeline of about 2.5km in length.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/commuters-troubled-as-part-of-cisf-road-overflooded-due-to-water-pipeline-damage-101617646935545.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Citizens’ committee to keep an eye on Jalpura animal shelter||GREATER NOIDA: A supervision committee, comprising five citizens, formed by the Greater Noida authority has suggested that facilities at the animal shelter in Jalpura should be upgraded.The authority, on March 29, had formed two committees, one of which comprised officials, to probe into allegations of negligence that allegedly led to the death of 20 bovines at the shelter. The other committee, comprising local citizens, to keep an eye on this facility, said officials.“We have suggested that fodder quantity, drinking water, shed and other services should be increased as existing facilities are not adequate,” said Harinder Bhati, one of the members of the supervision committee that visited the shelter Monday. There are around 1,600 bovines at this facility as of now and the authority provides ₹30 daily for per bovine for arrangement of fodder, said officials.“The amount of ₹30 per bovine is not adequate. Therefore, we have requested that the amount be increased to ₹85 daily and the authority is working this,” said Bhati.The Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan said he had ordered for filing of an FIR, after alleged negligence came forward in the probe in running the shelter.“We got filed an FIR against those responsible for negligence and a chargesheet is being prepared. The committee of citizens can visit the shelter as and when they wish, to check if the shelter is being properly managed. We will provide adequate facilities at the shelter,” said Bhooshan.The Ecotech 3 police on March 28 arrested four persons, including two officials of the authority, in connection with the deaths of cattle at Kanha Gaushala in Jalpura. The issue had come to the fore on March 25 after a video purportedly showing starving or dead cattle went viral on social media, after which several animal rights activists had rushed to the shelter with fodder and medical supplies. Activists alleged that the officials arranged food and medicines only after “being exposed”.Activists who had visited the shelter, which is run by the authority, had alleged that starvation and absence of proper medical facilities were the main reasons behind the animal deaths. They had also alleged that at least 20 bovines died between March 24 and 25, and that dozens had died earlier and their bodies were disposed of. However, authority officials had claimed that only six bovines had died due to injuries, or due to polythene consumption.The authority also named a vet and an engineer, and the in-charge of the shelter and a compounder, of the authority in the case filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 201, 409, 429, 34 and 120B, and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.The arrested persons were identified as Sheetal Prakash Tiwari, supervisor, Satendra Kumar, compounder, Dr Prem Chand, vet, and Ramesh Chandra, engineer. However, all were released on bail the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/citizens-committee-to-keep-an-eye-on-jalpura-animal-shelter-101617646934953.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Social impact survey for second phase of Noida airport begins||GREATER NOIDA: Expediting the process to acquire land for the second phase of the Noida International Airport at Jewar, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration decided to notify Section 4 of the Land Act on Wednesday, which initiates the social impact assessment.The provisions of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, state that the concerned agency can take two-six months to carry out the survey and submit the report. This survey studies the socio-economic condition of farmers, whose land is to be acquired for a said project. Once the assessment is done, Section 11 of Act will be implemented, inviting objections from the public, after which the government will implement Section 19 and compensation will be decided and distributed to land owners, as per rules.To be used for the third runway and commercial MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul work of airplanes) centre, the six villages for which the survey will be taken up are Karauli Bangar, Dayanat Pur, Kureb, Ranhera, Birampur and Mundera as part of the second phase of construction. About 1,185 hectare of private land has to be acquired from these. Under the first phase, 1,334 hectares was acquired on which the work is likely to begin at the ground by mid-2021.“The state-owned Gautam Buddha University, which has conducted the assessment in the past, is likely to start the survey work this week. The study is a mandate under the Act in order to find out how many people will be losing their agricultural land, properties and livelihood. The assessment team will also have to ascertain how many people will lose livelihood in an indirect manner due to the acquisition,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The acquisition will require almost ₹2,891 crore, for which the administration has already received ₹1,084 crore from Uttar Pradesh government. The remaining amount has to be arranged by the Noida, Greater Noida, and Yamuna Expressway authorities.Out of the 1363 hectare of land needed for the second phase, 1,185 hectare which is to be acquired is privately owned. The remaining land is already owned by the state government.Besides this, the Uttar Pradesh government has approved ₹22 crore for the construction and development of religious and other recreational structures which will be displaced due to the acquisition under phase 1.Officials said farmers are shifting into a newly-developed airport township at the Jewar Bangar area. They said the farmers, who are getting residential plots in this township, had been demanding religious and cultural places. The land, on which almost 30 religious structures stand, across communities, will be acquired once construction activity begins under phase 1. Apart from temples and mosques, multiple small religious shrines, Eidgah, Ambedkar sthals and one madarsa will be developed. As many as 3,627 people have been displaced from their homes due to the acquisition so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/social-impact-survey-for-second-phase-of-noida-airport-begins-101617646874920.html
05-04-2021||Kolkata||As Bengal gears up for phase 3 polls, Covid-19 cases shoot up||The daily count of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal shot up nine times on April 4 since February 26 when the Election Commission of India announced the dates for the crucial state assembly polls, state health department data reveals.“With elections going on, political parties are organising huge public rallies and roadshows every day where thousands of people are gathering. Precautions, such as social distancing and wearing masks, have taken a back seat. Under such circumstances, there has been a staggering rise in Covid-19 cases,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters. Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases have more than doubled since March 27 when the first phase of elections was held. With Covid-19 cases rising sharply, beds in private hospitals are also running out. Occupancy in government hospitals has also seen a sharp rise. Data available with the state health department reveals that while only 216 new cases were reported from across the state on February 26, the count went up to 1,957 on April 4. While there were only 4,608 active cases on March 27, it went up to 10,153 on April 4. While the first two phases of elections, in which 60 seats went to polls, have already been completed, six more phases remain. The third phase, in which 31 constituencies spreading over three districts would be going to polls, is scheduled for April 6. Even though the cases have shot up alarmingly, the death rate hasn’t seen such a sharp rise. While on February 26, the state had reported three deaths, on April 4, the state reported 4 fatalities. On February 26 only 198 beds out of 6,736 beds in government hospitals were filled up which was just around 3%. On April 3, however, the occupancy went up to nearly 12% with 665 beds out of the 5,604 beds booked in government hospitals.The scenario was particularly worse in private hospitals. On February 26, only around 25% of the 1,007 hospital beds were filled. With Covid-19 cases rising, private hospitals have started increasing the number of beds. On April 3, out of 1,077 beds, 659 beds were booked which is around 61%. At least 11 hospitals in and around Kolkata have run out of beds. The maximum number of cases were being reported from Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. Out of the 1,957 cases, around 56% were reported from these two districts. While the daily count in Kolkata on April 4 was 634, in North 24 Parganas it was 462. The state government has ramped up the daily testing from around 20,000 in February-end to more than 26,000 now. “While we need to increase our testing, we also need to go for contact tracing of the infected patients. Isolation of infected people and proper surveillance is very important. All these have taken a back seat along with maintaining safety protocols as a result of which cases are on the rise,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/as-bengal-gears-up-for-phase-3-polls-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-101617645076041.html
05-04-2021||Gurugram||Soon, vaccination for Gurguram industrial employees at govt sites||The Gurugram health department will set up separate vaccination camps for all industrial employees in the city, officials informed on Monday. The industrial associations in Manesar said they will begin vaccination camps from April 7.“A team from the health department led by the chief medical officer met with the industrial association in Manesar on Monday and it was decided that vaccination for employees working there will be done at nearby government sites for faster response in case beneficiaries have adverse reactions,” said MP Singh, district immunisation officer.Vaccination drives for industrial employees will be done at government health centres, community centres and dispensaries. On March 31, the district health department allowed corporates to tie up with private hospitals to hold vaccination camps for their staff on office premises. However, the health department has now offered to hold camps for industry staff at government sites. “Our government staff is already trained and equipped with all medical facilities, especially on-time ambulances. At government facilities, there is also enough space to follow social distancing and protocols like monitoring the beneficiary for half an hour after the vaccination,” Singh added. As per health department data, a total of 27,785 beneficiaries, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in the district on Monday. Of the total, 26,571 were above the age of 45, and 7,779 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 56 private vaccination sites.Overall,216 vaccination sites, including 116 government sites, have been set up.Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram who led the discussion with the industrial association, said that vaccination at industries will start as soon as they send the list of beneficiaries. “We have discussed the details and should get information, like the number of beneficiaries, within two days. Thereafter, camps will be set up and vaccination drive can start,” said Yadav. He further said that arrangement and distribution of vaccines will be done depending on the list of beneficiaries given by the industrial association.Industrial associations in Manesar said that they will start regular vaccination camps from April 7. “We will hold vaccination camps in every sector and ensure that eligible employees and workers are inoculated to the maximum,” said Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Manesar Industrial Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/soon-vaccination-for-gurguram-industrial-employees-at-govt-sites-101617644834755.html
05-04-2021||Other||Cable work, manual traffic management results in 4-km traffic snarl on Dwarka Link Road||Gurugram: Commuters heading towards Delhi on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway faced heavy congestion due to ongoing cable laying work and manual traffic management at the Dwarka Link Road on Monday morning.The snarl stretched for 4.5 km -- till Sirhaul toll -- during the peak traffic hours between 8 am and 11 am, taking commuters more than 30 minutes to cross the stretch. Around 4 lakh vehicles cross the Sirhaul toll on a weekday.While Delhi traffic police has been regularly issuing alerts on social media since March 19, cautioning commuters to avoid the stretch till May 15 due to the ongoing cable laying work by Delhi Transco Limited, officials suspect the removal of jersey barriers might have led to an increase in congestion on Monday.Due to the ongoing work, commuters coming from Bijwasan and Dwarka no longer have access to the service lanes of the expressway to head towards the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, Mahipalpur, or for taking a U-turn below the Mahipalpur flyover to head towards Gurugram.Instead, they have to converge with the traffic coming from Gurugram on the main carriageway of NH-48 to head towards any of these directions.“Only on the first day of the work had Delhi traffic police officials managed traffic manually. Due to the severity of congestion, from the next day onwards, they had placed jersey barriers at an angle, leaving vehicles travelling from Dwarka and Bijwasan with a dedicated lane of the carriageway to join NH-48. On Monday morning, however, Delhi traffic police removed the jersey barriers and reverted to manual management of traffic,” said an official at the control room of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).The official quoted above said that instead of the usual converging of traffic, Delhi traffic police officials either allowed vehicles travelling from Dwarka and Bijwasan passage or those travelling on the expressway from Gurugram at intervals, resulting in a heavy snarl.While Delhi traffic police officials were unavailable for comment, DCP (traffic) DK Bhardwaj of the Gurugram police said that he will speak to Delhi traffic police on Tuesday morning regarding the matter. “With traffic extending till Gurugram on Monday, we will take stock on the matter from Delhi traffic police on Tuesday to determine the date till the work at Dwarka Link Road is likely to continue and the traffic management measures taken for it. Accordingly, we will issue an alert of our own for Gurugram residents as well,” said Bhardwaj.Daily commuters said that over the past three weeks the congestion was usually less than two kilometres long --between Samalka and Mahipalpur flyover -- though it was longer on Monday.“Over the last three weeks, the congestion was limited till Samalka. However, today (Monday) it was more severe. The stretch has been taking me 10 minutes to cross since the work began, however, it took me nearly 30 minutes today. Instead of continuous moving traffic, due to manual traffic management, vehicle movement was stationary for two to three-minute intervals, which resulted in a four-kilometre vehicle queue,” said Sahil Bhalla, a resident of Panchsheel Park in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cable-work-manual-traffic-management-results-in-4-km-traffic-snarl-on-dwarka-link-road-101617644775452.html
05-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram district administration orders police to issue 1000 challans daily for Covid-19 violations, soon surprise checks at weddings, functions||For the third day straight, Gurugram recorded over 550 new Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the total active case load to 3,168. This is the first time this year that the active case count crossed the 3,000 mark.On Monday, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg asked the police to increase their vigilance and issue at least 1,000 challans each day to those who violated health protocols such as masks and social distancing. Municipal corporation officials too were asked to resume issuing fines in their respective zonesDuring a meeting with administration and police officials on Monday, Yash Garg, DC Gurugram, instructed that prior permissions are a must for any programme to be held in the district from now on. “Gurugram Police should issue at least 1000 challans per day and the Municipal Corporation officials must also issue at least 100 challans in each of their zones. Special checking should be done at crowded places like markets, malls, big hospitals. Standard operating procedure (SOP) and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be strictly complied with,” said Garg, during the meeting. The municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had issued fines last year over Covid-19 health protocol violations but suspended it in July as the focus shifted to other measures such as ensuring protocols in public places, and due to a dip in new cases. The practice of issuing challans was first ordered in March last year. Even till July last year, the civic body had not issued too many challans -- less than 6000 versus Gurugram Police’s nearly 13,000. The challan, both from police and municipal body, costed a violator ₹500. As part of the latest SOP released on Sunday by the Haryana Disaster Management Authority (HDMA) a ceiling has been put on gatherings. Only 200 people will be allowed in indoor spaces and over 500 outdoors, and organisers of the gatherings will have to take permission from the district administration in advance for the same. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals. The deputy commissioner further said that all sub-divisional magistrates in the district should get a list of scheduled events from marriage venues, farmhouses and club; of their respective areas and conduct surprise checks to ensure that appropriate Covid-19 behaviour is being followed. He also stressed on regular monitoring in schools, increasing testing and vaccination along with ensuring adequate number of beds in all hospitals. During the meeting, chief medical officer Virendra Yadav informed that the positivity rate in the district stands at 7.8% at present. According to the health bulletin released on Monday evening, at least 6,127 tests were administered, including 991 rapid antigen tests, in the past 24 hours to curb the spike in the city. The chief medical officer further said that in the past three months, 3 lakh tests have been conducted in the district. As of Monday, the total tally in the district reached 65,534 and 368 positive patients have died. Out of the total active cases, 212 are admitted in hospitals, at least five in district Covid-19 care centres, and 2,941 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-district-administration-orders-police-to-issue-1000-challans-daily-for-covid-19-violations-soon-surprise-checks-at-weddings-functions-101617644774874.html
05-04-2021||Gurugram||Man booked for uploading woman’s pictures without consent||A man was booked on Monday for allegedly posting a 28-year-old woman’s pictures on a social networking site without her consent. Police said that the woman filed a complaint against him alleging that he had been threatening and stalking her for the last three months. The complainant said that she got married last year and since then the suspect had been troubling her and tried to create problems between her husband and her. Police said the woman and the suspect had studied in the same school and were friends for over two years. The suspect, who allegedly had the password for her social media accounts, reportedly uploaded her pictures with him and updated status announcing her divorce. Police said the woman approached them on Monday morning and submitted screenshots of the messages and pictures sent by him. She also gave a pen drive which had call recordings where the suspect was allegedly threatening her and asking her to meet him and leave her husband if he wanted her to stop troubling her. Subhash Boken, Gururgam police spokesperson, said that they have booked a case under section 354 D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code at New Colony police station. Boken said that the suspect had shared her obscene pictures with her family members following which she was asked to complaint to police on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-for-uploading-woman-s-pictures-without-consent-101617644715423.html
05-04-2021||Gurugram||Summer has arrived: Thieves target inverter batteries||Gurugram Police on Sunday booked six unidentified members of a gang allegedly involved in stealing inverter batteries from residential areas across the city. At least 26 cases of inverter battery theft have already been registered since January this year against 39 last year. Demand for these batteries go up in summers to beat the heat amid power cuts.The latest incident was reported on Sunday from Sector 46 where the victim said that they found their main door locked from the outside at around 4.30 pm. Sumer Rao said he went out onto the balcony and raised an alarm following which a passerby stopped and opened his main door of the apartment on the first floor. “When we came down we found that our double battery inverter was dismantled and batteries were missing from the cabinet,” he said. A case under section 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 50 police station on Sunday. Police said this was the sixth theft reported within a week from a residential area. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said, “We have recovered CCTV footage from different areas and are yet to identify the gang members. The investigation is being conducted by the crime teams and the suspects will be arrested soon,” he said. Sangwan said the same gang was involved in stealing batteries from shops. “The demand for the inverters and batteries goes up during summers. The thieves sell the stolen goods to other shopkeepers. We had arrested four shopkeepers last year who were involved in buying these stolen batteries. We are keeping an eye on them,” he said. About eight incidents of battery and inverter shop break-ins have already been reported in March. Police said this gang has been using a white Swift car. Its members are usually armed with no fear of the police or law and order, aghast residents claim. Sangwan said a second-hand battery is sold for nearly ₹3,000 and are used in rented inverters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/summer-has-arrived-thieves-target-inverter-batteries-101617644714842.html
05-04-2021||Other||SUV rams e-rickshaw, two injured||Gurugram: An SUV, which was allegedly speeding, rammed into an e-rickshaw on MG Road flyover on Saturday evening leaving two passengers severely injured. The victims, Disha Rathore and Manish Kumar, work at call centres in Udyog Vihar phase 2 and live in Delhi. They had boarded an e-rickshaw from Udyog Vihar for MG Road metro station on Saturday evening when the accident took place. A case has been registered and the car driver has already been released on bail.Police said when the e-rickshaw reached MG Road flyover around 4.30 pm, a speeding Fortuner car rammed it from behind. Police said one of the victims was thrown several feet in the air before landing on the road. According to police, the car driver took the victims to the hospital and also cooperated with the investigation.“The driver got out and I helped him board the victims in his SUV so that he could take them to the hospital,” said Hari Om, a security guard working in Sector 29.Police said the victims were rushed to the Civil hospital and were later moved to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday.Rathore told police that she gained consciousness after more than four hours. She informed her family members who moved her to Delhi where, police said, she is currently reported to be stable.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have registered a case and the suspect has been released on bail. “We have also deployed three policemen from two police stations who will patrol the flyover to ensure there is no speeding,” he said. On the basis of Rathore’s complaint, a case was registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Sector 17/18 police station. The victims recorded their statements on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suvrams-e-rickshaw-two-injured-101617644654789.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Centre writes to Delhi govt on irregularities in identification of Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries||The Centre on Monday wrote to the Delhi government, pointing to irregularities in the identification of Covid-19 vaccination beneficiaries, below the age of 45 years, by some private vaccination centres.In the letter to the Principal Secretary (Health), Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD), it has been pointed out by the central government that there have been serious lapses in the registration of beneficiaries by the VIMHANS (Vidyasagar Institute of Mental Health, Neuro and Allied Sciences) located at Nehru Nagar area in the North-East District of Delhi, operating as a private Covid vaccination centre. VIMHANS has been found to register beneficiaries below the age of 45 years as Health Care Workers (HCWs) & Front Line Workers (FLWs) and vaccinate them.A release from the health ministry said, "As per provisions of the ongoing Covid-I9 vaccination drive, citizens above 45 years of age (from 1st April 2021) are being vaccinated along with Health Care Workers (HCWs) and Front Line Workers (FLWs) above 18 years of age as per the recommendations of NEGVAC. CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) sample data (l9th March-3rd April 2021) of vaccinated beneficiaries from this private CVC verified by the health ministry, revealed that many beneficiaries lie outside the ambit of the eligible beneficiaries (not under the identified priority populations groups), in violation of the guidelines laid down by the union health ministry."Noting that vaccines are a "precious commodity", the Centre said these serious lapses at the VIMHANS CVC in terms of compliance of the Covid-19 vaccination guidelines harm the countrywide vaccination exercise as eligible beneficiaries may get deprived of vaccination.The Delhi administration has been asked to immediately issue a show-cause notice to VIMHANS regarding such wrong practices which violate Covid-19 vaccination norms and seek a written explanation from them within the next 48 hours. The appropriate monetary fine may also be imposed on the hospital.Further, it has been suggested that the department of the hospital may be approached if the explanation to the show cause notice is found "unsatisfactory".In another case, the Delhi government, in pursuance of the advice from the health ministry, has issued a show-cause notice to Bensups Hospital, Sector-12 Dwarka, Delhi for violation of the guidelines issued by the Centre on the eligible groups of the population for receiving Covid vaccination, where persons below the age of 45 years have been wrongly registered as health care workers and frontline workers.India had started Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).India commenced its second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus from March 1.The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-writes-to-delhi-govt-on-irregularities-in-identification-of-covid-19-vaccination-beneficiaries-101617643674430.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 8,211 new Covid cases, six deaths||Pune: The district reported over 8,200 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, a dip in the number of new cases since the past three days. Pune has been reporting the highest number of new positive cases in the state breaking its own record since the lockdown has been imposed. Pune’s progressive count went up to 5.84 lakh new cases of which 4.95 lakh have recovered, 8,489 have been declared dead and the active cases count has gone beyond 81,000. Pune city reported 4,250 new Covid-9 cases which took the progressive count to 302,518 and, with three new deaths, took the death toll to 4,785. PCMC reported 2,141 new cases which took the count to 148,392 and with no new deaths the toll went up to 1,392. Pune rural reported 1,820 new cases which took the final count to 134,059 and with three new deaths the toll went up to 2,263. Pune also vaccinated 85,146 beneficiaries on Tuesday of which PMC vaccinated 21,086 beneficiaries, PCMC vaccinated 15,637 beneficiaries and Pune rural reported 48,423 beneficiaries. Of the total vaccinations, 84,416 were of Covishield and the remaining were of Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-8-211-new-covid-cases-six-deaths-101617642674680.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Chitale’s Bhakarwadi in return gift for vaccine shots||The MCCIA and Chitale Group together have begun a unique incentive for people to come forward and get their vaccination shots. The Chitale Group is now offering free Bhakarwadi packets after taking the jab at various Covid vaccination centres in the city; this is being done under the Pune Platform for Covid Response (PPCR) anchored by MCCIA. “I am part of the PPCR and this idea was thought about as an incentive for people to come forward for the vaccination shots. Today, we distributed 5,000 packets of 50 grams of Bhakarwadi after each shot,” said Indraneel Chitale, partner at Chitale group. “We have volunteers at multiple centres across the city,” he added. The places where Bhakarwadi packets were distributed are: Late Gynaba Tukaram hospital, Dhanori, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, Yerawada, Minatai Thakre hospital, Wadgaonsheri, Naidu hospital, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj hospital Wanowrie, Annasaheb Magar hospital, Hadapsar.Prashant Girbane, director general MCCIA said, “Usually after a jab of vaccination, people are usually offered water, tea or biscuits, we thought of offering them Bhakarwadi which is loved by all. This is done on behalf of PPCR, a concept that is supporting and organising many interactions between hospitals and administrations so that there is a better coordination. Last year, the PPCR with its convenor Sudhir Mehta raised ₹12 crores to help buy ventilators, high flow nasal oxygens, PPE kits, sanitizers, food arrangements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chitales-bhakarwadi-in-return-gift-for-vaccine-shots-101617641295542.html
05-04-2021||Ranchi||Fresh vaccine stock to arrive mid-April in Jharkhand||Jharkhand, which has rolled out the second round of special Covid-19 vaccination drive at the panchayat level, may soon face shortage of vaccines if no fresh consignment arrives in the state in a couple of days, sources in the state health department said.According to available information, the state was left with 23,760 doses of Covaxin of Bharat Biotech, and 327,780 doses of Covishield of Serum Institute of India, Pune. However, state National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravishankar Shukla denied the stock shortage, while confirming the number of the remaining stock of doses. “There is no shortage of vaccine as of now. We have been informed that a consignment of Covaxin will arrive in the state in the second week of this month. We still have around 25,000 doses of this vaccine. An order has been issued to districts not to use Covaxin for the first dose. It will be only given to those who have already taken its first dose,” he said. The state has targeted to inoculate over one lakh beneficiaries every day under the special vaccination drive that was launched on April 4.Against the target of 114,800 beneficiaries fixed for the first day, as many as 80,184 were given the first dose, accounting for 70% target achievement.Considering the current pace of vaccination coverage, the state has a limited stock of vaccines as of now.It has so far received a total of 2,074,760 doses of Covishield, and 237,760 doses of Covaxin.The NHM director said, “The state has over 3 lakh doses of Covishield and its next consignment may arrive shortly, may be tomorrow (Tuesday) or day after tomorrow. So, we can’t say that there is shortage of vaccine in the state.”Amid the looming crisis of vaccine shortage, the state was also witnessing a steep rise in the number of positive cases.In the last six days, the state reported 4,156 new cases with an average daily detection of around 700 cases. These cases were discovered after testing 92,573 samples. The positivity rate in the last six days stood at 4.48%. Fatality rate too rose, as 20 deaths were reported in this duration.According to the state health department’s bulletin of April 4, Jharkhand has so far reported 127,246 Covid-19 cases, including 120,872 recoveries, 5,244 active cases and 1,130 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/fresh-vaccine-stock-to-arrive-mid-april-in-jharkhand-101617641294745.html
05-04-2021||Patna||Centre approves mega food park in Muzaffarpur||In a major step towards industrialisation in Bihar, the Centre has approved a mega food park at Motipur block of Muzaffarpur district. An announcement to this effect was made jointly by union agriculture, farmer’s welfare and food processing industries Narendra Singh Tomar and Bihar’s industry minister Shahnawaz Hussain in New Delhi on Monday.This would be the first mega food park to be developed by Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA). Earlier, a food park under private sector was opened at Mansi in Khagaria district at a cost of ₹127.60 crores.Giving details about the project, Tomar said, “An amount of ₹103 crore would be spent on developing the common structure of the plant and it will have 30 industry units. Once these units are established, the park will have ₹300 crore of additional investment. This means that the mega food park will have an investment of ₹400 crore ( ₹103 crore from Centre and state and remaining through investments) and it will generate opportunity for 5000 people.”The proposal to develop the park was prepared by BIADA under the guidance of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar and it will be developed in 78 acres. “The total cost is ₹103 crore, in which ₹50 crore will be provided by the Centre,” said Hussain. “This food park will definitely generate employment opportunities and go a long way in opening the doors for industrialization. I congratulate Bihar CM Nitish Kumar and industry minister Shahnawaz Hussain and I am confident that the project will start soon and help farmers and unemployed youths,” said Tomar. “The remaining amount of the project will be provided by the BIADA and soon we will start making the DPR,” said additional chief secretary (industries) Brajesh Mehrotra.The central government had envisaged a project for developing 42 mega food parks, of which 40 had been approved. The Mega Food Park Scheme (MFPS) aims at providing modern infrastructure facilities for food processing.As on September 2020, the ministry has accorded final approval to 37 MFPs in 23 states/UTs which are under different stages of implementation. Out of this, 19 MFPs are operational. As per the scheme guidelines, each fully operational food park will provide direct/indirect employment to about 5000 persons. The scheme has the primary objective of providing modern infrastructure facilities for the food processing along the value chain from the farm to the market. It will include creation of infrastructure near farm (i.e. collection centres and primary processing centres), transportation, logistics and centralised processing centres etc. This will have an impact on increased realization of farmers, reduction in wastage and creation of an efficient supply chain backed by collection centres, primary processing centres and logistic infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centre-approves-mega-food-park-in-muzaffarpur-101617641174643.html
05-04-2021||Patna||Intensive testing in containment zones as Covid cases spike in Bihar||The state health department has decided to use rapid antigen kits for intensive testing in containment zones of Patna, which has seen the maximum spike in cases post-Holi, while scaling up tests through real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a gold standard test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With 935 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, Bihar reported the highest single day spike in cases this year of which 432 were from Patna. The state capital reported 372 cases out of the 864 new infections in the state on Sunday. Sharing the gravity of the situation, he said, Bihar reported 3,422 cases between March 29 and April 4. This was more than 15 times the cases reported in the first week of March. “We are constantly increasing our capacity of RT PCR tests, but at the same time we have decided to test as many people as possible in containment zones (Bihar had 1,124 active containment zones on Monday) through rapid antigen kits,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. He said Bihar had sufficient beds available in health facilities as 95% of the total active cases were under home isolation. Bihar had 3,560 active cases till April 4, when the number of new infections was 864. Amrit said the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients had increased from 60 to 110 at Patna AIIMS. The number of ICU beds had also gone up from 20 to 30 at the institute. Besides, 100 beds were made functional at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), the state health brass added. An additional 100 beds to the existing 100 were being made operational at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which was once declared a dedicated Covid-19 hospital last May before it began admitting non-Covid patients when the situation eased later last year. Amrit said the ESIC Hospital at Bihta, on the outskirts of Patna, would again be made functional exclusively for Covid-19 patients. Doctors and nurses from the Armed Forces Medical Corps would manage the facility at Bihta, where the DRDO had managed a 500-bed Covid care facility last year. “We are deputing 50 nurses from the state health sector to support the facility at Bihta,” said Amrit. He said arrangements were also being done for recommencing Covid-care facility at the erstwhile Hotel Patliputra Ashok. Together with tracking, testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients, Amrit exhorted those above 45 years of age to take vaccination. He said the state was vaccinating around 2.25 lakh people on a daily basis and the exercise had been taken up on a “mission mode” with a target to vaccinate most of the 1.80 crore target group population of 45 years and above. Amrit said the infection was more virulent this time and portends ominous signs if people were lax in following Covid appropriate behavior like wearing of mask, maintaining social distancing, using hand sanitiser and avoiding crowded places. He said the chief minister was monitoring the Covid-19 situation on a daily basis and after the crisis management group meeting last Saturday, would hold a meeting with districts magistrates and superintendents of police on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/intensive-testing-in-containment-zones-as-covid-cases-spike-in-bihar-101617641114672.html
05-04-2021||Patna||BSEB declares matric results, overall 78.17% pass||Puja Kumari and Shubhdrashini of Simulatala Awasiya Vidyalaya, Jamui and Sandeep Kumar of Baldeo High School, Rohtas, emerged as toppers in the matric exam conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) from February 17 to 24 across the state, results of which were declared by the state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Monday.All three students secured the first rank by obtaining 96.80%. A total of 101 students including 36 girls made it to the Top-10 list. The overall pass percentage this year is 78.17%, which is 2.42 % less than the previous year. The board said that 3.60 lakh students will take compartmental exam to qualify.Choudhary appreciated the healthy competition among students to fetch high ranks. “The Top-10 list shows the meritorious performance by girls. The board has transformed its working by bringing transparency and free conduct of exam. The exam cycle which was known for its delay has not only improved but has become the first education board to conduct and declare results in the country”, he said. Altogether 16.54 lakh students including 8.29 lakh boys and 8.24 lakh girls appeared in the matric exam at 1,525 examination centres from February 17 to 24 across the state.Of the total examinees, 4.13 lakh students secured first division, 5 lakh students second division, while 3.78 lakh students third division.BSEB’s chairman Anand Kishor said, “We evaluated more than one crore copies and OMR sheets within 25 days, which helped us setting new record of speedy result announcement. In recent years, the board has introduced digital technology which has eliminated human interference making the result process quick and fair.”“Considering Covid-19 crisis, we introduced 100% alternative questions which helped students to opt questions as per their suitability”, added Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bseb-declares-matric-results-overall-78-17-pass-101617640994684.html
05-04-2021||Other||Abducted Bihar man freed by ULFA on Myanmar border||A native of Khagaria district in Bihar working in Arunachal Pradesh, who was abducted along with others by banned outfit United Liberation Front of Assam (Independent) in December last year, was released on Monday.Ram Kumar Diwakar, who worked as a radio operator with Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, was released at an undisclosed location in Nagaland’s Mon district along the Indo-Myanmar border on Monday. After his release, Diwakar told reporters that six persons accompanying him had said he would be released and accordingly he was left near a road and was given the directions to seek help when he reached a particular point.He thanked his parents, family, well-wishers, security personnel and the media for doing their utmost to ensure his release.“I thank governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar as well as the central government for the safe release of my husband. I cannot explain in words the joy and relief I felt on getting the information from Khagaria district magistrate. God has saved him,” said Bina Kumari, Diwakar’s wife.Diwakar (28), a native of Bahadurpur village of Khagaria district, was abducted along with Pranab Kumar Gogoi of Assam from Diyun in Changlang on December 21, 2020, by suspected rebels. Changlang is one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. ULFA (I) had reportedly demanded a ransom of ₹20 crore for their release. Changlang’s deputy commissioner Dr Devansh Yadav said Diwakar was now safe with the Indian security forces. “The 35 battalion of Assam Rifles took his custody and handed him over to the local police station in Nagaland for completion of legal formalities,” he said, adding that Diwakar was likely to be handed over to his family soon. The Changlang also police had brought back Gogoi (51) from Longvi village near the Indo-Myanmar border on Saturday noon. He has reached home safely.Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said there was official communication to the district administration on Diwakar’s release and he was likely to reach Bihar within two days. Earlier, on January 20, the insurgents had released a video of Diwakar in which he could be seen reading a script and urging chief minister Nitish Kumar to talk to his Assam counterpart to get him freed from captivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abducted-bihar-man-freed-by-ulfa-on-myanmar-border-101617640874635.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI team to reach Mumbai on Tuesday to probe Anil Deshmukh||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team from Delhi, comprising half a dozen officers, will reach Mumbai on Tuesday to investigate allegations of corruption and misuse of official position against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, people familiar with the development said.Deshmukh stepped down on Monday hours after the Bombay High Court ordered the central agency to look into the allegations, levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh.Singh, in a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, accused Deshmukh of asking the Mumbai Police to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars, hotels and restaurants, an allegation denied by both the minister and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).The Bombay HC has asked the central agency to complete the enquiry within 15 days after which the CBI director will take a call on the further course of action.Officials cited above said the Delhi team will be assisted by Mumbai CBI officers as the agency has very little time to complete its preliminary enquiry (PE).Usually, according to the CBI Crime manual, a PE is supposed to be completed in three months before it is put up before the Superintendent of Police (SP) and the branch DIG (Deputy Inspector General), after which a final call is taken whether to register a regular case (equivalent to First Information Report) or close the enquiry.The officers, requesting anonymity, said the CBI team will record the statement of Dr Jaishri Patil, on whose plea the HC ordered a probe by the premier anti-corruption agency.It will also record the statement of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh to know more about his allegations after which it will look for documentary and circumstantial evidence, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-team-to-reach-mumbai-on-tuesday-to-probe-anil-deshmukh-101617640455390.html
05-04-2021||Pune||One held for violent assault||The Market Yard police have arrested a youth and are on the lookout for another of his associate for attacking two youths with choppers on Sunday. The victim Arbaz Shaikh has lodged a complaint in this regard after which the first accused was identified as Bhima Balshankar (23). According to the police, Shaikh along with his friend Nitin Sutar and Atik Shaikh were busy chatting when the accused came from the other direction, picked up a quarrel with them over a petty reason and attacked them with choppers. Nitin Sutar is critical and currently recuperating in a private hospital. A team of detection branch officials have been deployed to hunt the other accused who fled from the scene of crime. A case under attempt to murder has been lodged in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-held-for-violent-assault-101617639914594.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Pedestrian killed by container in Jambhulwadi||Kavita Reuji Phadtare (37), a resident of Krushna Park was killed after she was run over by a speeding Leyland container near Hotel Marathe Shahi near Jambhulwadi on April 4. The deceased was crossing the road when a speeding tempo came and hit. She died on the spot and sustained head and abdominal injuries leading to her death. Police constable Ajit Kokare lodged a complaint against an unidentified driver at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The police have invoked charges ranging from rash and negligent driving to sections of the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA). Bharati Vidyapeeth police station officials said that they visited the spot immediately after the accident and the statement of eyewitnesses have been recorded. The police have also sought CCTV footage from nearby establishments to nab the accused who is absconding, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pedestrian-killed-by-container-in-jambhulwadi-101617639854573.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Students appear for SPPU mock test exams, some face technical issues||Around 38 per cent of the students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges remained absent on the first day of the mock tests. In a bid to spread awareness about the online examination software to students, the mock tests are going to be held starting from April 5 to 9. While on its first day, a total of 1,10,017 students from Science and Engineering streams were expected to appear for the exams, of which only 68,470 students appeared which is 62 per cent of the total number of students. While students who appeared for the mock test today faced some technical issues, some didn’t receive their username and password and students faced other issues while giving the online mock test exams. Madhukar Kulkarni an SPPU student said, “Even after selecting the answer it was not saved in the system, while there was connectivity issue and questions were not loading properly despite having a good internet connection. My timer remained running when I had called to the call centre for getting the solution on my technical issue and no one received my call from the call centre as I called thrice.” Last year, from October 12, 2020, SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day onwards both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a one-hour duration. Now the students have started preparing for the examination which is starting from April 11, and there are a total of 3,700 subjects for which the examination will be conducted through online mode. Rekha Mirashe, another student said, “It was quite a good experience to appear for the mock test examination today, there was not much problem while appearing for the test compared to last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-appear-for-sppu-mock-test-exams-some-face-technical-issues-101617639794581.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Office-goers face challenges adjusting to changed office timings||The new restrictions imposed in Pune by the district administration has made life difficult for office-goers like Dipti Mohite. “Our office timings were 10 am to 6 pm earlier which were changed to 9 am to 5 pm by the office administration, but I travel by the public transport bus daily from home to office. As my husband also works in another private company and his timings are almost the same, I have to manage to go to office either by a private auto rickshaw or now looking for share rides with another office colleagues,” said Mohite. Thousands of officegoers, workers working at market shops and small factories all around the district are facing a similar situation Vipul Alekar, a businessman in Hadapsar said, “In our factory there are 15 workers and we have called them in two shifts for work after the new restrictions were given. As most of them stay nearby, they come walking or travel on bike but continuing work in these changed timings is really costing us financially as well as the business has gone down by almost 50 per cent.” At Laxmi road and Tulshibaug market, shop owners call workers early in the morning and at around 5 to 5.30 pm shops are closed before the night curfew starts at 6 pm. From 5 pm to 6 pm, there is a massive crowd seen across city roads, as there is a rush to return home before the restrictions begin. Most officer goers stop on the way home to buy vegetables, groceries and other household items. Archana Somavanshi, branch manager at one of the courier services on Tilak road said, “As ours is a service oriented work, we need to keep our shop open for the public. Our regular office timings have now been changed to 8.30 am to 5.30 pm. I manage my household works of cooking food for kids and other preparations early in the morning, and then return back home at around 6 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/officegoers-face-challenges-adjusting-to-changed-office-timings-101617639614678.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Over a million doses administered in Pune, 8% of population get first dose||Pune has inoculated 8 per cent of its population in the district as over a million doses have been given. As of Tuesday, the district has seen 10.75 lakh vaccinations of which 9.88 lakh have got only the first dose and of those who got the first jab 87,775 have got the second dose. The district has over 523 vaccination sites. The district has vaccinated 5.23 lakh men and 4.64 lakh women. Of the total doses administered, 9.78 lakh are of Covishield and remaining Covaxin. Since the past one week Pune has reported the highest per day vaccination in the state and so the administration now hopes to vaccinate one lakh beneficiaries per day. To ensure vaccination for all in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued orders to ensure that those working in essential services shops must get the vaccine as prescribed by the Government of India and also the non-essential shops that remain close during the restrictions period must also get the vaccines as prescribed by the government norms. PMC has also issued guidelines to ensure vaccination of all employees in wedding halls. To increase vaccination, Sudhir Mehta, lead and coordinator, Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response, has asked the government to withdraw its latest directive which restricts further registration and vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. He said, “With increased vaccination centres, our hospitals have recruited additional staff, most of whom are still not vaccinated. The volunteer groups who are the major drivers of our vaccination campaigns and smooth implementation are also not eligible for vaccination. This has taken us aback in our journey towards safeguarding Pune district that is going through an emergency crisis situation with close to 10,000 cases a day and average 50 daily deaths. We are witnessing deaths of 27–28-year-olds due to Covid, which is an alarming situation and is creating an apprehension amongst volunteer groups as well. Given the situation, volunteers, frontline and healthcare workers who are not covered by vaccination and do not fall under eligible categories are now backing out. This will result in a dramatic fall in the daily vaccination numbers due to healthcare staff and volunteer short staff.” Ensuring protection against the virus Sites conducting vaccination in Pune district: 523 Government: 407 Private: 116 Total vaccination doses: 1,079,352 Dose 1: 991,474 Dose 2: 87,878 Male: 525,554 Female:465,834 Covishield: 981,906 Covaxin: 97,446 Vaccinations by age: 18-25 years: 25,205 25-40 years: 123,831 40-60 years: 374,599 Above 60 years:467,679 *data from Government of India’s Co-WIN dashboard||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-a-million-doses-administered-in-pune-8-of-population-get-first-dose-101617638954647.html
05-04-2021||Lucknow||Mission 2022: Akhilesh criss-crosses state, covers 40 districts||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav is touring the state like never before with the 2022 UP assembly elections in mind, travelling to nearly 40 districts and all regions of the state, including Bundelkhand.He has not only left all other top Opposition leaders behind in this respect but appears to have outdone himself in spending time on the road.Yadav’s tours now also involve frequent overnight stays in the districts. The sequence began with a three-day visit to his Lok Sabha constituency Azamgarh in eastern Uttar Pradesh in December.During these visits, he has addressed cadre training camps, kisan mahapanchayats, public meetings and press conferences. He has also gone to temples, besides Muslim and Buddhist places of worship.At all the districts, Akhilesh posted pictures of him amid the dense crowds on his social media accounts. Most of them were road trips but he did use an aeroplane on a couple of visits, including one to Chitrakoot.In Etawah, he addressed a gathering from atop a tractor. He also stood on the roof of his rath (a luxury election campaign bus) at his Aligarh kisan mahapanchayat. In Rampur, he not only flagged off the 350-km-long Samajwadi Cycle Yatra to Lucknow, but also pedalled the first 10 km of the route along with party workers. He even travelled on a UP roadways bus on the way to Etawah.“The way crowds are gathering indicates how restive the people are to vote the BJP out and bring back the Samajwadi Party,” said SP state spokesperson and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary.The tours have also quelled the criticism that he earlier did not hit the streets the way his father and party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav did when he led the party.Keeping his attack focused only on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Akhilesh Yadav never spoke about any other rival political party, be it the Congress or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Among his political rivals, BSP chief Mayawati has not travelled across the state at all, while Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited a few districts such as Saharanpur and Mathura. She is likely to go to four eastern UP districts to address kisan mahapanchayats in Varanasi, Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur this month.“It is good that Akhilesh Yadav is doing such hectic tours and engaged in taking on the BJP much ahead of the polls. There is no other way, if he and his party have to fight the BJP and aspire to win back power. As of now, it is only his party and he who are in a position to take on BJP well. Such hard work and some strategic alliances, if he does them, would certainly help in the fight,” said Prof SK Dwivedi, a political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.Dwivedi added: “Before this, his solo Kranti Rath tour of the state in 2011 shortly before the 2012 UP assembly elections is still etched in public memory.”Mulayam had credited Akhilesh Yadav and his Kranti Rath campaign for making the SP win a full majority for the first time in its electoral history. That achievement saw Akhilesh Yadav becoming the Uttar Pradesh chief minister for the first time in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-2022-akhilesh-criss-crosses-state-covers-40-districts-101617636855475.html
05-04-2021||Other||2 Telugu CRPF jawans killed in Bijapur encounter were to marry soon||The two Telugu jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who were killed along with 20 others in the exchange of fire with the extremists of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) in the forests of Bijapur in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, were to get married soon, their family members said.While the wedding ceremony of Routhu Jagadish (27), a resident of Gajularega area in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram town, was fixed for May 22, the parents of Sakhamuri Muralikrishna (28) of Gudipudi village of Sattenapalli block in Guntur district, were looking for a suitable match for him.“Jagadish spoke to me on Friday and discussed the arrangements to be made for the marriage next month. He said he would come to Vizianagaram this week on a holiday to shop for the wedding and other personal works. We were all waiting for him. Unfortunately, we got this sad news,” Jagadish’s father, Routhu Simhachalam, a worker in a petrol bunk, said.Jagadish’s mother, Ramanamma, was inconsolable. She wailed with her son’s photograph in her hands. His sister, Saraswati, got married last year.“Jagadish joined the CRPF in 2010 and got into the Cobra squad because of his daring nature. He was a very active and jovial person. He has lots of friends in Vizianagaram. Whenever he came to the town, it was like a festive atmosphere,” Ramesh, one of his friends in the neighbourhood, said.Hundreds of youths took out a rally by holding tricolour, placards and banners in Vizianagaram town, raising “Jagadish Amar Rahe (long live Jagadish)” slogans. They observed a shutdown at Gajularega area as a mark of respect to the departed soul.Muralikrishna, another CRPF jawan, from Guntur district, also joined the CRPF in 2010 and had been posted in the Cobra-210 wing. His parents, Ravindra Babu, a private employee, and Vijaya Kumar, a homemaker, were also planning to get him married this summer.“The family recently built a new house in view of Muralikrishna’s marriage. He came home in February on a holiday and gave a green signal to his parents to look for a match. He told them he would come back to the village once the marriage is settled. But we got this bad news yesterday,” one of his relatives said.Expressing shock over the killing of two bright Telugu CRPF jawans, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex gratia of ₹30 lakh each to the bereaved families.He extended his heartfelt condolences to the family members of Jagadish and Muralikrishna and prayed for strength to the families to overcome the grief, an official release from the chief minister’s office said.Meanwhile, the police administration in the Telangana districts of Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu and Jayashankar Bhupalpally, sounded a high alert in the villages that border Chhattisgarh. The administration is on alert suspecting the possible sneaking of Maoists and their supporting tribals into Telangana crossing the Godavari river.A senior police official in the Bhadradri Kothagudem district said Terrem area, where the deadly encounter took place, was hardly 60 kilometres away from Charla block in the district.“Whenever there is a massive encounter in Chhattisgarh forests, the Maoists attempt to cross the Godavari river and take shelter in the border villages of Telangana for sometime before retreating to their hideouts,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Within hours of the encounter killings, hundreds of police forces belonging to the CRPF, Greyhounds (elite anti-Maoist forces of the Telangana police) and special party police of the districts, swung into action and intensified the combing operations.“In coordination with the Chhattisgarh Police, we have kept a watch on all such areas where there is a possibility of the Maoists entering Telangana for shelter,” the official said.Intensified checking of all vehicles coming from across the border has begun and the police forces are also posted along the Godavari river to check any ferrying of suspects from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-telugu-crpf-jawans-killed-in-bijapur-encounter-were-to-marry-soon-101617634815602.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Allocate 80% of oxygen produced to hospitals: State to industry||Pune: The Maharashtra government has instructed all oxygen producers and suppliers to reserve 80 per cent of supply for medical purposes, given the surge of Covid in the state. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte issued guidelines for the same and instructed local authorities to monitor the supply. Last year, the state government had issued the same restrictions on oxygen supply in August and September, but as cases came down, oxygen supply for industrial purposes was eased. Covid patients require oxygen and its demand is increasing from all parts of the state. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh held a meeting with oxygen suppliers recently and instructed them to keep a smooth supply of oxygen to all hospitals in the city and district. The Pune district administration instructed the industries to register their oxygen demand and take permission from authorities while making additional demands. The administration claimed that they are ensuring that there will be smooth supply of oxygen and no shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/allocate-80-of-oxygen-produced-to-hospitals-state-to-industry-101617634814375.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Rural administration adopts early detection and case management policy||As the daily caseload in Pune district has been on the rise, the district administration is emphasising on early detection of cases in rural parts of Pune district. The rural administration is also focusing on the early management of a Covid case to prevent further deterioration of the patient. Pune Zilla Parishad claimed that this policy has become instrumental in ensuring the availability of the ventilator beds and the low mortality rate. “We have focused on the early detection of the cases with the help of Asha workers. Our challenge is to detect the onset of any sort of distress in 48 hours. Currently, our rate of detection is around 97 per cent. Only three percent of the cases are coming to us after 48 hours. Now, our goal is to detect these 97 cases in 0-24 hours,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad. On Sunday, Pune district recorded 12,472 Covid positive cases in a single day and 2,844 were reported from the rural parts. As the urban parts have been experiencing shortage of critical care beds, the Pune dashboard indicates the availability of the beds in rural parts. Ayush Prasad explained how the administration has been ensuring the availability of the beds in rural areas. “In Covid-19, generally the time window is of five to six days until the patient needs a ventilator. So, we are following very strict norms during this period. We are insisting on comprehensive blood tests and other tests. We are calculating the new score. It gives us an idea whether the condition of the patient will deteriorate. If it comes to this then we refer the patent to DCH from CCC and where efforts are taken to improve the patient’s condition,” said Prasad. He also claimed that if early management of Covid patients is properly done then the need of a ventilator could be avoided. On the other hand, rural police claimed that there has been a good response from rural parts to the adherence to the new restrictions and 12-hour curfew. “We have continued our action on the violators of Covid norms but in rural areas many are following the rules of restrictions by their own. The new heights of the Covid positive patients have reached the villages and people have become cautious,” said Milind Mohite, additional superintendent of police, Baramati Division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rural-administration-adopts-early-detection-and-case-management-policy-101617634454443.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Small-businesses, gym owners stare at losses during month-long restrictions||The restrictions announced in Pune last week has spiralled many businesses into unexpected losses, and the most affected are beauty parlours, and gymnasiums who feel that it is injustice to close down a place where residents can build better immunity to fight Covid-19. Jitendra Shirodkar was looking forward to his regular workouts at the Gold’s gym in Aundh when the mini lockdown was announced, which now have disturbed his daily exercise routine. “The government is stressing on lockdown and closing down gyms. This is totally wrong if they want people to build immunity, they should allow gyms to remain open,” Shirodkar said. ABS fitness downed the shutters on all their gyms in the city as soon as the announcement was made. “It is indeed very sad that we have to close the shutters once again, just when we had opened them a few months back. Last year was a complete loss and now just when we have opened up, the government calls for a lockdown. Gyms in fact are the safest place with all precautions in place. In the last two months, we have had no Covid positive cases at all of members coming in for exercises. The lockdown is going to not just affect the business but also the health of the people. If people don’t exercise, how will they gain immunity against such diseases,” said Shekhar Sable, founder, director, for ABS fitness. HIIT80, a boutique gym in Balewadi has found a way to reach out to its members while maintaining lockdown restrictions. “It is true that one needs to be healthy to maintain immunity and hence with the lockdown announcement, we have taken up giving online lessons to our members using social media. We are not making any money, but health comes first,” said Crispin Lamont, owner, HIIT80. The Tilak swimming tank which brought joy to several people who looked at respite from the heat also shut down. “Last year was a major loss and during the month of May we tend to have a good number of members, taking our earnings to around ₹60 to 70 lakh, but we are not sure of making up for the losses. What worries us more is that our coaches are suffering the most, for some of them, coaching is their livelihood,” said, Tilak tank secretary Amit Golwalkar. The malls wore a deserted look, with only the housekeeping staff going about for the last time before locking the doors. Westend mall in Aundh closed the doors from Sunday as soon as the lockdown was announced. The beauty parlours in the city are still unsure about the dates of closing shops. Sakhee beauty parlour owner Shaila Nagpure said, “We are open today, but unsure of how the day will be. We will be closing from Tuesday following the orders but this lockdown will affect us very badly and not sure if we will recover from losses.” Similarly, another beauty parlour Maria’s salon in Koregaon park too was operational. “We are closing from tomorrow but today there are not many clients walking in. This lockdown will be bad for us,” said Jenny, one of the hairdressers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/smallbusinesses-gym-owners-stare-at-losses-during-month-long-restrictions-101617634394506.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Mulshi: Activists arrange free buses for villagers to take the jab||With no connectivity, issues with the transport system and no Covid-19 vaccination centre in their villages –residents of Paud and 28 other villages in Mulshi taluka were clueless on how to get vaccinated until Ankush More – an activist decided to arrange a free bus ride service to the vaccination centre.A resident has to travel a minimum of 50 kilometres to get vaccinated at the village Male or Ambavane. More and other activists came out with the plan and now everyday 100 residents (senior citizens and 45 plus) are getting vaccinated since March 30. Until now 400 residents have been vaccinated.Most of these villages are in the back side of the Mulshi dam which makes transport connectivity a problem. There are 600 active Covid-19 cases in Mulshi taluka.“Last Friday, the vaccination centre had few issues so we did not take the villagers for vaccination otherwise the process is going smoothly. Most of the senior citizens in villages are living alone as their children are in cities so we are making sure that these people do not suffer and get vaccinated,” said Ankush More an activist and working president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Mulshi taluka.The total population of these villages are around 23,000. Near these villages there are also 42 small hamlets where most of the people work in farms.“We will be covering these people as well under the vaccination. Our members are reaching out to them personally and explaining the importance of vaccination,” said More.The buses will continue to provide service for two more months. Prior to a day before going to the vaccination, activists collect the list of members and submit it to the vaccination centres and accordingly everything is organised at the centre.“The bus system was a must otherwise these villagers might have ignored the vaccination process because state transport buses are not that frequent. This initiative is giving good promotion to vaccination drives and senior citizens who are taking vaccines are also promoting it nicely so villagers who were afraid to take vaccines are now coming in big numbers. Two days ago, we vaccinated 170 people in a day,” said Dr Sambhaji Satpute health department head, Ambavane.“The main purpose of starting the centre at Mulshi Khurd and Male was to reduce distance so more people come for vaccination,” added Satpute.Even before the rise of Covid-19, these activists used to run free ambulance service for villagers.“Our main aim was to get more and more people to get vaccinated. Once we are providing them transport service for free, they are getting ready to get vaccinated,” said Mahadeo Kondhare, president of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Mulshi taluka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulshi-activists-arrange-free-buses-for-villagers-to-take-the-jab-101617634275576.html
05-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, 70% cases in Bengaluru Urban district||Karnata recorded more than 5,000 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike this year, according to a bulletin from the state health department on Monday. Of the new cases, 3,728 (or 70 per cent) were detected in the Bengaluru Urban district.With this, Covid-19 tally in the state climbed to 1,020,434. Also, 32 new fatalities took the death toll to 12,657, data from the bulletin showed.Today's Media Bulletin 05/04/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletinhttps://t.co/ozG6HS2PSJ@mla_sudhakar @PriyankKharge @BelladArvind @kiranshaw @WFRising @BangaloreBuzz @RCBTweets @NammaKarnataka_@ADinfodeptBIDAR @MangaloreCity @allaboutbelgaum @mysuruvarthe pic.twitter.com/QDeNeBDTV1Active caseload too witnessed a significant jump of 3,391 cases and currently stands at 42,483 from the 39,092 reported on the previous day. Meanwhile, 1,856 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total recoveries to 965,275 so far, with a recovery rate of 94.5 per cent.Daily new infections in the state have been steadily increasing since the first week of March 2021. The state reported over 3,000 new cases (3,082 to be exact) for the first time this year on March 28 and on April 1, the 4,000-mark was breached (4,234 cases). The number of fatalities also doubled from the 15 deaths reported on Sunday.Bengaluru Urban remains the worst affected district in terms of total confirmed cases as well as the active caseload. The district has so far reported 450,759 infections and the active caseload there currently stands at 30,782 (which is 72.45 per cent of the total active cases in Karnataka as of date).Also read | 'No side effect': Officials on vaccination of 118-year-old woman against CovidAmong other districts, Mysuru with 56,689 cases, Ballari with 40,046 cases and Dakshina Kannada with 36,054 cases have contributed most to the overall cases so far. In terms of active caseload, the districts of Bidar (1,518 cases), Kalaburagi (1,414 cases) and Mysuru (1,167 cases) trail Bengaluru Urban.However, Bengaluru Urban also leads the list of districts where the highest number of recoveries and the highest number of beneficiaries vaccinated have been reported.As many as 1,026 patients of the 1,856 who recovered on the day are from Bengaluru Urban. Also, 846,062 beneficiaries, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and the general public over 45 years of age, have been inoculated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-over-5-000-new-covid-19-cases-70-cases-in-bengaluru-urban-district-101617632753653.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Ventilator bed shortage: Experts say requirement too high than availability in Pune||Pune: The non-availability of the ICU beds in Pune continued on Monday. The Covid dashboard on bed availability for Pune division revealed that no ventilator beds were available in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on Monday. The district administration claimed that 288 beds of all categories were made available Monday, but almost all the beds were occupied immediately. PMC officials said that 250-300 beds from all the categories would be added to the dashboard by Monday night. At the end of the day, the dashboard showed 439 beds from all the categories were added.“We are trying our level best to increase beds. We added 288 beds of all categories put together and the beds vanished almost immediately,” said Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner. Manisha Naik, PMC’s assistant medical officer, said, “We have spoken to 23 hospitals on Monday. Currently we are registering the new beds on the dashboard and 250-300 beds from all the categories will be available. Amongst those almost 10-15 will be ICU beds.” PMC has asked private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of beds for Covid patients, but in the light of the increasing caseload the number of beds is insufficient. Experts pointed out that the ICU beds need special arrangements and trained staff and it is not something which can be increased as per requirement. “We are getting continuous calls from patients and mostly for ICU beds. Once a patient is put on a ventilator, in my observation, s/he requires at least a week to recover. So, if already all the beds are full, how can new patients be admitted? Currently we are making Covid patients sign a consent form before getting admitted that they may not get ICU beds if their condition deteriorates. There is a difference between an oxygen bed and an ICU bed. The latter cannot be increased overnight,” said Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth medical college, hospital and research centre. “Breaking the chain and keeping ourselves and our families safe is the only key. Each and every citizen should do that,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ventilator-bed-shortage-experts-say-requirement-too-high-than-availability-in-pune-101617632594327.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Curfew fails to check Covid surge in Pune||Pune: While the administration has put in place strict restrictions since April 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19, the surge of new cases continues in the district. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “As per the instructions of the state government, all shops except those providing essential services in the Pune Municipal Corporation will be closed from tomorrow (April 6) till April 30, 2021. The state government’s weekend lockdown will also be strictly enforced in the city.”Meanwhile, all public places, including essential shops, except medical shops, have been ordered to be shut from 6 pm to 6 am. Yet, the number of new cases has been higher than the first Covid wave in September last year. On Monday, the district recorded close to 12,500 new cases which is more than double of the count reported in the district in September 2020. In the last three days, the district has recorded more than 32,407 new cases while during the three days before the “mini lockdown” reported 25,702 new cases. Pune’s positivity rate has gone above 41% which is almost double of what the previous peak reported. The number of absolute deaths in the past few days has also gone up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curfew-fails-to-check-covid-surge-in-pune-101617632054275.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Thackeray accepts Deshmukh's resignation, Walse Patil takes charge of home dept||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dilip Walse Patil will take over as Maharashtra's new home minister after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray accepted Anil Deshmukh's resignation on Monday evening. Deshmukh, also an NCP leader, resigned over allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In the resignation letter sent to Thackeray, Deshmukh said he doesn't find it morally correct to continue as the home minister after the order of Bombay high court, which earlier on Monday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary investigation against him.The high court observed that there can no independent probe into the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh if the investigation is handed to Mumbai Police, which is headed by the state home minister. The court order came on a petition by Singh and others which claimed that Deshmukh was running an "extortion racket". Singh's accusations came after he was transferred to the Home Guards for improper handling of the Ambani bomb scare case. Singh alleged that the former state home minister Anil Deshmukh appointed suspended cop Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from various establishments in Mumbai.The claims were first made by Singh in a letter to Thackeray. He also approached the Supreme Court, which directed Singh to move the high court against Deshmukh.After the Bombay High Court's order, a meeting was held between the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at Sharad Pawar's residence Silver Oak in south Mumbai where the issue was discussed in detail. State rural development minister Hassan Mushrif will be taking over the labour portfolio while deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will take over the excise department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-cm-accepts-deshmukh-s-resignation-dilip-walse-patil-takes-charge-101617630315668.html
05-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar witnesses spike in cases, Patna emerges as hotspot||Bihar has been witnessing a spike in the number of daily Covid-19 infections in the past few weeks. The state recorded 864 new cases on Sunday, its highest since October last year, taking the state-wide tally to 2,68,377. In the last 24 hours, one Covid-19 infected patient succumbed to the disease, which tool the death toll to 1,583, according to state government's bulletin.Bihar's capital Patna has emerged as Covid-19 hotspot, recording 372 new cases in the last 24 hours. Trailing behind are districts of Jehanabad (60 cases), Bhagalpur (46 cases), and Muzaffarpur (34 cases).Chief minister Nitish Kumar chaired a high-level meeting on Saturday to discuss Bihar’s worsening Covid-19 situation, following which fresh guidelines were issued by the state health department. Opening of schools and colleges which was scheduled for Monday has been deferred till April 11. Additional police personnel have been deployed in public spaces like railway stations, vegetable markets and bus terminals to ensure people maintain social distancing and follow Covid-19 protocols.Click here for full coverage on coronavirusThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna has restricted the outpatient departments (OPD) to 50 patients a day per department, in order to curb crowding within the hospital premises, HT reported on April 4. AIIMS Patna has also been refusing to admit Covid-19 patients for the last three days citing unavailability of beds. State health department has asked AIIMS to increase the number of Covid-19 beds due to the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases.“We are not able to accommodate any Covid-19 patients for the last three days as all our beds are full. Ninety-five beds for Covid-19 patients in our institute were occupied till yesterday. We are increasing the number of beds to 110, following the state health department’s request,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna told HT.AIIMS had reduced the number of beds designated for Covid-19 patients to 40, out of which 20 beds were reserved in the Intensive Care Unit and 20 in wards. The state government had directed AIIMS authorities to increase the number of Covid-19 designated beds as cases started peaking after Holi.“We are adding 10 beds to the existing 20 in the ICU for Covid-19 patients. The remaining 80 beds will be in wards. We cannot increase any further beds at this point of time because we also need to cater to non-Covid patients, who are admitted at our hospital,” added Dr Kumar.The spike in cases has caused the state’s recovery rate to dip from 99 per cent to 98.31 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-bihar-witnesses-spike-in-cases-patna-emerges-as-hotspot-101617628070719.html
05-04-2021||Other||Fight against Maoists will continue at quicker pace: Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the fight against Maoists will continue at a quicker pace and more steps to counter Maoism will follow. Baghel was speaking to the media at Jagdalpur on Monday after a review meeting regarding an encounter in Bijapur on Saturday in which 22 police personnel were killed. Twenty-two security personnel lost their lives in a Maoist attack at the Sukma-Bijapur border and around 31 sustained injuries while fighting the rebels. Also Watch | ‘Will win battle against Naxals’: Amit Shah & Baghel hold top level meeting“In the last few years , we have managed to establish of camps in their core area and more camps will be opened soon. The development works will also be accelerated in the area,” Baghel said. After paying tribute to the security forces personnel in Jagdalpur on Sunday, the CM said that government is with the family of the martyred jawans . “I salute their sacrifice and express my condolences to their families. Our forces have fought bravely with courage causing huge damage to the Maoists . This is second first time we have entered in the core area of Maoists,” said Baghel. The CM also said that Maoists are rattled because a new camp is going to be established in Tarrem area. “Central and state governments are working together to accelerate the development works in the area. Efforts are being made to provide connectivity with construction of roads and to extend the benefits of the schemes to the interior areas. Meaningful discussions have taken place in the meeting with home minister and we are hopeful that the Central government will take appropriate steps to fulfil our demands,” said Baghel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fight-against-maoists-will-continue-at-quicker-pace-chhattisgarh-cm-101617627074704.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Rising Covid cases: Delhi health min urges recovered persons to donate plasma||With cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise, the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday urged people who have recently recovered from the infection to donate plasma. He said that the donations dropped over the last two months as there were very few eligible donors owing to the low infection rate. “I will appeal all those who have recovered from Covid-19 now to donate their plasma. What has happened is that there were very few cases over the last two to three months the number of cases were very low, meaning there were very few eligible donors. In the last fifteen days, the number of cases has gone up drastically,” said Jain in a press briefing. Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma that is rich in virus-fighting antibodies from a recovered patient to aid the immune response in patients with current infection. Scientists still do not agree on whether the therapy actually helps Covid-19 patients. Also Read | PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on current Covid-19 situation on April 8A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) found that the treatment was not associated with any reduction in mortality or progression to severe disease. On the contrary, a study by Delhi’s Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences found that plasma therapy helped stabilise the respiratory rate, improve oxygen saturation, and improve the organ failure score that predicts multi-organ failure. Separately, a study by the US healthcare centre Mayo Clinic found that the seven-day mortality rate went down in patients given therapy within three days of diagnosis as compared with patients transfused four or more days after diagnosis. The Delhi government was the first to open a plasma bank in the country and had said that the therapy was one of the five “weapons” it had against the viral infection. Talking about the increasing number of cases in the city, Jain said, “From what the experts say, this time around the infection is spreading faster but there are fewer deaths. To control the spread, we have ramped up testing to between 80 and 90 thousand each day, we are tracing 20 to 30 contacts for each positive case and quarantining them. And, we are creating micro containment zones,” said Jain. The fourth Covid-19 wave continued to expand its footprint in the Capital, with Delhi adding 4,033 new infections on Sunday, the largest one-day spike in 121 days, even as the disease claimed 21 more lives — the most since January 1 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rising-covid-cases-delhi-health-min-urges-recovered-persons-to-donate-plasma-101617626654704.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Pune collector seeks military assistance for additional Covid patient beds||Pune: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has written to General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in –C), Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area, requesting additional beds at the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS, Pune) hospital for civilians following the rise in Covid patients in the city and shortage of beds.According to Deshmukh, active virus cases have gone beyond 70,000 cases in the district. Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) elected member Vinod Mathurawala has requested the district administration to seek additional beds for civilians at the hospital.AICTS was converted into a Covid hospital chiefly for the treatment of service personnel, ex-servicemen, and their wards from March 29 last year. The hospital converted its 600-bed facility into a 400-bed Covid-19 facility, with 20 critical beds (ventilators), 30 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 350 isolation beds. The institute has treated several Covid patients not only from the armed forces fraternity, but also civilians. More than 322 civilian patients requiring critical care were admitted since September last year and 55 police personnel have been treated in the ICU and discharged.Mathurawala said, “Only confirmed cases of Covid from Pune Cantonment can be admitted in the said facility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-collector-seeks-military-assistance-for-additional-covid-patient-beds-101617626593989.html
05-04-2021||Other||Ambulance used by Mukhtar to be brought to UP’s Barabanki from Punjab||LUCKNOW While a police team from Banda (UP) left for Punjab on Monday to bring back gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who faces trial in several cases in the state, cops from Barabanki were sent there to bring the ambulance used by Ansari to appear in Mohali court earlier.The private ambulance bearing a registration number of UP’s Barabanki and reportedly registered on the basis of a fake Identity card was found abandoned near a roadside eating joint on the Chandigarh-Nagal highway in Punjab’s Rupnagar district on Sunday evening. “We will try to bring the ambulance to the district as an evidence. An FIR of forgery has already been registered at Kotwali police station against one Dr Alka Ray. The ambulance was found to have been registered in her name using fake documents,” said Yamuna Prasad, SP (Barabanki).The said FIR was lodged against Dr Alka Rai on the complaint of Regional Transport Officer officials in Barabanki. A team of Barabanki police interrogated Ray in Mau district on Sunday. Dr Ray said she informed police that she had no connection with Barabanki and had never set up any hospital in Barabanki. She claimed to have no idea how the ambulance was registered in her name in Barabanki. The team examined her signatures and matched them with those on the registration documents of the ambulance. On the other hand, the Barabanki police officials continued to investigate the matter. On Monday, they questioned five people in the city known to be close aides of Mukhtar Ansari. “Five people, who are known accomplices of Mukhtar Ansari, were brought in for questioning regarding the ambulance. They were asked about their links with Ansari and their possible involvement in arranging the ambulance. They were asked to leave after questioning but have been asked to report to the police station for further questioning when required,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambulance-used-by-mukhtar-to-be-brought-to-up-s-barabanki-from-punjab-101617625093989.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders its hospitals to run 1/3rd of vaccination centres 24*7||The Delhi government on Monday ordered its hospitals to keep one-third of their Covid-19 vaccination sites running round the clock, in order to further speed up the vaccination drive in the city. Two weeks ago, all Delhi government hospitals were asked to open six vaccination sites and run them for twelve hours, from 9am and 9pm. Monday’s order by S Sunil, deputy secretary of Delhi’s health and family welfare department, reads, “In order to accelerate the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, it has been decided that the timings of functioning of the Covid vaccination centres should be further increased… It is hereby ordered that with effect from 06.04.2021, one-third of the vaccination sites in all the Delhi government hospitals will also function from 9pm to 9am.” Also Read| Covid-19 surge: Harsh Vardhan to meet health ministers of 11 states, UTsThere are nearly 782 vaccination sites across the city, with five to six of them in the same hospitals. The government is also looking to open outreach sites at community centres and schools. Delhi has been administering over 64,000 shots each day since April 1 when the vaccination drive was opened up to everyone over the age of 45 years. There are nearly 6.5 million people in Delhi over the age of 45, according to the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. The city recorded over 4,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a day on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-orders-its-hospitals-to-run-1-3rd-of-vaccination-centres-247-101617622814509.html
05-04-2021||Pune||Monday musings: No beds in Pune, fear stalks the streets||Summer is here and so are the restrictions. Covid numbers are showing a massive spike every passing day in Pune, and in parts of Maharashtra. The second wave has set in amid anxious worries about how far it will go.The dashboard prepared by city administration showed on Sunday morning there are no ICU beds available in Pune. The situation is a chilling reminder of August last year, when many died in the absence of oxygen support or access to ventilators. The Jumbo Covid unit restarted by state government has also been completely occupied and people are scrambling for beds. It’s been more than a year since Pune saw Maharashtra’s first case. Prior to the pandemic, PMC hospitals in the city did not even have a single operating ventilator. Did the local and state authorities ramp up health infrastructure in the past one year?Among the few things the Pune Municipal Corporation did was to convert its Baner facility into a 300-bed hospital, using Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) measures. The facility currently has 312 beds for critical care, including 270 oxygenated beds, 26 ICU beds and 16 ventilators. The hospital is currently dedicated for Covid-19 patients, but will eventually be opened for other ailments once the pandemic comes to an end. Besides Baner, the state government created a Jumbo facility, which had to be closed in Decembe,r and resurrected by March whenCovid numbers began to surge. One of the oldest medical facilities, Sassoon General Hospital, also saw a major upgrade after 11 years. On the whole though, neither PMC, nor the district administration utilised the past year to permanently create some robust health infrastructure that will last for years to come. In fact, around 42 per cent of the operational ventilators under new additions in most of the public hospitals in Pune and a few private hospitals were donated by the Pune Platform for Covid Response (PPCR), created by industry body MCCIA. Through donations from corporates, PPCR donated 263 ventilators and 107 High Flow Nasal Oxygen units to various hospitals in Pune.All this help is very useful, but not adequate to tackle a pandemic such as this, when the daily caseload of Pune district on Saturday went up to 10,800; a scary figure. When cases are rising substantially and health infrastructure is falling short, many countries have opted during the past one year to stop the movement of people. Curbs have its cost, but benefits may overweigh these, provided the government takes a humanitarian approach and offer financial assistance.During the period of restrictions when people’s movement is affected, rigorous testing and tracing of contacts has shown that the surge can be controlled effectively. During the last week of February and early days of March, two districts of Maharashtra – Amravati and Yavatmal – startled everyone when the positivity rate reached around 50%. Families after families tested positive in these two cities as the virus had penetrated most localities. The authorities then started testing all possible close contacts to trace infected people. By March third week, the positivity rate of Amravati and Yavatmal came down to at 12% and 9%, respectively, and by April, it showed a further dip. In Pune, the positivity rate during the past week crossed 32 %. On Saturday, it touched 34.70 %. Despite the high rate, sample testing hasn’t increased as much as it should have, neither has contact tracing happening on a mass level. Most housing societies declared as micro-containment zones have been failing to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. If people are not following norms, the government has little choice, but to go for restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-no-beds-in-pune-fear-stalks-the-streets-101617620534705.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tremors rattle Himachal’s Chamba, Lahaul and Spiti districts||Two mild-intensity earthquakes occurred in Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti districts of Himachal Pradesh early on Monday. The first quake, measuring 2.4 magnitude on the Richter Scale, struck at 2.01am with its epicentre in Chamba. The quake originated at a depth of 14km. Also read: Govt will end Maoist menace, says Amit Shah on Chhattisgarh visitThe second one hit Lahaul and Spiti district at 3.39 am. The quake with an intensity of 2.8 had its epicentre at a depth of 5km, according to the Shimla Meteorological Centre. The authorities said that no casualty or damage to property was reported. Tremors, measuring 3 on the Richter Scale, occurred in Lahaul and Spiti district at 12.10am on Saturday, too. The epicentre was at a depth of 20km on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tremors-rattle-himachal-s-chamba-lahaul-and-spiti-districts-101617619334464.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Accelerate inoculation drive in India first before sending vaccines outside: AAP||The AAP questioned the Centre for sending Covid-19 vaccines across the world instead of further accelerating the inoculation drive within the country, claiming it will take at least 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India at this rate.Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha questioned the reason for "exporting" vaccines and not supplying it to the people in India first."Vaccination doses have been exported to 84 countries. The amount exported is higher than the number of vaccine doses given to the people in India. Should we care about people from our own country or from other countries?" Chadha said."Where has the Centre's vaccine nationalism gone? The AAP demands an increase in the rate of vaccinations against Covid-19 so that each and every Indian can get vaccinated," he said.He further claimed that it will take 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India if vaccination drive continues at the current pace."Some scientists say that to contain the virus at least 70 percent of the population has to be vaccinated. It will take 10 years to inoculate 70 per cent of the population of the country if the vaccination continues at the current pace while at the current pace, vaccinating everyone in the country will take about 15 years," he said.In India, cumulatively, 7,91,05,163 vaccine doses have been administered through 12,31,148 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.These include 90,09,353 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose, 53,43,493 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,37,850 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose, and 41,33,961 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/accelerate-inoculation-drive-in-india-first-before-sending-vaccines-outside-aap-101617618314548.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to create micro containment zones to check Covid-19 spread||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will soon create micro containment zones in the national capital to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also called on the recovered patients to come forward and donate their plasma.“The Delhi government has prepared a plan to beat the coronavirus. Under this, more than 80 thousand tests are being conducted in Delhi every day. In addition, infection will be prevented by creating micro containment zones. There is an appeal to patients recovering from Covid-19 to come forward and save people's lives by donating plasma,” the health minister tweeted, along with a video of him talking to reporters.दिल्ली सरकार ने कोरोना को मात देने का प्लान तैयार कर लिया है। इसके तहत दिल्ली में रोज़ 80 हजार से ज्यादा टेस्ट हो रहे हैं। इसके अलावा माइक्रो कंटेनमेंट जोन्स बनाकर संक्रमण को रोका जाएगा। कोरोना से ठीक हुए मरीजों से अपील है कि आगे आए और प्लाज्मा दान करके लोगों का जीवन बचाएं। pic.twitter.com/ywG0Fjfgl3When asked about the spread of the Covid-19 variants in the city, Jain said, “I will leave it to the scientists. Many variants are being talked about. Scientists say that the virus spreads rapidly in this wave but it is less severe.”The Delhi health minister’s comments came a day after the national capital reported over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases - the first time this year - and 21 related fatalities. The positivity rate after Sunday's surge went up to 4.64 per cent with 86,899 samples tested on the day.Also read | New cases cross 4k mark in Delhi; most deaths in one day since Jan 1While there are no micro containment zones within the city, the number of containment zones has been gradually increasing and currently stands at 2,917 according to latest data. A month ago, on March 5, there were 591 containment zones active in Delhi, according to a bulletin from the health department.For collection of the plasma from recovered patients, the Delhi government’s current guidelines say that the donor should be between 18 and 60 years of age, should have been initially diagnosed with Covid-19 and should have fully recovered and exhibit no symptoms of the disease for two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-create-micro-containment-zones-to-check-covid-19-spread-101617616487083.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre trying to dominate with farm laws, DBT: Punjab CM||Reiterating his support for farmers and arhtiyas, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday accused the BJP-led central government of encroaching upon the rights of states to dominate them, while criticising it for imposing the three farm laws and direct benefit transfer (DBT) on the state’s farming community. States never faced such problems earlier, he said, claiming that the Centre was trying to destroy existing relations and systems that had worked well for more than a century in the name of so-called reforms, which it was trying to impose without taking the stakeholders into confidence. Also read: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, facing corruption allegations, resignsPunjab’s farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) have age-old cordial ties, which the Centre is bent on damaging, he said, saying its tough posturing is against the spirit of federalism. He said during his earlier tenures, he enjoyed the confidence and support of former Prime Ministers Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh in all major policy decisions related to Punjab. Launches Kisan Mela at PAU, Ludhiana Virtually launching the two-day Kisan Mela at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, the chief minister said: “Had the Centre been sincere about a workable solution, it would have either consulted the Punjab government or the farmers, as the state alone contributes over 40% of foodgrains to the national pool.” The chief minister said that Punjab, which was initially not even a part of the deliberations on agricultural reforms, was included in the high-powered committee only after he wrote to the Centre. Resultantly, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and the then secretary, agriculture, KS Pannu attended the two meetings held thereafter but there was no mention of the farm laws, he said. Pointing out that 144 farmers have died so far during their agitation, he said his government was giving ₹5 lakh and a job to kin of the deceased farmer, while the Centre continued to be insensitive. Urges farmers to adopt drip irrigation On the growing scarcity of surface and ground water, the chief minister urged the farmers to go for drip irrigation to save the state from becoming a desert in the near future. The depleting water table, resulting from melting glaciers, is a challenge for the state and the only solution is to get out of the paddy-wheat cycle to save this resource, he said. He asked farmers to make optimum use of drip irrigation, besides switching over to less water consuming crops such as vegetables and fruits. He urged farmers to make minimum use of pesticides and insecticides according to the recommendations of PAU experts as their reckless overuse is not only a health hazard but also leads to mass scale rejection of foodgrains, especially basmati rice, financially hitting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-trying-to-dominate-with-farm-laws-dbt-punjab-cm-101617617114239.html
05-04-2021||Pune||People have to ensure there is no Covid-19 '3rd wave': CSIR DG||Director General of the Council Of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Dr Shekhar Mande said a "third wave" of Covid-19 infections cannot be ruled out and it was for people to ensure it does not happen.Speaking to reporters online on Sunday night, the head of the premier institution under the Union ministry of science and technology, said people have to maintain self-discipline and self-regulation and show the way to beat the disease."All the pandemics in the world have come in the form of waves. We are currently seeing a strong third wave in some European countries, so a third wave cannot be ruled out (in India)," said Mande.Answering a question, the CSIR DG said a few cases of reinfection had been seen, including in Maharashtra, but the numbers were less and, hence, it was not possible to make a "generic statement" on it."In millions of cases, the number of reinfection cases are 100 or 1000, so, therefore, making a generic statement on the occurrence of reinfection will be difficult at this stage," he said.Mande said people would have to be alert even if the number of cases start declining, adding that "it was up to us to ensure the third wave does not come"."As a society, we should resolve that we will be disciplined and regulated," Mande said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/people-have-to-ensure-there-is-no-covid-19-3rd-wave-csir-dg-101617615493797.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, facing corruption allegations, sends resignation to CM Thackeray||Maharashtra home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh, facing corruption allegations, sent his resignation letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. This comes even as a key meeting of NCP is on at party president Sharad Pawar's residence in Mumbai to discuss the issue and decide future course of action.pic.twitter.com/xVZrfwmwPlAnil Deshmukh also posted a copy of the resignation letter on Twitter. In the letter, Deshmukh said he doesn't find it morally correct to continue as the home minister after Bombay high court's order. Thackeray is yet to accept his resignation.Also Watch: Bombay HC orders CBI probe against Anil DeshmukhThe corruption allegations were levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary investigation against the NCP leader. The order was passed on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Singh and others.The court observed that there won't be an independent investigation by the Maharashtra Police, which comes under Anil Deshmukh.Also Read: NCP men in Maharashtra home dept and their tryst with controversySingh has accused the Maharashtra home minister of running an extortion racket and asking suspended cop Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from various establishments of Mumbai. Singh made the allegations in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after he was transferred to Home Guards. He was sent to the low key post for mishandling the probe into Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case.Vaze was suspended in connection with the case, and later arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Anil Deshmukh has denied all the allegations, but opposition parties have been attacking the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the issue of his resignation.Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said Deshmukh should either resign or sacked by Thackeray. He also questioned the silence of the chief minister.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad lashed out at Maharashtra CM after Deshmukh's resignation. "I find it interesting that Anil Deshmukh has taken moral responsibility. How about responsibility of CM?" he said."Uddhav Thackeray has forfeited the moral responsibility to govern," Ravi Shankar Prasad further said.It was expected that Sharad Pawar will ask Deshmukh to resign after today's meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-minister-deshmukh-facing-corruption-allegations-to-resign-101617614465785.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Summer wrath ahead: Donate water bottles, ORS, towels to the needy||The weather experts are expecting one of the harshest summer seasons this year. Last Monday, on Holi, Delhi experienced the hottest day in March in 76 years, as per the India Meteorological Department, and was reeling under a “severe” heatwave on the day of Holi when the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degree Celsius! The worrisome bit is that this heat wave can cause severe dehydration, especially to those homeless who are out on the streets. Keeping this in mind, several non profit organisations across Delhi-NCR are doing their bit to ensure help is provided to the needy. From shelter and food to water and towels, they are collecting and donating it all, and here’s how you too can join in the noble cause. You could donate these:After battling the cruel winter, harsh summer is set to present another set of challenges to the homeless, who are already finding it difficult to seek shade in shelters due to the Covid protocols that require social distancing. Those out under the sun, are prone to health risks such as dehydration, heat stroke and exhaustion. To provide for those homeless who are looking for a shelter from the scorching heat, Ravi Kalra, founder, The Earth Saviours Foundation, says, “We are in the process to accommodate 2,000 abandoned senior citizens and homeless mentally disabled people at our NGO’s new upcoming shelter home located at Mandawar Village in Gurugram. We work with the police and courts to rescue people from the roads.” Rahul Verma, founder, Uday Foundation, says, “We believe that providing mere basic health care is not enough, as every individual also deserves dignity. So, we ensure the same by providing them respect, human touch, basic health care, free food and dry ration through an empathetic approach. Throughout the year we run our share and care campaign, where we provide help in-kind to the homeless and underprivileged patients in government hospitals, and people who are living in open on the streets and at shelters during the night. We distribute them among other necessities, packed water bottles, ORS, glucose and juices during the summer months in Delhi and other major parts of northern India with the support of our volunteers, corporate and individual donors. Online stores can give options to a donor to purchase an item and donate the same to us directly through the website or app.” For the hot and dehydrating days, along with food packets, Roti Bank and its volunteers are distributing water bottles to the needy. “The volunteers recycle the empty fizzy drink pet bottles and fill them with fresh water from the RO water filters at their homes, and distribute them along with food. These days can be extremely challenging and fresh water is not easy to find for the homeless. Some even fall sick due to dehydration. We wouldn’t want the homeless to consume drainage water and harm their health. Our aim is to stop that. Apart from that we’re also giving them hand towels for hygiene purposes,” says Sudhir Behrani, founder of the NGO.And the Robin Hood Army is focusing not only to ensure that those on the streets don’t go empty stomach, but also get nourished with knowledge, and are therefore facilitating education for the street children. Continuing to serve meals to those who need it the most, Neel Ghose, founder of the organisation, says, “We are currently serving 1.1 million meals per month across 217 cities, and we hope to scale that significantly. With the vaccine mobilisation spreading, we hope to ramp up enabling street children being enrolled in schools through our education initiative, the Robin Hood Academy.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/summer-wrath-ahead-donate-water-bottles-ors-towels-to-the-needy-101617613878737.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Lend the warmth of your heart to keep strays cool this summer||In this heat when temperature is already making new records, even before we hit the peak May-June, even humans are finding it difficult to get access to both shade and succour and can feel wilted at times. Then, imagine how tough it would be for the stray animals and birds, who have no recourse from the wrath of Sun god! But, there are ways to ensure that our furry and feathered friends make it through the season with ease, if only each one of us becomes a little mindful.A water bowl in the house costs nothingAnimals get dehydrated quite easily when it’s too hot. So, water bowls are an effective solution to help them survive the harsh heat. Shruti Kapoor, a Delhiite, who has been keeping water bowls for stray dogs across the city, says, “I’ve placed water bowls at more than 100 locations in Delhi. At some places, I’ve to go and refill it everyday whereas at others, there are some kind people who help refill them. In fact, you could make a water bowl for the strays out of any kitchen utensil, but terracotta pots are the best since they keep the water cool for longer duration.”Seema Asthana, a resident of Delhi’s RK Puram, has kept water baths for birds to drink and bathe in, since the heat became unbearable. She says, “The most important idea is to keep the bowl at an elevated spot so that the birds are safe from stray animals, who might be on the prowl. Also, refilling the bowl regularly, and cleaning it once in two days will make sure that no infections get transmitted from one sick bird to another.” Some shade from the sunStray dogs are prone to get a heat stroke since they are out on the streets most of the time. To avoid the heat from taking a toll on stray dogs, Sumit Singla, a member of Paws for a Cause, an animal welfare initiative, says, “One can create makeshift dog houses using cartons, cardboard pieces and even plastic sheds that provide respite from the sun. Dogs and cats sometimes take shelter under parked vehicles, which makes it important for us to check properly before you start driving your vehicle so that you don’t end up injuring or killing them.”Watermelon and cucumber in diet Animals need the right nutrition to battle heat. Therefore, fruits are a good source of nutrition. “Watermelon, muskmelon, cucumber and other hydrating fruits can help restore their lost energy due to the heat,” says Singla, adding how summer can bring with it varied health issues for strays, including ticks: “Ticks and worms can overload the already loaded immune systems of animals. Regularly de-tick and deworm them, ensuring to not overdose on medication.” Cooler in guard houses, could cool strays Priya Chopra, a resident of Safdarjung, Delhi, is prepping to organise a drive in the city to provide water to strays including cows, and raise awareness for the cause. “I have booked a water tanker, and will go to isolated spots in the city where animals are neglected and have no access to food or water. Cows and dogs roam on the streets all day in the burning heat. I plan to speak to the residents in these areas to replenish their water bowls on a daily basis,” she says, adding, “I have asked people in my society to make sure that the stray dogs are allowed to sit in front of the cooler, which is provided in various guard rooms of the houses.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lend-the-warmth-of-your-heart-to-keep-strays-cool-this-summer-101617613049919.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Bomb scare: Mock drill outside National Media Centre in Delhi||A bag containing an object that looked like a bomb was found on a pavement near the National Media Centre in central Delhi on Monday morning, prompting the security personnel from Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF) and Delhi Police to reach there with dog squad as well as bomb detection and disposal squad.CISF officials later said it was a mock drill carried out to check the alertness of their personnel deployed in the security of the national media centre. “We had placed a dummy bomb in a bag outside the media centre and made a call regarding it. All the protocols pertaining to such emergency call were followed. The dog squad, bomb squad and police as well as CISF personnel reached there and carried out the necessary procedure. It was a mock drill that we often carry out to check the alertness of CISF staff,” said a CISF officer. Also Read | Bombay HC orders preliminary CBI probe into charges against Anil DeshmukhAccording to the officer, the call regarding the bomb scare was made at around 10am and the security drill continued till around 11.30am. A report on the drill’s failure or success will be compiled and shared with the concerned agencies, the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “Today at around 10am, CISF team was checking the outside area of National Media Centre. They observed a toy-shaped item wrapped in a polythene. Immediately, the local police was informed. The bomb disposal squad of CISF checked the item thoroughly and any explosive was ruled out. The bomb disposal squad of CISF and New Delhi District thoroughly searched the area for any other suspicious article in the vicinity, nothing else was found.’He said the CISF has confirmed it was an in-house activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bomb-scare-mock-drill-outside-national-media-centre-in-delhi-101617609794465.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 killed, 7 injured as roof of factory collapses in Ludhiana||Three labourers died and seven were injured when the roof of a four-storeyed auto parts factory collapsed in the industrial area along Daba Road in Ludhiana on Monday morning. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued 37 of 40 people after the incident occurred at 9.50am at Jasmail Singh and Sons, the factory at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar in the industrial area. Efforts are on to rescue the three still trapped in the debris. Also read: In Chhattisgarh, Shah chairs meet on Maoist attack; assures ‘we will win in end’Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the lintel on the third floor collapsed when the factory owner was carrying out illegal construction. “The injured are undergoing treatment at SPS Apollo Hospital and the civil hospital,” Sharma said. Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (MC) master town planner Surinder Singh Bindra said that the factory was operating in violation of building bylaws. “The factory owner was trying to extend the structure of the building by placing jacks on the third floor. There is no provision under the law to make any such alteration,” he said. Eyewitnesses said the roof collapsed with a loud thud followed by an explosion. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said a case has been registered against contractor Mohammad Haroon under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-killed-10-injured-as-roof-of-factory-collapses-in-ludhiana-101617609253988.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Actor Ajaz Khan tests Covid-19 positive in NCB's custody||Bollywood actor and former "Bigg Boss" contestant Ajaz Khan, who was arrested by the NCB last week in connection with a drugs case, has tested positive for the coronavirus, an official said on Monday.Khan's medical examination was conducted on Sunday following which his report came out positive for the viral infection, the NCB official said, adding that the actor will be shifted to a hospital.Officials involved in the probe against Khan will also undergo test for Covid-19, he added.Last Tuesday, Khan was initially detained by the NCB's Mumbai zonal unit after he landed at the city airport from Rajasthan.His name had cropped up during the interrogation of arrested drug peddler Shadab Batata, the official said.Accordingly, Khan was questioned by the NCB at its office in south Mumbai and his statement was recorded.After examining his role in the crime, he was placed under arrest and later remanded in the NCB's custody by a local court, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/actor-ajaz-khan-tests-covid-19-positive-in-ncb-s-custody-101617608187081.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders preliminary CBI probe into charges against Anil Deshmukh||The Bombay high court has directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary investigation into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh within 15 days. On completion of the preliminary inquiry, the court has left it to the discretion of the director of CBI to decide the further course of action.The order was passed on the public interest litigations (PILs) filed by Singh, lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay, CA Mohan Bhide and a petition by lawyer Dr Jaishri Patil. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while passing the order on Monday, held that directions were required in Dr Jaishri Patil’s petition to order an unbiased probe to unearth the truth. The court observed that there could not be an independent probe if it was given to police as Deshmukh is the home minister and said the interest of justice would be served if the CBI was allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. “Such preliminary inquiry be conducted in accordance with law and be concluded within 15 days. Once preliminary inquiry is complete, it will be at the discretion of the director of CBI to decide on further course of action,” observed the bench. The court, however, held that the CBI may not register an FIR based on the complaint by Dr Patil till then. Also Read | A month later, 9 unanswered questions in the Antilia-Hiran-Vaze caseSingh had approached the high court after the Supreme Court rejected his civil writ petition but granted him liberty to approach the high court. Singh filed a criminal PIL on March 25 seeking a CBI probe into the alleged malpractices by Deshmukh. The bench conducted a marathon hearing that lasted over six hours on Wednesday, March 31, wherein it heard not only Singh’s PIL but also two other PILs seeking similar action against Deshmukh as well as against Singh. The bench also heard Dr Patil’s petition. She sought an independent inquiry as well as directions to the Malabar Hill police station to register an FIR against Deshmukh. Dr Patil approached the high court after the Malabar Hill police station did not take action on a letter she had written on March 21 seeking registration of a complaint against Deshmukh. The state had opposed Singh’s PIL on the grounds that his allegations were made after his transfer order was passed on March 17, which indicated that the PIL was a personal vendetta against Deshmukh. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had further submitted that the allegations that police officers were directed by Deshmukh to indulge in extortion were not substantiated by the officers through any statement or affidavit and hence Singh’s claims could be construed as hearsay and the PIL was not maintainable. Singh’s complaint regarding Rashmi Shukla was also refuted by the state. The Maharashtra government’s senior counsel Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that a high-level inquiry was conducted in September last year by the highest authorities, and after it was found that there had been no transfers or postings in that period, the inquiry was closed.Kumbhakoni submitted that Patil’s letter to Malabar hill police station required an inquiry which is permitted for 15 days upto six weeks under the Code of Criminal Procedure, hence seekinga transfer of investigation to CBI would not be valid before the police have an opportunity to inquire into the issue. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that prima facie, Singh’s PIL was not maintainable as no FIR was registered. The court said that the basic premise of transferring an investigation could be held when an investigation was underway, however, in the absence of any FIR, as no investigation was going on, the court could not pass orders for transfer. The court asked Singh as to why he had not registered an FIR against the home minister when he saw an offence being committed. The court also asked Singh why he had not exhausted his remedy of filing an FIR against Deshmukh by approaching the magistrate before approaching the court. On Monday, while passing its judgement, the court observed that the high-level committee ordered by the state through a government notification led it to believe that there was no need for interference. It, however, held that it found substance in the arguments of Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Vikram Nankani and Upadhyay’s advocate Subhash Jha that it was an unprecedented case and as Deshmukh was the home minister and led the police, an independent investigation was required. The court then directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days but restrained it from registering an FIR immediately or to take up Patil’s complaint. Thereafter the court observed that it was conscious that it had reserved its order on March 31 on the aspect of admissibility, however, in light of ts new order, the concerns raised in the petitions did not survive and hence they were being disposed of. The court also observed that Singh was at liberty to submit his grievance, if any, before an appropriate forum. After the high court passed its order, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said the party welcomed the ruling “In the light of the high court’s ruling, the home minister himself should resign from the post. If he fails to do so, it is the duty of the chief minister to sack him from the post. The political leaders involved in the scam of transfer of police officers and the alleged ‘extortion racket’ should be punished,” he said.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded Deshmukh’s resignation. “The CBI inquiry has been directed after the Bombay high court felt that the Mumbai Police failed to take a complaint into allegations by the former Mumbai Police commissioner. The CBI will now probe into the allegations of extortion and the involvement of the ministers and other heavyweight leaders of ruling parties. Taking moral responsibility, Deshmukh should resign. If he fails to do so, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should sack him,” he said. Fadnavis added that it was unfortunate that the chief minister was conspicuously silent days after the “very serious allegations” came to the light. Maharashtra Congress’ general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the verdict set an unfortunate precedent. “The intention of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh was malafide while levelling allegations against the home minister. This has been stated by Bombay high court too in its observation. The officer was duty-bound to take action against the alleged corruption when it was revealed to him by his subordinates, instead, he chose to remain silent. The orders of preliminary inquiry by the CBI is uncalled for as the state government has already constituted a panel to probe the entire case.”The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said that they were open to an investigation into the allegations against Deshmukh and a probe by a retired high court judge was already underway. Deshmukh is an NCP leader. “The NCP or Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi [the Maharashtra government] has never denied any investigation into the allegations. In fact, the state government has already instituted an inquiry by a retired high court judge, which was upheld by the Bombay high court. The court said since the inquiry is already being conducted, the CBI need not register an FIR and is free to conduct a preliminary inquiry. After completing the course of preliminary probe, the CBI can take appropriate action,” said NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase. Over the issue of Deshmukh’s resignation, he said they are waiting for a copy of the court’s judgement. “The entire issue will now be discussed by the party high command and an appropriate decision will be taken,” Tapase said.The Shiv Sena elected to not respond to the court order for the time being. “The government will study what the high court has said in its order,”said Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-preliminary-cbi-probe-into-charges-against-anil-deshmukh-101617608233853.html
05-04-2021||Jaipur||Around 70 including students test positive for Covid-19 at IIT-Jodhpur||Around 65- 70 people, including students and staff members, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at IIT-Jodhpur in Rajasthan since last week, according to officials. The officials also said most of the students, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease, belong to Gujarat and Odisha and returned to the institute to attend mandatory laboratory sessions. Block G3 of the campus has been declared a micro-containment zone owing to the cases reported, they added."Around March 11, some persons infected with Covid-19 had come here. They were from tribal villages Chandigarh, Gujarat and Jaipur. Then the cases started increasing," P Singh, the deputy chief medical health officer (CMHO), said according to news agency ANI. "Now almost 65-70 people have tested positive so far at Rajasthan's IIT Jodhpur. Of which 55-60 cases are active. There is no serious case. Block G3 on campus declared a micro-containment zone. We have increased the sampling, so contact tracing can be done. Teachers are very less. Most of the infected patients are students,” Singh added.Two hostel buildings on the campus have been reserved for the students and staff after contact-tracing of the positive students, according to spokesperson Amardeep Sharma.Read more: Rajasthan imposes night curfew, closure of multiplexes: Check new guidelinesJodhpur divisional commissioner Rajesh Sharma and deputy director (medical and health) Sunil Kumar Bisht also visited the campus on Saturday to review the arrangements done by the administration.Rajasthan, which has witnessed an almost threefold increase in Covid cases within the past two weeks, has imposed fresh guidelines to curb the spread of the virus. The government has made the RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering the state and those travelling outside as well. The government has also restricted the number of people at social gatherings to a maximum of 100. Night curfew has also been put in place in the state from 8pm to 6am.Rajasthan on Sunday reported 1,729 fresh coronavirus infections, which pushed the tally of the state to 339,325 while two fatalities took the death toll in the state to 2,829. Of the fresh cases, the highest of 258 was reported in Jaipur, followed by Kota with 225 and Jodhpur with 194. There have been 323,618 recoveries and the number of active cases in the state stood at 12,878 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/around-70-including-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-iit-jodhpur-101617606464075.html
05-04-2021||Patna||Patna schools revert to online classes for new session, some are upset||While most Patna schools are announcing schedule of online classes following the Bihar government’s order to close schools till April 11, due to rapid rise in Covid-19 infections, some are upset with the decision. Educational institutions were reopened in January this year after nearly a year long closure due to pandemic outbreak in March 2020.Bishop Scott Group of schools held an online meeting with staff members to formulate plans for resumption of online classes starting from Monday. Ashfaque Iqbal, the vice-principal of the boys’ wing, said, “Sticking to our school calendar, we will begin online classes to prevent delay in academic session. As we are acquainted with online mode of teaching, we just need to brush up on the online system.”St Karen’s High School, DAV Public School, St Michael’s High School and Don Bosco Academy will begin their new sessions between April 6 and 8.Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, principal of Baldwin Academy and the city coordinator of CBSE, said, “Majority of private schools are familiar with online teaching, so it is less challenging to switch to online mode this time. As there is uncertainty about the reopening of educational institutions, it is best to continue academic activities digitally.”However, teachers said they needed to prepare for online classes, which they said was a tiring job. Aradhana Singh, a TGT teacher, said, “We need to prepare study materials and videos on the specific topic for online classes, which takes around three to four hours.”Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association has asked the state government to provide data regarding Covid-19 transmission in private schools. Association’s chairman DK Singh, said, “Private schools were operating regular classes following Covid-19 safety protocols. Sudden closure of schools has left school operators hassled. We have sought data from the disaster management department regarding Covid-19 infection in schools”.Meanwhile, Patna University (PU) has also decided to start online classes from Monday.“All colleges and departments will conduct online classes for students. Professors, researchers, and staff members can visit university campus following Covid-19 protocols,” said NK Jha, dean of students’ welfare.No change in pre-scheduled examsState universities and colleges issued notifications on Sunday clarifying that scheduled exams will be conducted on time. Nalanda Open University (NOU) and PU informed examinees that scheduled exams will be conducted at stipulated time and venue by observing Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-schools-revert-to-online-classes-for-new-session-some-are-upset-101617603253752.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs CBI to conduct preliminary probe against Anil Deshmukh||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary investigation within 15 days against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh over allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Pronouncing its order on Monday, the court noted that directions are required to order an unbiased probe to unearth the truth."There can be no independent probe if it is given to the police where Deshmukh is the home minister. The interest of justice will be done if the director of CBI is allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Such an inquiry be conducted in accordance with law and be concluded within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, it will be at the discretion of director CBI to decide on the further course of action," it said.Last week, the high court reserved its order on various pleas filed in this regard, including one by Singh himself.Also Read | Bombay HC reserves order in PILs by Param Bir Singh, others seeking CBI probeThe court's order was on a plea filed by Dr. Jaishri Patil. It also disposed of petitions filed by the former police commissioner, along with those by lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Mohan Bhide, respectively.Singh was asked by the Supreme Court, where he initially filed his plea, to approach the high court first. On March 17, he was removed from his position as the Mumbai Police commissioner, and sent to a "low-key" post as commandant general, Home Guards, for mishandling the probe into an explosive-laden vehicle found near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, on February 25.On March 20, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accusing Deshmukh of asking the Mumbai Police to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars, hotels and restaurants, an allegation denied by both the minister and his Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).The Maharashtra government has appointed a one-member panel, comprising retired Bombay HC judge Kailash Chandiwal, to probe allegations against the NCP leader, and submit a report in six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-cbi-to-conduct-preliminary-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-101617601975509.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Defamation case: Court likely to pronounce order on Kangana Ranaut’s plea today||The Dindoshi sessions court is likely to pass an order on a plea by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for suspension of proceedings in the criminal defamation case filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar on Monday. Ranaut had moved the sessions court through her lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee after the metropolitan magistrate court at Andheri had issued a bailable warrant against her.Ranaut had contended before the sessions court that mandatory compliance of the Criminal Procedure Code was not followed in the matter, as the four witnesses named by Akhtar in his complaint have not been examined on oath.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut gets partial relief in defamation case filed by Javed AkhtarA metropolitan magistrate court had, on March 1, issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut for failing to appear for a hearing. The court had on February 1 issued summons to Ranaut to appear before the court on March 1. The actor failed to appear in person but her lawyer, Siddiquee, appeared on her behalf.For non-appearance of the actress, Akhtar’s legal team sought a bailable warrant against the actress.Akhtar, in his complaint, alleged that Ranaut had made several defamatory statements about him in an interview given to a news channel in July 2020, alleging that the 76-year-old writer/lyricist runs a “suicide gang” in Bollywood and he “threatened her to settle her dispute with actor Hrithik Roshan”, failing which she will be compelled to commit suicide.Akhtar has said that her claims are entirely false and the statements have harmed his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-case-court-likely-to-pronounce-order-on-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-today-101617602233635.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh government sets rules for containment zones in Noida||The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government issued fresh guidelines for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment zones in Noida, according to which surveillance will be intensified in such areas. “After one Covid-19 case on a floor of a multistorey building, the entire floor would be declared a containment zone. If more than 1 floor comes under scrutiny, buildings to be turned into a containment zone," Suhas LY, Gautam Budh Nagar's district magistrate, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Read more: Uttar Pradesh revamps Covid-19 containment zone strategy. Details hereThe district administration said on Saturday that the guidelines will only be directed for surveillance and will not restrict the movement of people in the containment zones. “As of now, the guidelines have not detailed any restriction on movement of people in and out of containment zones, but directed for strict surveillance. We will get the guidelines implemented at the earliest after meeting with our departments. Also, for public places like hotels, restaurants, gyms, clubs and others, we are considering strict regulation if they are found violating Covid protocols,” said Suhas LY.The guidelines have also said that the containment areas will be removed from the list of containment zones if there are no new Covid-19 cases found for 14 days from the date of sample collection of the last positive patient. Currently, there are 39 containment zones across Noida and Greater Noida, according to a list issued by the district administration on Saturday.Read more: ‘New Covid wave due to complacency’: Yogi Adityanath gets first shot of vaccineUttar Pradesh has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks. The state reported 4,164 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday which pushed the infection tally to 630,059. The death toll rose to 8,881 as the state added 31 more fatalities. A total of 601,440 Covid-19 patients in the state have recovered from the disease so far, leaving the state with 19,738 active cases.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting on Sunday during which he said that special attention needs to be paid to the pandemic situation in Lucknow, Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-uttar-pradesh-government-sets-rules-for-containment-zones-in-noida-101617597860270.html
05-04-2021||Lucknow||‘New Covid wave due to complacency’: Yogi Adityanath gets first shot of vaccine||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath received his first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, four days after the beginning of the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive. The 48-year-old chief minister was vaccinated against the viral disease at Civil Hospital in the state’s capital city of Lucknow.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh revamps Covid-19 containment zone strategy. Details here#WATCH | Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath receives first dose of COVID-19 vaccine at Civil Hospital, Lucknow pic.twitter.com/MwpMAUca7K“I thank the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the Union health ministry for making the vaccine available free of cost. I also thank the scientists of the country. The vaccine is completely safe. We all should take it when our turn comes,” Adityanath told news agency ANI. “I appeal to the people to take all precautions even after taking the vaccine. The new Covid wave is the result of our complacency in observing Covid behaviour,” he added.I appeal to the people to take all precautions even after taking the vaccine. The new COVID wave is the result of our complacency in observing COVID appropriate behaviour: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath pic.twitter.com/LyuBF6KqfoFor the ongoing third phase, the central government has opened up the vaccination for everyone aged above 45. The nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16, with health care workers and frontline workers receiving shots of the vaccine in the first phase. In the second stage, which started on March 1, those above the age of 60, as well those above 45 with co-morbid conditions, became eligible to be vaccinated. However, as the daily number of Covid-19 cases began spiking in late February/early March, the Union government announced that from April 1, everyone above the age of 45 will be eligible to receive shots against the disease.Also Read | India's Covid-19 tally surges past 12.5 million; active cases over 700,000Nearly 80 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country thus far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) website showed on Monday morning. Total 79,105,163 doses have been administered, the website shows.Also Read | October-like high: UP reports 31 deaths, 4164 new Covid casesOn Sunday, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally increased by 4,614 cases to 630,059. The state also witnessed 31 related fatalities, taking its death toll to 8,881. This was the first time since October 15, 2020, that there were more than 30 deaths in a single day. On that day, 36 people succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-covid-wave-due-to-complacency-yogi-adityanath-gets-first-shot-of-vaccine-101617594766476.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||A month later, 9 unanswered questions in the Antilia-Hiran-Vaze case||It has been 37 days since a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on Carmichael Road in Mumbai with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening letter addressed to the Ambanis.April 5 also marks a month since the body of auto parts dealer linked to the Scorpio, Mansukh Hiran, washed up ashore the Reti Bunder creek in Thane district.Two investigation agencies have worked on both cases; the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over both probes from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad last month, following orders from the Union home ministry. Sachin Vaze, a Mumbai cop, has been named as prime suspect in both cases, and two men have been arrested for Hiran’s murder. Several people have been questioned over the weeks, and the investigation is still ongoing as new evidence is unearthed.Here are nine questions pertaining to the two interlinked cases that still remain a mystery.1. Why was the SUV abandoned near Ambani residence, Antilia? Senior NIA officials believe that Vaze, the former head of the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Crime Branch and the first lead investigator of the case, orchestrated the security scare outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, as a ploy to restore his reputation as a successful cop and regain lost glory. “He wanted to prove to Mumbai Police brass that he is still as good by solving a bomb conspiracy so he planned this whole episode to plant explosives outside Antilia. He wanted the limelight again,” a Delhi-based NIA officer has said.Also Watch | Sachin Vaze’s brother reacts to NIA custody extensionHowever, it still unclear as to why the Ambanis were targeted at all — from the car being parked outside the road across Antilia, to the threatening note to the industrialist, to the fact that the vehicle bore the number plates of Ambani’s security detail. The explosives were not assembled into a bomb, nor was a detonator or a timer found in the vehicle. Meanwhile, Vaze has denied his role in this case.2. Did suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze work alone in allegedly planning the security scare? The NIA has questioned several persons and recorded the statements of about 35 witnesses in connection with the Antilia security scare case, but the agency has only arrested one person so far: Vaze. However, on February 26, a Telegram channel was created by “jaishulhind” [Jaish-ul-Hind] and a message claiming responsibility for parking the vehicle outside Antilia was posted from that channel. A message seeking payment in bitcoin, a crypto currency, was also sent out on this channel, which reportedly had 10 members. The identity of the members is not immediately known as the maker of the channel closed the group the following day.During the course of their investigation, the NIA discovered the Telegram message and traced it to the Tihar jail. The jail authorities also questioned an inmate, Tehsin Akhtar, the last known chief of the now dormant home-grown terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), after two smart phones were recovered from his barrack in Tihar’s jail number 8, one of which reportedly sent out the message. However, officials are sceptical about this so-called terror outfit, and say that it’s unlikely such a group exists.3. Where were the 20 sticks of gelatin procured from? Gelatin sticks are cheap explosive material used typically in quarries and can be stored easily. They cannot explode without a detonator and are easily available in the grey market. It is, however, not clear as to where the 20 loose gelatin sticks found in the green Scorpio were procured from. The gelatin sticks found in the SUV were manufactured by Solar Industries Limited, Nagpur, a leading manufacturer of commercial explosives. The manufacturing, sale and use of gelatin is regulated under provisions of the Explosives Act, but the regulations are not strictly implemented. However, it’s still unclear where these sticks were bought, when and by whom.4. Why was Mansukh Hiran murdered? This crucial question still remains unanswered almost a month after the 48-year-old businessman’s death. Hiran knew Vaze for years; according to his wife’s statement to the ATS, Vaze had even borrowed the Scorpio from Hiran for four months and returned it to him on February 5. Hiran’s older brother, Vinod, was in touch with Vaze on the night Hiran went missing after leaving his home at 8.30pm.Officials speaking on condition of anonymity said that one likely reason was that Hiran may have known too much of the accused in the explosives case. That explains why none of his belongings were found on him when his body was recovered from the creek.5. Where are Hiran’s belongings? When Hiran’s body was recovered from the creek in Thane district, his face was masked and his mouth had several handkerchiefs stuffed inside it. All his personal effects, including a gold ring, a wristwatch, a wallet, and the mobile phone — which he had on him when he left home at 8.30pm on March 4, according to wife Vimla’s statement to the police — were missing. The investigators have searched several places, including a godown allegedly belonging to Vaze located at Majiwade junction, as well as the houses of Shinde in Kalwa. Even Vaze’s house in Thane’s Saket Complex, has been searched a few times. However, Hiran’s belongings are not reported to have been recovered as yet.6. Why did Hiran meet Vaze on February 17?Based on the statement that Vimla, Hiran’s wife, gave to the ATS, we know that Hiran had taken the Scorpio on February 17 because he had some business in south Mumbai. We also know that Hiran left the car on the side of the road at Vikhroli, because the steering jammed. He then hailed a private taxi and went towards his destination.According to CCTV camera footage captured outside the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Hiran met Vaze outside the Crime Intelligence Unit office; the two sat in Vaze’s Mercedes for a short while, and then Hiran left. The following day, according to Vimla’s statement, Hiran reportedly went to the site where he had left the Scorpio and finding it missing, registered a stolen vehicle report. What did the two talk about in the car?7. Who is the woman discovered in the CCTV footage of Trident hotel where Vaze stayed in February 2021? The NIA has recovered a CCTV grab from Trident hotel, where Vaze stayed in February 2021, capturing a woman in her early 30s speaking to Vaze in the hotel corridor and carrying a currency notes counting machine in her hand. Another grab showed the woman leaving the hotel the next morning. NIA traced the woman and recorded her statement. Her identity is still a mystery.8 Was the stolen Maruti Eco involved in the entire episode? On March 28, the NIA recovered from Mithi river one laptop, one printer, two hard discs, two Central Processing Units, two Digital Video Recorders etc. which were allegedly damaged and thrown in the river. Besides this rich evidentiary haul, the federal agency also recovered a set of number plates of a Maruti Eco that was stolen from Aurangabad in November 2020. The vehicle was owned by Vinay Nade, who reported the vehicle stolen from Aurangabad on November 20, 2020. The question still remains: did the vehicle have anything to do with this crime?9. Do former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations regarding the Home Minister and Sachin Vaze have any bearing on the case? On March 20, Singh, who had recently been transferred out of his post, wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that Anil Deshmukh, the state’s home minister, had set a target for certain police officers, including Vaze, to collect ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and other establishments in the city. Deshmukh denied these allegations and said that the investigators had probably come close to unearthing Singh’s role in the Antilia scare conspiracy.A one-person committee to be headed by retired justice KU Chandiwal has been constituted to probe Singh’s allegations. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party alleged that senior politicians were protecting Vaze; but CM Uddhav Thackeray has said that the probe by investigation agencies will reveal the truth and no guilty party will be spared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-month-later-nine-unanswered-questions-in-the-antilia-hiran-vaze-case-101617595513397.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to pronounce order on PIL filed by Param Bir Singh today||The Bombay high court is scheduled to pronounce its order on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, seeking a Central Bureau of Information (CBI) probe in his allegations of corruption against home minister Anil Deshmukh.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni is expected to pronounce the order at 11am.The PIL called for the report of Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla and all connected files to be placed before the high court. Meanwhile, an advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay also filed a PIL seeking a court-monitored probe by the CBI or ED into the various alleged malpractices by police officers including Singh and suspended API Sachin Vaze, and home minister Deshmukh. The petition will come up for hearing in due course. Also Read | NCP men in Maharashtra home dept and their tryst with controversyThe PIL filed by Singh through advocate Akshay Bafana alleged that Deshmukh called now-suspended API Sachin Vaze to his residence and told him that he had a target of ₹100 crore to collect per month. The PIL also alleged that a few days later Deshmukh called ACP Sanjay Patil of the Social Services branch of the Mumbai Police and discussed hookah parlours in the city, and also instructed other officers to conduct investigations into various crimes “as per his whims”. Singh’s PIL stated that he had written to the chief minister and other leaders and apprised them of Deshmukh’s meetings with the police officers and interference in the functioning of the police force but rather than taking action against Deshmukh, a March 17 order of the home department transferred him to the Home Guards. The PIL also pointed to the unceremonious transfer of Shukla after she reported the interference by Deshmukh in matters pertaining to postings and transfers in Maharashtra to the Director General of Police who in turn informed the additional chief secretary home department. In light of this, the PIL sought an urgent, independent, unbiased, uninfluenced, impartial and fair investigation in the various corrupt malpractices of Deshmukh by the CBI among other prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-pronounce-order-on-pil-filed-by-param-bir-singh-today-101617594013304.html
05-04-2021||Patna||Bihar judicial services exam postponed following Covid-19 resurgence in Patna||The Bihar Judicial Services (BJS) examination, scheduled from April 8 to 13 have been postponed following students’ request due to resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state capital.Timed with the rise in infections in Patna, aspirants launched a social media campaign seeking either postponement or cancellation of the examination and tagged governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitsh Kumar, health minister Mangal Pandey, Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) chairman R K Mahajan, HRD principal secretary Sanjay Kumar and other officials.“Please don’t be the reason for our deaths, save us from corona and cancel the exams,” said a tweet by one K P Singh, who claimed to be an aspirant. He tagged the tweet to the chief minister.Patna is a major Covid-19 hotspot in the state with 1,254 active cases in total. The capital city reported the highest number- 372 positive cases. Total active cases in Bihar have shot up to 3,560, according to official data.“BPSC’s stubborn attitude will make us fall prey to Covid. Keeping in consideration the increase in cases, the commission should delay the examination for now,” said another candidate Ajay Trivedi.Another aspirant detailed out why holding the examinations as per schedule could pose grave risk to examinees. “The BJS exam takes place in two shifts, which is almost six hours a day. We have to be outside (our homes) from morning to evening in a situation when Covid cases are rising rapidly. It is not safe to travel to Patna and stay in a hotel for the duration of the exam and eat outside food,” said Ashish Sharma.Following the flood of requests, an update announcing postponement of the examination was uploaded on the BPSC’s official website. The new date for the examination will be announced later, said the notice dated April 4.Some students, however, expressed unhappiness over the postponement, calling it a wastage of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-judicial-services-exam-postponed-following-covid-19-resurgence-in-patna-101617592933316.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: As cases rise in Maharashtra, regulations tighten||The number of Covid-19 cases in both Maharashtra and Mumbai on Sunday continued to rise, with the state seeing 57,074 cases and the city 11,206, forcing the state to tighten regulations.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, medical education and research, blamed the new variants of Covid-19 for the rise in the number of patients. “The new variants are highly infective and are spreading faster compared to the old one,” said Dr Lahane. He said the state was ramping up tests to contain this virus. “We want to isolate patients and treat them to contain this virus,” he added.The state conducted 196,988 tests in the past 24 hours, compared to 184,404 tests the previous day.Also Read | Lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra. What’s open, what’s shutMumbai also saw a huge rise as the number of active patients, recording 66,803 with the addition of 11,206 patients on Sunday. Even the number of total deaths in Mumbai reached 11,779 with the addition of 25 on Sunday. The total number of active cases in the state is 430,503, with Pune leading with 81,317 cases. Similarly, the total number of deaths has now reached 55,878, with Mumbai on top, followed by 8,434 in Pune.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has added an additional 3,000 DCHC Covid beds in various hospitals and appealed to symptomatic patients to occupy available beds instead of waiting for their choice of hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-as-cases-rise-in-maharashtra-regulations-tighten-101617591913243.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continued to be blocked on Monday by protesting farmers who are demanding the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially for vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad.“Ghazipur NH-24 upper side towards Ghaziabad is open for traffic movement. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police official said.The Delhi Traffic Police have diverted the traffic that may possibly lead to congestions in parts of the city during the peak hours.Also Read | Supporting farmers curbed my powers in Delhi: CM KejriwalAccording to Delhi Traffic Police, vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see snarls.Apart from Ghazipur, other borders, namely Singhu, and Tikri, are closed. “The following borders are closed for traffic movement — Piyau Maniyari, Singhu border, Harewali, Mangeshpur and Tikri border,” said a traffic police official.The Auchandi border is opened only during the morning and evening peak hours while Lampur and Safiabad borders are open.Traffic police advised commuters to take alternate routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101617591013418.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra. What's open, what's shut||Maharashtra on Sunday imposed stricter norms, including weekend lockdown, stricter night curfew, prohibition of assembly of more than five people during the day, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have risen rapidly and accounting for more than half the country's daily infections. The restrictions will be in force till April 30.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra recorded 57,074 Covid-19 infections on Sunday – its highest for a single day – while Mumbai became the first Indian city to add new infections in the five digits with 11,206 new cases.Here's what the restrictions are in Maharashtra:What's shutWhat's allowedAllowed, but with restrictions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdownlike-curbs-in-maharashtra-what-s-open-what-s-shut-101617589672005.html
05-04-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Season's first 'Kalbaishakhi' rains bring relief from scorching heat||Kolkata experienced the first nor'wester of the season on Sunday, providing relief to the people from the sweltering heat, a Met department official said.A maximum wind speed of 45 kmph was recorded during the nor'wester, which brought along some light rain, the official said.The nor'wester, known as 'kalbaishakhi' in Bengali, brought down the mercury in the evening by at least 4 degrees Celsius, he said, adding that rainfall of 0.1 mm was recorded at the Alipore Met office here.South Bengal districts of Howrah, Hooghly, Paschim Medinipur, Purba Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and Jhargram also experienced the nor'wester along with light rain at some places, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-season-s-first-kalbaishakhi-rains-bring-relief-from-scorching-heat-101617589177802.html
05-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh revamps Covid-19 containment zone strategy. Details here||With daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rising in Uttar Pradesh, the state government has revamped the scope of what would constitute a containment zone, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan has reported.According to orders issued by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, a 25-metre containment zone would be set up if one positive Covid-19 case is detected, while a 50-metre containment zone would be established if more than one positive case is found. Twenty houses would fall within the 25-metre containment zone and the corresponding figure is 60 for the 50-metre one, the order says.The order also says that an area would remain a containment zone for 14 days from the date of sample collection of the last positive case of the viral disease. If no fresh infection is found for 14 days from the date of sample collection of the last positive case, that area would be delisted as a containment zone. For multi-storeyed buildings, the floor on which the positive case of the coronavirus disease has been found will be declared a containment zone. The district surveillance officer is required to inform the district immunisation officer about daily new cases in a containment zone.In case of more than one positive case of the coronavirus disease in the area, it would be considered as a cluster. Marking its central point as the epicentre, a containment zone would be set up over a 50-metre radius. Teams would be deployed to inspect houses within each containment zone; each team would visit the houses in the area assigned to them and prepare a work report on the prescribed form. A health worker, a village development panchayati raj worker and a member of the local administration would comprise each team. They would conduct a door-to-door visit of houses in their respective areas and inform people of the symptoms of Covid-19, and ways to avoid contracting the disease.Uttar Pradesh reported 4,614 fresh cases and 31 related fatalities on Sunday, according to the state's health department. This is the highest death toll in the state this year and also the first time since October 2020 that there were more than 30 deaths in a single day. On October 15 last year, 36 people succumbed to the disease.The northern state’s Covid-19 tally and death toll are at 630,059 and 8,881 respectively. Lucknow, its capital city, logged 1,129 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-revamps-covid-19-containment-zone-strategy-details-here-101617585802855.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Sunday slots draw people to Covid-19 jab centres||Over 59,000 people turned up to take Covid-19 vaccine shots on April 4 (till 6 pm), the first Sunday when jabs were administered in the city, as the expanded vaccination drive and the Centre’s orders to states to keep sites open on all days, helped push up the Capital’s inoculations. Several residents said the weekend was a more suitable time to take the doses than working days.Of the 59,125 jabs administered on Sunday, 56,074 were first doses, said provisional data released by the Delhi government. The vaccination drive was opened up for all individuals aged above 45 on April 1, after which vaccination numbers in the Capital increased consistently.On Saturday, 80,797 people were vaccinated till 6pm as against 52,408 on Friday and 71,284 on Thursday, government data showed.Sunday got off to a good start, with several sites in the city pre-booked between 9am and 3pm. During a spot check on Sunday, HT spoke to multiple employees of different private companies, businesspersons, and industrial workers, among others, who said they came to get the vaccine after booking slots for Sunday in advance.The Capital currently has 739 vaccination centres that operate from 9am to 9pm. Between 9am and 3pm, people who book slots in advance through portals such as Aarogya Setu are given preference. Vaccination sites keep around 100 slots reserved for these six hours. After 3pm, all sites open up for on-the-spot registrations and vaccinations.“The work schedule is hectic during this time of the year, and it is nearly impossible to think of taking the vaccine on a working day. And what if it leads to a mild fever for a day? Keeping the drive open on Sundays is a major relief,” said Akash Mishra, an accounts manager with an audit company based in Delhi, who took the vaccine at a site in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar 1 on Sunday.“I booked a slot for Sunday on Thursday. I knew that a lot of people would come for the vaccine on Sunday and the nearest site could run out of doses for the day. If missed, my slot would probably get delayed by a week. Weekdays are very hectic,” said Manav Baweja, a businessman who took the shot at a site in south-east Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Sunday.Ramdeen Prajapati, an industrial worker, said Sunday was the only day he could make time to take the jab.“Our work involves loading and unloading heavy machinery. It is not possible to accommodate work and taking the vaccine on the same day. Skipping a day’s work will mean forgoing wages, which people like us cannot afford, especially in the current tough times. Sunday is the only option I have,” said Prajapati, who took the shot at a dispensary near west Delhi’s Mayapuri on Sunday.The Delhi government is also identifying schools and community centres where new vaccine sites can be set up. Currently, all such sites in the city are in health care facilities.“We have sought the central government’s opinion on the matter. If approved, these centres will be Delhi’s first set of outreach vaccination sites,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Officials said one of the main challenges is to vaccinate residents of unauthorised colonies and slums, a large number of which are located in the Shahdara, North-east, North-west, South, and East districts.Officials said these are densely populated areas, and do not have too many government-run medical facilities, so setting up outreach sites there will help boost vaccination numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sunday-slots-draw-people-to-covid-19-jab-centres-101617575386746.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||New cases cross 4k mark in Delhi; most deaths in one day since Jan 1||The fourth Covid-19 wave continued to expand its footprint in the Capital, with Delhi adding 4,033 new infections on Sunday, the largest one-day spike in 121 days, even as the disease claimed 21 more lives — the most since January 1 this year. Experts implored the state government to ramp up its containment efforts and increase vaccine coverage to effectively curb the surge.Experts also flagged the steady increase in the city’s test positivity rate, which is an important metric to gauge the spread of an infection. Of the 86,899 tests conducted as per the Sunday health bulletin, 4.64% samples tested positive, up from 4.48% the previous day.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said a “fourth wave” of the Covid-19 pandemic was raging in the Capital, but did not impose a lockdown or any curbs to control the spike, even as he asserted that the government will scale up its testing, tracing, containment and vaccination efforts.However, experts said Delhi’s strategy could fall short of an effective mechanism to stop the pandemic, even as several other parts of the country considered stringent curbs to contain the fresh wave. Experts believe that regions seeing a surge in cases, such as Delhi, need to impose restrictions before it is too late, even as they try to accelerate vaccinations.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The new-case graph is too steep. The positivity rate too is inching towards 5%, which is a greater matter of concern. It clearly indicates the government has to accelerate not only the vaccine drive, but also scale up tests, contact tracing and containment efforts. The state government must impose some restrictions aimed at controlling gatherings in both public and private spaces. Some strategic restrictions are very necessary at this stage.”The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a test positivity rate below 5% for an infection to be considered under control in area. The Capital’s test positivity rate has been below this number for 123 days, but is fast approaching the threshold.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital: “The government should think about notifying and implementing regulations aimed at controlling gatherings in markets, malls, religious places, and consider further reducing permissible size of gatherings in marriage functions and funerals. A complete lockdown has adverse economic impacts but some strategic restrictions at this stage can go a long way in controlling the spread of the disease. Also, the government has to scale up tests, contact tracing and containment. The government should also start working on scaling up healthcare capacity once again.”Delhi reported its first wave in June, the second in September and the third in November, which has been the worst so far, with the highest case tally of 8,593 recorded on November 11.After the third wave in November 2020, Delhi witnessed a period of decline when, for nearly three months, the city recorded a positivity rate lower than 1%. A little over a month ago, Delhi reported 94 cases on February 16. The positivity rate that day was 0.17%. The case trajectory of the city — the seven-day average of new cases — was the lowest for the week ending February 12, when Delhi recorded 125 new cases per day, government records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-cases-cross-4k-mark-in-delhi-most-deaths-in-one-day-since-jan-1-101617575039702.html
05-04-2021||Other||Farmers block Hisar-Chandigarh national highway to protest Rohtak lathicharge||Agitated over police action on farmers in Rohtak, farmers of Kaithal district on Sunday blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh national highway for several hours.Raising slogans against the state and the central government, the farmers staged a dharna at Titram Mor and said the government cannot suppress the voice of farmers by using police force.Hoshiar Gill, a local BKU (Charuni) leader, said, “The farmers agitation will continue until the three farm laws are repealed and the farmers will oppose the BJP-JJP leaders.” He also condemned the attack on Rakesh Tikait and said that it was a cowardly act.After a protest of around four hours, the farmers lifted the blockade. The police had to divert the traffic on link roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-block-hisar-chandigarh-national-highway-to-protest-rohtak-lathicharge-101617568333367.html
05-04-2021||Other||Opposition leaders instigating farmers: Khattar||A day after he faced the farmers’ ire during his visit to Rohtak, Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday accused opposition leaders of instigating the farmers.“Some people with vested interests are behind these protests. But such incidents are condemnable as these are not a democratic way of protest,” said the CM during a brief interaction with mediapersons. Over the cancellation of his visit to Anwali village in Gohana of Sonepat, following reports of protests by farmers, the CM said he has written to the people of Anwali to inform them that he had to cancel the visit to avoid any law-and-order issues. “But I want to tell the leaders of opposition parties that they should not try to fulfil their political agenda through such means as it will cost them heavily. I decided to cancel my visit as we don’t want to cause any harm to the residents of Haryana,” he added.Police block roads for Khattar’s visitThe CM’s visit led inconvenience for Karnal residents as police turned the city into a virtual fortress and blocked the main roads leading towards Karna Park, where Khattar’s helicopter landed. Heavy barricading had been done around the venue, and trucks laden with construction material were used to restrict the movement of public. Several police nakaas had been installed near the Kalidas Rangshala, where the CM attended the programme. However, there was no call of protest by farmer leaders during this visit. CM announces salary hike for safai karamcharis Earlier, addressing Safai Mittar Utthan Sammelan in Karnal, the CM announced a hike in monthly salary of safai karamcharis, taking it to ₹14, 000 from ₹12, 500 in rural areas, and to ₹16, 000 from ₹15, 000 in urban areas. Khattar also announced that sewerman will get ₹12, 000 instead of ₹10, 000, and that the salaries will be disbursed in a timely manner and in case of any delay, they would get ₹500 extra.“If a sewerman dies on job, his family members will be given ₹5 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Suraksha Yojana, besides ₹10 lakh by the government. After addressing a gathering of Safai Karamcharis, Khattar said that in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, people should take extra care to follow the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opposition-leaders-instigating-farmers-khattar-101617568152271.html
05-04-2021||Other||Charuni threatens BJP-JJP leaders against coming out in public||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni)’s state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Sunday threatened the leaders of ruling combine in Haryana against venturing out in public until they can fulfil the farmers’ demands. Speaking at a panchayat at Makrauli Kalan toll plaza, Charuni said, “The Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party leaders are holding public programmes with an aim to confront and defame farmers. If their leaders continue to come out, we will take a strong decision against them during the Samyukta Kisan morcha on April 6.”Charuni also condemned the lathi-charge on protesting farmers at Rohtak on Saturday and slammed superintendent of police Rahul Sharma.“Police thrashed our farmers, including some elderly people. Now, the SP is denying the use of batons on our people. Police should investigate who had pelted stones on farmers and injured them,” he added.To protest Saturday’s lathicharge, farmers blocked roads in most parts of the state till 3pm. Commuters were left hassled even as police struggled to provide them alternate routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charuni-threatens-bjp-jjp-leaders-against-coming-out-in-public-101617567912240.html
05-04-2021||Other||Illegal groundwater extraction: HSPCB recommends ₹4.13 cr penalty for Panipat sugar mill||Already facing the ire of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for violation of environmental norms, the cooperative sugar mill at Panipat is in for more trouble as the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has recommended a penalty of ₹4.13 crore on it for illegal extraction of groundwater. A complaint in this regard had been moved to the NGT by a local councillor last year following which the Tribunal had formed a joint committee under HSPCB to look into the matter.After ground inspections, the HSPCB, in its report, stated that the sugar mill was located in an “over-exploited area” but it had been extracting groundwater, using a borewell, to meet its raw water requirements. This was done without the permission of the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA), and hence illegal. The illegal extraction had taken place from April 15, 2015 to December 12, 2020.When contacted, Pradeep Ahlawat, the managing director of the sugarmill, refused to comment on the matter, stating that he “was busy in a meeting”.As per the NGT, the HSPCB regional officer had written thrice to the Panipat deputy commissioner for levying environmental compensation on the government-operated sugarmill.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said the penalty for illegal extraction of water is to be imposed by the CGWA or the deputy commissioner concerned.He said the HSPCB has calculated and recommended the environmental compensation based on the formula derived by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and sent it to the deputy commissioner for imposition.The committee has submitted its report to the NGT and matter is likely to come up for hearing next week. In August last year, taking a serious note of environmental violations by the mill, the NGT had ordered the closure of sugar and distillery units at Panipat Cooperative Sugarmill until remedial measures are taken. “The norms under the Water Act, Air Act and the Environment Protection Act are also not being followed, which amounts to criminal offences. Groundwater is being illegally extracted which may seriously and irreversibly affect the environment,” the NGT order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-groundwater-extraction-hspcb-recommends-4-13-cr-penalty-for-panipat-sugar-mill-101617567612302.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid infection surge, Haryana announces fresh curbs on gatherings||Amid the rising Covid-19 infections in the state, Haryana government on Sunday announced fresh guidelines for indoor and outdoor gatherings, besides funerals. While the gathering at funerals has been restricted to 50 people, at indoor events, 50% of the hall capacity and not more than 200 people will be allowed to assemble. For outdoor functions, the state government has allowed 500 people to assemble. The new guidelines will come into effect from April 5. “The new guidelines issued on Sunday will be implemented strictly in order to wipe out the virus,” said health minister Anil Vij. According to Sanjeev Kaushal, financial commissioner revenue and additional chief secretary, revenue and disaster management, the capacity of indoor places would be specified by the urban local bodies or the department concerned, keeping in view the calculated correlation between the number of chairs, seating or standing capacity and the covered area.The new guidelines were issued under the revised standard operating procedure for social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations. While the authorities will focus on ensuring that Covid-appropriate behaviour, such as social distancing norms, wearing of face masks, sanitisation, hand hygiene and provision for thermal scanning, etc. are followed strictly, the organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions will have to take prior permission from the district magistrates. The district magistrates will give permission after seeking necessary approvals from the departments concerned, including the police.The government has directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) to constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing these instructions and ensure extensive checking, besides taking action against the violators as per law, rules, instructions and directions.Any violation of the guidelines will be punishable under the provisions of the disaster management Act-2005 and Indian Penal Code. 1, 904 fresh infections, 7 deaths in 24 hoursThe fresh restrictions came on a day when Haryana recorded 1, 904 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths. The fatalities include three people from Kaithal district and one each from Sonepat, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts. Among the districts that saw a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases were Gurugram (555), Faridabad (151), Ambala (114), Karnal (185), Panipat (142), Panchkula (200), Kurukshetra (135) and Yamunanagar (98). On Sunday, 33,589 people received the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine while 715 people came forward for their second dose. The cumulative count of people vaccinated in the state has now risen to 18.68 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-infection-surge-haryana-announces-fresh-curbs-on-gatherings-101617567312411.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Co-op society former secretary booked for embezzling ₹37 lakh||SBS Nagar police have booked a former secretary of co-operative society at Gunachaur village of the district for an alleged embezzlement of ₹37 lakh. The accused has been identified as Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Gunachaur village in Banga subdivision. The police registered a case following an inquiry conducted by superintendent of police (SP) Manvindervir Singh on the complaint of Nirmaljit Kaur, president of the co-operative society. The probe revealed that Sukhwant took loans in the name of various account-holders by misusing his official position, didn’t return the money to main branch of the co-operative bank and also embezzled funds from multiple accounts. “Sukhwant later deposited ₹8.37 lakh to accounts of the society and also agreed to let the pending amount be deducted from his service gratuity. The probe mentioned that audit report between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020 also revealed embezzlement of ₹26.47 lakh and serious financial irregularities to the tune of ₹10.88 lakh in the co-operative society,” the report mentioned. The case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating) and 409 (criminal breach by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Mukandpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coop-society-former-secretary-booked-for-embezzling-37-lakh-101617566772130.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong sowed seeds of privatisation: Morcha||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Jagjit Singh Dalewal on Sunday said the Congress-led central government sowed the seeds of privatisation in the rural economy.Addressing a mahapanchayat in Abohar, Dalewal said as the finance minister in the PV Narsimha Rao government, Manmohan Singh worked to invite corporate sector in India that adversely impacted farmers. “It is important for the youth to understand that Manmohan Singh had worked with World Bank and on becoming Union finance minister and then the PM, he pushed for the policies for the private sector. Now, the Narendra Modi government has crossed all limits,” said Dalewal, who is also the president of BKU (Sindhupur). Without directly mentioning of the incident of attack on BJP legislator Arun Narang, Dalewal said any such instance would have a negative impact on the farmers’ agitation.President of Rajewal faction of BKU, Balbir Singh Rajewal also slammed PM Modi and the BJP leadership for “pursuing anti-people policies” that carried a “hidden agenda” to benefit only a few “Gujarat-based corporates”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-sowed-seeds-of-privatisation-morcha-101617566592552.html
05-04-2021||Other||Patkar slams Modi govt over agri laws||Lashing out at the central government for passing the three new agriculture laws, social activist and Narmada Bachao Andolan convener Medha Patkar alleged that the Modi government is snatching lives of farmers by introducing such controversial legislation, on Sunday.Patkar reached Sunam town in the district as part of her Mitti Satyagraha Yatra to collect sacred soil from the town of Shaheed Udham Singh, who assassinated Michael O’Dwyer in London. The soil was collected to build memorials at borders of Delhi in the memory of farmers who have died during the ongoing agitation against the ‘black laws’.The Punjab visit of the social activist was part of the second leg, with her journey starting from Dandi in Gujarat on March 30. The first yatra was carried out from March 12-28 in other states.“Previously, the government was snatching freedom from its citizens, but with the new farm laws it is also snatching life. If the silos of Adani and Ambani will be running, the Food Corporation of India would be closed. The ration scheme is being shut down. The government is also snatching democracy,” Patkar said.“The government made black laws illegally during the lockdown. We need to save our land, along with the repeal of anti-farmer laws. We have collected soil from 23 states. Our aim from this journey is to build memorials at Singhu, Ghazipur and other borders to inspire people about the struggle,” she added.---eom----Photo caption:Medha Patkar being honoured by farmers in Sunam on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patkar-slams-modi-govt-over-agri-laws-101617566532407.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-5 gets CRZ clearance||The Maharashta State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) has granted coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) Metro-5 line, which will connect Thane to Kalyan. The decision to grant CRZ clearance was taken during the 217th meeting of the SEIAA on March 18, the minutes of which were accessed by Hindustan Times.This development follows the Maharashtra State Coastal Zone Management Authority’s recommendation (from 2017) to grant CRZ clearance for the 25-km fully-elevated corridor, which will connect Thane’s Balkum Naka and to Kalyan APMC via the powerloom town of Bhiwandi and will have 17 stations. Currently, the areas are connected only via the overcrowded suburban railway. The cost of the project is pegged at ₹8,417 crore, with an expected ridership of about three lakh people each day by the year 2031.As per the MMRDA’s proposal, the Metro alignment will pass through two water bodies at Kasheli Bridge in Thane and Durgadi Fort in Kalyan. In Thane, the alignment will cut through a CRZ-I notified area for just over a km near Kasheli Bridge, while another 1.5-km will pass through a CRZ-II area. Another 608m of the alignment are passing through the Ulhas river. In Kalyan, about 20m of the alignment will pass through a CRZ-I notified area, while 250m will pass through a CRZ-III notified area. Another 320m will pass through the Ulhas river.With grant of CRZ clearance, the MMRDA now has the permission to build 156 piers (each being 1.8m in diameters) in CRZ-notified areas in order to support the above-ground corridor, which will be integrated with Metro-4 line at Kapurbawadi, and also with the suburban rail at Kalyan station. The piers will be built at intervals of approximately 25m between them.Dr Sonia Sethi, additional metropolitan commissioner and project director, Mumbai Urban Transport Project, confirmed the development, saying, “The SEIAA has accorded CRZ clearance to Metro Line 5 subject to certain conditions, such as necessary approvals from the MoEFCC and the Bombay High Court for mangrove areas affected.”In December 2020, the MMRDA has sought the MoEFCC’s go-ahead for diversion of 2349.5 sqm of mangrove forest land for the project. Of these, 1,971.71sqm of forest land are proposed to be diverted in Balkaum, Thane, while 377.86sqm of forest land are to be diverted in Kasheli in Bhiwandi. Officials confirmed the matter is currently under process, and that the Centre’s nod is still awaited before construction work can proceed.In a statement issued January 26 this year, the MMRDA had stated that work on the Metro-5 line is expected to be completed by December 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-5-gets-crz-clearance-101617566351590.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Out of jail for safety amid Covid, many return to criminal ways in Maha||The arrest of Vinayak Shinde, 53, in the case of the murder of Thane-based trader Mansukh Hiran, has brought into focus crimes committed by those released on bail or parole due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Starting March 25, 2020 over 10,000 convicts and undertrials were released on parole or temporary bail across Maharashtra to decongest the jails, following a decision taken by a High Power Committee (HPC). The Supreme Court (SC) ordered the constitution of a HPC in each state deliberating on the decongestion of the prisons in the wake of the pandemic. This committee was designated to determine which classes of prisoners were to be granted interim bail. Usually paroles are for 45 days to maximum 90 days as per prison rule, but owing to pandemic most of them are now out for almost a year. There are two types of leave parole and furlong. Parole is conditional, usually subject to behavior, and requires periodic reporting to authorities. Parole is not a right, and is given to a prisoner for specific reasons, such as a death in the family or a wedding of a blood relative. Furlough is given in cases of long-term imprisonment. The period of furlough granted to a prisoner is treated as remission of his sentence. Unlike parole, furlough is seen as a matter of right for a prisoner, to be granted periodically irrespective of any reason, and merely to enable the prisoner to retain family and social ties, and to counter the ill-effects of prolonged time spent in prison. Both are considered as reformative processes. These provisions were introduced with a view to humanising the prison system under the Prisons Act of 1894. In the recent pandemic, those released on temporary bail or parole will be out till the end of lockdown imposed by the state. Shinde was awarded life sentence in 2013 by Mumbai session’s court, long with 21 others involved in encounter of gangster Lakkhan Bhaiyya (Ramnarayan Gupta) in 2006. He was arrested on March 21 by the Anti-Terrorism Squad, in connection with the murder of Hiran, who is linked to the explosives-laden car found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February. Shinde is currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) with co-accused Naresh Gor, a bookie. Suspended Mumbai cop, Sachin Vaze, who is also in NIA custody, is also suspected to have played a role in the murder. The high power committee conducted a meeting on March 25, 2020 and framed a policy to release the prisoners who are accused of offences punishable for less than seven years or less. However, this excluded those who are accused under special act such as Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999 (MPID), The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS), Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 (POCSO), Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA), Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 2019 (UAPA) and Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). Like Shinde, some among those released, even on good behavior, have been put back in prison for committing petty thefts and robberies. In some cases, however, they’ve been imprisoned for more serious charges. In April 4, 2020, Navin Gotefode an undertrial released on parole, had attacked a constable’s wife in Nandanvan, Nagpur after she did not allow him to meet her son, who was a classmate of the convict. She was rushed to hospital but was declared dead. Gotefode, 26 was arrested in the murder case and is in Nagpur Jail. In October 2020, two cops – sub-inspector Dattatray Sarak, 36 and constable Anand Bhillare, 52, both of crime branch unit 1 of Thane police – were injured after a murder convict, Navnath Dhangade 35, who had jumped parole, attacked them with a sickle when they tried to arrest him in Wagale Estate, Thane. Dhangade was arrested while the two cops recovered after treatment in hospital. In 2015 Dhangade was booked are arrested by Shrinagar police in a murder case. Dhangade who was released on parole in April during lockdown for 45 days, did not return for over 15 days. So the Jail authorities reported to Vartak Nagar police station who arrested him.In December 2020, Aadesh Patil (35) was arrested for the rape and murder of a two-year-old girl, who belonged to a tribal community, in Pen, Raigad. The child’s great-grandmother reported seeing Patil dump the body near the family’s house. Patil was already serving sentence for rape in Alibag Jail. Meeran Borwankar, former state additional Director General of Police said, “It is important that the prison administration take reports from police before releasing habitual offenders involved in house breakings/chain snatching as well as for those in heinous crimes. Since conviction is often delayed in India, prisons would not keep track of the number and types of cases pending against criminals. The police will know and the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) too has data about the activities of habitual criminals.” Cases like Shinde are one of its kind, and not many criminals involved in organised crime or in grave offences like rape, and undergoing life imprisonment, were released on special Covid parole, she added. As per the state prison department records, over 10788 prisoners were released till May last year to prevent the spread of Covid in the prisons. Out of these around 2166 were released on parole while 7271 were released on bail. Most convicts serving imprisonment or life imprisonment are released on parole and under trials are released on bail. A senior official from Maharashtra prison, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, “However, after getting a special report from the prison and local police, the high power committee decided the release on parole. Shinde and the rapist in Pen, Raigad, though rare, are both serious instances. Both of them had good behaviour in jail that may have led to their approval for temporary bail or parole. Local police stations need to be more vigilant on those released on parole.” The HPC is headed by high court Justice Amjad Sayed and comprised of Sanjay Chahande, additional Chief Secretary (Home), SN Pandey, Director General, Prisons and Sunil Ramanand, Additional Director General, Prison. In some cases, inmates who were released in the de-congestion drive, were also in danger. In May 27, 2020, Nitin Shivaji Kasabe, a 24-year-old undertrial in a case of attempt to murder, came out from the prison on temporary bail and was attacked with sharp weapons by a group of eight persons in Yerawada area. The police suspects past rivalry. Munna Ishwar Chavan (23), a native of Georai in Beed district, who was released on April 15, was found dead on the footpath a couple of days later. He was brutally murdered, allegedly by a rival gang. Pune City Police have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against a gang allegedly involved in the murder. Yogesh Desai, Deputy Inspector General, South Region, Maharashtra Prison claimed that regular checks are being made on those released on parole. He said, “The state prison had released more than 10,000 inmates across Maharashtra. There are only a select few released on parole that get engaged in crime. Usually the inmates released on parole have an attendance to mark at the local police station. Our officials usually coordinate with the local police if the inmate jumps parole or gets involved in serious crime. Accordingly, the local police inform us to cancel the parole of the accused in such a serious case.” Professor Vijay Raghavan of the Centre for Criminology and Justice at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences said, “If we count the numbers as compared to the released prison inmates on parole, it is hardly a significant number. The release of prisoners on parole is in the thousands and only few cases have violated parole conditions. Any inmate with good behaviour inside prison is considered for release on parole or furlough on certain conditions. The emergency parole was granted to prisoners due to the pandemic and extraordinary situations demanding extraordinary solutions. Also, it is the job of the police to keep a watch to ensure that inmates released on parole do not re-offend.” He added that the official capacity of Maharashtra prisons is 23,000 while the present population inside prisons is around 34,870. At present there are 46 jails in Maharashtra including Central, District and open prisons. If another 10,000 inmates who have been released on emergency parole or temporary bail are back to prison, it will become impossible to manage the prison population. Sunil Ramanand, ADG (Additional Director General), Maharashtra prison refused to comment as he was deputed for election duty in West Bengal. BOX: The parole system Usually there are two types of leave: furlough and parole. Furlough leave is of 14 days, which can be extended to 14 days. It is available to convict who spent two years in jail. Parole is for 30 days for emergencies like illness or death of a family member. Parole can be extended for another 60 days. In 2012 the state government came up with a rule to permit parole once a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/out-of-jail-for-safety-amid-covid-many-return-to-criminal-ways-in-maha-101617566291655.html
05-04-2021||Other||4 arrested for running baby sale racket in Mumbai||Mankhurd police arrested four people on Saturday for allegedly running a baby-selling racket. According to the police, the case came to light after a 25-year-old Mankhurd resident approached the police, alleging that her neighbours – Sharmin Khan and her husband Siddhiqe Khan – had kidnapped her four-month-old daughter on Friday. The police detained the couple and on questioning them, discovered that they had sold the baby to an Antop Hill resident named Farzana Shaikh. The police then arrested Shaikh and she confessed to have bought the baby. She further claimed that she had sold the baby to a woman, Asha Pawar, in Chembur. The police arrested Pawar but she had sold the baby to another woman, Julia Fernandes. Senior inspector Prakash Chougule of Mankhurd police station said that Fernandes, who had delivered a child 10 days ago, had met a couple from Bengaluru who was childless. Fernandes told them the baby is hers and she would not be able to raise the child. The couple then bought the child from Fernandes, who is yet to be arrested. “We have not arrested Fernandes, the main accused in the case, as she is admitted to the hospital,” said an officer. The police said that Fernandes was arrested at Wadala TT in 2017 for allegedly running a baby-selling racket and came out on bail. She used to send her clients photos of newborns on WhatsApp to crack a deal.The baby has been reunited with her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-arrested-for-running-baby-sale-racket-in-mumbai-101617566292161.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||GRP HQ in Ghatkopar to house vaccination centre for citizens||Amid the rise in cases, the Government Railway Police (GRP) have decided to offer their premises at Ghatkopar headquarters for a vaccination centre for citizens. Quaiser Khalid, commissioner of GRP, said, “The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had given their approval for the vaccination centre which will be open to the citizens of Mumbai. We have got the approval and it will be opened in two days. There will be two doctors and four nurses at the centre.” With more than 250 officers from Mumbai police succumbing to the virus, the police want to play an important role in combatting it. The GRP officers said they have been taking all measures to ensure the commuters wear masks and practice social distancing. The GRP has a strength of 3700 personnel which has remained stagnant since 1982. The commissioner said GRP staff have been deployed at stations to ensure commuters’ safety. The Director General of police (DGP) had issued a notice stating that only A and B category staff would have to be present on duty and staff that work on office premises could work from home, but be available on mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/grphq-in-ghatkopar-to-house-vaccination-centre-for-citizens-101617566232539.html
05-04-2021||Other||Ex-corporator, 2 others booked for flouting Covid-19 norms in weddings at Kalyan||Sajana.nambiar@hindustantimes.com Kalyan Former Kalyan Shiv Sena corporator Sunil Wayale, a marriage hall administrator and another man were booked by Mahatma Phule police late on Saturday for organising wedding ceremonies, where more than 50 people attended without following any Covid-19 norms. Wayale has been booked for flouting the norms at his daughter’s wedding, while the third accused is also the father of another bride As per the police, the two separate weddings were organised at Bhawani Marriage Hall located at Chikanghar in Kalyan (West) on Saturday around 9.15pm. “There were too weddings taking place at the hall. Though only 50 persons are allowed to attend a wedding as per Covid-19 norms, the weddings were attended by around 500 people each, who did not follow social distancing or wear masks. We visited the spot and arrested the hall administrator. The procedure for arrest against the other two is under progress,” said inspector Sambhaji Jadhav from Mahatma Phule police. The trio has been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Covid-19 Regulations Act, Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded its highest single-day spike on Saturday with 1,278 cases. On Sunday the civic body recorded XXX cases. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said,”We have already directed the police to take strict action against any type of gatherings in the city. We have also asked the police to keep an eye on political party leaders’ functions and gatherings. Legal action would be taken against all those violating the norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excorporator-2-others-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-in-weddings-at-kalyan-101617566233089.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Partial lockdown in Maha: ‘Only parcel services to cause major losses’||The state government’s decision to close down the hotels and restaurants from Monday night onwards and only allow parcel services will hit the sector badly, again leading to an exodus of migrant workers. Hoteliers say it would not be viable for them to survive on parcel services which account for only 5-15% of their total business.The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), a leading association for the restaurants, called it a regressive step. “We can’t survive on parcels or takeaways. The hotels which are on lease will not open their establishments as they will not be able to pay rents nor the salaries of their staff,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. “The government needs to understand that many prefer dining experience and will not settle for parcels,” he added.There are approximately 100,000 hotels and restaurants in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with at least 18,00,000 employees. Of this, approximately 70% are migrants.According to Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president, Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India (HRAWI), the workers are bound to go back to their native states. “It will be a repeat of 2020 when lakhs of migrant workers will return in large number to their villages. We are in no position to house them and pay them regular salaries,” said Shetty. He condemned the closing down of the hotels as the last nail in the coffin. “Many hoteliers took loans to restart their businesses after seven months of lockdown last year. It will be impossible for them to repay,” he added.Last year, the hotels which were closed for almost seven months opened on October 5. In the past five months, they were able to generate a business of almost 65-70 percent of the pre-Covid-19 times.However, the night curfew which was imposed from March 27 where the hotels needed to close down their establishments by 8:00 pm reduced their business down to 20 % of the pre-Covid-19 levels.The KOSMIC group of hotels which has four lounges across Mumbai said the staff will have to take a pay cut. “It makes more sense to close down completely than open for parcel service. I plan to give my staff 50% cut in their salary,” said Romi Chadha, owner of KOSMIC Group.Savio D’sa who is the consultant for the hospitality sector condemned the decision. “The government is painting the hotels as spreaders of Covid-19. They need to understand that this sector generates huge employment and contributes substantially to the state exchequer,” said D’sa. “Those people planning to start restaurants will be dissuaded by this move.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/partial-lockdown-in-maha-only-parcel-services-to-cause-major-losses-101617566171644.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||57K new Covid cases in state; 11K in Mumbai||The number of Covid-19 new cases both in Maharashtra and Mumbai on Sunday continued to rise, with the state seeing 57,074 cases and city 11,206, forcing the state to tighten regulations.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, medical education and research, blamed the new variant of Covid-19 for the rise in the number of patients. “The new variant is highly infective and is spreading faster compared to the old one,” said Dr Lahane. He said the state was ramping up tests to contain this virus. “We want to isolate patients and treat them to contain this virus,” he added.The state conducted 196,988 tests in the past 24 hours, compared to 184,404 tests the previous day.Mumbai also saw a huge rise as the number of active patients, now reaching 66,803 with the addition of 11,206 patients on Sunday. Even the total deaths in Mumbai reached 11,779 with the addition of 25 on Sunday. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 430,503, with Pune leading with 81,317 cases. Similarly the total number of deaths has now reached 55,878, with Mumbai on top, followed by 8,434 in Pune.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has added an additional 3000 DCHC Covid beds in various hospitals and appealed to symptomatic patients to occupy available beds instead of waiting for their choice of hospital.The state government on Sunday imposed curbs such as weekend lockdown along with the tightening regulations on weekdays such as closure of restaurants, salons and spas.Dr Satyendranath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital in Byculla, welcomed the curbs. “Such curbs will reduce the interaction between people which will translate into bringing down the rate of transmission of the virus,” said Dr Mehra.He said unlike last year, people are recovering more in home quarantine this time. “We now have a clear line of treatment unlike last year when we were still unsure of it,” said Mehra.The state administered 462,000 vaccines on Saturday, which is a national record for the highest number of vaccinations in a single day.Dr Lahane contended vaccinations will increase further in the coming days. “We want to vaccinate more people so the severity of the virus is reduced and incidences of deaths can be reduced,” said Dr Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/57k-new-covid-cases-in-state-11k-in-mumbai-101617566172215.html
05-04-2021||Other||3 take ₹13.4cr from Mumbai buyers, fail to deliver flats after 10 yrs, booked||The housing-2 unit of the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police have booked three directors of a construction firm, for allegedly cheating three people of ₹13.41 crore under the pretext of selling them five flats in a redevelopment project at Khar. The accused, who are the directors of Hicons Developer Private Limited, failed to deliver the flats to the buyers 10 years after accepting money from them.The accused, Nadeem Lakdawala, Rafiq Sheikh and Khalid Vasaiwala, have been booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act (MOFA), based on the complaint of Khar businessman Narendra Narayan Pagrani.Lakdawala is the cousin of gangster Ezaz Lakdawala and was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch in March 2020 for helping the gangster in an extortion case. Pagrani, 48, had met the three accused in 2009 through a real estate agent as he was looking to buy flats. He visited the accused’s office for enquiry and was informed by the trio that their company owned five flats at Shubh Hari Darsham society in Khar. The developers said the building was old and was slated to undergo redevelopment. Its redevelopment rights were also with the Hicons Developer Private Limited, the trio had claimed.“The developers suggested Pagrani to buy these five flats from them instead of buying new flats. They offered him an additional 35% area (on each flat) for free on buying these flats. They also offered the complainant lucrative rate for the flats from the sale component that the firm would get after the society’s redevelopment,” said an EOW officer.“Pagrani found the deal profitable and informed his sister Sonia Punjabi and her husband Rajesh about it. The three decided to buy flats in the project,” said Sampat Chhawchharia, Pagrani’s lawyer.“Between 2011-2019 we paid ₹13.41 crore to the three accused after following the due procedure of buying five flats in the project. However, they haven’t delivered a single flat even after 10 years. The accused utilised the amount for some other purposes, and when we demanded our money be returned, they failed to do so and cheated our family,” said Pagrani.The accused could not be contacted as their mobile phones were found switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-take-13-4cr-from-mumbai-buyers-fail-to-deliver-flats-after-10-yrs-booked-101617566111569.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||SSC, HSC exams: Parents anxious about sending students to exam centre||As the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and the state are at an all-time high, parents of Class 10 (SSC) and 12 (HSC) students are anxious about the board’s decision to hold the exams offline as children would have to go to the exam centre. While the HSC exams will be held from April 23 to May 21, SSC exams will be conducted from April 29 to May 20. Over the past few days, there have been several protests by angry students, demanding that the exams be conducted online. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association, which has been supporting online exams, said that the government should rethink on its decision. “Physical exams are not going to be feasible at a time when the cases in the state are so high. Parents would not want to risk the health of their children in any case. The government should come up with a solution to address the issue,” said Sahai. Parents said that they are worried about their children being the carriers of the virus at homes. “We have senior citizens in the house, and while children have good immunity, we are worried for the other members of the family who are equally at risk when kids go out,” said Aashika Mhatre, whose son is a Class 12 science student. Some parents said they would not mind skipping the exams. “Exams are not more important than our children’s lives. We will not send them for exams if the cases continue to rise,” said a parent. Officials from the education department have maintained that exams will be held offline. “Considering the geography of the state, online exams are not feasible for all. Besides, considering the sheer volume of students, it is not an option,” said an official from the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-hsc-exams-parents-anxious-about-sending-students-to-exam-centre-101617566051556.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai see highest-ever one-day spike||All three municipal corporations in Thane district recorded the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases on Sunday. According to the state health department data, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 1,724 fresh cases, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 1,740 cases and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 1,536 new cases. The TMC presently has 11,800 active cases, while the recovery rate is 85%. The civic body recorded one death, taking the toll to 1,023. In KDMC, there are 10,308 active cases at present. The recovery rate is 86%. Three deaths took the toll to 1,138. The death rate in KDMC at present is 1.52%. In Navi Mumbai, there are 8,696 active cases at present. The NMMC recorded three deaths, taking the toll to 1,208. While the KDMC has the highest number of positive cases which is 89,012, NMMC’s case tally is 76,137 and TMC’s is 85,140.The TMC has so far conducted 1,281,190 tests, while the NMMC has conducted 675,818 tests. The KDMC has increased its testing to 5,287 as on Sunday, in order to increase contact tracing. “Last week we carried out around 4000 tests, which crossed 5,200 as on Sunday. This is to increase contact-tracing in KDMC limits to test as many people as possible on time,” said an officer of KDMC, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-kalyan-navi-mumbai-see-highest-ever-one-day-spike-101617566052173.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Shama’s luminous past||The building has lost its colour. A tree is growing out of the balcony.What rescues it from general anonymity, here in Delhi’s Asaf Ali Marg, is a rusting metal hoarding. One word is shining bright in white this afternoon — “Shama”. Urdu for candle. As in Dehli ki Aakhiri Shama, or Delhi’s last candle — the title of a 19th century poetry work.But this Shama was different.Among a certain generation in Delhi, and wherever Urdu was read, Shama, a monthly literary and film magazine, is remembered with a pang in the heart, as if one is mourning for their lost love. It had acquired such a cultish appeal that, in its heyday, from 1950s to the 1980s, its copies were smuggled by magazine suppliers to neighbouring Pakistan — according to Sadia Dehlvi who passed last year. Her grandfather, Mohammad Yusuf Dehlvi, founded Shama in 1939. Both her parents left their editing imprints in the publication group. Her father, M Yunus Dehlvi, the managing editor, died some years ago: Her mother, Zeenat Kauser, is today a citizen of neighbouring Gurugram and lives with her (late) eldest son’s family, in DLF Phase 1.According to information provided by Zeenat Kaiser’s younger son, Vaseem Ahmed, who lives in Mumbai, and her grandson, Ali Ahmed, who lives with her in Gurugram, the founder’s three sons shaped the magazine’s evolution. Sister publications were gradually added — Bano, Shabistan, Khilauna, Mujrim, Doshi (in Hindi), Aina and Sushama, which Shama translated into Hindi.Gradually, with the decline of the Urdu readership, say Vaseem and Ali, the magazine’s circulation plummeted, forcing it to publish its last issue in 1999.The Dehlvis, who ran Shama, could themselves have been its final cover story material. Their sprawling mansion in Delhi’s prized Sardar Patel Marg was celebrated for its soirées. Every film star landing in the capital would be obliged to stop by at their address. The late Sadia Dehlvi had hundreds of black-and-white photos showing Bollywood legends hanging out in her house. The family sold the bungalow four years after the magazine’s dissolution. Today, Zeenat Kauser, both the matriarch and the last principle living link to Shama, resides in quiet anonymity in the Millennium City, with her daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, including the aforementioned Ali whose passion is to collect every detail related to his family’s great legacy.In effect, while the old Shama survives as a relic in Delhi, those who would have been its inheritors, had it continued, live with Shama’s memorabilia across the border in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-shama-s-luminous-past-101617565712000.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 surge worsens, curbs intensify, lockdown back||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a partial lockdown of the state from 8pm on Monday till April 30, in view of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded its highest one-day spike of 57,074 fresh infections. Besides a complete lockdown on weekends (see box), a strict night curfew of 11 hours and prohibition of gatherings of more than five people during the day, the state has announced shutting down of shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities, restaurants, eateries, malls, theatres, multiplexes and religious places.The state government has imposed three-fold restrictions from 8pm on April 5. The night curfew, which has been in place since last week, has been made stringent by allowing only people engaged in essential services and those with a valid reason to step out of their homes from 8pm to 7am. There will be complete lockdown on weekends between 8pm on Friday and 7am on Monday. Assembly of more than five people from 7am to 8pm has also been prohibited as per provisions of section 144 of CrPC, the notification issued by the government has stated.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray convened an urgent meeting of his council of ministers on Sunday to deliberate on stricter curbs. The partial lockdown was allowed after the cabinet meeting and the detailed SOP was issued later in the day. Before the cabinet meeting, Thackeray spoke to leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray held meetings with key industrialists and producers of TV serials and films. Thackeray, in his address to the people of Maharashtra on Friday, had hinted at stricter curbs by the weekend. He also warned that the state was on the verge of a lockdown if the surge continued for another 15 days as there could be a serious shortage of beds and health services.Maharashtra reported its highest ever one-day spike of 57,074 cases, which led to breaching of the 3 million mark of cases, which stand at 3,010,597. Mumbai city remained the highest contributor to the daily caseload with 11,206 new infections, pushing the tally to 452,681. The active cases in the state stands at 430,503, including the highest number (81,317) in Pune and (66,803) in Mumbai.The surge in cases has resulted in a shortage of beds and oxygen in many cities and districts, forcing the state government to shut industrial units consuming oxygen in large quantities to shut.Under the new phase of Break the Chain, shops, establishments operating in non-essential commodities, hotels, multiplexes, theatres, water parks, clubs, salons and beauty parlours have been shut. Religious places across faiths have been shut down, though the priests attached to them have been allowed to carry out daily rituals at them. Private offices, too, have been instructed to go on work-from-home mode, while government offices are allowed to work at 50% of their work force. The private offices in essential services, including banking, insurance, pharmaceuticals, water-power supply are allowed to operate from offices, while government offices dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic will operate at 100% of their workforce.“We are not touching the industrial sector as it is directly linked with the financial health of the state. The industrial units, construction sites are allowed to operate, while the shooting of films and TV serials can go on by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol,” Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister, said after the cabinet meeting. He said that the public transport, including trains, buses, auto-taxis, flights can continue to operate by adhering to revised norms, Taxi and autos can operate at 50% of their capacity, while no standing passengers are allowed in buses and long-distance trains. The government has not reduced the timings of commuting in the local trains for the general public in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The state expects the crowding to reduce as private offices, shops, establishments in non-essential services are not allowed to operate. Similarly, the e-commerce sector has been allowed to operate with home deliveries allowed between 7am and 8pm. The vaccination of delivery boys has been made mandatory, though the notification is silent on how they will be vaccinated if they are below 45 years of age. The housing societies with more than five active patients will now be declared as mini containment zones, with not outsiders allowed to visit premises, according to the state notification. Fadnavis announced full cooperation with the state government. “We are going through a scary stage of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The transmission of the virus is faster and proving fatal, leading to a rise in the mortality rate. We have appealed to BJP workers and leaders to cooperate with state authorities and actively participate in the vaccination drive. But at the same time, the state government should undertake awareness drive to apprise people with the fatal nature of the new strain. The state government should also stop the disconnection of the electricity supply for non-payment of bills,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that besides stepping up health care infrastructure, the state government is aiming at ramping up the vaccination drive. “After vaccinating 462,000 citizens on Saturday, we are now aiming to increase the daily numbers to more than 600,000 people per day by increasing vaccination centres and operating them 24X7. Our entire focus will be breaking the chain of transmission. Similarly, districts administrations have also been directed to increase the number of beds. To overcome the shortage of oxygen supply, which we have been facing even after reserving 90% of the production for medical purposes ,we have decided to shut down the industrial units consuming oxygen in large quantities,” he said. Tope said a decision about Class 10 and 12 exams will be taken after due deliberation with state board, central boards and experts form the education sector. “School education minister Varsha Gaikwad told the state cabinet that they have prepared various options in relation to Class 10 and 12 exams and the decision will be taken after due deliberation. She will discuss the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, officials from state board, other boards including CBSE, ICSE before arriving at a certain decision. They tapping the option of promoting students to a certain extent,” he said.Tope said the state was taking strict action against black marketing related to a few crucial medicines like Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-surge-worsens-curbs-intensify-lockdown-back-101617565818199.html
05-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC seeks stronger laws as man freed in daughter’s rape case||Expressing concern over the mother-son and father-daughter relationship not remaining sacrosanct anymore, the Bombay high court (HC) has appealed to the Centre and state government to incorporate amendments under the relevant laws to give statements recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) the status of ‘examination-in-chief (vital evidence). The appeal came after HC had to set aside a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court’s verdict, convicting a man for raping his minor daughter, as the survivor’s statement under section 164 of CrPC was insufficient and the guilt of the accused was not substantiated. The court, however, confirmed the conviction of the father under the Information Technology (IT) Act for having nude photographs of his daughter on his mobile phone. A division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice SM Modak, while hearing the appeal of the 39-year-old man, was informed that he was convicted in July 2015 for rape and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Pocso Act and section 67-B (publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act in electronic form) of the IT Act. The man’s advocate, Aniket Vagal, submitted that though the minor had resiled during the trial, the special court had based its conviction on her statement recorded under section 164 of CrPC, and hence the conviction was arbitrary and should be set aside. The man worked as a watchman of a bungalow and used to live apart from his family. He had taken his daughter, then 14, to the bungalow in 2013, and raped her repeatedly for over a period of one year. She was threatened and not allowed to meet her mother, and was kept at her grandmother’s house. In 2014, after the girl informed her sister of her ordeal, their mother lodged a complaint. The girl’s recorded her statement with the magistrate and the police arrested the man and collected evidence from the bungalow. The police also recovered mobile handsets containing the nude photos and videos of the girl. However, during the trial, she resiled, and the court based its conviction on the statement recorded by the magistrate. After hearing the submissions, HC observed, “Due to globalisation, boundaries of nations have disappeared. During olden days, certain relations were considered sacrosanct. That is to say that the relationship between brother and sister, mother and son and father and daughter were considered sacrosanct. However, due to passage of time, these relationships have no more remained sacrosanct and there are various instances of overstepping the sacrosanct relationship by the near relationship.” With regards to the minor not supporting the trial, the court said, “Such incidents always take place in secrecy… Unfortunately, the victim had chosen not to speak about the incident before the court.” While setting aside the conviction for rape, the court directed the registry to send a copy of the judgment to the central and state law ministries to take an initiative in incorporating amendments under relevant laws to give status to statement under section 164 CrPC as that of examination-in- chief in all eventualities to avoid similar situation in future. The court however upheld the conviction of the father under the IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-seeks-stronger-laws-as-man-freed-in-daughter-s-rape-case-101617565692221.html
05-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana man attacked, robbed of licensed revolver, mobile phone||Six men attacked a 32-year-old man with sharp-edged weapons and robbed him of his licensed revolver and a mobile phone on Railway road in Dehlon on Saturday.The victim, Harinder Singh, 32, of Manakwal village, told the police that he was on his way to Gill village in his car to drop a friend. When they reached near Railway road, he stopped on the roadside to relieve himself.Suddenly, six men turned up there on two motorcycles and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. They snatched his mobile phone and a .32-bore revolver, which had four bullets, and sped away. His friend also suffered injuries in the attack.He informed his family members, who rushed them to a hospital on Gill Road, where they remain under treatment.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardev Singh, who is investigating the case, said they were trying to find clues about the robbers through CCTV footage on the stretch where they attacked the victims.A case under Section 379B-2 (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Dehlon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-attacked-robbed-of-licensed-revolver-mobile-phone-101617565632121.html
05-04-2021||Other||Woman who accused Ludhiana MLA of rape alleges cyber bullying||The 45-year-old woman, who had accused Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains of rape, has claimed harassment through lewd messages and videos, police said.Inspector Sukhdev Singh of Dehlon police said they had lodged a case under Sections 67 and 68 of the Information and Technology Act on the complaint of the woman, who alleged that she had been receiving derogatory messages from unidentified phone numbers since February 1. Police are taking help from the cyber cell to trace the accused.On November 16 last year, the woman had accused Bains of raping her and threatening to kill both her sons. Following this, the commissioner of police had marked an inquiry to joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur, who has yet to submit a report. Meanwhile, the woman had also moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, accusing the police of not registering an FIR in the matter.Father injured in road mishapThe woman filed another complaint at the Dehlon station, claiming that a car hit her father’s scooter on April 1, causing him multiple injuries.She said her father was going to Sarinh village on his scooter, when a speeding silver Maruti Suzuki Swift hit his two-wheeler near Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified car driver at Dehlon police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-who-accused-ludhiana-mla-of-rape-alleges-cyber-bullying-101617565333460.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers try to gherao Union minister Som Parkash in Hoshiarpur||Farmers on Sunday protested and tried to gherao Union minister and local MP Som Parkash at the BJP office in Shastri Market area in Hoshiarpur where he and party’s senior leader Tikshan Sud, along with district in-charge Vinod Sharma, had come to attend a party meeting.When the farmers, protesting against the three farm laws, came to know that the Union minister of state for commerce and industry was present at the BJP office, they tried to gherao him, but were stopped by cops. Superintendent of police Ravinder Pal Singh and other police officials tried to pacify the agitators but they tried to break the barricades to storm towards the BJP office. Farmers then raised slogans against the Central government and the minister.Parkash remained in the party office for about two hours and then left under heavy police protection. BJP district president Nipun Sharma called it a handiwork of the Congress. He said one of the protesters tried to smash the windshield of the minister’s vehicle.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the BJP leaders to register their disapproval of the three farm laws.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-try-to-gherao-union-minister-som-parkash-in-hoshiarpur-101617565332163.html
05-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC directs second post mortem of teen who died in 2018 after detention||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the authorities at Sir JJ Hospital to conduct a second post mortem of Sachin Jaiswar, a 17-year-old boy whose family suspects he died due to detention by Dharavi police in 2018. The hospital has been directed to conduct the post mortem by Monday, and submit a report by April 9.The directions were issued while hearing the petition filed by Jaiswar’s father Ravindra, seeking action against the police officers who were given a clean chit by the crime branch. The family had refused to claim Jaiswar’s body since 2018 to conduct the final rites, and it is at JJ hospital’s morgue.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by Ravindra and Jaiswar’s brother Sunil was informed by advocate Siddharth Chandrashekhar that the family was not satisfied with the crime branch’s report that had exonerated the Dharavi police personnel of assaulting the teenager after detaining him in connection with a mobile phone theft.On July 13, 2018, Jaiswar was allowed to go home after being detained at the police station. The next day, after he developed fever, he was taken to Sion hospital and discharged. He was admitted again after his condition worsened, and he died on July 21, 2018. Based on the post-mortem report, the police claimed that Jaiswar had died due to pneumonia. However, his family was not satisfied by the reasoning and refused to take the body. They then approached HC, seeking a second post mortem.On Saturday, the bench while hearing the petition was informed by Chandrashekhar that the family was willing to take custody of the body and conduct the last rites if their prayer for a second post mortem was accepted. The bench viewed Dharavi police station’s July 13, 2018, CCTV footage in the presence of the petitioners and the investigating officer, and the counsel for the state. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the police said that they had no objection if such a request was granted. Yagnik informed HC that after the second post mortem, Jaiswar’s body would be handed over to his father, and an ambulance would be provided free of cost for taking the body for last rites. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed JJ hospital to conduct the second post mortem by a team of doctors who were not part of the earlier post mortem. The court also asked the hospital to submit the report under the signature of the hospital’s dean and posted the hearing on April 9.Body in morgue since 2018Sachin Jaiswar, a boy from the Scheduled Caste community, was detained in 2018 by Dharavi police in connection with a mobile phone theft. On July 13, 2018, Jaiswar was allowed to go home. The next day, after he developed fever, he was taken to Sion hospital and discharged. He was admitted again after his condition worsened, and he died on July 21, 2018. Based on the post-mortem report, the police claimed that Jaiswar had died due to pneumonia. A crime branch’s report had exonerated the Dharavi police personnel of assaulting the teenager. However, his family was not satisfied by the reasoning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-directs-second-post-mortem-of-teen-who-died-in-2018-after-detention-101617565212279.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||UP cops to visit Punjab on Monday to take Mukhtar Ansari’s custody||Uttar Pradesh Police will send a team to Punjab on Monday take custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari.The BSP MLA from Mau, who is wanted in various cases in Uttar Pradesh, has been lodged in the Rupnagar jail in connection with an extortion case registered in Mohali for the past more than two years.The Supreme Court on March 26 directed the Punjab government to hand over Ansari’s custody to Uttar Pradesh Police within 14 days.Earlier in the day, Punjab asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take Ansari’s custody from Rupnagar jail by April 8. In a letter to his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, the additional chief secretary, home, Punjab, said suitable arrangements should be made for the transfer of the prisoner. “The handover is to be made at district jail Rupnagar on/before April 8. Ansari suffers from certain medical conditions and the same may be kept in mind while making arrangements for his transfer from Rupnagar jail to Banda jail in UP,” stated the letter sent on Saturday.Inspector general of police (IGP), Chitrakoot range, Dham K Satyanarayan told reporters that a police team will be sent from Banda (UP) on Monday to take Ansari’s custody. Confirming the development, additional director general of police, Allahabad zone, Prem Prakash said the team will leave on Monday morning with an ambulance.IGP Satyanarayan said details about jail visitors and inmates will be maintained on a daily basis. “Tabs will be kept on people coming from outside to neighbouring districts such as Hamirpur and Chitrakoot. Information will also be gathered about people living in rented accommodations,” he said.To a question of deployment of additional force around the jail, the IGP said it will be done as per the demand of the jail superintendent.SIT formed to probe ambulance caseA special investigation team (SIT) has been set up by Uttar Pradesh Police to further probe the fake documents of the ambulance which was used to ferry Ansari from Rupnagar jail to a Mohali court on March 31.Barabanki superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad on Sunday said the SIT has been constituted under the additional superintendent of police (north).“Some members of the SIT, under the SHO of Haidargarh, have been sent to Punjab. Others have been sent to Mau (in Uttar Pradesh). They will deliberate on various points and will also speak to Dr Alka Rai, whose name was given for the registration of the ambulance.“The SIT will also try to look for the ambulance and its driver. Efforts will also be made to ascertain as to under whose orders the ambulance ferried Ansari from the jail,” the SP said.Amid a row over this issue, a Punjab Police official clarified that an inmate can be transported in a private ambulance on medical grounds and the cost of conveyance has to be borne by the prisoner.On April 2, a case was registered in Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance bearing UP registration number were found to be fake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-cops-to-visit-punjab-on-monday-to-take-mukhtar-ansari-s-custody-101617565152139.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive picks up pace in Punjab, over 2.5 lakh inoculated in 4 days||Of the 10 lakh beneficiaries administered Covid vaccines in Punjab since the commencement of the nationwide vaccination drive, including those with co-morbidities, only 89 experienced minor adversities after inoculation, data released by the state health department shows.The health department also claimed that no ‘severe’ case of adverse effects following immunization (AEFI) was reported in Punjab till Sunday.“Since January 16, nearly 10.63 lakh beneficiaries, including healthcare workers, frontline warriors and people above the age of 45, have been administered vaccine in the state. Of them, nearly 1.3 lakh beneficiaries were co-morbid with diabetes, hypertension and even serious diseases like cancer. Also, 1,21,826 beneficiaries have already taken their second dose of the vaccine cycle. However, only 89 of them experienced minor side effects and complained of fever, body ache, dizziness, headache while no one required hospitalisation due to severe adversities post-vaccination,” said Punjab nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. “The number of people developing fever post-vaccination could be more, but since it is a natural process after immunisation, not many people complain about it to the state health department. Also, the state health department kept a vigil on those 89 people who developed minor AEFI and all of them recovered in a day or two. They are now healthy and satisfied with the vaccination,” he added. Health experts believe that 89 is a ‘minuscule’ and ‘negligible’ number as the AEFI percentage in the state is as low as 0.0089%.“On an average, 30% of those being vaccinated are developing fever, but it is a natural process. Some beneficiaries, especially above the age of 60, experienced shivers, while some complaint of loose stools, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. This can be due to age-related ailments but no major cases, where vaccinated person required hospitalisation, have been reported,” said an Amritsar-based health expert, who didn’t wish to be named. The state nodal officer said at the time when many countries are investigating reports of blood clots among people who received the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid vaccine, no such complications have been reported in Punjab.After the government’s move to include people above 45 years in the vaccination process from April 1, the drive rapidly picked pace in Punjab with 2.5 lakh beneficiaries being inoculated in the past four days.“Since a large population of people became eligible to take vaccine after April 1, more people are coming forward to take the shots. Also, since less incidents of AEFI are being reported, people are now shunning hesitancy and being less apprehensive about the side effects. We are expecting more people to join the drive in coming days,” said Dr Bhaskar.14% beds reserved for Covid patients occupiedWith the active cases increasing rapidly in Punjab amid the second wave of the pandemic, 14% of government and private hospital beds reserved for Covid patients are occupied, data available with the state health department shows.As per health experts, more severe cases with late detection of virus are being reported in the state as a result of which, hospitalisation of patients has also increased in the past few days.The state has reserved 8,400 level-2 beds in government and private hospitals for treatment of moderately ill Covid patients and 1,600 level-3 beds, including the intensive care unit (ICU) beds with or without ventilators, for critical patients.Nearly 1,092 (13%) level-2 beds and 272 (17%) level-3 beds were occupied till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-punjab-over-2-5-lakh-inoculated-in-4-days-101617565033368.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cache of weapons recovered along Pak border in Amritsar||Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday recovered a consignment of weapons from an area across the barbed fence along the India-Pakistan International Border in Amritsar district. Amritsar (rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said, “Specific intelligence inputs were received by Amritsar (rural) DSP (detective) Gurinder Nagra about a cache of weapons that was pushed into the Indian territory through Pul Moran outpost in Dhanoa Kalan village on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.” The smuggler has been identified as Bilal, a Pakistani national, he added. The SSP said teams led by DSP Nagra and Majitha DSP Abhimanyu Rana searched the area in an exhaustive joint operation with the BSF in the wee hours of Sunday. The search operation led to the recovery one FAL 222 rifle with one magazine and nine live rounds; one AK-47 rifle with one magazine and five live rounds; one .303 bore gun with one magazine and seven live rounds; one . 30 bore China-made pistol with one magazine, the press release issued here stated.“The recovery was made at a distance of about 10 metres from the International Border zero line between India and Pakistan. An FIR under sections 3, 34, 20 of the Passport Act, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the smuggler,” the SSP said.As per the SSP, Bilal is closely associated with Sikh hardliners engaged in “anti-India activities” and had also been involved in smuggling previously.Further investigation, including technical analysis, is being conducted to unearth the network of Bilal’s foreign and Indian associates involved in the supply and movement of the consignment, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cache-of-weapons-recovered-along-pak-border-in-amritsar-101617565032086.html
05-04-2021||Other||Six aspiring teachers sent to 1-day jail for disrupting Punjab minister’s rally||A day after members of the ETT-TET Unemployed Teachers’ Union allegedly disrupted Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla’s function in the town, the police produced the six accused in the court of a duty magistrate, who sent them to jail for a day on Sunday.The accused are Balkaran Mansa, Kuldeep Khokar, Jaskaran Mansa, Beant Mansa, Surinder Jalalabad and Gurvinder Mansa. Sangrur city police in-charge Gurvir Singh said that the police initiated inquest proceedings under Section 107 (security for keeping peace) and 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).State president of Unemployed TET-Passed ETT Teachers’ Union Deepak Kamboj said the unemployed men had been protesting in the town for the past three months. However, when the minister failed to resolve the matter of their jobs, they raised slogans at his function. “Our union members were kept at the police station the entire night but the administration did not act against the Congressmen, who thrashed a youth who raised slogans,” he claimed. ----eom---Photo CaptionAspiring ETT teachers raising slogans in police custody in Sangrur on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-aspiring-teachers-sent-to-1-day-jail-for-disrupting-punjab-minister-s-rally-101617564972261.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM writes to Piyush Goyal seeking RDF at 3% of MSP||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution seeking rural development fund (RDF) at 3% of the minimum support price ( ₹54.64/quintal) for the kharif (paddy) season 2020-21, instead of 1%, as per the revised provisional cost sheet issued by the department of food and public distribution. Pointing out that the RDF at 1% of the minimum support price (MSP) was contrary to the statutory provision as per Section 5 of the Punjab Rural Development Act, 1987, the CM, in his letter to Goyal, said the notified RDF was also in conflict with the department letter of February 24, 2020, vide which the revised principles of procurement incidentals were formulated in consultation with the states. “Any unilateral reduction in the RDF rate is neither as per the principles of procurement incidentals nor is it as per the law passed by the legislature of the state, and thus violates the system of federal structure of our nation,” said the CM. Noting that the market fee and RDF levied by Punjab are notified under a law, the CM said the RDF has been disallowed for the first time in the provisional cost sheet issued by the Centre. In a communication in October last year, the state department of food and civil supplies made a detailed representation to the Centre on the RDF, said the CM, adding that in a demi-official letter sent in December, he requested Goyal for early release of the RDF. Subsequently, in a letter sent in January this year, the state government had submitted requisite information sought by the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution in October 2020. Further information sought by department of food and public distribution regarding details of RDF receipt and expenditure during 2018-19 to 2020-21 was submitted last month, said the CM. Amarinder also reiterated that there are statutory provisions for spending the levy collected under the RDF Act and it is beneficial for the development of rural infrastructure, which in turn positively impacts agriculture production and marketing of foodgrains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-writes-to-piyush-goyal-seeking-rdf-at-3-of-msp-101617564792499.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||DBT row leaves wheat growers worried ahead of procurement||Wheat growers are worried about smooth purchase of their rabi produce this season as the Punjab government and the Centre are engaged in a war of words over modes of procurement and payment to farmers.The Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution had informed the Punjab government that Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to farmers is mandatory for the coming rabi (wheat) procurement season. However, the state has refused to implement it, and has sought appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue and defer the scheme for at least one year.A section of cultivators from southern Punjab say they are not averse to payments made through arhtiyas, but the state government should undertake a pilot project of direct bank transfer (DBT) later this year for paddy purchase as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has set an example of hassle-free purchase through online payments for the last two seasons.Wheat procurement is scheduled to start from April 10 as it has been delayed by 10 days due to the Covid-19 surge.A progressive farmer, Baldev Singh, from Bathinda’s Bajak village blames the state and Centre government for uncertainty even as the rabi crop is set ready for harvesting. “Punjab started raking up the issue of DBT a few days before procurement and for the entire year, the central authorities did not make public their follow-ups for implementation of new rules. Direct payment is not possible this time as Punjab has not even initiated any step to collect a database of farmland owners and cultivators. The governments should end the impasse in the interest of farmers and announce procurement through arhtiyas at least for this rabi season,” he said. Jagtar Singh of Mehma Sarja village in Bathinda, who cultivates wheat on nearly 40 acres on lease, said the uncertainty over procurement procedure is mounting pressure on farmers. “I have already paid half of the annual farm contract amount to the landowners and the deadline to settle payments of loans to banks and cooperative societies is April 30. Farmers cannot afford any delay or uncertainty. I will be able to sow cotton and paddy for the next kharif season only if I make the rest payments to landholders. The Punjab government should emulate the method of direct payment adopted by the CCI in the state since 2019. A DBT trial should be undertaken by Punjab for the paddy purchase to buttress its claim of rejection or accepting new rules,” he said.Field officials engaged in procurement also admit a tough season ahead. “Punjab has no land record database distinguishing between owner and cultivators to switch over to the DBT. Also, lack of space and shortage of gunny bags are other challenges ahead of staggering procurement plan,” said an official.According to Jagjit Dhaliwal of Acchadiki in Fazilka, farmers are eyeing the role of the state government for smooth wheat purchase. “Farmers do not resist payment through arhtiyas. But the procurement method and DBT has become a political issue ahead of 2022 elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dbt-row-leaves-wheat-growers-worried-ahead-of-procurement-101617564612389.html
05-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana teen hangs herself from ceiling fan at home||A 13-year-old girl ended her life by hanging herself at her house in Gurmel Nagar of Daba on Saturday evening, police said. Her father, who is a rickshaw-puller, told the police that his daughter, who was their only child, studied in Class 7 at a private school. She was stressed for the past few days, but he was not sure why.On Saturday evening, when he and his wife returned home, they were shocked to see her hanging from the ceiling fan. He raised the alarm and informed the police.Sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur, SHO, Daba police station, said no suicide note was found in the house. The body was moved to the civil hospital for post-mortem examination. Meanwhile, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of the girl’s father.Seventh suicide by a student in three monthsMarch 3: A 14-year-old girl was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her house in Takhran village near Samrala town March 1: A Class 11 student died by suicide in Basti JodhewalFebruary 26: A Class 12 student hanged himself at his house in Ambedkar Nagar hours before his examFebruary 6: Grieving the loss of her friend over a year ago, a 13-year-old girl hanged herself at her house in Guru Nanak Nagar, DabaJanuary 16: Five days later, a student of the same school ended her life at her house in Sangowal village. Instead of informing the police, the family had cremated the bodyJanuary 11: A 17-year-old girl, who studied in Class 12 at a government school, was found hanging in the school’s biology laboratory. She had left a suicide note stating that her parents were planning to get her married, while she wanted to continue her studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teen-hangs-herself-from-ceiling-fan-at-home-101617564492148.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will probe corruption in Congress-ruled Dharamshala MC: BJP||BJP’s state party chief Suresh Kashyap on Sunday said the saffron party, if voted to power, will constitute a high-level committee to probe allegations of corruption in the Congress-ruled Dharamshala municipal corporation. Speaking at the launch of BJP’s vision document for the Dharamshala municipal corporation, which was attended by state party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, MP Kishan Kapoor and forest minister Rakesh Pathania, Kashyap said a primary health centres, open air gymnasiums and libraries will be setup in each of the 17 wards. “Street lights, adequate parking space, cleanliness and hassle-free mobility will be the priority of the BJP-ruled MC,” he said, adding that CCTV cameras would be installed across the town to strengthen security.Sports city “BJP intends to develop Dharamshala as a sports city. We will build a football stadium, shooting range and all-weather ice-skating rink and a world-class Badminton academy in collaboration with Olympian Saina Nehwal,” he said. The BJP chief promised to get rid of stray cattle and setup zonal offices in each ward to redress people’s grievances at their doorstep. He also said that an eco-tourism colony will be set up on Triund Hill, thus creating 500 jobs. He also said that the landless will be provided land to build houses.Taking a dig at the Congress, he said the Opposition had lost its credibility and was a sinking ship with no intent, leadership or policy.He said he was confident about winning all the four municipal corporations that will go to polls on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-probe-corruption-in-congress-ruled-dharamshala-mcbjp-101617564373436.html
05-04-2021||Other||Retired school principal, son held with heroin, intoxicating pills in Ludhiana||A retired school principal and her son were caught with 70gm heroin and 1,500 intoxicating pills at Sardar Nagar on Saturday.Police said two toy guns, five snatched mobile phones and a digital weighing scale were also seized from the accused, identified as Chander Kanta, 71, and her son, Sonu, alias Lovely, 36, residents of Sardar Nagar. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said the accused were arrested following a tip-off. They were headed to deliver the consignment on a scooter when intercepted for checking. Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Daresi police station, said Lovely was already facing trial in six cases of snatching and one case of drug peddling. He had been committing crimes since 2017 and failed to mend his ways despite being arrested in the past. The SHO claimed that the accused had confessed to peddling intoxicating pills since 2019. During questioning, Lovely revealed that his wife had left him due to marital discord. Recently, he visited her in Uttar Pradesh and on his way back, sourced the heroin, toy pistols and 1,500 pills. A case under Sections 21 (B), 22 (B), 29 (1), 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at the Daresi police station. They were produced in court on Sunday and sent to two-day police custody. More important information is expected from the accused during questioning, the SHO said.Secured loans to buy narcoticsThe ADCP said the woman had availed of two loans of ₹1.5 lakh and ₹50,000 after mortgaging her gold jewellery. She used this money to buy the narcotics and sell them further for higher rates. The 71-year-old would accompany her son while delivering the consignments to avoid police suspicion, the police official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-school-principal-son-held-with-heroin-intoxicating-pills-in-ludhiana-101617564372367.html
05-04-2021||Other||Will not compromise with Badals till I am alive: Sukhdev Dhindsa||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, 84, said on Sunday that he has promised the sangat that as long as he is alive, he would not compromise with the Badal family.A long-time veteran Akali, who had parted ways with the SAD after differences over Panthic issues emerged between them, Dhindsa was in town to address the first conference of his newly formed party at Gurudwara Nankiana Sahib in Sangrur. Accompanied by his son and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa, the senior Dhindsa called upon Panth supporters in Punjab to build a common front for the benefit the state.“The SAD led by the Badal family has evoked anger for its betrayal of the Panth and Punjab. By deviating from the Panthic agenda, Sukhbir Singh Badal has severely weakened the community. I will not compromise with the Badals as long as I am alive,” he added. Parminder, a former finance minister of the state, accused chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal of engaging in the politics of ‘false promises’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-not-compromise-with-badals-till-i-am-alive-sukhdev-dhindsa-101617564312887.html
05-04-2021||Other||Drinking session turns ugly, Class 10 student kills man in Ludhiana||A Class-10 student was arrested for murdering a 52-year-old man with a stone in drunken stupor at Grewal Colony, Barota Road, in Daba on Saturday night. The victim, identified as Shiv Kumar, of Grewal Colony, was having liquor with the 16-year-old when he was attacked following an altercation, police said. Hailing from Sultanpur of Uttar Pradesh, Shiv was a factory worker. He lived in Ludhiana by himself, while his brothers would visit him occasionally.“Shiv had invited the boy over for a drinking session. They were consuming liquor while sitting outside his house, when they had a quarrel,” sub-inspector Manjider Kaur, station house officer (SHO), Daba police station.Amid the heated exchange, the teenager picked up a stone and hit Shiv on the head, causing him to lose consciousness. His elder brother, Gobind Parsad, who was visiting him, took him to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Meanwhile, the accused fled the scene.“On being informed, the police initiated investigation and managed to arrest the accused on Sunday. He has been booked under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to the murder) of the Indian Penal Code following a complaint by Parkash Pandey, younger brother of the victim,” the SHO said.The police official said the accused studied in Class 10 at a private school and also worked as a daily wager to support his family. He had an altercation with Shiv on Holi as well. Back then, the 52-year-old and his accomplice had beaten up the teenager, leaving him with a grudge. Police have recovered the stone used in the crime from the spot.The victim is survived by a wife and a 20-year-old daughter, who live in Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drinking-session-turns-ugly-class-10-student-kills-man-in-ludhiana-101617564191992.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||War of words: Jai Ram hurls ‘traitor’ jibe at BJP Mandi MLA||The no-holds-barred battle between chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Mandi legislator Anil Sharma has intensified ahead of the Mandi civic body polls, with Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur labelling the former Congress leader a ‘traitor’. His remarks come a day after the former power minister accused the CM of lying about the development undertaken in Mandi: “Jai Ram Thakur has begun lying in the company of Mahender Singh Thakur. He is making false claims on development of Mandi town,” Sharma had said. The war of words between the two stalwart BJP leaders began when the saffron party did not include Sharma, a local legislator from Mandi, in a panel constituted for the April 7 civic body polls. Instead, the CM entrusted the poll responsibility to Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur. A peeved Sharma had announced that he will defy the party in the elections.Responding to Sharma’s allegation, the CM, who was in Sunderngar on Sunday, alleged that Anil had secretly campaigned in favour of his son, Ashray Sharma, who had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections on a Congress ticket.“First Anil’s family availed benefits while being in the Congress. The BJP also accorded them respect. However, Anil, not only gave up gave up his position in the Cabinet but has rebelled against the party on every front.” Thakur said though Anil’s family had been in politics for a long time, there had been no development in Mandi. “As a BJP legislator, he should have campaigned for the party,” the CM said. Sharma had on Saturday claimed that he was being marginalised. “I was not allowed to share the stage with him (CM). I received no invitation for the historic Shivratri mela. My son made the mistake of contesting on a Congress ticket. Why am I being punished?”Anil had joined the BJP ahead of the 2017 assembly elections along with his father and veteran Congress leader Pandit Sukh Ram. He won the election from Mandi and was made the power minister in Jai Ram’s Cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/war-of-words-jai-ram-hurls-traitor-jibe-at-bjp-mandi-mla-101617564132575.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Alarming dip in Bhakra, Pong levels, BBMB calls meeting of three states||With water level in reservoirs of the Bhakra dam and the Pong dam dipping below respective 40-year average, the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) has called an emergency meeting. Partner states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan will attend this technical committee meeting (TCM), where a plan for conservation of water will be drawn up. A BBMB source said the meeting would take place before April 10. Bhakra and Pong dams are on the Sutlej and the Beas rivers, respectively. The outflow from the two reservoirs is more than the inflow, as there is no rain in catchment areas and there is no prediction of showers. On Sunday, the water level in Bhakhra dam’s reservoir was 1,533.3 feet, 64 feet lower than the level at the same time last year, and nine feet lower than the 40-year average on the same day. Similarly, Pong dam had water level at 298.8 feet, 60 feet lower, and at least 23 feet below its 40-year average.“The water levels have dipped to alarming levels,” said a top functionary of the BBMB, on the condition of anonymity. The drop in water level is also significant from the maximum and the minimum readings: Bhakhra 1,680 and 1,462 feet, and Pong 1,390 and 1,260 feet. The Pong’s water level is critically low as a fall of 30 feet will empty the reservoir. Water levels are receding at rate of a feet per week and the filling season would not begin before June 1, and would extend up to September 20.From Pong reservoir, at least 2,000 cusecs water is flowing into the Indira Gandhi Canal taking water to Rajasthan; another 8,000 cusecs flows into the Nangal hydel channel that takes water to Haryana and Rajasthan, of which 500 cusecs goes to Delhi for drinking purposes.“These days demand in Punjab is negligible. It is, however, expected to increase manifold during paddy sowing season in mid-June,” said a board functionary. POWER GENERATION REDUCED TO HALFOwing to the dip in water level, power generation in Bhakra dam has been reduced to half. Against a daily maximum generation capacity of 28 million units, these days only 12-14 million units are being generated. There are six power houses in the dam, of which three are operational. The maximum outflow from the Bhakra dam touches 25,000 cusecs, as at least 10,000 cusecs is required for paddy sowing. In Pong dam, outflow in peak monsoon touches 12,000 cusecs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alarming-dip-in-bhakra-pong-levels-bbmb-calls-meeting-of-three-states-101617563832085.html
05-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM wants home min replaced: Sena insiders say||Even as the Maharashtra government has constituted a single-member committee to probe the allegations of corruption against Anil Deshmukh levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is keen on replacing the home minister. Shiv Sena insiders said that Thackeray wants Deshmukh to be moved to another department, as he is facing a probe in his functioning as home minister. If not immediately, Deshmukh can be shifted out of the home department as a part of a minor reshuffle of the state cabinet, a senior Sena leader said. However, Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar are yet to discuss the matter, the leader added. The Sena leader, who is a close aide of the CM, said the latter is not happy with the handling of the home portfolio by Deshmukh, which Thackeray had made clear to Pawar in one of their earlier meetings. “Uddhavji had conveyed his desire for change at the helm of the home department. There could be a reshuffle. CM is unhappy with the handling of the [Sachin] Vaze episode. According to CM, the minister did not have a firm grip on the department. We have seen how the leader of Opposition [Devendra Fadnavis] had more information [about the department] than the minister,” said the Sena leader, adding that Thackeray and Pawar would discuss these issues in the coming days. The leader said that this was not the first occasion where the minister had lacked better handling. Thackeray was unhappy with the way actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death probe was handled, as the Opposition had attacked the Shiv Sena and a key cabinet minister in the case. The probe against Deshmukh will be conducted by a panel headed by retired Bombay high court judge Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal. He has been given six months to submit his report to the state government. The panel has been tasked to examine if Singh submitted proofs to establish that Deshmukh or any staffer from his office committed any offence/misconduct as alleged in the former top cop’s letter and whether specific allegations raised by Singh, citing messages from assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil and former assistant inspector Vaze, had any truth and merited investigation by the state anti-corruption bureau or any other agency. The panel can also offer its recommendations that it deems fit. The high-level probe committee, however, has not been constituted under the Commission of Inquiry Act, and thus, the government is not required to make public the report or the actions taken based on its findings. Meanwhile, with back-to-back controversies, including the resignation of Sena minister Sanjay Rathod and the Vaze link to the Antilia and Mansukh Hiran death case has dented the image of the party. With less than a year for the prestigious Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election, Sena’s dented image could become the fodder for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is aiming to wrest control of the civic body from it. However, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the issue has not spoilt the image of the party. “The Opposition has alleged many things, but it is their job to do so. In all this, it is the Opposition’s image and credibility that is hurt. The charges and allegations thrown at Shiv Sena or the government have not landed. Therefore, Shiv Sena’s image has not been hurt anywhere. The Vaze issue is now with National Investigation Agency (NIA), let them probe it. The government has nothing to do with it,” When asked if the Hiran case and Singh’s allegations could have been handled better by the Sena-led government, Raut said, “The government handled the issue in the way it wanted to. Had it been any other government, it could not have handled it in another manner.” A senior Sena functionary said that the learning was to not depend more on administration. “In the entire episode, what comes as learning is that one shouldn’t trust more than it is required. This is applicable from IAS officers to IPS to APIs,” he said. NCP minister and party spokesperson Nawab Malik was unreachable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-wants-home-min-replaced-sena-insiders-say-101617562932044.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Easter celebrated in Chandigarh amid Covid precautions||Easter, which marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ, was celebrated at churches in the city on Sunday with Covid restrictions in place.Speaking about the celebrations, bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said, “This Easter was extra special for us, since we couldn’t celebrate last year. We had organised four services at Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, so that crowds remained manageable. People themselves followed all rules to maintain Covid protocol.”He added that the congregation prayed that Covid is dealt with on a global scale and for those who lost their lives during the pandemic. The church didn’t hold a traditional Easter lunch this time. “However, we had cake and coffee on Sunday. On Saturday, we had provided devotees with Easter eggs and coffee,” he added.At the Christ Church CNI in Sector 18, a function was organised from 11am to 5pm . “We had requested people not to stay in the church for long. Snacks were packed for them to take home,” said secretary Parkash Masih. He added that over 500 people had turned up for the service on Sunday, but it was distributed evenly in various slots, to avoid crowding.Moderator’s Commissionery of the church, reverend Denzal Peoples, delivered the sermon and spoke about encouraging each other during these times, especially the elderly and front-line workers. President of the Tricity Churches Association, Lawrence Malik, spoke about Jesus Christ’s sacrifice and appealed to people to stay together in these tough times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/easter-celebrated-in-chandigarh-amid-covid-precautions-101617562636117.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sitting Dera Bassi MLA to get SAD ticket again||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday announced that current Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma will once again be the party’s candidate from the constituency for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections scheduled next year. While addressing a rally as part of the Punjab Mangda Jawab campaign, he said that Sharma knows each and every street of his constituency and is aware of the problems of residents, which he has always been keen to resolve at the earliest. “Once we form the government, he will be rewarded for the service he is rendering to the people, by being inducted in the state cabinet”. Lashing out at the Punjab government, Badal said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has not visited this assembly segment even once in the last four years. He added that the erstwhile SAD government had spent ₹1,256 crore on its development. The SAD president further alleged that CM had mostly remained absent from office, which had pushed the state back on various parameters. He also said that facilities extended to the people by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had been withdrawn. He added that once SAD comes into power in Punjab, a time-bound inquiry will be initiated into misappropriation of MGNREGA funds. Claiming that SAD will continue to safeguard interests of the people, Badal announced that once the party forms the government in the state, it will not allow implementation of the three agricultural laws. Speaking on the occasion, former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the chief minister had mismanaged the state to such an extent, that its debt has increased by ₹1 lakh crore in four years. She said the government has not fulfilled any of the promises made to the people or increased the outlay of the aata–daal, shagun and old age pension schemes. Senior leaders Sikander Singh Maluka and Daljit Singh Cheema were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sitting-dera-bassi-mla-to-get-sad-ticket-again-101617562632884.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh survey: Participation goes up to 19.5% in Chandigarh||Even as only 19.5% Chandigarh residents participated in the latest Swachh Survekshan 2021 (SS2021), it is a marked improvement from the meagre 3.29% participation last year. Of the 10.26 lakh residents (2011 census), 2.01 lakh gave their feedback. While 4,814 residents used the “Vote for your city” app, another 1.91 lakh used the SS2021 portal.Under SS2021, there are three broad categories on which an MC’s performance is evaluated- service level progress (2,400 marks, 40% weightage), certification (1,800 marks, 30% weightage) and citizen’s voice (1,800 marks, 30% weightage).Citizen’s feedback is one of the five components under citizen’s voice and accounts for 600 marks. It was open for residents from January 1 to March 31, 2021.Indore, which has been adjudged the cleanest city in the country for the last four years, has 48.89% citizen feedback. Mysore has 42.20%, Chandrapur 47.76%, Khargone 41.34% and Jamshedpur 45.14%.In the tricity, 9.63% Mohali residents gave their feedback on the MC’s performance in maintaining cleanliness.Grey areas in survey methodologyAt 126%, Panchkula has recorded more citizen’s feedback than even its population. But, it is not the only one.“This year, findings indicate certain grey areas in the survey methodology. As per analysis of the data shared by the SS2021 portal, a city in Uttar Pradesh, Patiyali, has recorded 949% citizen response. Against a population of 14,000 only, the number of residents that are said to have participated in the survey, stands at 1.3 lakh. There has been a similar situation is in more than dozen cities,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).Swachh Survekshan 2021(SS2021), the sixth edition of the annual cleanliness survey of urban India, is being conducted by ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), covering cities across India. A total of 4,374 cities are participating this year. An important component of Swachh Survekshan is getting citizens’ feedback on the progress made by cities in achieving sanitation and cleanliness. Last year, SS2020 was a one-month survey, that was conducted in January. This year, due to pandemic, there has been a roll-over of two months with assessment considered up to February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survey-participation-goes-up-to-19-5-in-chandigarh-101617562512766.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA sets ball rolling to acquire land in Sector 101||Moving ahead with the acquisition of 500 acres of land for the development of industry in Sector 101, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has started the social impact assessment of the land.In July last year, the Punjab cabinet had given the nod to GMADA’s new land pooling policy for the industrial sector.Social impact assessment (SIA) is a process of identification, analysis and assessment of land to be acquired for development of industry. It analyses, monitors and manages the intended and unintended social consequences, both positive and negative, of planned interventions (policies, programmes, plans, projects) and any social change processes invoked by those interventions.GMADA has already issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act for the said land.A senior GMADA official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have started the SIA process for land acquisition in two villages, Manuli and Durali. Industrial plots will be sized 550 square yards and 1,100 square yards.”On July 22 last year, for the first time, the state government had introduced a land pooling policy for industrial sector development, according to which for every 1 acre of land, land owners would get 1,100 square yards of industrial plots and 200 square yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, in lieu of cash compensation. Earlier, the land pooling was only for residential housing schemes.As per the new policy, the validity of the “Sahuliyat Certificate”, given to land owners opting for the land pooling policy and providing certain benefits to them during purchase of equivalent value of land, would be counted from the date of allotment of plot to the land owner. The previous validity was two years from the date of announcement of award.The certificate entitles a landowner to get exemption from stamp duty, besides certain other benefits/privileges when he/she purchases agricultural land with the sale proceeds from the developed plots obtained under land pooling. The move is in response to the demand of land owners that the validity be applied from the date they are offered physical possession of the plots on the ground that only when the basic infrastructure has been laid does a plot fetch its potential value.Between 2001 and 2017, GMADA acquired 4,484 acre land; 2,145 acres through the land pooling policy, which was introduced in the state in 2008, and has been amended from time to time.GMADA is currently facing the risk of paying an enhanced compensation of nearly ₹9,700 crore as per the decision of the first reference appeal in the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-sets-ball-rolling-to-acquire-land-in-sector-101-101617562391996.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Rental property sector in Noida sees an uptick as migrant population returns||The exodus of the migrant population that resulted after lockdown in the country last year had a huge impact on Noida’s rental and paying guest (PG) accommodation business. As working professionals and students who lived in the city left for their hometowns, brokers and landlords were left scouting for tenants.Upward curve in residential rental incomeKuldeep Singh, a broker in Sector 77, says that the rent for a three bedroom-hall-kitchen (BHK) apartment in the area reduced, from ₹13,000-16,000 earlier to ₹10,000 to ₹12,000 last year.“Between April and July, the situation was so bad that some landlords even reduced their prices to ₹8,000 for a three BHK in Sector 77 in order to earn a rental income during the lockdown,” he said.Industry experts echo the sentiment. Mani Rangarajan, Group chief operating officer (COO) of Elara Technologies that handles housing.com, Proptiger, and makaan.com, agrees, saying, “Many owners have rented out their homes on lower rates in light of Covid-19 to maintain the flow of a second income during these difficult times, especially the ones located in prime hotspots of the city”.Now however, almost a year since the lockdown was imposed, the situation has become better with many renters returning to the city. “From this year, the prices have increased to about ₹14,000-15,000. Though the demand is not the same, but we are hopeful that by June this year, it will get back to its original strength,” adds Singh.Another industry expert says that though work from home (WFH) continues in a majority of offices, the gradual opening of several other sectors has helped revive the market.“With WFH continuing in major IT companies, the downfall in terms of rental housing cannot be ignored. However, there has been a breather for the sector in Noida due to other industries and offices, apart from some IT firms, gradually restarting work-from-office post lockdown,” said Kapil Kapur, director – sales and strategy, Bullmen Realty.Vikram Negi, who works at an IT firm in Sector 62, recently moved with his family from Dehradun to a rented accommodation in Sector 151’s Jaypee Aman.“When my firm switched to WFH last year, I left with my family to our hometown. We used to live on rent in a two BHK in Sagar Apartments in Sector 62 for ₹15,000. Now, our office has started calling upper management employees for a meeting every two weeks so we had to come back. However this time, I did not have an obligation to live in Sector 62 and decided to get a two BHK+study in Jaypee Aman for ₹13,000. I don’t mind the drive to work as it is only twice a month,” says Negi.Besides, industry experts reveal that with remote working becoming a norm, people no longer have the obligation to live near their offices.“The WFH option is not going away anytime soon, and those who were living in two BHK apartments on rent in prime locations near their offices, like sectors 61-62, sectors 126-135 or sectors 91-93 near the NSEZs (Noida Special Economic Zones), are now exploring the two BHK+study apartments further along the expressway towards Sectors 150, 151 and even Noida Extension. The apartments there are bigger but cost the same at about ₹15,000,” says Santosh Agarwal, chief financial officer (CFO) and executive director of AlphaCorp, which has an upcoming project in Sector 150. He adds that a majority of such tenants are families whose children now need a separate study due to classes being held online.Paying guest accommodations struggle to surviveThose who ran PG accommodations for students in Noida have been hit the worst. Rahul Saini, who ran a two-storey PG accommodation in Sector 127, has now switched to letting out his property for rent. His property was majorly used by college students studying at various private universities in Noida.“I used to earn over ₹10,000 from each floor when I ran the PG accommodation. But after lockdown, students left for their hometowns and I had to turn the units into accommodations for renters. Now the rooms are rented for ₹6,000 each which has reduced my income by 40%,” says Saini, who is a resident of Raipur Khadar village in Sector 126.On the other hand, the situation has started to look up for PG operators who cater to working professionals.“Since November last year, our PG accommodation has been partially occupied. However, from February this year, it has been taken up fully as most people working in nearby offices, like in Sector 16, have come back to the city,” says Pankaj Bisht, who runs a PG accommodation in Sector 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rental-property-sector-in-noida-sees-an-uptick-as-migrant-population-starts-coming-back-101617561856509.html
05-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj scientist develops two ‘super wheat varieties’||A 79-year-old genetic scientist at Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Science (SHUATS) has developed two semi-dwarf high yielding wheat varieties—SHIATS-W6 and SHUATS-W10, that are sugar free, high in nutrition, use less water and are resistant to extremes of Indian weather. The senior scientist, Mahabal Ram, a professor (emeritus) at the institute, has also written to the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to ensure wider use of these nutritive-rich super wheat varieties that are already notified by Central Variety Release Committee of the Union Ministry of Agriculture-New Delhi and are under limited cultivation in the state. In his recent letter to CM, the Prayagraj-based scientist has highlighted that the two wheat varieties combine high yield and higher protein, zinc, iron, fiber contents while also being free of sugar (below detection limit) that is ideal for a state like UP that suffers from malnutrition on one hand and challenges of climate change like sudden heavy rains and very dry summers with high temperatures on the other. He has urged that these wheat varieties be distributed to the people under the public distribution system as well. The innovation comes amid growing concern over falling farm output, including that of wheat, owing to rising temperature and unpredictable rainfall. Prof Ram, an eminent geneticist and plant breeder of international repute, said the State Variety Release Committee (UP, Lucknow) has also formally released these two varieties for cultivation. Already thousands of farmers in 11 districts have started cultivating these new wheat varieties. These districts include Prayagraj (Allahabad), Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Ghazipur and Mahoba, he said. “These two wheat varieties can tolerate temperature as high as 40 to 42 degrees Celsius against 30 to 32 degrees of average regular varieties, sown by farmers traditionally. They can even withstand water logging for even 7-8 days and still flourish,” he claimed. Cost of production of these two SHUATS wheat varieties is lower by 30-35% as compared to Centrally (ICAR) released wheat varieties (PBW 343, HD 2967 and DBW 187), he said. Based on grain quality analyses done by CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute Mysuru, SHIATS-W6 has been found to possess Protein (14.31%), Zinc (3.44mg/100g), Iron (3.54mg/100g), Fibre (2.89%) and Sugar-Below Detection Limit (BDL) i.e. free from sugar. Second variety, SHUATS-W10 has been found to possess Protein (12.56%), Zinc (3.19mg/100g), Iron (3.39mg/100g), Fiber (2.49%) and Sugar (0.2%). In the contrast, India’s most famous wheat variety HD 2967 evolved by ICAR-Indian Agriculture Research Institute, New Delhi possesses Protein (12.86%), Iron (2.89mg/100g, Zinc 93.29mg/100g0, Sugar 90.2%0 and poorest in Fiber (0.83%) content. The grain quality data available on internet of winter wheat grown in USA and European countries possesses Protein (13.31%), Iron (3.60mg/100g); lower in Zinc (2.60mg/100g); poor in fiber (1.03%) content and high in sugar (0.41%), he pointed out. Thus, superiority of SHIATS-W6 and SHUATS-W10 in nutritive values is well established over India’s top wheat variety HD 2967 as well as winter wheat grown in western temperate countries. In total carbohydrates, SHIATS-W6 has the lowest value (69.98%). It is followed by SHUATS-W10 (71.44%).On the other hand HD 2967 possesses highest Carbohydrate 75.02% content. In diet, carbohydrates should be less because on digestion, it is converted into sugar. People suffering with diabetes need food lower in carbohydrate, he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-scientist-develops-two-super-wheat-varieties-101617561856015.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal braces for 3 days of thunderstorms, gusty winds||A western disturbance in the region will bring another spell of rain and snow in Himachal Pradesh, officials of the weather department said on Sunday. Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said, “A yellow weather warning had been issued for thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightening in the low and middle hills from April 5 to 7.The region will also witness gusty winds blowing at 30-40 km per hour.” There was a slight increase in day and night temperatures across the state. The minimum temperatures increased by 1-2°C. However, they were 3-4°C below normal. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of the tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state recording minimum temperature of minus 1.8°C while Kalpa in Kinnaur shivered at 1.1°C.The state’s capital, Shimla, recorded a low of 10.5°C while Dharamshala recorded 10.8°C temperature.Popular hill stations, Manali, Palampur Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a temperature of 3°C, 8.5°C , 6.1°C and 2.4°C, respectively. Rain is vital for rabbi crops as the winters were unexpectedly dry. The arid climatic conditions across Himachal have caused extensive damage to crops.In March, the hill-state recorded a cumulative rain deficit of around 62%. About 30-40% wheat crop has been damaged in the state and farmers are staring at huge losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-braces-for-3-days-of-thunderstorms-gusty-winds-101617561733747.html
05-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal polls: Tough contest between TMC, BJP on 31 seats in phase 3||The 31 assembly seats that will go to the polls in the third phase in West Bengal on April 6 are likely to witness a tough battle between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) because of the demographic character of some of the constituencies and strong presence of the ruling party. The polls will be held in Hooghly, South 24 Parganas and Howrah districts. The last two are located adjacent to Kolkata.In Hooghly district, where eight seats are slated to go to the polls, the BJP made sizeable inroads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Actor-turned-politician Locket Chatterjee managed to wrest the Hooghly Lok Sabha seat while the BJP lost the Arambagh seat by about a thousand votes only. Chatterjee, who is one of the four BJP Lok Sabha members in the fray, is now contesting the Chinsurah assembly seat which is part of her Lok Sabha segment. Swapan Dasgupta, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha member who resigned from the Parliament to contest the local elections, is contesting against the TMC’s Ramendu Singha at the Tarakeshwar seat in Hooghly district. “It is now my responsibility to win the seat,” Dasgupta told the local media during a door-to-door campaign on Saturday. In South 24 Parganas district, where as many as 16 assembly segments are going to the polls, several are part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency held by chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. The TMC’s youth wing president held five rallies and roadshows as campaigning came to a close at 5 pm on Sunday. Also read: ‘TMC’s days about to end’ - Adhir Chowdhury urges TMC supporters to join CongressIn South 24 Parganas, many assembly segments, such as Canning East, Baruipur East, Baruipur West and Diamond Harbour, Muslims comprise a sizeable section of the population. While this may make the contest easier for the TMC, since Muslims have backed the party consistently, allegations of corruption during the distribution of relief items for victims of cyclone Amphan has been made the main election issue by the BJP and the Indian Secular Front founded by cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui.Mograhat East, Bishnupur, Mandirbazar, Joynagar, Basanti, Kultali and Canning West are reserved for scheduled caste candidates. In these seats, the Left parties had a strong presence till 2016 and the Marxists are desperate to make a comeback. At Raidighi, CPI(M) stalwart and former minister Kanti Ganguly is contesting the seat again. In Howrah, where the TMC has a strong presence, only seven seats are going to the polls. Out of these, the BJP intends to put up a tough fight at Udaynarayanpur, Jagatballavpur, Uluberia North and Uluberia South. Among the BJP’s other prominent candidates in the third phase are Debjit Sarkar, former president of the party’s youth wing in Bengal, and actress Tanushree Chakraborty who joined the saffron camp only days before her name was announced. While Sarkar is contesting the Jangipara seat in Hooghly, Chakraborty has been fielded from Shyampur in Howrah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-polls-tough-contest-between-tmc-bjp-on-31-seats-in-phase-3-101617561732573.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Think about duties before asking for rights: Ghaziabad admin||To pacify protestors who agitate on the collectorate premises for various reasons, the Ghaziabad administration has started a new initiative.Under this, while receiving the memorandum or charter of demands from agitators, officials will hand over a pamphlet displaying the charter of 10 fundamental duties to them.District magistrate Ajay Shanker Pandey said: “As per our records, over 50 agitations have been held in the last three months at the mandated dharna-sthal in the Collectorate, including by farmers’ unions, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and parents’ associations. They claim that demonstration is their right, but the district administration wants to remind them about the 10 fundamental duties – expected to be followed by all bona-fide citizens,” he said.He further said that with this move, people will understand the reciprocal relation between fundamental rights and duties. “So far, it has put a positive impact on demonstrations in the collectorate premises as they have started abiding by the law more and the participants remain peaceful,” Pandey said.Meanwhile, activists and residents welcomed this move. Zakir Hussain, district vice-president of Jan Adhikar Party, said it was the best possible way to pacify the demonstrators. “How can a group of agitators be violent if district officials hand them over a pamphlet of fundamental duties, instead of ordering lathi-charge? This is the real Gandhigiri,” he said.Echoing similar views, Archana Lal, a college teacher living in Vasundhara, said by adapting this innovative way, the admin has given a message of making proper coordination between fundamental rights and duties. “It’ll motivate the common people to feel that they must be able to deserve before making any desire,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/think-about-duties-before-asking-for-rights-ghaziabad-admin-begins-a-new-way-to-tackle-demonstrators-101617561673843.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police go all out to crack down on Covid violators||From booking owners of pubs, restaurants and banquets to recommending the cancellation of licences, the Delhi Police have begun conducting special drives against those violating Covid-19 safety protocols amid a surge in infections in the national capital.The Delhi Police said at least 17 FIRs were registered against owners of restaurants, pubs and banquets across Delhi on Saturday evening and four were arrested.As many as 173 challans were slapped on people at restaurants, pubs and banquets on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. While 118 challans were issued to the owners, staff and visitors at various restaurants in Delhi, 48 challans were issued to violators at banquet halls and seven such challans at night clubs, said Delhi Police.Comparatively, a month ago on March 4, the Delhi Police issued just 65 challans for Covid-19 protocol violations across all places in Delhi.Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for Delhi Police, said the action against violators of Covid-19 protocols is being stepped up in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The city reported over 3,500 new infections on Friday and Saturday each.“We are particularly checking restaurants and bars on weekend evenings because there is usually more crowd that time. The crackdown on violators will continue throughout the week,” said Biswal.In some districts, the police went on to recommend cancelling the licences of some restaurants. In south-east and north districts, the police wrote to the respective municipal corporations, the licence department and the excise department to cancel the licences issued to four businesses. “We have cited Covid-19 violations as the reason for cancelling the licences of two night clubs,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for south-east.Anto Alphonse, DCP (north), said while his district has fewer restaurants and bars, two restaurants in the Civil Lines were most likely to lose their licences. ”We have fewer restaurants and large markets with high footfall. In the last 10 days, we have issued 1,500 challans,” said Alphonse.In south-east district, the police registered 10 FIRs against owners of some clubs, bars, cafes and restaurants -- including some popular ones in places like Nehru Place and Amar Colony-- on Saturday night. In west Delhi too, the police booked owners of five restaurants and bars between Saturday evening and midnight.In New Delhi district, the police carried out special drives both on Friday and Saturday in establishments where high footfall was expected. Owners of four restaurants were booked for not ensuring compliance to Covid-19 safety norms. The police also visited Khan Market and a five-star hotel in New Delhi district to prosecute 12 visitors for not wearing face masks.“Some of these restaurants were not ensuring social distancing among customers in their premises. Some didn’t even have sanitizers. In another place, the staff was serving food without masks or hand gloves. We will be intensifying our action in the coming days,” said Vikas Kumar, additional DCP, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-go-all-out-to-crack-down-on-covid-violators-101617561672680.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Police probe demolition of Sai Baba idol in Shahpur Jat||Delhi Police on Sunday said they had launched a probe in the video in which a man is spotted hammering and demolishing the statue of Sai Baba — a spiritual leader revered by the Hindus — inside a temple in south Delhi’s Shahpur Jat.The alleged perpetrator can be heard saying that Sai Baba was a Muslim, as he takes hammer swings at the idol in the viral video that surfaced online last week.According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the police began their enquiry into the incident after receiving a complaint from a bunch of local devotees. “We are looking into the incident. We are yet to register a case,” said Thakur.While the police said that the people they interrogated so far have claimed that the idol was already “khandit” or broken and was to be replaced, the a middle-aged man dressed in a pale-blue shirt captured on the video, identified as Padam Panwar, can be heard saying that he decided to get the idol removed as Sai Baba was a Muslim.“I personally got the statue installed in 2009. But now that I got to know that Sai Baba was a Muslim, I got the statue removed. Sai Baba was no God, he was a common man,” Panwar, 55, is captured saying on the video,Panwar said he lives in Shahpur Jat itself and has a real estate business.In the video doing rounds on social media, Panwar first instructs a worker to uproot the idol with a crowbar. He then wields a hammer himself and hits the statue multiple time, before talking to the camera and stating that Sai Baba was no god, but a Muslim.A second video later emerged in which Panwar is purportedly seen in the company of Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati — a priest of Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad — who was booked by the Delhi Police on Saturday for allegedly making inflammatory comments against the Prophet at a press conference.Saraswati couldn’t be reached for a comment on the issue, with Delhi police also stating that they were yet to ascertain if Panwar was the man seen in the other undated video with Saraswati. Contacted, Panwar, however, said it was indeed him in the video.“This temple was constructed by my ancestors even before Sai Baba was born. But I have got to know now that he was a Muslim. He cannot share the same space that is occupied by Hindu gods,” said Panwar.Panwar claimed that he was questioned by the police on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-probe-demolition-of-sai-baba-idol-in-shahpur-jat-101617561673191.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Supporting farmers curbed my powers in Delhi: CM Kejriwal||Stating that the Centre has curbed his powers in Delhi as he extended support to the farmers protesting against the agricultural reforms, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that he is ready to “make the supreme sacrifice” for the farmers.Addressing a mahapanchayat at Jind, Kejriwal said, “The Union government has been pressuring me to convert nine stadiums in Delhi into temporary jails for farmers who reached Delhi’s borders on November 26 last year. I had refused the Delhi police’s proposal. The Haryana government, on the other hand, dug up roads to stop the farmers from marching towards the Capital and even resorted to lathi-charge. Where the UP police snapped all facilities on their side of the border, the Delhi government made arrangements for water, toilet, electricity and free wi-fi for the farmers.”He added, “I called up Rakesh bhaisahab (Tikait) and asked him not to break down as we provided all facilities within an hour to the farmers.”“I had to bear the brunt of supporting the farmers’ movement as the BJP government at the Centre snatched my powers and gave it to the Lieutenant Governor. The people of Delhi have given me enough mandate to solve their issues but the government has given powers to LG. There seems to be no importance for an elected representative,” he added.The Delhi chief minister further said the real patriots are those supporting the farmers while those standing against them are ‘traitors’.Speaking about the lukewarm response at the rally, the AAP supremo said farmers have blocked all roads in the state to lodge their protest against the Haryana government, which had directed the police to lathicharge farmers in Rohtak a day earlier. “I have come here to thank the people of Haryana for leading the agitation with the brothers of Punjab. I condemn the Rohtak incident where police used force on the protesters,” said Kejriwal.Also Read | Centre should withdraw NCT Bill, restore powers of Delhi govt: Mallikarjun Kharge‘They have power, no intention to serve’ Stating that his government has been able to bring in more development than the states ruled by the BJP, Kejriwal said, “They have formed governments in many states and at the Centre too but they have failed to bring development projects. In the last seven years, the BJP government failed to construct new schools, hospitals or other institutions. Our government has worked many times more than the combined works done by the BJP governments in other states. They have more powers but have no intention to do work, but we have less power and clear intention to serve the people.”“If our government can provide water, education, health and electricity free of cost, why could the BJP and Congress government not do so for the last 75 years? I have only one dream—that is to make India the number 1 country in the world,” he added.MP Sushil Gupta trains guns on Khattar Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said, “The BJP leaders called farmers terrorists, Khalistanis and traitors. But the sons of these farmers are protecting our borders. Haryana chief minister should speak about his roots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supporting-farmers-curbed-my-powers-in-delhi-kejriwal-101617561671496.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Row after Messi images painted over street art||The wall leading to the entrance of the primary municipal corporation school in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village is painted with “Clean India” slogans, and the back of the school’s building now has murals of footballer Lionel Messi – as part of a campaign launched by Budweiser India.Three such murals have come up in the neighbourhood in the past one month. At least two of the new artworks were painted over existing murals created by artists Okuda San Miguel and Mariusz Waras in 2014.On Saturday, several artists – under the banner of St+art India Foundation, which works to promote street art, shared pictures of the murals on social media, raising concerns over “advertising in the name of street art” and promoting an alcohol brand on a school building.Hanif Kureshi, artistic director at the foundation, said: “We had painted the school in 2014 by collaborating with the famous Spanish artist Okuda. Now, in the name of art and football, this is like subconsciously advertising alcohol by removing iconic artwork. We are not targeting a specific company, but any brand should not use public walls for such purposes. It defeats the purpose of street art.”The mural on the building, made by Okuda, consisted of a mix of geometric patterns and animals in bright colours to depict the theme of “spiritual capitalism”. According to the artist, the artwork aimed to show the conflict between roots and capitalism by using forms of animals revered in Indian culture, such as monkeys, cows and bears.On Sunday, that wall, which faces the HKV parking lot, had a mural covering almost the entire length of the three-storey school building depicting Messi’s journey. It includes details on his life, like his birthplace Rosario, Argentina and his youth team. A young “Leo” is also seen holding hands with an elderly lady, and standing with a football under his right foot. In the far right corner of the mural is a QR code that provides the link to the website ‘budspace.in’, which now states that The Budweiser Road to Glory campaign is over.Despite repeated attempts, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) press director, Sanjay Sahay, did not comment.Deavinder Kumar Chaudhary, president of HKV-Residents Welfare Association, said: “They had come to us to seek permission saying they wanted to make football-related artwork. So we allowed them. We don’t want any controversy, so if there is something related to liquor, they have misled us and I will get it removed tomorrow [Monday] itself.”Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said: “No such murals or paintings which directly or indirectly promote liquor are allowed on any of our school walls. We are checking if any permission was sought to create this mural on our school wall.”A Budweiser India spokesperson said that they believed in the “power of art” and wanted to show Messi’s journey to inspire people.“As part of curating these murals, we reached out to multiple artists including St+art India, and collaborated with artists that met our creative and commercial direction through these illustrations that they curated over months. Our aim was always to offer the insider perspective into the G.O.A.T’s (greatest of all time) iconic journey and inspire fans through creative murals that celebrated his journey. As part of curating these murals, we ensured that these walls are first restored and will continue to support the creator community,” the spokesperson said.Kureshi said that they had been approached for the same campaign in August last year. “They (Budweiser) had contacted us and wanted to do 100 murals. We said at that point that they had to do something meaningful and not just paint anything because then it would be outright advertising. It was a difference of vision and there was no further communication on it,” he said.Meanwhile, a group of graffiti artists defaced two of the Messi murals in the area on Sunday.Kulveen Trehan, who teaches advertising to postgraduate students and research scholars at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, said: “Liquor brands often roll out campaigns where their product is not mentioned i.e. surrogate advertising as they are not allowed to advertise liquor directly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-after-messi-images-painted-over-street-art-101617561613610.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Missing 3-year-old found dead in Ganga canal in Bulandshahr||Greater Noida: A three-year-old child, who went missing four days ago from outside his house in Dadri, was found dead inside a canal in Bulandshahr on Sunday morning. The police and the victim’s family suspect that the boy was allegedly kidnapped and murdered. According to the family members, they did not get any ransom call.The family of the victim placed the body on a road on Sunday afternoon, and held a protest demanding the arrest of the suspects involved in kidnapping and murdering the child.The three-year-old lived with his family in Dadri. His father, who works in Greater Noida as an engineer, said his son and two elder daughters — aged five and six — were playing outside their home on Wednesday. “The three were eating ice-cream outside the house around 10.30am. My son stayed outside while the girls returned. After some time, we came out and could not find him. We searched our neighbourhood, and informed our friends and relatives, but failed to trace him,” Munendra said.Sub-inspector Johar Singh said the Dadri police have registered a case of abduction against an unknown person under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 363. “We could not find the boy in the neighbourhood. The Bulandshahr police informed us on Sunday that it found a child’s body,” he said.The victim’s family visited Bulandshahr and identified the child by his clothes and shoes.Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police, Bulandshahr, said the local police had spotted the body floating in the Ganga canal in Bulandshahr police station area. “The canal route connects Greater Noida with Aligarh, via Bulandshahr. It appears someone killed the boy and dumped his body three days ago, as it was swollen,” Singh said, adding that the body was sent for post mortem, and the report is awaited.The report will be shared with the Noida police for further investigation, Singh added.Meanwhile, Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said a police team is at the spot of the protest by the victim’s family, held between 3:45pm and 6pm. The protesters cleared the road after the police assured them of swift action in the case. “We are investigating the matter, and the suspects will be arrested soon,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/missing-3-year-old-found-dead-in-ganga-canal-in-bulanshahr-101617561612542.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Noida board meeting to be held on April 9||NOIDA: The Noida authority is scheduled for a board meeting on April 9, during which it might approve a proposal that allows it to acquire agricultural land from owners through ‘land pooling’ policy.Once the proposal is approved, land needed for infrastructural, industrial and other developmental projects will be acquired via this policy.Officials said this policy will help acquire land in a litigation-free manner with ease, help the authority ready a land bank, and use the ready land for setting up industrial and IT-enabled units. The authority wants to adopt this policy as it has a task at hand to acquire 20,000 hectares of agricultural land in 80 more villages. The policy will make it easier for the authority to ready developmental land as officials said they believe that farmers will be happy with it because it gives them an opportunity to become stakeholders in the projects.“In land pooling, farmers have a choice to take back some part of developed land for his use or earn rent. As a result, it will be in favour of farmers and make the land acquisition task easier,” said Santosh Kumar Upadhyay, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Under this police, land will be acquired at those sites where at least 80% farmers are willing to give up the same. Besides, the authorities can acquire the remaining 20% land by using the 2013 Land Act provisions. At least 25 acres or above sized land should be given priority under this policy and the land should be located at an 18 metres or wider road so that parking and other supporting services can be developed. Instead of money for their land, the policy allows the authority to provide 25% of developed land out of the total acquired to a farmer. Farmers will have the right to use 80% of the land (out of 25% developed) for industrial usage, 12% for residential and 8% for commercial use. If they so wish, the farmers are free to sell it to anyone, including to the government. Once a farmer applies, the CEO will form a committee that will address the farmers’ application suitably. The authority will give a rent of ₹5000 per month for an acre of land to farmers until the owners do not get the developed land.“This policy will help in development of new Noida, where 20,000 hectares of land needs to be acquired in 80 new villages towards Bulandshahr,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-board-meeting-to-be-held-on-april-9-101617561613042.html
05-04-2021||Lucknow||Rising Covid cases: Univs, colleges in state capital switching to online classes||In the wake of spike in Covid cases in the last few days, many universities and colleges in the state capital are switching back to online teaching. They include Lucknow University, Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti (KMC) Language University, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Avadh Girls’ Degree College and IT College among others. KMC Language University has decided that classes for all its undergraduate courses will be run online while classes for PG, B Tech and PhD will be in offline mode. “Teachers taking online classes will have to send a record of what they had taught to students on daily basis to my office,” said vice chancellor prof Vinay Kumar Pathak.Besides, the university has formed a committee to interact with other universities on how the classes will be carried forward in days to come. “All teachers above 45 should get themselves vaccinated. The university will soon call a team of doctors to carry out Covid test on teachers,” prof Pathak added.Likewise, AKTU has decided to shift to online or offline or a mix of both media to conduct classes in the wake of rising Covid cases. The university has empowered its affiliated engineering colleges to decide on taking theory and practical classes either online or offline as per Covid situation in their areas. The university has further asked the colleges to ensure that Covid protocol is followed strictly.Regarding students living in hostels, the university has suggested to allot one room per student on the basis of merit. Lucknow University was among the very first universities to switch to online classes. They will continue with online teaching till April 10. The LU has also postponed its undergraduate first semester examination beginning April 6.Taking a cue from the Lucknow University, a number of degree colleges, including Avadh Girls’ Degree College and IT College, have also switched to online mode. “National PG College has also switched to online mode besides postponing its examination lined up from April 5,” said Dr Rakesh Jain, the college’s admission coordinator. After a number of teachers at degree colleges affiliated to the Lucknow University tested Covid positive, the Lucknow University Associated Colleges Teachers’ Association (LUACTA) chief urged the district administration to take action against the colleges not switching to online mode.
05-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s widest fountain to open near AIIMS next month||The widest fountain of Delhi-NCR, located near the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) flyover, is likely to be made operational from May onwards, officials of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which is giving shape to the project, said.The fountain, which has already missed two deadlines, will be located near the steel sprouts on the lawns near the AIIMS flyover. The fountain is coming up in one of the two lawns located on either side of the busy Aurobindo Marg near AIIMS flyover and East Kidwai Nagar.According to NDMC officials, major construction work of the project has been completed, and only some finishing touches and landscaping work remained before the project is thrown open next month.A senior NDMC official associated with the project said that the fountain will be cascading and has been built around the large steel sprouts. It has a circumference of 90-metres thus making it the city’s widest fountain installed at a public place.“We have completed the construction work and are now testing the plumbing and lighting. Also, the work to improve the landscape with the use of ornamental and flowering plants and the grass is going on. These are all finishing touches and will be completed this month. We are planning to open the fountain from next month,” the NDMC official, said requesting anonymity.The official said that a request for the inauguration of the fountain will be sent to higher NDMC authorities later this month. “They will then decide the date of the opening ceremony,” he added.In one of the lawns facing the East Kidwai Nagar redevelopment project, a 35-foot-high steel artwork — comprising eight big stainless-steel sprouts — was installed in 2008. In the lawn opposite to it, 80 smaller sprouts were installed.Officials said that after the redevelopment of Kidwai Nagar, the landscape of the area has changed. So the civic body has decided to develop the area with the help of fountains, flowers, and decorative lightings.The project was planned in May 2018 and as per initial plans, the civic corporation was to dismantle the iconic steel sprouts near AIIMS to make space for the water fountain. A few months later, however, the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) rejected the proposal and directed the NDMC not to remove the steel sprouts. After that, the NDMC re-worked the design and decided to retain the sprouts.Officials said that the project was supposed to be completed by May 2020 but was delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The deadline was then extended to January 2021, which again couldn’t be met because of labour shortage.“During the lockdown period, the work on the project had stopped completely. Work finally resumed in September last year, but then too progress remained very slow because of a shortage of labourers, many of whom had gone back to their hometowns. The project was fast-tracked towards the end of 2020 and is likely to be opened next month,” said a second NDMC official, associated with the project said.Neeraj Gupta, president Delhi Art Society, however, believed that improving the decor of an important with the help of a fountain was a bad idea. He said that the AIIMS roundabout is among the most important locations of the city and such places should be developed aesthetically with artwork in such a way so that every visitor felt connected to the city.“There are already a number of fountains in the city. Instead of constructing a large fountain here, authorities should have showcased Delhi’s history and its contribution to the country’s freedom struggle through modern art sculptures and other artworks. Artworks are like magnets, they draw the public and feel them connected to the area,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/citys-widest-fountain-to-open-near-aiims-next-month-101617561611955.html
05-04-2021||Other||Shopkeeper shot at for objecting to man’s smoking, 3 held||A shopkeeper was shot at his knee for objecting to a man, who was smoking outside his building, in South Delhi’s Zakir Nagar on March 28. Police on Friday evening arrested the key suspect and his two associates when they were on their way to meet the victim and pressurise him to withdraw the complaint registered against them, said police. Police said the three men shot twice at Mohammad Ahmad (28), who sustained an injury on his knee and will survive.  Ahmad lives with his family in Zakir Nagar and runs a general store on the ground floor of his building. On March 28, he noticed a young man, later identified as Salman alias Pollard, smoking right outside his building. “There was a heated exchange between them when Ahmad asked Salman to not smoke outside his building. Salman left, but soon returned with two men, Yasir and Danish,” said R P Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). According to the DCP, Yasir and Danish are close associates of an alleged notorious gang leader, Taslimullah Khan, who has been on the run for a while. The duo is allegedly involved in murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping and arms cases, said police. Police said Salman and his two associates started abusing Ahmad and asked him to come out of his house. “When I came out to my balcony, one of them fired at me twice. One bullet missed me but the other hit me on the knee,” said Ahmad.Soon after the firings, the suspects fled the spot while Ahmad was rushed to AIIMS trauma centre in a PCR van.Subsequently, the police registered an attempt to murder case and scanned CCTV footage to identify the suspects. Police received information that the suspects fled to Darbhanga in Bihar to escape arrest. “We arrested them after receiving a tip-off that they were on their way to visit Ahmad to ask him to withdraw his case,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shopkeeper-shot-at-for-objecting-to-man-s-smoking-3-held-101617561553523.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||Learning will be hit, say students who will take board exams next year||The Delhi government’s order to continue teaching-learning activities in online and semi-online mode for the new academic session in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city has left students of Class 10 and 12 worried.On Sunday, the city recorded over 4,033 cases with a positivity rate of 4.64%.Students said that the recent order by the government, will impact their board examination preparations for next year and leave them at a disadvantage.One such student, Vansh Arora, 15, a Class 10 student of The Indian School, said he too was looking forward to going to school as his seniors had been called back for practical classes and doubt-clearing sessions in January. However, the Delhi government latest circular, released on Thursday, left him “disappointed.”“Unstable internet connection leads to constant disruptions, which impacts our concentration. Our teachers are trying their best to use various technological tools, but offline classes are more suitable for senior classes. Besides, there is little clarity if we will have the entire syllabus to study or if the reduced syllabus introduced last year will continue,” he said.For government school students, the situation is more challenging as the final examinations of class 9 and 11 students are yet to take place — effectively meaning that they are yet to start their Class 10 and 12 lessons. Tanya Garg, 16, a student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Shalimar Bagh, who will be appearing for her Class 11 final examination in May, said, “The classes in the previous years started in April. All my classmates are stressed because we will start our session in July this year and may have to cover the entire syllabus in a shorter duration of time, that too in online mode. I study using my smartphone and there are a lot of distractions during online classes. Offline classes would have helped students more.”A primary concern among several students is whether the syllabus rationalization that was introduced by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in July last year would continue. The CBSE, in order to mitigate academic losses caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, had reduced the syllabi of classes 9 to 12 by 30% for the academic session 2020-21, while retaining core concepts.Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations of CBSE, said, “The syllabus rationalisation was a one-time measure only for the extraordinary situation last year, which caused academic losses. Last year, people did not have the methodology to conduct classes. But this year, schools are better prepared to conduct online classes so there may not be academic losses. So as of now, the entire syllabus is in place.”Teachers at Delhi government schools are also concerned as many among their students would have to continue to rely on worksheets and WhatsApp lessons during a crucial academic year.Vandana Mittal, who has been teaching Mathematics in Class 10 at Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8 for the last two decades, said the teachers will be forming new strategies to help students.“We have learnt something about the learning pattern of children in the last one year, even after they returned to school for two months. So the focus during online classes will be on core concepts, which we can explore once they come to school for offline lessons in a staggered manner. However, since we may have to cover the full syllabus, we expect the number of working days [in school lessons] to be more than last year. Otherwise, it will be difficult.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, also expressed concern for students starting their class 10 and 12 in the 2020-21 academic session. “For these children, contact with teachers, peers and regular classes has been limited for over a year. It is an area of concern, because these students need a few physical classes with their teachers even if it is in smaller batches and in a staggered manner.”Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents’ Association, however said it was better to hold online classes. “Most parents approve of the decision and are satisfied with the order considering the rising number of cases in the city,” she said.Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in ICMR, said, “Younger children don’t get the illness but are spreading the infection. Children in adolescent and higher age groups are spreading infection and also getting ill and we need to be careful about them. If we open schools for higher classes, chances of spread can increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/learning-will-be-hit-say-students-who-will-take-board-exams-next-year-101617561552774.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula district records 200 Covid cases for first time||With 200 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, Panchkula district recorded the highest single-day spike since the outbreak last March. It also took the tricity’s daily tally to 870, just second to the all-time high of 889 recorded two days back. In view of the surge, the Panchkula health authorities urged people to show “responsible” behaviour by wearing masks and avoiding gatherings.Meanwhile, after a 53-year-old woman from Sector 7, Panchkula, succumbed to the virus on Sunday, the district’s death toll reached 155. Though the number of deaths has seen no spike so far, doctors expect a rise in the number of critical patients if the cases continue to rise at the current rate.The numbers have been on the upswing since March, which witnessed a seven-fold increase from the February figures. The present surge is turning out to be even more serious than the first one in September last year, when the number of cases never touched the 200 mark.The total has now climbed to 13,653, of which 1,091 cases are active, among highest in Haryana. Even as 12,407 patients have been cured and discharged, the recovery rate has dropped to 90.8% from 97.4% on March 1.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “We are focusing on testing, tracking and isolation of cases. Earlier, we were conducting around 1,000 tests per day. In the past three days, the number has been bumped up to 2,000. Our teams are also contact tracing 60-70 people every day and putting them in home isolation.”The authorities have conducted 2.23 lakh tests to date, of which 1,721 were done in the past 24 hours.“We are identifying clusters, like one at a school where 15 people tested positive. We are trying our best, but also need cooperation from the people,” said Dr Kaur, while urging citizens to wear masks and avoid any kind of gathering, be it a wedding, religious ceremony or other congregation.341 new cases, 1 death in ChandigarhA day after the Chandigarh health department termed the present wave “more infectious and virulent” that could send more people to hospitals with moderate to severe disease, the UT recorded 341 cases, highest since the first wave last September.While the total has reached 28,194, death toll climbed to 383 after a 52-year-old woman from Sector 19 succumbed. She also had severe lung disease. With 352 people discharged on Sunday, the number of those recovered rose to 24,661 (87.4%). The number of active cases stands at 3,150, inching towards the all-time high of 3,171 recorded on September 16.The health authorities have conducted 3.2 lakh tests so far, including 2,738 in the past 24 hours.Four more succumb in Mohali, 329 test +ve Mohali district, which has been recording 300+ cases daily for nearly a month, reported 329 more on Sunday. The peak was reached two days back with 419 cases. Meanwhile, the death of four patients took the toll to 446. As many as 28,210 patients have tested positive so far, of whom 3,592 are yet to recover, highest in the tricity. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases in the district, with 220 on Sunday, followed by 67 in Dhakoli and 24 in Kharar. With 262 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered has reached 24,172 (85.6%). Amid the surge, the administration will start random sampling at all government and private schools from Monday. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said samples of both teachers and students will be taken. “Teams have been constituted under the supervision of subdivisional magistrates. To ramp up testing and contact tracing, the schedule has also been put in place to cover other targeted locations, including housing societies and service industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-district-records-200-covid-cases-for-first-time-101617561552257.html
05-04-2021||Delhi||All trains on 3 metro lines to have 8 coaches: DMRC||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will be adding 120 additional coaches to convert the remaining six-coach trains to eight-coach trains across the Red, Yellow, and Blue Lines of the metro network, said officials aware of the development on Sunday.The conversion is aimed at increasing the carrying capacity of these three metros lines, which contribute almost 40-50% of the passenger load on a daily basis.The exercise is expected to be completed by the end of this year, after which all the trains running on these lines will have eight coaches only, stated the DMRC in a written statement.Currently, the Delhi Metro has a fleet of 336 trains, comprising 181 six-coach trains, 133 eight-coach trains and 22 four-coach trains across all its corridors. The first eight-coach train was introduced on the Blue line in December 2010.The Yellow Line, that comprises 12 trains of six coaches, will be converted by the end of the month, thereby taking the total number of eight-coach trains on this line to 64. Subsequently, the nine six-coach trains on the Blue Line and 39 six-coach trains on the Red Line will have eight coaches by the end of this year, taking the total number of eight-coach trains on these lines to 74 and 39 respectively.Of the 120 coaches, 40 coaches have been procured from Bombardier, and 80 coaches from Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML). All three lines (Red, Yellow and Blue) were built on a broad-gauge during phase I of the metro project, which offers the provision of running trains with eight coaches. The remaining lines of the metro and the Airport Express Line, which were subsequently taken up in phase-II and phase-III, are all built on a standard gauge that allows trains to run with six-coach formation only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-trains-on-3-metro-lines-to-have-8-coaches-dmrc-101617561491430.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Come April 15, pay fine for wasting water in Mohali||To address water shortage this summer, the Mohali municipal corporation on April 15 will start issuing challans to people found wasting it. The restrictions will remain in place till June 30, and will also cover Sectors 66-69 and 76-80, where the MC had taken over water supply and sewerage from Greater Mohali Area Development Authority on January 1.According to the notice, watering lawns and washing courtyards and vehicles are prohibited between 5:30am and 8:30am. Violators will get a notice for the first offence. If it is repeated, a challan of ₹1,000 will be imposed. Three-time offenders will have to pay ₹2,000. “If a consumer is found violating the norm for the fourth time, the water connection will be disconnected without notice. To get it restored, violators will have to pay ₹5,000 along with an affidavit. We will be forming teams within a week to implement the order,” said Harpreet Singh, executive engineer, MC.Mohali, on an average, requires 30MGD (million gallon daily) of water, but the supply is limited to 20MGD:10 MGD from the Kajauli waterworks and an equal amount from 75 tubewells. During the peak of summer, the demand reaches 32MGD, causing a shortfall of 12MGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/come-april-15-pay-fine-for-wasting-water-in-mohali-101617561252056.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Noida authority launches crackdown against illegal construction activities||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said that it has launched a crackdown against illegal construction activities and businesses operating in violation of land use norms across the city. On Sunday, the authority demolished parts of a newly built six-floor building located at Barola in Sector 49 after it found out that the construction was done on a land identified as enemy property. Enemy property is owned by the government because it was of people who left it and chose to go to Pakistan during the 1947 Partition, authority officials said. “We are taking action against all kinds of buildings, which are being built in violation of laid down rules. We have demolished some parts of this building in Barola as it is being built in violation of norms,” said Santosh Kumar Upadhyay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.The authority has also decided to remove all nurseries operational across the city in violation of rules. “The crackdown against illegal nurseries will continue until we demolish all of them,” Upadhyay said. According to the authority, it has removed 15 nurseries built on government land in last one month and the 20 others will be removed in the next one month.“We have demolished 15 nurseries, which were operational on the government land with an intention to grab the land. Now, we will demolish another 20 nurseries, which are operational on private land not meant for commercial activities,” said another Noida authority official, not authorized to speak to media.The authority has also decided to demolish the structures, which are being constructed without any approval of the town planning department, the officials said.As far as the issue of building on enemy property in Barola is concerned, the authority has planned to demolish remaining part soon. “We have filed an FIR against those who have built this building on enemy property. We have also sealed it. Now, further action will be taken once we measure the area of land identified as enemy property,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-launches-crackdown-against-illegal-construction-activities-101617561131422.html
05-04-2021||Mumbai||3000 additional Covid-19 beds operationalised in Mumbai hospitals: BMC||With the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has appealed to Mumbai residents to not wait for hospitalisation as per their choice of hospital."We appeal to citizens by issuing press note not to wait for hospitalization as per their choice of hospital, they should occupy beds wherever available for immediate treatment if they are symptomatic as the treatment protocol is similar everywhere. The patients are getting critical while waiting for the choice of their hospital", says the BMC.BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal informed that the number of beds available for allotment has gone up from 12906 to 15971.Singh also stated that BMC has operationalised additional 3000 DCHC/DCH Covid-19 beds in various hospitals under it in the last 7 days."4160 beds were vacant for allotment last night at 11.17 pm. We have also operationalized 30 CCC2 facilities for asymptomatic positive patients in the last seven days with the capacity to accommodate 4600 patients. Another 18300 CCC2 beds are available in reserve with us", the BMC said.Maharashtra reported 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, 37,821 recoveries, and 277 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday.As many as 9,090 fresh infections were recorded in Mumbai today. The city reported 5,322 recoveries and 27 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3000-additional-covid-19-beds-operationalised-in-mumbai-hospitals-bmc-101617560721567.html
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans year-round drive to curb water wastage||Instead of the usual drive against water wastage during summers in Chandigarh, the municipal corporation is planning to extend it throughout the year.In view of an increase in water demand in summers, watering of lawns and washing of courtyards and vehicles with hosepipes are prohibited from April 15 to June 30 every year, and fine is imposed on the violators.Stating that the restricted drive does not make much sense, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “Water wastage has to be curbed all year round, and not just in summers. Just like we impose fines for flouting of sanitation norms and for encroachments, fines for water wastage should also be imposed as and when the violation comes to light.” A Chandigarh Smart City Limited study last year revealed that 38% of water supplied to the city is wasted. The MC has been suffering huge losses due to such wastage every year. In 2019-2020, it spent ₹215 crore on water supply, but earned only ₹87 crore.“I will be calling a meeting of the engineering department officials on Monday to work out the implementation of the year-round imposition of the drive. The consumers should understand that water wastage is not acceptable in any season.”Get ready to pay up ₹5,000 from April 15Come April 15, the MC will be imposing a fine of ₹5,000 for water wastage. A repeat violation will lead to disconnection of water supply.The fine was increased from ₹2,000 through a notification on water tariff hike in September last year. However, in the MC General House’s recent resolution on rollback of the hike, the penalty was proposed to be decreased to ₹3,000. The administration has not taken any call on it yet.If the wastage is unintentional, such as leakage in pipe or water storage tank, the violator will be given a two-day notice to rectify the problem. In case of non-compliance, the fine will be imposed. However, if the wastage is intentional, such as washing of cars or watering of lawns, the challan will be issued on the spot, said an MC official, privy to the development. In case the fine is not paid, it will be added to the water bill. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh will be holding a meeting to finalise details of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-plans-year-round-drive-to-curb-water-wastage-101617561073050.html
05-04-2021||Noida||Noida police nab 3 snatchers, seize stolen valuables||Noida: The Noida police nabbed three snatchers on Sunday and recovered stolen phones and jewellery from their possession. Police have launched a hunt to nab the fourth accomplice, who has been identified.Police officials said that the gang has been active in districts in western Uttar Pradesh like Noida, Aligarh, and Ghaziabad, among others since 2015. The Phase 3 police nabbed the suspects — Salman (25, the gang leader), Hashim (22), and Shehroz (22) — natives of Ghaziabad, Noida and Sambhal, from sector 63.“Their modus operandi has been to roam around and snatch phones, jewellery, and other valuables from passersby in Noida. They were active near sector 63,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station.The suspects kept weapons on them to scare the passersby into handing over their valuables, however, the instances of them being used have not been identified, according to the police officials. The suspects have an extensive criminal history, and efforts to identify more cases against them are on.Police have seized seven stolen phones, two gold chains, two vehicles, two stolen motorcycles, a stolen scooter, countrymade pistols, knives, and ₹10,000 snatched from a victim in Noida recently from the suspects’ possession. They have also launched a search to nab their other accomplices.Police officials said that they had received a tip-off about the suspects’ movement in the area, following which they were apprehended. The trio was produced before a magistrate, and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-nab-3-snatchers-seize-stolen-valuables-101617561071396.html
05-04-2021||Kolkata||‘CM Banerjee fears losing Bengal polls, sought Sonia Gandhi’s help’: Adhir Chowdhury||West Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury on Sunday said that chief minister Mamata Banerjee fears losing the assembly polls as well as the Nandigram seat in East Midnapore district. While addressing a campaign rally at Berhampore in Murshidabad district, Chowdhury said Banerjee has written a letter to UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, seeking her help. “Mamata Banerjee has understood that she will face defeat. She has written a long letter to Sonia Gandhi, seeking her help. In the letter, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief has sought help from the Congress to stop the BJP from coming to power in Bengal,” said Chowdhury. On April 1, Banerjee contested the Nandigram seat against her aide-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari who reiterated on Sunday that he will win. Results of the eight-phased polls for the state’s 294 seats will be announced on May 2. The Congress is contesting the elections in alliance with the Left parties and cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front. Chowdhury, who is a Lok Sabha member from Berhampore, said, “Didi (Banerjee) has understood that it is impossible for her to stop the BJP without help from the Congress. I would like to ask her to withdraw all TMC candidates in Murshidabad. She should raise a new slogan and ask people to vote for the Congress so that the BJP can be stopped.” There are 22 assembly seats in Murshidabad district.Also read: On Mamata’s Nandigram claims, EC replies ‘allegations factually incorrect’About a month ago, Congress Lok Sabha member from Malda (South), Abu Hashem Khan Chowdhury, said the Congress may help Banerjee if the TMC fails to secure the required numbers. Chowdhury reacted, saying it was not the official stand of the Bengal unit of the Congress.On Sunday, Chowdhury did not refer to any post-poll alliance. Congress leaders close to him, however, said the party’s central leadership might think of an alliance of opposition parties if the mandate turns out to be a fractured one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cm-banerjee-fear-losing-bengal-polls-sought-sonia-gandhi-s-help-adhir-chowdhury-101617550033545.html
