06-04-2021||Other||Barabanki police seize ambulance, get tech examination done||LUCKNOW The Barabanki district police on Tuesday got a technical examination done of the luxury ambulance used by Mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari to appear in Mohali court earlier on April 1, said additional director general (ADG), Lucknow zone, SN Sabat.He said the names of Ansari and his aides had been added in the investigation as per the findings and statements recorded so far. The ADG himself visited Barabanki to examine the ambulance brought back from Ropar, Punjab, where it was found abandoned near a roadside eating joint on the Chandigarh-Nagal highway on Sunday evening.He said a team of road transport office and local police had got the technical examination done of the ambulance to find out what changes had been done in it violating the norms.He said the charges will be increased in the FIR lodged previously in this connection. Sabat said the private ambulance bearing a registration number of UP’s Barabanki was reportedly registered on the basis of a fake identity card of Mau resident Dr Alka Rai since December 2013. In the matter, the FIR was initially lodged with the city kotwali police of Barabanki district on the complaint of Barabanki assistant road transport officer (ARTO) Pankaj Singh.Dr Rai, the owner of a private hospital in Mau, had informed the police that she had no connection with Barabanki and had never set up any hospital there. She also claimed to have no idea how the ambulance was registered in her name in Barabanki. Earlier, the team had examined her signatures and matched them with those on the registration documents of the ambulance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barabanki-police-seize-ambulance-get-tech-examination-done-101617733760636.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Fed up with smart meters, Over 6,000 power consumers say no to power’||As many as 6,615 power consumers using smart meters have got their electricity connections snapped permanently till April 2021 even as the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) plans to install smart meters in all consumers’ houses.“As many as 1,440 smart meter consumers opted for disconnection of their electricity connection in December 2020 and this number rose to 6,615 till April end this year,” people dealing with the issue said.“Among them 1,320 are in Lucknow, 782 in Mathura, 542 in Varanasi, 1409 in Meerut, 136 in Allahabad, 112 in Gorakhpur, 233 in Bareilly and 1,205 in Kanpur,” they added.Smart meters have courted controversies in UP with energy minister Shrikant Sharma himself having raised questions over their quality and functioning from time to time.UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma said that more and more smart meter consumers were opting for snapping of their power connections because of the harassment they face on account of smart meters. He said at a time when the Central government was planning 100% coverage of consumers with prepaid meters by 2024, power consumers were anxious to get rid of smart meters and this was a serious issue.“Today, I have a discussion over phone with Union power secretary Alok Kumar and I urged him to ensure that prepaid meters that the Centre was planning to install were not based on the same technology because this was necessary to win consumers’ trust otherwise the project would not succeed,” said Verma, who is also state advisory committee member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fed-up-with-smart-meters-over-6-000-power-consumers-say-no-to-power-101617733640593.html
06-04-2021||Other||Panchayat polls: BJP releases second list||LUCKNOW: Days after revealing its first cut of candidates, which was a mix of various caste groups and in some cases having representation from Muslim minorities too, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared the second list of candidates for the three-tier panchayat polls on Tuesday, much on the lines of how it releases lists for assembly and Lok Sabha polls. Like in bigger polls, the BJP leadership discussed names of candidates for these rural polls too and then the lists were officially released by the party. Immediately after the release, its leaders tasked with panchayat polls cheered up the cadre, saying their political opponents were trapped in internal dissension as well as confusion over candidate selection for the rural elections. “Many are seeing these polls as a semi-final ahead of 2022 UP polls. But people forget we have won all the polls since 2014 Lok Sabha polls,” the UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said, emphasising on party’s preparedness While the BJP officially released lists of candidates for 18 districts, including key ones like Rampur, Rae Bareli, Sant Kabir Nagar and Bhadohi on Friday last itself, on Tuesday it released the lists for Azamgarh, Maharajganj, Etawah and Lalitpur. “Had it not been for fresh covid surge, we had planned some big rallies in villages. Now, of course, the campaign would be held in keeping with the covid protocol. The opposition appears to be nowhere in the race,” the party leaders have been telling the cadres in their regular briefings. Like the Samajwadi Party, the BSP too didn’t officially release candidate lists even as the BJP accused the Congress of not being able to find enough candidates for these polls even in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, a point that has been finding regular mention in all BJP campaign related to these polls. The BJP campaign is mostly centered around how the farm laws are beneficial for the farmers and that the party leadership is open to farmers’ concerns and willing to make changes in the farm laws. Other parts of the campaign include a publicity brochure containing various schemes initiated for the poor. Privately, BJP leaders admit that at many places they expect a BJP vs SP contest in the state’s countryside where several political parties, new to the state, too are trying their luck. These include parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, which are looking at these rural polls as a chance to test the water before deciding whether to contest the 2022 UP assembly polls that would follow soon after these polls. However, it is the BJP that has declared maximum candidates so far and hasn’t witnessed any major bickering, barring the one in Jhansi when its district chief had to beat a hasty retreat amid protest by local cadres. Having decided on a phased announcement of candidates, and having built considerable hype around these rural polls, the party’s first list of announcements made on Friday, even contained districts that go to polls in the second phase. “That shows our planning. Chitrakoot and Kannauj will go to polls in the second phase and yet, we announced them. We also named candidates for 52 wards of Rae Bareli. How many has Congress named,” asked BJP lawmaker Vijay Bahadur Pathak, the party’s UP in-charge for panchayat polls. In certain districts like Kannauj and Ghaziabad, the BJP, accused of not fielding many Muslim candidates, has also fielded candidates from the community. Lalji Verma, BSP’s legislature party leader in UP Assembly, however, dismissed BJP’s claim of being well prepared. “BJP is the ruling party and naturally is ‘well prepared’. If they are so confident, they should have contested the elections to the post of pradhan (village head) and block development council (BDC) member on their ticket,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-bjp-releases-second-list-101617733580793.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||LU, affiliated colleges closed till Apr 10 after 20 staff test positive||The academic and administrative blocks of Lucknow University and all 170 affiliated degree colleges will remain closed till April 10.The decision was taken after 20 teachers and non-teaching staff tested positive for COVID-19 and two LU professors died of the coronavirus infection.On the request of LU registrar Vinod Kumar Singh, district magistrate, Abhishek Prakash on Tuesday issued an order to close down Lucknow University and degree colleges as a number of teachers from various institutions tested positive of COVID-19, said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastava.LU Teachers’ Association president Vineet Kumar Verma welcomed the decision.He, however, said this was a short-term measure and may not serve the purpose. Verma demanded the district administration to order closure for at least two weeks.He alleged the Lucknow University was deliberately not releasing the list of teachers who tested positive.Verma said some of the employees have also succumbed to COVID-19 but the university was not disclosing their names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-affiliated-colleges-closed-till-apr-10-after-20-staff-test-positive-101617733400609.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||VC, 40 KGMU doctors among 1,188 people test positive in Lucknow||With as many as 1,188 people testing positive on Tuesday, COVID-19 cases continued to surge in city.Vice chancellor KGMU Lt Gen (retd) Dr Vipin Puri tested positive for the second time in nine months on Tuesday.Last year in August also he had tested positive. This, when the VC had taken the second dose of vaccine on March 25 last.Reports said that along with Dr Puri, 40 more doctors of KGMU have tested positive.Dr Sandeep Tewari of KGMU said, “During last four days, around 40 doctors, including medical superintendent Dr Himanshu, have tested positive.”Most of the doctors have tested positive despite taking both the doses of vaccine.Around 20 doctors of general surgery department have tested positive, while nine doctors of urology department have been tested positive, three doctors of department of medicine have been tested positive.Senior BJP leader Jagdambika Pal also tested positive after he complaint of fever.Officials said 343 Covid patients were discharged during last 24 hours.In all, seven deaths were reported during last 24 hours, taking the death tally to 1,248 deaths.Professor Brajesh Shukla of Lucknow University, a recipient of Padmashri award, died of corona infection on Tuesday.Chief pharmacist of police lines RK Chaudhary also succumbed to coronavirus on Tuesday.Presently, there are 7,981 active cases in the state capital. Till now, 83,032 people have defeated the virus in the city.Indira Nagar continues to report maximum casesAs many as 81 cases were reported from Indira Nagar while 77 cases were reported from Gomti Nagar, 45 cases each from Alambagh and Mahanagar, 44 cases from Aliganj, 43 cases reported from Hazratganj, 36 from Talkatora, 43 from Aashiana, Chowk 61, Jankipuram 35, Vikas Nagar 35 and Hasanganj and Rae Bareli road reported 29 cases each.The health officials continued aggressive contract tracing and testing on Tuesday too with taking samples of 25,563 people.Home IsolationPresently, there are 4,560 coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment in home isolation. While 65,021 patients have recovered from Covid in home isolation, 69,581 have opted for treatment in home isolation, said the press release of CMO office.Over 15k takes the jabIn all 15,134 people were vaccinated on Tuesday in the city. Of these, 39 health care workers received the first dose while 256 received the second dose during last 24 last hours.8,725 people of over 45 years of age received the first dose of vaccine while 567 people of 45 plus age received second dose of vaccine.As many as 4,118 people of over 60 years of age received their first dose while 1,068 senior citizens received the second dose of vaccine.Also, 143 frontline workers received the first shot of vaccine while 222 frontline workers received the second shot of vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vc-40-kgmu-doctors-among-1-188-people-test-positive-in-lucknow-101617733280574.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Noida: Spike makes April worst Covid month this year||April has been the worst month so far this year in Gautam Budh Nagar as the Sars-CoV-2 virus spread in the district. The first six days of the month reported 485 cases, almost 81 cases a day, and two deaths.The disease spread seemed to have been in control since December last year with no death reported since January 5.With Uttar Pradesh not showing any signs of a lockdown till now, unlike Delhi and Maharashtra, district magistrate (DM) Suhas LY said the main aim of the administration was to reduce keep the case fatality rate (CFR) from rising, while simultaneously increasing testing.“We are worried with this sudden surge in new cases this month. To check the spread, besides adapting the ‘track, test and treat’ methodology, we have also started focussing on contact tracing. A 10-member contact tracing team, on Tuesday, traced at least 25 primary and secondary contacts of 93 infected patients. The RT-PCR samples of all the contacts have been taken and the health officials will reason out the cause of sudden spike in active cases on the basis of their reports,” he said.The DM said that besides proper sanitization in containment zones, they have begun thorough checking of industrial units. “Stern action will be taken against those commercial and industrial units disobeying standard Covid-19 protocol within their premises. This decision has been taken in view of the large number of workers coming from different areas,” he said.He also said that the district administration has also issued advisories for factories and other industrial establishments to strictly follow safety protocols. “Six teams, with the help of district industries department, have been constituted to inspect whether safety protocols are being followed in workplaces and factories. During an inspection of different industrial units today, the district industry department officials found that Covid protocols are being violated in a biscuit factory. The ADM (sadar), who is also the incident commander of that area, has issued a show-cause to the factory owner. If the reply will not be satisfactory, action against the owner will be taken as per the provisions of Pandemic Act, 1997 and section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code,” Suhas said.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said daily testing has been increased and rapid antigen kit testing camps are being organised regularly at different places in the district. “The district has stepped up monitoring of patients in home isolation. The health department’s surveillance teams have started implementing stringent containment rules. Early hospitalisation of patients needing medical support and efficient infection control at health care facilities are our top priorities,” he said.Ohri also said that 8,605 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday at altogether 85 inoculation centres in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-spike-makes-april-worst-covid-month-this-year-101617732680626.html
06-04-2021||Noida||With spike in cases, state government ropes in special teams for Ghaziabad, GB Nagar||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to send special teams to different districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, which are witnessing spike in fresh Covid-19 cases. The teams will take up a review of testing and treatment facilities in the respective districts, officials said. According to the state’s daily Covid-19 bulletin released on Tuesday, the districts of Ghaziabad and GB Nagar have 410 and 579 active cases, respectively, while two deaths due to Covid-19 have also taken place in GB Nagar in the past two days. Overall, there were 5,928 fresh cases on Tuesday in the state, showed the data. “The chief minister has directed that special teams, which include special secretary rank officers and other officers from the health and medical education departments, to be sent to the districts having high caseload. These include districts like Lucknow, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, GB Nagar, Bareilly, Kanpur, Prayagraj, and Jhansi, among others,” said Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information). “The teams will take a review of testing and treatment facilities and about the preparations being made by the respective districts. They will also ensure that the best treatment and facilities available are given to the Covid-19 patients,” he added. In Ghaziabad, the sample positivity rate has spiked over 1% in April and stands at 1.36% in first five days with 324 positive reports resulting out of total 23,878 reports. The last time sample positivity rate had gone over 1% was in December 2020 when it was 2.99% (3,034 positive reports of 101,496 total reports). The positivity rates had, however, remained below 1% in the months of January (0.74%), February (0.31%) and March (0.69%) this year. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes, patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than total positive cases, the officials explained. “We have special surveillance drives taken up in high caseload residential areas. Besides, our teams are working to take up testing, contact tracing and allocation of facility for Covid patients. We have also directed hospitals to be ready and arrange sufficient number of beds in order to deal with a surge in Covid cases. In our district, the situation is under control and we are geared up to deal with any upsurge,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. In terms of number of Covid cases, the district during first five days of April has witnessed 256 news cases with 42 in residential segment of Carte (comprising localities like Shastri Nagar), 37 in Indirapuram, 32 in Sahibabad, 34 in Vaishali and 15 in Vasundhara, among others. In the month of March, the district had registered a total of 565 cases. Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said that the positivity rate has risen in GB Nagar as well. “The state government had sent a team last year. We will be taking up review with the special team arriving this year too. It will be better in terms of forming strategy and deal with fresh Covid upsurge,” he added. In its April 3 order, the state government issued guidelines for identification of containment zones in residential areas and group housing societies, but did not put any restriction on movement of people in a containment zone. Experts said that movement of people will have to be restricted to check the spread of infection. “If there is no restriction on movement of people in and out of containment zones, it is of no use. At present, we are not seeing much of enforcement against people not wearing mask and not maintaining social distancing,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association -- Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-spike-in-cases-state-government-ropes-in-special-teams-for-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-101617732380572.html
06-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka health minister Sudhakar asks Centre for more doses of Covid vaccine||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday appealed to the Union Government to provide more doses of COVID vaccines to the state in order to control the pandemic.He also explained about the need to increase in availability of oxygen for the patients and uniform Covid guidelines across the country.Sudhakar on Tuesday participated in the Union Health Minister's VC with the Health Ministers of 11 states/Union territories.The Minister explained the measures taken in the state including speeding up of testing to control the second wave in the state, his office said in a release.Speaking on the Covid guidelines, Sudhakar insisted that there should be uniform guidelines across the country regarding cinema halls, inter-state travel, meetings and other public gatherings.This will help in more clearer instructions and easy to follow.Therefore, all affected states should have a uniform guidelines to make people aware of the seriousness of the situation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-health-minister-sudhakar-asks-centre-for-more-doses-of-covid-vaccine-101617731638233.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Pests enter homes, say residents of Vasundhara||Ghaziabad: With the Covid-19 pandemic already making lives difficult, residents of Ghaziabad’s Vasundhara are now confronted with another challenge – pests.According to residents, seasonal pests like mealybugs and other insects have swarmed the area in strength. The bugs, which are confined mostly to trees, especially mango trees, are also entering their homes pointing to proliferation, they said. Mealybugs are small, white, un-armoured insects that spread during the warmer seasons and act as pests to the vegetation.“We have been facing this issue for the past few weeks. We would see these bugs in the nearby parks and trees every year in this season, but this time their population has boosted a lot. We can even spot them in our houses now. Our sector is greener than others, with several trees, as compared to other sectors, which perhaps could be why we are faced with this menace. What makes it worse is that that very little has been done about the issue,” said Anjani Prasad, a resident of Block B, Vasundhara.Another resident stated that after people started raising the issue, pesticide was sprayed about a week ago but its effect soon wore out.“This year we are seeing more insects in our neighbourhood, especially the small, white mealybugs. A week back, one worker from the civic agency was sent who tried to spray pesticides on these bugs but the effect wore out fast and these bugs started to increase in numbers again. We can see them everywhere now,” said G Suryanarain Rao, another resident of Block B.“These small, white insects have spread all over the area and a single spray of pesticide seems to be ineffective,” said Rajnesh Nautiya, another local.Meanwhile, officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) said that they were unaware of the issue and will look into the matter.“I have not received any such complaint or seen any such issue. The matter concerns the health department,” said Sumit Kumar Rai, zonal officer, Vasundhara, GMC.The corporation’s health official said that they will look into the matter.“The insects are seasonal, though we have not received any specific complaint yet, at least not to my knowledge. But we will look into the matter and get it resolved,” said Dr Mithlesh Kumar, heath officer, GMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pests-enter-homes-say-residents-of-vasundhara-101617731720524.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||Man bludgeons brother-in-law to death with grinding stone, arrested||A 35-year-old man was arrested for allegedly bludgeoning his brother-in-law to death with a grinding stone in Sector 47 on March 27. The suspect, identified as Jahrul alias Chhotu of West Bengal, worked as a construction supervisor and lived in a rented accommodation in Sector 46. Police identified the victim as 30-year-old Shaheen Nur Miyan. Assistant commissioner of police Preet Pal Sangwan said that Chhotu worked with the victim and had recently made a profit of ₹4 lakh from a construction project. Police said Chhotu gave the money to his wife but after an argument broke out between the couple in January-end, she took the money and left for her village in West Bengal along with her brother. Despite trying for three months, police said the woman refused to return the money to Chhotu. His brother-in-law also refused to intervene and even stopped talking to him.Sangwan said on March 27, Chhotu called his brother-in-law for drinks at a ground in Sector 47. After a few drinks, the suspect questioned him about his wife, only to be allegedly told that she wouldn’t come to back to him or return his money.“The victim had told the suspect that his sister had spent nearly ₹1 lakh and given him his share of ₹1.25 lakh. He also made fun of the suspect and said he deserved to live without his wife and money as he often fought with her. The deceased started laughing, following which the suspect got furious. He picked up a grinding stone lying near the spot and smashed his face and head repeatedly,” said Sangwan. He then allegedly hid the stone near the spot and fled from the ground. “Fearing police action, Chhotu did not return to his rented room and was living at different areas,” said Sangwan. A driver who used to park his car in the ground informed police control room that a body was lying in a pool of blood, following which a team reached the spot and found a mobile phone ringing at the spot. Police informed the victim’s wife and asked her to identify the body. A case of murder was registered at Sadar police station on March 28 and police arrested the suspect, who had boarded a bus from Iffco Chowk for Delhi, on Monday.Police said they recovered the stone from the spot and he was taken on a two-day police remand for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-bludgeons-brother-in-law-to-death-with-grinding-stone-arrested-101617731662545.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||RTA announces subsidies, scrap costs to replace old diesel autos with e-rickshaws||The regional transport authority (RTA), in a bid to ensure that banned diesel auto-rickshaws older than 10 years are taken off the roads and scrapped, announced an initiative to replace such vehicles with e-rickshaws at no extra cost for vehicle owners. Setting a September 2021 deadline for the same, officials familiar with the matter said they will offer subsidies and scrap costs to vehicle owners for easily procuring e-rickshaws.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurugram, said a decision was taken to scrap old diesel auto-rickshaws as these were found plying despite being banned. “The decision to phase out the pollution-emitting auto-rickshaws was taken because of the growing contamination of ambient air, which has deteriorated to the worst level in the city,” said Yadav.Officials said that replacing diesel auto-rickshaws is important to ensure better air quality, as such vehicles severely impact the air quality, especially during winter, when the situation is compounded by falling temperatures and fog. Currently, 50,000 diesel auto-rickshaws are plying on the city roads, of which around 12,000 are older than 10 years. However, the RTA could not provide information on the number of e-rickshaws currently operational in the city.“The commuters will not be hit by this decision as we are not only phasing out diesel auto-rickshaws but also replacing them with e-rickshaws so that last-mile connectivity is not affected,” Yadav said.However, experts expressed concern over diminishing last-mile connectivity options, as the city is heavily reliant on the shared diesel auto-rickshaws, which are easily accessible and cost comparatively much less than cab services or private auto-rickshaws.Sewa Ram, head of the department of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) in Delhi, said that it is a good decision to introduce e-rickshaws provided they are integrated with the bus connectivity so that people do not have to bargain and pay digitally once they step out of the bus.“The department has to ensure the last-mile connectivity is in place and the fares are fixed. The facility should be from point to point so that the drivers cannot deny passengers any route. There should be two models, one which is driven at a fixed speed and only four people can board, and another where speed is not a constrain,” he said.He said that e-rickshaw rides will cost commuters more than diesel auto-rickshaw rides, as an e-rickshaw can only accommodate four passengers, compared to eight in diesel auto-rickshaws. Also, there will be problems if e-rickshaw drivers refuse long commutes and that the onus is on the authorities to ensure this does not happen.Officials familiar with the matter said that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate the e-rickshaws on April 9 in the city.“The process of registration and driving licence for these e-rickshaws will be done on priority at the RTA office. We will provide e-rickshaw owners registration certificates within 72 hours of applying. Charging stations have already been set up and more will be put up according to the rising demand. We are helping drivers with the chief minister’s subsidy and MCG subsidy along with ₹12,000 from scrap. Finance schemes have been worked out so that drivers hardly need to pay any extra amount,” Yadav said.Yadav said that more than 100 charging stations have been set up in Udyog Vihar, South City and Golf Course Road.Palash Roy Chowdhury, co-founder, chairman and managing director of SmartE, an e-rickshaw manufacturer that has tied up with the RTA, said, “The project will provide safe, convenient and affordable last-mile services to citizens of the Millennium City while increasing the daily earning of the drivers. Plus, it will save tens of thousands of tonnes of carbon emissions.”Chowdhury said that an electric vehicle will cost nearly ₹1.75 lakh, including registration cost. He said that a finance scheme was worked out, wherein a driver can ₹400- ₹450 per day.Auto-rickshaw drivers, however, were unhappy with the move and said they will not invest in e-rickshaws as they are not confident that the department will set up enough charging stations. They alleged that auto-rickshaw stands that were promised long ago are yet to be created and that the move is an eyewash.Yogesh Sharma, the state general secretary of the Haryana Auto Chalak Sanghatan, said e-rickshaws are not a feasible option as they are not suitable for long distances. “This e-rickshaw will be used for a short distance and if any passenger wants to go to Manesar, it will take more than three hours in these rickshaws,” he said, adding that they are not supporting this initiative and it is not welcomed by the drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rta-announces-subsidies-scrap-costs-to-replace-old-diesel-autos-with-erickshaws-101617731661812.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG to introduce 2,000 e-rickshaws, will hold meeting with owners of diesel autos||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), in a bid to check pollution levels and phase out diesel vehicles, will introduce 2,000 e-rickshaws in Gurugram, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday, even as the road transport authority (RTA) announced an initiative to replace banned diesel auto-rickshaws older than 10 years with e-rickshaws.The MCG’s executive engineer, Devender Bhadana, said that the civic body will hold a meeting with diesel autorickshaw owners and drivers at the John Hall in Civil Lines on Wednesday. They will be sensitised about the environmental harms caused by operating diesel auto-rickshaws and will be explained the MCG’s policy, including monetary aids, for switching to e-rickshaws.MCG officials said that traffic police and RTA officials will also attend the meeting. “The main purpose of the meeting is for generating awareness among diesel auto-rickshaw owners and drivers. The MCG will explain to them the environmental damages caused through running auto-rickshaws on diesel and the long-term economic benefits of e-rickshaws due to considerable lower running and maintenance costs,” said Bhadana.Bhadana said that the MCG will be providing a grant of around ₹50,000 to diesel auto-rickshaw drivers and owners, while around ₹30,000 will be given as scrap costs, provided the diesel auto-rickshaw is scrapped by an agency authorised by the Haryana government.“The purchaser concerned can procure any e-rickshaw of their choice. We are aiming to launch all 2,000 e-rickshaws within the next three months,” said Bhadana, adding that the RTA will provide e-rickshaw owners registration certificates (RC) within 72 hours of applying.Bhadana said that the MCG will be the regulatory body for all the 2,000 e-rickshaws and will also determine a fixed fare, based on point-to-point distances.Bhadana said that the MCG has also finalised a contractor for assisting diesel auto-rickshaw drivers and owners with all the necessary documentation to procure loans for purchasing e-rickshaws.In September last year, HT had reported that the MCG floated a tender to select a contractor for this task and that the civic body is looking to introduce 2,000 new e-rickshaws in the city. MCG officials said that the 2,000 e-rickshaws are being launched in the first phase of the project and once the conversion figure is attained, they will roll out 5,000 more e-rickshaws.In September 2016, the then MCG additional commissioner, Amit Khatri, came up with a plan of launching 1,000 app-based e-rickshaws in the city along with an app-based company for last-mile connectivity to residents from areas located near rapid metro stations.This plan, however, never came to fruition, and the same company launched 500 e-rickshaws a year later at stations of the Delhi Metro in the city.MCG officials privy to the matter said that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar may also launch a batch of new e-rickshaws in the city on Friday, as the RTA seeks to replace banned autos with e-rickshaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-introduce-2-000-e-rickshaws-will-hold-meeting-with-owners-of-diesel-autos-101617731661120.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||Flyover at Bakhtawar Chowk to smoothen traffic flow||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to construct a flyover at Bakhtawar Chowk, one of the busiest intersections in the city, officials said on Tuesday. A detailed report in this regard will be tabled for approval during the eighth GMDA meeting, scheduled for April 9. Officials said that the flyover will be constructed on the sector-dividing road, between Huda City Centre and Subhash Chowk. “We have made a proposal with detailed report for constructing a flyover at the Bakhtawar Chowk, which will help in managing traffic and ease the vehicular congestion at the intersection. The flyover, which will be around 500-600 metres long, will be made in the direction of Subhash Chowk, towards Huda City Centre, passing over the intersection,” said a senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity. Traffic from Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Huda City Centre and Mayfield Gardens converge at Bakhtawar Chowk, making it one of the most congested spots in the city. As per GMDA’s own comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) compiled by the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), the junction has a vehicle accumulation count of 8,545 between 6pm and 7pm.As per the CMP, roads leading from Subhash Chowk and Huda City Centre, running west to east, have six lanes, with service roads on both sides and a right-of-way of 60 metres. However, the roads leading from Rajiv Chowk and Mayfield Gardens, running north to south, have four lanes, with a right-of-way ranging from 30-36 metres. Due to the differences in the width of carriageways, the junction is not aligned. As a result, it takes more time for motorists travelling from Subhash Chowk and Huda City Centre to cross the junction, leading to congestion and snarls.The GMDA official cited above said that the flyover will help commuters to avoid the traffic signal at the Bakhtawar Chowk. “At present, commuters have to stop at Subhash Chowk and then again at Bakhtawar Chowk, but with the flyover, commuters will be able to avoid one signal and go straight. The flyover will be double lane and so, movement will be easy both up and down,” the official said. The cost of construction has been estimated at over ₹60 crore and construction will start soon after approval. Officials said that the flyover should be functional by April 2022. Along with the flyover, work will also be undertaken to develop service lanes under the flyover and making left turns free at the intersection. For easing traffic congestion, the GMDA has already installed a smart traffic signal at Bakhtawar Chowk along with six other places in the city. A smart traffic signal is an automated one that takes into account the volume of traffic on a realtime basis. Officials will also put forth a proposal for extending GMDA’s coverage to the entirety of the Gurugram district in the meeting. In March, the authority initiated a proposal to extend the jurisdictional boundaries of GMDA as well as extend the Gurugram Metropolitan Area (GMA) to help with connectivity and management issues. The authority officials said they received five “positive” responses in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/flyover-at-bakhtawar-chowk-to-smoothen-traffic-flow-101617731660511.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||Woman abducted, gang-raped on pretext of lift by cab driver||A 24-year-old woman who works in the city was allegedly abducted from Iffco Chowk and gang-raped by five men at a village in Jhajjar, the police said. An FIR has been registered in the matter.According to the police, the woman works at a bar on MG Road and finished her shift around 3am. She took a lift from a cab driver at Iffco Chowk, who offered to drop her in Delhi, and fell asleep in the vehicle. The police said that the woman, upon waking up, found the car parked at a field in Patauda village in Jhajjar.“I was waiting for a cab when a vehicle stopped near me in which two people, besides the driver, were seated. I had to go to Dwarka crossing and the car driver offered to drop me there. The car driver said that he was going in the same direction,” the woman said.She told the police that the suspects allegedly raped her in an agricultural field and then called two more persons, who also raped her.The police said the suspects left her on a roadside in Farrukhnagar after the incident, from where she called the police. A case was registered under sections 376D (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the women’s police station of Manesar.The deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), Varun Singla, said that the woman’s statement has been recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-abducted-gang-raped-on-pretext-of-lift-by-cab-driver-101617731602762.html
06-04-2021||Gurugram||Admin issues protocols to RWAs and malls, asks residents to work from home||The district administration on Tuesday issued standard operating procedures to residents’ welfare associations and managements of malls and shopping complexes because of the increasing Covid-19 infections in the city. The administration officials appealed to the public to avoid travelling and work from home, if possible, and recommended RWAs to maintain a record of residents travelling by air and share the details with the authorities concerned for better tracking of cases.Ritesh Ranjan, divisional commissioner, Gurugram, who chaired a meeting of senior officials on the matter on Tuesday, directed the police and the district administration to enforce social distancing and mask discipline strictly.The district administration recommended that residents, who have travelled abroad, should inform the same to the RWAs, self-quarantine for two weeks and in case of symptoms, get themselves tested. The RWAs were also directed to share information about such residents with the health department.In the last three weeks, the city has witnessed rapid spread of the Covid-19 infection. The district reported 3,355 active cases on Tuesday evening, a sharp spike from around 600 active cases on March 15. There has been sharp rise in positivity rate as well, from 2.5% to 7.8% in this period. Taking cognizance of the fact that Gurugram has a large number of high-rise buildings, Ranjan said that directions must be issued to private condominiums and offices disallowing more than two persons to travel in an elevator at a go. He also directed the district administration to keep a tab on social functions and gatherings, as the wedding season will start soon and it has to be ensured that Covid-appropriate behaviours are adhered to. “The threat posed by Covid-19 is still very serious and as such, everyone must follow the safeguards and avoid undue travel. Everyone needs to keep strict vigil as this is a critical time,” Ranjan said in the meeting. Pradip Rahi, the president of Ramprastha City RWA said that they will follow the directions issued by the district administration, but it would be tough to get travel details from individual residents due to fear of harassment. “We have already asked the security detail and estate management to track the movement of visitors. Checking (temperatures) with infrared thermometers has already started. We will also request residents to share travel details as it will help stop the spread of Covid-19,” he said. Another resident, who wished anonymity, said that they will not share details with the RWA as this would compromise their privacy. “The RWAs should be kept under check or else, they start dictating terms and this makes life miserable for many,” the resident said. The deputy commissioner for Gurugram, Yash Garg, said that the administration’s permission must be taken, besides a no-objection certificate from the police and other departments, for all social functions related to education, entertainment, politics, sports and culture, among others.Due to the rising Covid-19 infections, the Gurugram administration capped the limit for indoor functions at 200, not exceeding half the capacity, while extending the cap to 500 for outdoor spaces. Garg said, “The committees formed at subdivision, tehsil and block levels will conduct inspections in their areas and enforce the safeguards prescribed for curbing the spread of Covid-19,” said Garg, adding that strict action would be taken against violators who don’t follow the safety protocols, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and similar safety rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/admin-issues-protocols-to-rwas-and-malls-asks-residents-to-work-from-home-101617731601619.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Over 30-year-old Noida Golf Course boundary wall gets a makeover||Commuters along the busy Golf Course Road in Noida will soon be greeted by a colourful canvas on the sides of the main road. Mural paintings now adorn the 30-year-old boundary wall of Noida Golf Course (NGC) on Sector 43 that previously used to be in a dilapidated condition. From a golfer swinging a shot to that of another golfer putting, the art along the 450-metre long wall captures the essence of the Noida Golf Course. The work started in the first week of February and will end this week. The project was commissioned by the Noida Authority and funded by HCL as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) requirement. A Noida-based social enterprise called Ecoswop Solutions was roped in to carry out the designing and painting work. “The wall has an area of over 10,000 sq feet which has taken over two months to complete. We have kept the art work very colourful and the design is such that every golfer who sees it will view themselves in it in different stances. We hope the artwork will deter people from dirtying the wall as we have worked hard to beautify it,” says Tarunima Bajpai from Ecoswop Solutions. Golfers not just from Noida but across NCR come to the Noida Golf Course for golfing and are a happy lot after the makeover. “The boundary wall of the NGC was in a sad state of affairs for the past few years. However, the vibrant makeover of the wall is a refreshing change as it represents Noida on the golfing circuit in NCR,” says Kiran Chaudhary, a member of NGC, Ladies Club. Moreover, in December, another wall on the other side of the main road was also given a makeover. The artwork here has been done on the theme of corona warriors and it depicts not just doctors and health workers but also policemen and sanitation workers. “Apart from the wall art, a mural of golf sticks have also been put up at the roundabout infront of the Gold Course in order to project the area as a golf lovers’ hub,” Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-30-year-old-noida-golf-course-boundary-wall-gets-a-makeover-101617731602236.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Seven robbers, snatchers nabbed in Noida||Noida: Four men of an interstate gang involved in robbing people by impersonating police officials were arrested on Tuesday. Besides, police also nabbed three snatchers on Tuesday.According to police, the gang was nabbed from near Sector 37. The four suspects were identified as Rahul, Ramesh, Praveen and Ashok, all residents of Delhi.“They would impersonate as crime branch officials and lure passengers in their vehicle on pretext of lift. They would then take all valuables from them and then drop them off. The suspects would also take PIN of ATM cards taken from the victims and then withdraw money from the nearest ATM kiosk,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Police recovered ₹25,300 cash from the suspects that was taken from a victim in a Noida area under the Sector 39 police jurisdiction. Police also recovered gold bangles, a chain, and some rings that were taken from a woman in Kanpur on February 7. A Honda city car was also seized which was used to lure passengers on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway, police said.Police said that the gang had been active in several states for many years and a search is on for its other members. Meanwhile, the Sector 20 police nabbed three snatchers active in Delhi-NCR.“They were nabbed from near a paper mill. They are all residents of Delhi who roam around and snatch valuables from passersby,” said Munish Chauhan, SHO, Sector 20 police station.Police recovered nine mobile phones, two of which have been traced to Noida, a stolen motorcycle and weapons from the suspects. They have an extensive criminal background, said police.All the suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-robbers-snatchers-nabbed-in-noida-101617731600517.html
06-04-2021||Noida||One killed as speeding SUV rams into cycle in Noida||Noida: A 24-year-old bartender was killed when a speeding SUV allegedly rammed into his cycle while he was on his way home from work on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The driver of the SUV has been arrested, police said.According to police, the incident took place around 12.40am near a crossing in Sector 39. The deceased, identified as Harendra Anuragi who was a native of Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh, worked as a bartender in a mall in Sector 32.“Anuragi died on the spot while the driver of the SUV, an EcoSport, also sustained injuries,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Passersby informed police about the accident, following which a team was rushed to the spot. Police said that the errant vehicle was seized and the driver was taken in police custody. He was identified as Nitesh Singhal, 25, a resident of Delhi’s Vivek Vihar.“He sustained injuries in the accident and was sent for a medical examination around 1.30am. His medical report did not show presence of alcohol in his body. The accident was caused due to speeding,” said the SHO.Singhal was booked at Sector 39 police station under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (whoever commits mischief and thereby causes loss or damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code.Following his treatment, Singhal was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-killed-as-speeding-suv-rams-into-cycle-in-noida-101617731540476.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Man arrested for killing friend in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly killing his friend after an argument over some issue almost two weeks ago in Dankaur. The suspect was identified as Bunty, a resident of Junedpur in Dankaur. Police said that Bunty’s accomplice, 26, in the case is at large.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that on March 24, the body of a man was found in the jungle of Peepalka area. “The body was sent for a post-mortem and the report revealed that the man was strangled to death,” he said. According to police, the deceased, who lived in a rented accommodation in Dankaur, was later identified as Omveer, 28, a native of Bulandshahr. A case of murder under Section 302 of IPC was then registered against unknown persons at Dankaur police station. Pandey said that a police team visited Omveer’s rented accommodation for investigation and found a property document from the spot. “Bunty’s name was mentioned on the document. We further investigated the matter and found that Omveer was Bunty’s friend. He was then picked up for questioning,” he said. During interrogation, Bunty revealed that he, along with his accomplice Shaukeen and Omveer, were consuming liquor in the jungle. During the drinks, they had an argument over some issue, police said. “Bunty and Shaukeen strangulated Omveer to death with a towel and then dumped his body. They also fled on the victim’s motorcycle and parked it somewhere else,” the additional DCP said, adding that police have launched a search for the absconding suspect. Anil Kumar Pandey, station house officer of Dankaur police station, said Bunty and Omveer had no personal enmity. “It appears that he committed the crime under influence of alcohol. Police have recovered the towel used in the crime. A countrymade gun and two live cartridges have also been recovered from his possession,” he said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-killing-friend-in-greater-noida-101617731480443.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Sahibabad villages oppose new traffic plan for Kaushambi||Four villages in Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area said they would oppose the Ghaziabad administration’s attempts to divert Delhi-Kaushambi traffic through their area. Residents there say that the plan would further pollute the villages.The plan was drawn up in response to a Supreme Court (SC) directive last month on the plea of Kaushambi residents. The court had then ordered the formation of a nine-member committee whose nodal officer would be the Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) Ajay Shankar Pandey. The committee had members from the district administration, district police and Delhi officials.It proposed that the traffic, including UP Roadways buses, be diverted through Saur Urja Marg.The four-laned Saur Urja Marg is about 7-8kms stretch and connects near Kaushambi ISBT to Vasundhara intersection and passes through Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area, which the central pollution control board had identified as an air pollution hot spot.But residents of four villages, Kadkad Model, Maharjpur, Sahibabad and Jhandapur, feel that the plan would affect them badly.Sushil Raghav, a city-based environmentalist and resident of Kadkad Model, said, “The industrial area is already polluted, and diversion of buses and vehicles will further intensify the problem. It is just an attempt to give relief to Kaushambi at our expense. We have sent representation to UP chief secretary and other officers and we will move Supreme Court if traffic is diverted through our area.”“The industrial area already has vehicles which remain parked on roads and if the plan is cleared, more vehicles will be diverted here and compound the issue. This will also increase risk of accidents for cyclists, children and daily commuters,” said Haji Arif, resident of Maharajpur one of the four villages . The four villages together have a population of around 300,000 to 400,000.“The latest plan including suggestions from UP and Delhi is only a draft and not a final plan,” said district magistrate Pandey. “Saur Urja Marg is proposed for diversion of buses. However, if residents have any issues, we will give them time and invite public objection for resolution of their issues.”In the plan, the authorities have also proposed enforcement against illegal buses and autos, removal of encroachment, regulation of permits of autos and e-rickshaws besides diversions and other traffic infrastructure measures in order to decongest and abate polluted surroundings at Kaushambi. They have also proposed parking spaces and a multi-level parking at Kaushambi metro station. The Supreme Court’s March 24 order was in response to Kaushambi residents welfare association (Karwa) that said the pollution in their area, which is close to two inter state bus terminals, had to be controlled. VK Mittal, president of Karwa, said that he could not comment over the issue of Saur Urja Marg. “If the residents of four villages have plan, they can move court with their issue. It is up to the court to decide their issue. Regarding the latest plan, we have issues and will submit our comments before the court,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sahibabad-villages-oppose-new-traffic-plan-for-kaushambi-101617731420589.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Noida authority to revise interest rate on land dues as per SC order||NOIDA: Responding to Noida Authority’s request for directions on matter of interest to be levied on real estate developers’ land dues, the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday asked it to resolve the issue as per rules.The direction clears the way for the authority to calculate the net amount due to it based on a previous Supreme Court (SC) order and move to begin registration of flats to thousands of homebuyers.In July last year the SC directed the authority to charge only 8.5% interest rate. Earlier, it would charge up to 25% in some cases. The Noida authority estimated that it had to receive ₹25,000 crore in land dues, as per its earlier interest rate. The officials are yet to calculate a figure based on the revised rates.The UP government also allowed developers to pay land dues on a per flat basis. It means if developers want to execute flat registry of 10 flats to homebuyers then they should accept financial dues in proportion to the 10 flats and allow registry. Earlier, the authority had wanted the developer to clear all dues and then execute registry.“But the developers will have to submit an affidavit stating that they will have to immediately resolve financial dues issue for once as per final order of SC,” said Rajesh Kumar officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The developers had long been demanding that the authority calculate the financial dues based on the Supreme Court order. They had said that they were ready to submit an affidavit stating they will pay remaining if needed as per a fresh order if it comes in future in this case. The lack of clarity over the interest rates meant that homebuyers could not get their flats registered. “Now we may take the proposal (of new rates and affidavit) submitted by the developers on board for a decision. And we will follow the directions taken in the board in future,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority. Builders welcomed the order.“Following the SC order, it will benefit around 20,000 flat buyers, and developers,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president of national real estate Developers Corporation.On July 10, 2020 the Supreme Court, while hearing petitions in a matter regarding the Amrapali Group, directed Noida Authority to only charge an interest rate of 8.5%, as per the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) on land cost, fixed by the Reserve Bank of India, on land dues of developers. The order came in response to Noida-based developer ACE Group, through a plea, demanded that the “unreasonable” interest rate on group housing land should be looked into. ACE Group’s plea was clubbed with the Amrapali case. However the authority is yet to settle the financial issues of the developers in the light of the SC order because it has challenged the SC order in the Apex court. The SC will hear the authority plea challenging decision on interest on April 12. The developers had requested that the authority should calculate financial dues as per SC order with 8.5% until further decision is taken by the SC. The Noida authority had sought approvals from the UP government on this demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-revise-interest-rate-on-land-dues-as-per-sc-order-101617731300469.html
06-04-2021||Other||Exam Regulatory Authority seeks to defer teachers’ recruitment exam||PRAYAGRAJ Officials of the Examination Regulatory Authority, UP, headquartered in Prayagraj have written to the state government, seeking permission to postpone the proposed written examination for recruitments on 390 vacant posts of principal and 1,504 vacant posts of assistant teachers in 3,049 government-aided junior high schools across the state. Secretary, Examination Regulatory Authority, Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi sent a missive in this regard to postpone this examination scheduled on April 18 and conduct it after the panchayat elections. Polling is set to be held in 16 districts of UP on April 19 in the second phase of the panchayat polls, for which polling parties will leave by April 18. These 16 districts, which will see voting on April 19, include Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Badaun, Etah, Mainpuri, Kannauj, Etawah, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Varanasi and Azamgarh. The move to postpone the recruitment exams follows district magistrates of various districts writing to the secretary of Examination Regulatory Authority pointing out that the entire administrative machinery would be busy during the elections. Due to this, it would not be possible for them to conduct the examination on April 18. “We have received letters from DMs of different districts, which would hold panchayat polls on April 19, because of which we have submitted the proposal to the state government with the request that the proposed exam of April 18 be postponed,” confirmed Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi, secretary, Examination Regulatory Authority, UP. Hindustan Times had highlighted this issue in its report – ‘Teachers in a fix over panchayat poll duty and recruitment exam’, published on March 4. This development is a relief for thousands of teachers and other government employees of government-run primary and upper primary schools, who had applied to appear in this recruitment drive and had been demanding postponement of the exam. They feared that they would be deprived of the opportunity to appear in this recruitment examination due to panchayat poll duty. Significantly, more than 3.25 lakh candidates had applied for this recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exam-regulatory-authority-seeks-to-defer-teachers-recruitment-exam-101617731120601.html
06-04-2021||Other||Vaccination counters a picture of contrast under one roof at Civil Hosp||LUCKNOW India’s VIP culture is on display at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital (Civil Hospital), which is a major Covid vaccination centre in the state capital, alleged beneficiaries waiting for their turn to get the jab. “The inoculation of the common man is stopped around half an hour before the arrival of the VIPs at the vaccination booth here. As a result, the crowd is shifted to the other two booths in the hospital,” lamented Mahendra Pratap, a resident of Narhi, waiting for his number at the booth on Tuesday.In the last one week, a number of VVIPs have taken their vaccine at the Civil Hospital booth.He said, “Two vaccination counters at Civil Hospital present a different view. The one for the common man is overcrowded while the other one for the VIPs has all Covid protocols in place including social distancing and cleanliness. The counter for the common man has a small waiting area and bigger crowd while the VVIP booth is bigger with less crowd.”“The waiting area here is small as compared to the VVIP booth,” said NN Pandey, a senior citizen. However, Dr SK Nanda, medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, said: “One must think before accusing the hospital of partisan approach, We have limited staff vaccinating around 600 to 850 people every day and have three vaccination booths. From today, we have started issuing tokens for vaccination and everyone is called accordingly. Even VVIPs are made to wait in a separate room for their turn.”He said, “In case of any complaint, people can approach us. Everyone knows we are serving at three booths with limited staff who have not taken leave for the last few months. One of them tested positive a few days back after a Covid patient came for vaccination. One of our doctors also tested positive last week. Before accusing doctors of partisan approach people should follow rules. They must come when their token number is called out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-counters-a-picture-of-contrast-under-one-roof-at-civil-hosp-101617730642061.html
06-04-2021||Other||NIELIT exam on Apr 11 amid corona spurt: LU in a fix||Lucknow Two Lucknow University professors have died and 20 teaching and non-teaching staff members have tested Covid positive, with several confined to home quarantine. Yet many LU professors, research scholars and staff members will be engaged in invigilation work for the coming National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT) exam on April 11. Amid the Covid -19 scare that has gripped Lucknow University campus and many affiliated degree colleges in recent times, about 30,000 students will appear for the NIELIT exam. Both candidates as well Lucknow University officials are worried as to how to implement Covid -19 protocol. LU vice chancellor, Professor Alok Kumar Rai said, “We have just sent a letter to district magistrate Abhishek Prakash to close Lucknow University campus till Saturday as a number of teachers, assistant registrar and deputy registrar tested Covid positive recently. We have closed physical classes. But I believe that all our offices should be closed now.” RB Singh of physics department, LU, who is taking care of the exam on the campus said, “The situation is alarming and I am in touch with officials. It is an all-India exam and in Lucknow alone 30,000 candidates will appear in it. We will take all possible precautions to ensure a safe examination.” The university has already asked hostel inmates to vacate rooms and return home after spurt in corona cases. Those who went to home during Holi festival were asked to not return. If anyone could not vacate the hostel room, they may continue to stay but would not be allowed to step out of the hostel premises at their will, said chief provost Prof Nalini Pandey. Box pls Another Covid death Padma Shri Prof BK Shukla, dean, faculty of Arts, succumbed to Covid -19 at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital on Tuesday morning. He was 59. The Lucknow University Teacher’s Association (LUTA) has condoled his death. Last week, former controller of examination, Prof AK Sharma of the zoology department passed away due to Covid -19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nielit-exam-on-apr-11-amid-corona-spurt-lu-in-a-fix-101617730520516.html
06-04-2021||Other||Anomalies in UPSSSC recruitment: SIT arrests 11||LUCKNOW: In connection with anomalies in recruitment for 1953 posts of village panchayat officers, village development officers and social welfare supervisors, the UP police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday arrested eleven people from Lucknow and recovered ₹44 lakh from their possession, said SIT director general Rajendra Pal Singh. A senior police official said those arrested were identified as Kamlesh Singh alias Komal, Atul Kumar Rai, Deepak Verma alias Bunty, Rajiv Joseph, Mahendra Singh, RP Yadav, Ramveer Singh, Satyapal Singh, Vimlesh Kannuajia, Neeraj Kumar and Rohit Kumar. He said ₹19 lakh were recovered from RP Yadav, ₹17 lakh from Ramveer Singh and ₹8 lakh from Satyapal Singh. He said the SIT had registered an FIR against unknown people on March 2 in connection with anomalies in the recruitment process of the 1953 posts of village panchayat officer, village development officer and social welfare supervisors by UP Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC) in 2018. He said the examination for these posts was held on December 22 and 23, 2018 and was later cancelled post detection of anomalies in the recruitment process. He said the FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code Sections 420 for fraudulently inducing property, 468 for using forged documents for cheating and 471 for using forged document as genuine. The official said the investigation revealed that the anomalies were conducted with the help of some people involved in the process of scanning OMR answer sheets filled by the examinees. He said those involved in the anomalies asked the preferred candidates to leave OMR sheets blank and later these sheets were filled by Komal who was employed at the scanning section of UPSSSC office in Vibhuti Khand. He said 10 other accused were involved in approaching aspirants and collecting money from them, assuring to get them selected for the posts. He said the OMR sheet scanning work was sublet to one KD Enterprises by SRN Company of New Delhi, which was allotted this work by a nodal agency to hold online examination of recruitment process conducted by the state government. He said the investigation about the involvement of any employee of these agencies was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anomalies-in-upsssc-recruitment-sit-arrests-11-101617730400467.html
06-04-2021||Other||Minister rules out lock-down or night curfew||Lucknow: Minister for finance and medical education Suresh Khanna said on Tuesday that the state government would follow union government’s guidelines with regard to fight against Covid-19 and ruled out possibilities of any lock-down or imposition of night curfew in Uttar Pradesh. “We have other options. We have seen results of lock-down. It’s the last option. We don’t have a situation warranting a lock-down. The state government will follow the union government’s directives. There is also no proposal for imposition of night curfew,” said the minister while speaking to media persons here. Khanna said, “Rising cases of Covid-19 are a cause of concern. Adequate precaution in accordance with government’s directives can protect us. People should follow social distancing and use masks. As of now we have to live with Covid-19.” Giving a break-up of rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Khanna said other smaller states- Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka had more cases than Uttar Pradesh. He said there was need for more research about the manifold rise in the number of cases vis-à-vis the situation in February 2021. Principal secretary, medical and health, Alok Kumar said the Covid-19 cases were rising rapidly and being reported in clusters this time. He said the number of cases had gone up manifold in the past one month while earlier it took nearly four months to touch the same figures. Umesh Raghuvanshi, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minister-rules-out-lock-down-or-night-curfew-101617730100510.html
06-04-2021||Bhopal||'Will fix rates for Covid-19 treatment in hospitals': CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Amid reports that private hospitals are overcharging COVID-19 patients, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said the state government will fix the rates of the treatment for patients.Chouhan also said the number of beds in hospitals across the state is being increased continuously even as he observed that the count of cases is on the rise because of the increase in the cases in neighbouring Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Many people told me today that COVID-19 patients are being charged exorbitantly by private hospitals. We will fix the rates of pandemic treatment in such hospitals," he said.Chouhan, who is on a 24-hour sit-in in Bhopal, was talking to journalists from various districts in a bid to create awareness about preventive measures to curb the spread of COVID-19.Chouhan reiterated he was not in favour of imposing a lockdown in the state for a longer period because such measure affects the economy and the poor."Given the current circumstances, I find it appropriate to implement a lockdown on Sunday or any other day," the chief minister said, adding he will take a call on taking additional steps to tackle the epidemic on Wednesday.Chouhan stressed the need for a massive public campaign to raise awareness about wearing masks in the state as many people are still not using them.The CM launched the "Swasthya Agrah" sit-in at the Minto Hall in Bhopal at 12.30 pm on Tuesday. He is interacting with people online and conducting his official work from the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/will-fix-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-hospitals-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101617729104382.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||AIIMS to lose down walk-in OPD registrations from April 8 in view of Covid surge||The AIIMS has decided to temporarily lose down routine walk-in OPD patient registrations, including speciality clinics and all centres, with effect from April 8 to minimise the possibility of community spread of coronavirus and optimise diversion of available manpower and resources for the treatment of affected patients.It said OPDs/speciality clinics will continue to provide requisite services only for such patients (new and follow-up) having prior appointments.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"In view of increased need to minimise possibility of community spread of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and also to optimise diversion of available manpower and materials, resources for the care and treatment of suspected/confirmed patients of COVID-19 disease, it has been decided to temporarily lose down routine walk-in OPD patient registrations, including speciality clinics in AIIMS hospital and all centres with effect from April 8," a communique sent to all chiefs of Centres and Heads of all clinical departments said.Respective departments may fix the limits of daily new and follow-up patients in outpatient department (OPD) for the next four weeks, depending on available strength of residents after contributing to COVID-19 pool.Departments in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) main hospital have also been requested to inform the same to faculty-in-charge and OPD services through e-mail, so that computer facility can be intimated for modifications, the communique added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-to-lose-down-walk-in-opd-registrations-from-april-8-in-view-of-covid-surge-101617727729026.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Man wanted in 39 criminal cases arrested after brief exchange of fire with police||A 31-year-old man involved in 39 criminal cases was arrested after a brief exchange of fire in Delhi's Seemapuri for allegedly robbing gold chains at gunpoint from a 35-year-old man and his mother last month, police said on Tuesday.Accused Ahsan is a resident of east Delhi's Trilokpuri, they said, and added that efforts were being made to nab his accomplice.CCTV footage of the March 23 chain snatching episode showed two motorcycle-borne men wearing helmets robbing the victims at gunpoint.A case was registered and all relevant CCTV footage were scanned, the police said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said a trap was laid in Seemapuri based on information that Ahsan, who was wanted in several cases of robbery and snatching, would be coming to Seemapuri late Monday night."He was held after a brief exchange of fire, in which the accused sustained a gunshot injury in his right leg," the officer said.He was shifted to the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital for treatment and later arrested, Sathiyasundaram said.The accused was previously involved in 29 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, attack on police, snatching, robbery, burglary and under the Arms Act, the police said.A pistol, live cartridges, empty cartridges and a stolen motorcycle was seized from him, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-wanted-in-39-criminal-cases-arrested-after-brief-exchange-of-fire-with-police-101617727841384.html
06-04-2021||Other||11,000 fresh Covid cases in Pune district as vaccination numbers fall||PUNE Pune district reported its highest single-day number for fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, as 11,000 new positives were recorded by the state health department. The district also saw a drastic dip in the number of vaccinations, which was rising for the past few days. On Tuesday the number of beneficiaries fell to 53,000 from 85,000 on Monday. The progressive count of the district is 0.596 million, of which 0.503 million have recovered and 84,309 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. With 34 more deaths the death toll in Pune went up to 8,523 due to the infection.Pune saw a drastic dip in the number of beneficiaries on Tuesday as 53,000 got the jab, 32,000 less than the previous day. Of these 53,368 beneficiaries, 23,799 were from Pune rural, 19,558 from PMC and 10,011 from PCMC. Of the total vaccinations on the day, 52,959 got Covishield, while the remaining got Covaxin. A total of 423 sites conducted vaccinations. The surge in the number of new Covid-19 cases continued as Pune city saw 6,588 new cases, taking the total to 3,09,106. With 17 deaths the toll went up to 4,802. PCMC saw 2,766 new Covid-19 cases which took the final count to 1,51,158 and with seven more deaths the toll went up to 1,399. Pune rural reported 1,686 new Covid-19 cases which took the final count to 1,35,745 and with 10 more deaths the toll went up to 2,273.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11000-fresh-covid-cases-in-pune-district-as-vaccination-numbers-fall-101617728120167.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to only allow essential workers in trains after 10pm due to curfew||New Delhi, Apr 6 (PTI) The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday advised commuters, who do not fall under essential category, to complete their journey before 10 pm when the night curfew comes into effect.The Kejriwal government has imposed seven hours of night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am with immediate effect till April 30 as the coronavirus cases continue to soar in Delhi."In view of the imposition of night curfew in Delhi starting tonight, entry in Metro from 10 pm to 5 am will be allowed only to those passengers who fall in essential category, as per govt order, after verification of their valid IDs by DMRC and CISF personnel," the DMRC said in a statement.It advised the commuters who do not fall in essential category to complete the journey and reach there destination by 10 pm.The exemptions include those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus; pregnant women, patients, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card.Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services like health, police, prisons, home guards and civil defence would also be exempted.People travelling during curfew hours for COVID-19 vaccination will require a soft or hard copy of an e-pass, which can be obtained from the Delhi government website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-only-allow-essential-workers-in-trains-after-10pm-due-to-curfew-101617726756297.html
06-04-2021||Ranchi||State board begins offline practical exams for Class 10,12||Amid increasing spread of coronavirus infection, the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) on Tuesday started practical examinations in offline mode for classes 10 and 12 board examinees. However, Ranchi University postponed its offline semester examinations for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students in light of spike in Covid-19 cases, officials said on Tuesday.One of the university colleges Marwari College was scheduled to conduct UG and PG semester examinations from April 7. However, it cancelled offline examinations and will conduct them in online mode. Its principal UC Mehta said, “In view of rising cases of Covid-19, we have postponed offline semester examinations for UG and PG students. The examinations were scheduled from April 7. Now, the examination will be conducted online. The fresh examination date will be declared in a day or two.”Public relation officer (PRO) of Ranchi University PK Jha said, “In a meeting of the university’s Covid-19 cell on Tuesday, it was decided to resume online classes till further notice.”Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University, Ranchi, has postponed offline classes till April 17.JAC officials, however, said they started practical examinations for students of classes 10 and 12 with precautions. “In light of Covid-19, practical examinations will be conducted over a period of 22 days in different sittings depending upon infrastructure of schools. Only 15 students will be allowed to enter the centre in one sitting. A school can conduct maximum three sittings in a day,” said JAC secretary Mahip Kumar Singh.The written examinations for classes 10 and 12 will take place from May 4 to 21. More than 4.31 students were expected to take the matric examinations, while over 3.32 students will take intermediate examinations. The examinations will be conducted in 2,100 centres, JAC officials said. Meanwhile, escalating Covid-19 cases in schools posed a major concern for school managements. Positive cases were reported in at least five schools of Ranchi city on Tuesday.Around 14 students were reportedly found infected with Covid-19 in two government schools, while 10 cases, including teachers, were detected in three private schools.However, most of the schools lodged complaints that they were not being informed by the administration about positive cases coming out of schools.Principal of Ranchi Zila School, Manjula Ekka said, “I have not received any official communication from the district administration in this regard. But, some of the students telephonically informed us that they have received phone calls from the administration saying they have tested positive for Covid-19. So far, six students from class 10, one from class 8 and one from class 12 informed that they have tested positive.”She said “A Covid-19 test drive was conducted in my school on March 31, where samples of 94 people, including teachers and non-teaching staff, were taken. Administration should inform us about the development, as we have to initiate steps accordingly.”Similarly, principal of Marwari School, Monica Mondal, said, “Covid-19 test was also conducted in my school on March 31. But, we have not received any information about reports till date. We are hearing that some students tested positive through word of mouth. Administration should inform us immediately.”When district superintendent of education (DSE) Mangla Singh was contacted, he said they were only facilitating the tests in schools. “Only administration can tell about outcome of the test report,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-board-begins-offline-practical-exams-for-class-1012-101617727400159.html
06-04-2021||Ranchi||State logs over 1k cases for first time this year; Ranchi positivity rate at 18%||While the state reported over 1000 fresh Covid-19 cases by Monday night for the first time after a gap of over six months, capital city Ranchi alone accounted for over half of these cases, registering an alarming positivity rate of 18%, meaning that out of every 100 samples tested, 18 returned positive, according to the state health department bulletin. On April 5, Jharkhand discovered 1,086 new cases, of which 569 were unearthed in Ranchi alone. With this, the state’s tally climbed to 128,332 cases, including 121,310 recoveries, 5,882 active cases and 1,140 deaths.The state capital has been reporting spiralling coronavirus cases since the outbreak of the pandemic’s second wave, besides reporting a positivity rate as high as Mumbai’s, indicating greater spread of the infection. While Jharkhand reported an average 4.72% positivity rate in last seven days, the same for Ranchi shot up to 17.46% during this period.This was the highest ever positivity rate recorded by any of the 24 districts in the state. During the peak of infection between August-September last year, Ranchi’s positivity rate stood between 10-12%.Ranchi has so far reported 37,694 cases, including 34,160 recoveries, 3,264 active cases and 270 deaths.Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), said, “Districts with high urban population will always have high positivity rate due to overcrowding and high frequency of interstate movement of people.”He added, “The rise in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand and other states is due to the new mutant virus.” He , however, clarified that transmission of infection will be much higher this time. Dr Kumar said, “The state is going to witness an increasing trend in growth of cases at least for a month. It is, therefore, important for everyone to strictly follow Covid protocol. Besides, vaccination is the only solution to break the chain.”Considering the turbulent situation in Ranchi, the state health department and all district administrations were taking measures to check the spread of infection and improve medical facilities. According to the health department’s data, Ranchi at present has four government-owned and 23 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.As on April 6, out of total 1,211 normal beds without oxygen support for asymptomatic patients, 215 were occupied. Out of a total of 556 beds with oxygen support for patients with moderate symptoms, 422 were occupied, while 205 ICU beds were filled out of the total 348. Regarding ventilator facility, 45 beds out total 166 beds were occupied.However, many private hospitals in the city were running with full occupancy.For effective management, the district administration has appointed circle officers as incident commanders for their respective circles. Any location from where a positive case is reported will be converted into a micro-containment zone to be controlled by the incident commander concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-logs-over-1k-cases-for-first-time-this-year-ranchi-positivity-rate-at-18-101617727340219.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Tejashwi campaigns for Trinamool in Bengal, fields party veterans too||Keeping his promise of campaigning for the Trinamool Congress in the West Bengal Assembly polls, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav not only addressed his first election meeting at Kidderpore recently, but also deployed at least 10 MLAs from Saran, Gopalganj and Siwan in the neighbouring state to canvass support for Mamata Banerjee’s party among voters having their origins in Bihar. “Though the programme is being held In Kolkata, I feel I am in Chapra,” Yadav started off his speech at Kidderpore on Sunday to canvass for Trinamool’s prominent face and urban development minister Firhad Hakim alias Bobby Hakim, who is in the fray from Kolkata port constituency. Kolkata has a good number of people hailing from Saran, which has been an RJD stronghold “I have asked my party MLAs from Chapra, Gopalganj and Siwan to canvass strongly in favour of the Trinamool. They will be here for sometime,” he said. A Bhojpuri singer, Pramod Premi Yadav , who has done several numbers eulogizing Tejashwi before the 2020 Bihar polls, also regaled the crowd at the election meeting. “ He was roped in by local organisers. He is a popular name among Bhojpuri singers and well known in various cities, including in Kolkata,” said Sanjay Yadav, a close aide of Tejashwi, who was present at the Kidderpore meeting. In the ongoing West Bengal polls, Bihar natives settled in Kolkata and other towns like Asansol, Durgapur and Raniganj are crucial for the ruling Trinamool as well as rival BJP, a reason why both parties have sought help of their leaders from Bihar and UP. Tejashwi was unsparing in his attack on the BJP at the election meeting, where he raised issues of price rise, unemployment and economic contraction. He also accused the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre of blocking all employment avenues in government sector by privatizing railways, telecom, coal and selling off PSUs. Striking an emotional note, Tejashwi said Mamata Banerjee and his jailed father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad shared a close bond.”Mamata didi has always stood with Laluji. She respects him a lot.”The leade of Opposition in Bihar, whose party has extended support to Trinamool in Bengal polls by not fielding any candidate, would be holding election rallies at various constituencies in Kolkata, like Chowrangee, Jorashanko and also in Asansol and Raniganj after April 15 ahead of the last few phases of Bengal polls, RJD sources said. The BJP, however, said it’s not worried. “Tejashwi is not such a political stalwart that he would able to check Trinamool’s slide and help it to return to power in Bengal polls,” said Arvind Singh, BJP’s state spokesperson. He also slammed the RJD leader for campaigning for Trinamool whose chief had made disparaging comments against people from Bihar and UP before the Nandigram polls by saying BJP had brought in goons from two states to intimidate voters. “TMC chief has never called Biharis or people from UP goons. She had said BJP goons had come from two states,” said Chittaranjan Gagan, RJD’s state spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-campaigns-for-trinamool-in-bengal-fields-party-veterans-too-101617727220144.html
06-04-2021||Other||Bihar: Monthly remuneration for guest lecturers doubled||The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the education department’s proposal to substantially enhance the remuneration of guest lecturers roped in universities and constituent colleges for want of regular teachers. As per the proposal approved by the cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, guests lecturers would now be paid ₹1,500 per class and up to ₹50,000 a month. Currently, they are paid ₹1,000 per lecture and a maximum of ₹25,000 per month. Officials said hundreds of guest lecturers had been appointed in various universities and over 250 constituent colleges to make up for the absence of regular teachers. The education department had mooted the proposal to fill up the vacancies of regular teaching staff in universities and constituent colleges recently. However, the process may take a few months to complete. In another important decision, the Cabinet gave its nod to the social welfare department’s plan to run old age homes in all towns under the Mukhya Mantri Vriddhjan Ashram Sthal Yojna to ensure dignified life for the destitute old persons from the current fiscal. The new scheme entails running a total of 139 old age homes, each with 50-bed capacity, in different towns. A sum of ₹42.97 lakh has been sanctioned as fixed operational cost to run each of these centres for five years, while a recurring cost of ₹63.38 lakh would be spent annually. The Cabinet also approved the energy department’s plan to pay ₹7,465 crore to the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on account of subsidy offered on electricity by the state government to the consumers and compensating the aggregate technical and commercial losses incurred by the North and South Bihar power distribution companies in the fiscal 2021-22. Other Cabinet decisionsOld age homesNod to plan to run old age homes, 139 in all and each with 50-bed capacity, in all towns in the state from the current fiscal under the Mukhya Mantri Vriddhjan Ashram Sthal Yojna aimed at providing dignified life for the destitute old Power billNod for energy department’s plan to pay ₹7,465 crore to NTPC on account of subsidy offered on electricity by the state govt to consumers and for compensating losses incurred by power distribution companies in fiscal 2021-22||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-monthly-remuneration-for-guest-lecturers-doubled-101617727160637.html
06-04-2021||Other||Lone LJP MLA joins JD(U)||In another setback to the LJP, its lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh joined the ruling JD (U) on Tuesday in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar.Ministers Vijay Kumar Chowdhary and Ashok Chowdhary, and party MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh were also present on the occasion.Singh, MLA from Matihani constituency in Begusarai district, was earlier served a show cause by his party after he voted in favour of NDA candidate for the post of deputy speaker in Bihar Assembly last month.In February, LJP’s lone MLC Nutan Singh had quit her party and joined the BJP, to which her minister husband Neeraj Kumar Singh belongs.After the latest defection, LJP, led by Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan, does not have any representation in the Bihar legislature. The lone MLA siding with the NDA candidate has come as a huge embarrassment to the LJP, which has been at the loggerheads with JD (U) since the Bihar Assembly polls in November 2020. The party had fielded 143 candidates during assembly elections, which caused damage to JD(U) on many seats. A month back, the lone LJP MLA had sparked speculation of joining JD(U) following his meeting with the chief minister and a state minister. Of late, LJP has witnessed heavy defections, with over 200 party leaders and office-bearers joining JD (U) last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lone-ljp-mla-joins-jdu-101617727160065.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Fearing second wave, Bihar tourism dept cancels all mega events||Fearing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, tourism department has cancelled all festivals it had planned for April and is considering revising events planned for May. Patna Sahib Festival, who was to be held on the occasion of Vaishakhi on April 13, as per the calendar released by the the department for this year, has been cancelled. Another major event of the month, Vaishali Mahotsav, which was planned for April 25, has also been cancelled. The department has been hosting the Mahotsav for decades to mark birth anniversary of Lord Mahavir. Besides this, events like Kundalpur Mahotsav in Nalanda, Lacchuar Mahotsav at Lacchuar in Jamui, Thawe Mahotsav in Gopalganj and Mundeshwari Mahotsav in Bhabua, also scheduled for this month, have been cancelled.“The events have been cancelled due to the growing Covid threat. No tourism festival will be held in April. Government has already issued guidelines for public functions,” Narayan Prasad, the tourism minister, said. The decision on events planned for May are under consideration, he said. Prasad said though there are prescribed precautions to be taken to stop the spread of coronavirus infections, it will be difficult to keep things under control during such public functions. “Even the programme of union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has been revised due to Covid. He was to visit West Champaran to attend the Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, planned on April 10. Now, the programme has been extended to May 1,” he said. Mukesh Kumar, manager at a hotel run by the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC), said that in 2020 also, majority of the state tourism functions were cancelled due to Covid. “Events like Buddha Purnima, Rajgir Mahotsav and Sonepur fair had to be cancelled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fearing-second-wave-bihar-tourism-dept-cancels-all-mega-events-101617727100131.html
06-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC takes suo moto cognisance of alarming forest fires||Taking suo moto cognisance of the alarming forest fires in the state, Uttarakhand High Court on Tuesday summoned principal chief convertor of forests (PCCF) Rajiv Bhartari to explain the preparedness of the state forest department and measures that have been taken over the years. The PCCF has been directed to attend the meeting on Wednesday through video-conferencing. Dushyant Mainali, an advocate, said he had mentioned the raging forest in the state before the HC on Monday, following which the court took cognisance and heard the matter on Tuesday. “The court said it understands that measures are being taken now, but what about the preparedness and measures taken before the forest fires to check them. The PCCF will have to explain this to the court at 10 am during the hearing on Wednesday through video-conferencing”, he said. Mainali said he also submitted various documents and media reports, including one by HT, before the court. “The court also expressed its concern over the smoke that is emanating from the forest fires and affecting the locals, especially during Covid times when many patients face breathing problems,” he said. Also read: Uttarakhand forest minister posts video fighting forest fire with twigs, slammedMainali said he also raised the issue of the 2004 state government order that had talked about community participation on a major level through van panchayats for checking forest fires in the state. This is not the first time when the courts have expressed their concerns about forest fires in the state. Taking cognisance of the raging forest fires in the state in 2016, when over 4,400 hectares of forest land had been damaged, the HC had directed the state to appoint at least 10,000 fire watchers to keep a tab on forest fire incidents and check them.In May 2018, the HC while taking suo moto cognisance of the forest fires in the state, directed the state government to submit the details of the forest fires, the kind of damage and the steps taken by the government to prevent them. In its response, the state government informed the HC that 90% of the forest fires in the state were “manmade”. Surprised, the HC remarked, “We were very shocked to hear the reply of the government. How is it possible when people have migrated from thousands of villages, they have a role in 90% of the forest fires in the state”. In June 2019, a public interest litigation (PIL) on forest fires in Uttarakhand highlighted that forest fires were wiping out entire species of birds, small insects and animals. The PIL, filed in the Supreme Court by a Tehri Garhwal-based advocate, stated that carbon dioxide emitted from the fires was causing heat in the hills resulting in a faster meltdown of glaciers, besides causing pollution and ecological imbalance. The PIL sought urgent steps to protect/safeguard the forests, wildlife and birds from the forest fires in Uttarakhand and also efforts to ensure the right to a healthy environment. Since the beginning of this year, Uttarakhand has reported 1,130 forest fire incidents that have damaged around 1,540 hectares of forest land. Till Monday evening, there were over 85 forest fires raging in the state’s hill districts, that damaged over 165 acres of forest land in the previous 24 hours. Of the 1,130 forest fire incidents reported, the maximum (269) were reported in Pauri Garhwal, followed by 116 in Tehri, 100 in Bageshwar, 94 in Pithoragarh, 93 in Almora, data provided by the state forest department states. From 2000 to April 5 this year, the hill state has lost 49,231 hectares of forest land to forest fires. Forest fire activity is generally reported from February to June, with a peak in fire incidence in May and June. Besides man-made, other reasons for forest fires in the state include lightning, friction from falling rocks, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-takes-suo-moto-cognisance-of-alarming-forest-fires-101617726680898.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally crosses 10,000-mark again, Maharashtra records 55,469 new cases in 24 hours||The spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued unabated in Maharashtra, which recorded 55,469 cases in a 24-hour timespan, according to the state government's health department on Tuesday. This is a rise of 8,181 cases from Monday's count of 47,288.The state also recorded 297 fatalities in the last 24 hours which took the death toll to 56,330. On Sunday, the state's Covid-19 daily tally saw its highest spike of 57,074.According to the health bulletin, 201,692 tests were conducted in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours - a rise of 26,009 tests from the previous count. The state had conducted 175,683 tests between April 4 to April 5.Mumbai reported 10,040 new cases on Tuesday, the health department data showed. The financial hub also reported 32 deaths in the last 24 hours. This comes after Sunday's highest-ever increase of 11,206 cases.Among the badly-hit districts of Maharashtra, Thane and Nagpur recorded 5,287 new cases while Nagpur saw its tally surge by 3,305. Nashik too recorded 4,638 new cases of Covid-19 while Pune reported 10,226 new cases in last 24 hours. Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad are among the top 10 districts which are contributing to the nationwide spike in the number of daily cases, according to the Union health ministry.Pune currently has 84,309 active cases followed by Mumbai which has 79,368 active cases. Thane and Nagpur also have contributed to the state's active cases tally with worrying figures of 61,127 and 57,372 respectively. Other districts with more than 10,000 active cases are - Ahmednagar (17,405 active cases), Nashik (31,688 active cases), Aurangabad (17,818 active cases) and Nanded (11,418 active cases). The state currently has 472,283 active cases of Covid-19.The case fatality rate in Maharashtra is currently at 1.81%. The recovery rate dropped to 82.98% as 34,256 patients were discharged today taking the total number of recoveries to 2,583,331.Maharashtra which has urged the Centre to increase the scope of vaccination became the first state to administer over 80 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines since the rollout of the vaccination programme. The Maharashtra government said that it is vaccinating four lakh people daily, news agency PTI reported. The government also said that it has vaccinated 8,121,332 people so far as part of the vaccination drive.The Centre has also sent 30 teams to Maharashtra to ascertain the cause behind the spike as well as implement measures to contain the surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-daily-covid-tally-crosses-10-000-mark-again-maha-records-55-469-cases-101617723141209.html
06-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Over 6,000 new cases reported in Karnataka, active caseload jumps by more than 2,500 cases||Covid-19 cases continue to spike in Karnataka as the state reported yet another record high of over 6,000 cases on Tuesday, the highest this year. According to a bulletin from the state government, 6,150 new infections were recorded in the state which pushed the tally to 1,026,584. Also, 39 new fatalities pushed the death toll 12,696 so far, latest data showed.The state's active caseload increased by 2,624 cases and currently stands at 45,107 from the 42,483 that was reported on the previous day.Also, 3,487 new recoveries on the day took the total recoveries in the state to 968,762 patients with a recovery rate of 94.36 per cent.Also read | India won't open Covid-19 vaccination for all. Officials explain whyThe worrying trend of increasing daily new infections in the state has been observed since the first week of March 2021. While more than 5,000 new cases (5,279) were reported on Monday, the state also logged more than 4,000 new cases (4,234) on April 1 and over 3,000 new cases (3,082) on March 28, all for the first time this year.Karnataka has so far tested 22,089,452 samples for the coronavirus disease. The health bulletin showed that 102,021 tests - 92,853 RT-PCR and 9,168 rapid antigen - were done in the last 24 hours.The Union health ministry, earlier on Tuesday morning, said that Karnataka along with Delhi and six other states, contributed for 80 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases across the country. The ministry also noted that the state is one among eight states in India that contributed to almost 81 per cent of the new fatalities in the country.Meanwhile, with 455,025 cases, Bengaluru Urban remains the worst affected district in Karnataka in terms of the total confirmed cases so far. Also with 32,605 active cases, the district accounts for 72.3 per cent of the total active caseload in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-over-6-000-new-cases-reported-in-karnataka-active-caseload-jumps-by-more-than-2-500-cases-101617723619693.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Major fire destroys natural gas pipeline in Ambegaon Khurd||A major fire broke out inside a natural gas pipeline carrying liquefied natural gas in the Ambegaon Khurd area of Pune city on Tuesday. Central Pune fire brigade officials said that fire was brought under control quickly preventing damage to nearby property and infrastructure. The fire brigade officials said that the fire was reported in the gas pipeline of Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) at 11.30 on Tuesday. The pipeline passes through the Telco Colony area of Ambegaon Khurd in Pune. PMC fire chief Prashant Ranpise said, “The fire brigade control room received a call at 11.35 about the fire in the gas pipeline. We immediately deployed our fire tenders and reached the spot shortly and found intense flames were emanating from the point where leaking gas had caught fire. The fire was brought under control in thirty minutes.” He further said “There are many buildings located in the area which include shops and small tenements which could have been damaged had we not got control of the blaze quickly. As a practice the gas pipelines are supposed to be underground but this one was almost at the surface and we have recommended an investigation in detail. The MNGL personnel arrived at the spot and we have briefed them about the incident. They have informed us that matter will be looked into. There was no casualty in the incident.” The beginning of summer is marked by a rise in fire incidents with January, February and March 2021 having witnessed 123, 180 and 244 incidents of fire in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits respectively. The city also saw three big fire incidents which destroyed properties worth crores of rupees and threw many a people out of business. A major fire broke out at Chhatrapati Shivaji Market and also at Fashion Street during last month. The reason behind Fashion Street fire is yet to ascertained while the Shivaji Market was gutted due a short circuit. Both the incidents did not witness any casualty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/major-fire-destroys-natural-gas-pipeline-in-ambegaon-khurd-101617722479824.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Covid patients given oxygen in waiting area as YCMH runs out of beds||Pune: Covid patients are being treated at the triage of Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) as the hospital at Sant Tukaramnagar run by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is facing shortage of beds. The Covid patients facing respiratory issues are made to wait at the triage area and given oxygen as per the requirement. The dean of the hospital said that the situation is better on Tuesday, but patients still have to wait for bed at the triage area where they are treated. PCMC has been witnessing a surge in Covid cases leading to shortage of beds. As per the Covid-19 dashboard, YCMH has 440 allocated beds for Covid of which 25 are isolation beds, 360 oxygen beds, two ICU beds without ventilator and 53 ICU beds with ventilators. As of Tuesday, only 27 isolation beds with oxygen were vacant and it was zero vacant beds till evening. Dr Rajendra Wable, YCMH dean, said, “The situation has been the same since the past 2-3 days as there are no vacant beds. However, as a routine the triage area is used to make arrangement for patients till an oxygen bed is made available. Though the situation is better on Tuesday as we could make beds available for patients, but past days were rough. Now patients are shifted to wards as soon as beds are made available.” As of Tuesday, PCMC has reported 1.53 lakh Covid cases of which 1.28 lakh have recovered, 2,080 declared dead and remaining are active cases. Of the total active cases, 3,804 are in hospitals while 18,747 are in home isolation. On Tuesday, PCMC’s positivity rate was about 39.03% as 2,152 new positives were reported and 5,513 samples were tested. As per the dashboard, of the 4,086 allocated beds in PCMC, only 594 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-patients-given-oxygen-in-waiting-area-as-ycmh-runs-out-of-beds-101617721759746.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Will strictly enforce night curfew in Delhi: police||Police said on Tuesday that it would strictly enforce the night curfew order issued by the Delhi government due to the spiralling coronavirus cases and would issue movement passes on demand to those eligible.The decision to impose night curfew 10 pm to 5 am was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation and it continue till April 30."Delhi Police will strictly enforce it except for the exempted categories mentioned in the order. All concerned should strictly observe the restrictions as given in the DDMA order," police public relations officersaid Chinmoy Biswal said.Police had earlier issued movement passes to facilitate the movement of persons engaged in essential services and commodities, Biswal said."Fresh movement passes will be issued on demand. Those requiring it and qualifying for it can also visit Delhi Police website to apply for it. All field functionaries will be available in their jurisdictions to enforce the DDMA order and to facilitate the exempted categories," he added.According to the order issued by the chief secretary and chairperson of the executive body of DDMA, the recent soaring Covid-19 cases and a high positivity rate had been observed in the national capital territory."It is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the NCT (National Capital Territory) of the Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am, except for essential activities and services, as an emergency measure for the wellbeing and safety of people," the order stated.Those exempted from the night curfew include pregnant women, patients, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus on showing tickets, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats, and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card.Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services, such as health and family welfare and all related medical establishments, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services will also be exempted.Officials of district administration, pay and accounts office, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, disaster management and related services, NIC, NCC and municipal services, and all other essential services will also be exempted from the night curfew on the production of valid identity card.Private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedical, and other hospital services, diagnostic centres, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and other medical and health services will be exempted, the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-strictly-enforce-night-curfew-in-delhi-police-101617721276213.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to former TMC MP K D Singh in money laundering case||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to former TMC MP K D Singh who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case.Special Judge Geetanjali Goel directed him to furnish a bail bond of ₹5 lakh, with two sureties of like amount.Singh was arrested in January under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Singh was a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamool Congress, but has not been involved in the party affairs for quite some time.The ED had carried out searches at the premises of Singh and those linked to him in September, 2019 in connection with two PMLA cases.Singh has been the chairman of the Alchemist group and while he resigned from the post in 2012, he is stated to be the Chairman Emeritus and founder of the business group.In June 2019, the ED had attached assets worth over ₹239 crore belonging to a firm allegedly linked to Singh. It has been alleged that the Ponzi case in which Singh's firm is being probed is pegged around ₹1,900 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-former-tmc-mp-k-d-singh-in-money-laundering-case-101617718955842.html
06-04-2021||Other||No scarcity of liquid oxygen: Rao; 12,000 Remdesivir injections will be available by Wed||PUNE The Pune district administration has assured citizens that currently there is no scarcity of liquid oxygen, but has admitted to the scarcity of the drug, Remdesivir. As Covid cases have been spiking in Pune, the consumption of liquid oxygen has also increased from 55 metric tonnes per day, to 250 metric tonnes per day. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that the availability of liquid oxygen is not a problem. He also stated that 12,000 Remdesivir injections will be available by Wednesday. “We have got sufficient stock of liquid oxygen with us. The oxygen production capacity in Pune is 325 metric tonnes per day. Right now we are consuming around 250 metric tonnes per day. In January our consumption was as low as 55 metric tonnes per day,” Rao said. Rao said that if a shortage of oxygen is noticed, then the administration has a plan B in place. “If daily production and consumption are almost the same, then we have a plan B in place, by which, industrial production of oxygen will be reduced and it will be dedicated for medical purposes. Last year we had started importing oxygen from Raigad. If needed, we will do the same. Presently, there is no oxygen crisis,” Rao said. As for complaints of a scarcity of Remdesivir, Rao said that more stock of the injections will be available by Wednesday. “There are many private hospitals which are complaining about the availability of Remedivisir. We have instructed all hospitals about hoarding of Remdesivir and judicious use of the same. We requested 12,000 injections from the joint director, FDA, on Tuesday. They are expected to be available Tuesday night. It will reduce the present scarcity,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-scarcity-of-liquid-oxygen-rao-12-000-remdesivir-injections-will-be-available-by-wed-101617720920468.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Four booked for threatening girl and her family for rejecting proposal||The Wanowrie police have booked four youths on charges of issuing threats to a girl and violating Covid-19 restrictions. One of them had proposed to the girl and received a rejection, after which the youth threatened the girl with “dire consequences.” Following the threats, an FIR was lodged against them by the girl’s father. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), disaster management act and violation of Maharashtra State Covid-19 regulations. According to the FIR, the main accused proposed his daughter which was rejected. The accused then threatened to murder her and came in front of her house along with other associates and created a ruckus. The accused were armed with sharp weapons like choppers and waved them in front of her father. They even physically assaulted two of his daughters before issuing dire threats to him. The accused said that they had a clout in the area, and nobody should dare go against them. If anybody dares, then the concerned person would be dealt in the most brutal way, the FIR stated. PSI Sandeep Warpade, the investigating officer in the case said that action is being taken as per the complaint given by the victim’s father and they all were threatened by the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-booked-for-threatening-girl-and-her-family-for-rejecting-proposal-101617720919726.html
06-04-2021||Other||United Hospitality Association stages protest outside collector’s office||PUNE In a bid to oppose the new restrictions on the hospitality industry, the United Hospitality Association (UHA) protested outside the Pune district collector’s office on Tuesday. It was a silent protest with members holding banners and demanding all hotels and restaurants be allowed to restart in the district immediately. “The newly imposed restrictions will adversely affect all of us. Already we have suffered in the last one year and when we were somehow managing to get back to normal, again this mini-lockdown has come. Our demand is that dine-in facility at hotels should be allowed from 11 am to 11 pm and the state excise permit fees should be fully cancelled for this year. Also rates of electricity supply for industrial meters should be reduced,” said association president Sandeep Narang. Advocate Ajinkya Shinde, vice-president of the association, said, “Thestate government needs to rethink the decision to close down hotels, restaurants, shops and other non-essentials. The timings given for delivery of food is not sufficient and it needs to be increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/united-hospitality-association-stages-protest-outside-collector-s-office-101617720439666.html
06-04-2021||Pune||IMD forecasts warmer temperatures in April||Pune consecutively for the second day reported a day temperature of 39.1 degrees Celsius. The day temperature on Tuesday was 1.9 degrees warmer than normal. On Monday, the day temperature was 39.6 degrees Celsius which was 2.6 degrees warmer than normal. The night temperature on Tuesday was 18.7 degrees Celsius. As per the predictions by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the day temperature will continue to remain at around 39 degrees Celsius in the city in the next few days. “Until April 9, the day temperature will be 39 degrees Celsius with a clear sky. From April 10, there is a possibility of cloudy weather towards the evening in Pune city,” said IMD officials. Chances of rainfall in southern parts of Central Maharashtra and Marathwada are likely from April 10 which has also been forecasted by the Met department. “Rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning are also likely during this time, whereas heat wave like conditions may continue in Vidarbha until April 10. Heat wave like conditions are also forecasted at Konkan and Goa from April 9,” said IMD officials. On Tuesday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 43.2 degrees Celsius at Chandrapur and the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 18.7 degrees Celsius at Pune city. Warmer coastal regions predicted As per the probability forecast issued by IMD, Konkan and Goa will continue to witness warmer days and night this Month. OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and prediction group said that coastal region of Maharashtra may remain warmer this season. “The probability is high. The reason for the rise in temperature is the wind confluence. However, it may also be a season specific phenomenon. To understand its longer effects, we have to collect more data regarding the same,” said Sreejith. Sreejith said that it is too early to give a forecast for monsoon. Warmest Month of March As per the weather department, the month of March this year in central India, which also includes Maharashtra was the fourth warmest since 1901. The monthly mean temperature was 1.32 degrees Celsius more than normal temperature, that is, 26.60 degrees Celsius. The actual monthly mean temperature reported was 27.92 degrees Celsius. IMD officials also noted that parts of Maharashtra will also see above normal day and night temperature in the month of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imd-forecasts-warmer-temperatures-in-april-101617720199672.html
06-04-2021||Pune||With BJP support, RPI(A)’s Wadekar elected to dy mayor post||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has given the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) deputy mayor’s post to alliance partner the Republican Party of India (Athawale). Republican Party of India (Athawale)’s Sunita Wadekar was elected to the deputy mayor post on Tuesday. The election for PMC deputy mayor was held on Tuesday and Wadekar was elected after defeating Maha Vikas Aghadi’s candidate Lata Rajguru. Wadekar received 97 votes while Rajguru received 61 votes. The election was held through an online meeting. All the elected members voted by raising their hands. BJP has kept its promise of giving the deputy mayor’s post to RPI (A), said PMC leader of the house Ganesh Bidkar. Wadekar is a resident of the Bopodi area and is the wife of RPI (A) leader Parshuram Wadekar. During the municipal election, RPI (A) allied with the BJP and contested the election on the BJP’s symbol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-bjp-support-rpi-a-s-wadekar-elected-to-dy-mayor-post-101617720139644.html
06-04-2021||Other||Div commissioner asks state govt for additional 165 regular ventilators, 22 paediatric ventilators||PUNE Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has sent a proposal to the state government on Tuesday, asking for an additional 187 ventilators for the Pune division. The request is for 165 regular ventilators and 22 paediatric ventilators. According to Rao there is a slight spike in the paediatric cases as compared to last year. Of the 165 regular ventilators which have been requested, 100 will be for Pune district. “Bed availability is a crisis because of the multi-fold increases in inflow of patients. In my proposal to the state government I have asked for 165 regular ventilators for the division, of which, 100 ventilators will be for Pune district. This includes the four units which are civil surgeon Pune, government medical college Pune, PMC and PCMC. We are working on many options to increase availability of beds, like increasing beds in private hospitals,” said Rao. “On Monday we added 439 beds and on Tuesday we are adding 400 more beds. So we will have more beds,” Rao said. After the correspondence between district administration and Army officials, the Army is expected to declare a dedicated Covid hospital available by Wednesday. “I have spoken to the Army authorities. They have given positive feedback. By Tuesday night or Wednesday, they are going to declare at least one hospital belonging to the Army as a Covid hospital. I have personally spoken to minister Prakash Javdekar so that he speaks to the defence minister to facilitate the process,” Rao said. Rao also revealed that there has been a slight increase in paediatric Covid cases. “We have also asked for 22 paediatric ventilators. There is a slight spike in paediatric cases. As a precaution, we want to have a sufficient number of paediatric ventilators available. On Monday we got a case where there was a three-month old baby who was Covid positive. In the first wave there were very few paediatric cases. We are expecting that we will get these by Wednesday,” Rao said. Beds availableThe availability of beds in Pune had slightly improved on Tuesday. On Sunday and Monday no ICU and ventilator beds were available in Pune city. On Tuesday evening, the dashboard revealed that 12 ICU beds with ventilators and 12 ICU beds without ventilators were available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/div-commissioner-asks-state-govt-for-additional-165-regular-ventilators-22-paediatric-ventilators-101617718339654.html
06-04-2021||Other||City hospitals report acute shortage of blood with restrictions, vaccinations affecting donors||PUNE Given the Covid-19 surge, city hospitals are now facing an acute shortage of blood. In addition to the restriction on movement, vaccination bars beneficiaries from donating blood for at least two months, which further slims the chances of people aged above 45 years from donating blood. Blood banks are now running dry.Dr Atul Kulkarni, director of Jankalyan Raktapedi, a blood bank in the city, said, “As of now we have 500 units of blood available with us which is enough for a week’s time, as we get demands for at least 80-90 units a day. We fear that in the coming days, we might have an acute shortage of blood, especially because of the existing lockdown and restrictions in place. All pre-planned blood donation camps have been postponed indefinitely, or cancelled. We get requests from thalassemic patients who need blood transfusion regularly, and also from emergency surgeries which cannot be delayed.”A senior doctor from Sassoon hospital said, “We are facing an acute shortage of blood. We have 150 units of blood currently and we need 45 donors every alternate day to sustain the current demand; 30-45 units of plasma and 20-40 units of platelets. Blood donation camps which were organised for the weekends have been cancelled due to the lockdown. If any society comes forward they can contact us and we will send our volunteers to collect blood. We have our vans which could be set up in any free space and two people can donate blood at a time.”Explaining the drop, the doctor said, “The surge in cases means more people are being infected who cannot donate blood right now. Also, the high number of people getting the vaccines is also a roadblock, because as per government guidelines a vaccinated person cannot donate blood for at least a month after the jab. So the eligibility criteria is further narrowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-hospitals-report-acute-shortage-of-blood-with-restrictions-vaccinations-affecting-donors-101617716059253.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtrians face the brunt’: Raj Thackeray blames migrants for Covid-19 surge||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Tuesday blamed the migrant workers for the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.“A large number of people coming from other states are not being tested for Covid-19. Covid-19 cases in the state are increasing due to these people,” said Thackeray. “There is no tab on migrants coming and going and due to these people, Maharashtrians have to face the brunt in form of the lockdown and sit at home,” he added.Maharashtra has witnessed a rapid surge in its Covid-19 cases over the last few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, besides other measures to curb the spread of infection. As per Union health secretary Rajeh Bhushan, Mumbai is among the 10 districts in the country with the highest number of new Covid-19 cases while Maharashtra is among states of maximum concern.Thackeray said that during the previous lockdown, when there was a massive outflow of migrants to their native states, he had suggested they be registered and tested on their return to Maharashtra.“Both my suggestions were ignored. Today it’s Corona, tomorrow it could be some other virus. This chain is not going to stop,” he added.For over a decade, Thackeray is known for his tough stance on migrants, blaming them for eating up the employment opportunities of the local Maharashtrians. This paid him rich dividends in the 2009 assembly polls but then MNS’s performance slid massively during the 2014 and 2019 polls.Also read: Maharashtra BJP chief says one more MVA minister will resign in 8 daysFormer Mumbai Congress chief Sanjay Nirupam said Thackeray should stop indulging in such parochial politics. “In this time of the pandemic, Raj Thackeray should understand the gravity of the situation and not indulge in such cheap gimmicks,” said Nirupam.Thackeray, during his media interaction, also gave details of his zoom meeting with his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He asked the chief minister to allow retail shops to open at least twice a week, penalise hospital that are refusing beds to Covid-19 patients and give relief in case of electricity bills.Thackeray also demanded the cancellation of 10 and 12 standard exams and promotion of all these students to the next class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrians-face-the-brunt-raj-thackeray-blames-migrants-for-covid-19-surge-101617714440184.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar chairs meeting to review Covid-19 situation in Bihar, warns of return of migrants from worst aff||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting here to review the coronavirus situation in the state and directed officials to pull up their socks to contain the recent spike in Covid cases owing to "second wave" of the pandemic. Kumar said that there was a possibility of return of migrants from worst-affected states and, as such, officials must set up quarantine centres at block levels on the lines of the ones which were established last year when millions had returned home after losing their jobs and homes during the nationwide lockdown. He also reaffirmed the need for raising testing rate in the state, which had come down to about 20,000 samples per day recently in view of a dip in the incidence during winters, by five times. He pointed out that aggressive testing and isolating, by means of setting up containment zones in the worst-affected zones, along with the ongoing vaccination drive will help the state overcome the sudden rise in coronavirus cases. The chief minister was accompanied by health minister Mangal Pandey and top officials of the state at the meeting here, while District Magistrates were connected through video conferencing. He also called upon the need for strict enforcement of preventive measures like social distancing, wearing of face masks and regular washing of hands. Principal Secretary, Health, Pratyaya Amrit during his presentation in the meeting said that eight districts- Patna,Jehanabad,Gaya, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Siwan and Saran-have maximum number of active cases in the state. The chief minister ordered testing of all health and frontline workers as well as their kins. He also emphasised on speeding up the inoculation process in the state. A total of 3496836 citizens have been given jabs in Bihar till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-chairs-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-bihar-warns-of-return-of-migrants-from-worst-affected-states-101617712471153.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC announces fresh Covid-19 restrictions for Mumbai, in addition to Maharashtra govt curbs||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday announced fresh set of curbs for Mumbai, which has been battered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The new guidelines have been clamped in addition to the stringent measures announced by the state government on Sunday, the civic body said.The latest BMC guidelines say that all beaches in the city will remain shut till April 30 in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases, its chief Iqbal Chahal said.Chahal reiterated that every housing society having more than five cases will be declared a micro containment zone, and a police personnel deployed outside the gate of that society.Also Read: Allow citizens above 25 to get Covid jab, Maharashtra CM requests PM ModiThe BMC has also directed private laboratories to ensure the 24-hour turn around time for declaring results of those testing positive for Covid-19, further asking laboratories to ensure that the reports are first given to the civic body and handed over to the patient the next day.The BMC chief has also directed private hospitals to undertake tests using rapid antigen kits only on symptomatic patients, and also ensure that no tests are done using the rapid antigen kits without taking permission from the BMC.Mumbai is among the 10 districts in the country with the highest number of new Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry said. At a press conference on Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh still remain states of maximum concern.On Monday, Mumbai reported 9,879 fresh cases and 21 fatalities in a 24-hour timespan, according to bulletin released by state health department.The Centre has constituted 50 high-level multi-disciplinary public health teams and deployed them to districts reporting a surge in cases and mortality in these states, Bhushan said.Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons.The weekend lockdown will start from 8pm on Fridays and last till 7am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the office of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-announces-fresh-covid-19-curbs-for-mumbai-in-addition-to-maha-govt-checks-101617712715688.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Animal cruelty cases rose in Mumbai since lockdown, claim activists||On March 28, a man was captured on CCTV at Naya Nagar in Goregaon west molesting a stray dog; however, no police case was registered. On March 11, a serial dog rapist was arrested by the DN Nagar police for raping at least eight female dogs only after the video of the crime was submitted to the police. On March 4, a five year old community dog was beaten to death by a few locals at Chandivali, following which, an FIR was registered at the Sakinaka police station under Section 429 (mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless an animal) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) but no arrests were made, in spite of a recorded video of the violent act. On October 20, 2020, a nine year old female dog was raped, brutally injured by pushing a wooden stick in her private part and left to die near Galleria mall at Hiranandani Gardens in Powai. The police registered a case of rape and attempt to murder against an unidentified man who is still at large. These are just a few instances reported to the police where people have acted worse than the animals during the post lockdown period - starting from April 2020. According to animal activists and NGO workers, the number of animal abuse cases has increased drastically and at an alarming rate post lockdown. Vijay Mohnani, of the NGO Bombay Animal Rights and the Bombay Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (BSPCA), said the frustration of losing jobs and inflation is also one of the reasons for incidents of animal abuse doubling in 2021 compared to 2019 and 2018. Data collected by the NGOs reveals that in the first two months of 2021, at least 8 animal abuse cases were registered in Mumbai every day, as compared to 3 or 4 cases in 2019. Last year, despite the lockdown, 886 cases were registered, with maximum cases registered after September 2020. Out of the 480 cases recorded in the first two months this year, 266 were accidents and hit and run cases, while the rest were brutal murders, rapes, assaults and harassment like starving the animal or death due to abandonment. “Before the lockdown we used to get around 2 to 3 complaints of hit and run and accident cases of stray animals but after the lockdown these numbers have increased to 7 to 8 cases in a day across the city,” said Mohnani. Police and activists say some men consider it a sport to harm and abuse defenceless animals by beating, kicking, torturing, throwing acid or boiling water, amputating part of the body, attacking with a knife or a blunt object. Lata Parmar, Mumbai unit head of the People For Animals (PFA) said since the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) doesn’t keep animal violence data, it becomes difficult for the government and police to gauge the problem. “This data is collected by the reports that reach us but there are so many cases that go unreported,” said Parmar. BJP Member of Parliament and animal rights activist, Maneka Gandhi, who was also the chairperson of PFA, advocated for stricter punishment and penalties for offenders. Parmar said insensitivity towards animals and ignorance of law are the main causes of animal abuse cases. “Many do not know the law and others do not care as punishment for injuring an animal is rare, which makes them fearless,” said Parmar. Police officers said no separate data on victimised animals was available. From 2010 to 2020 nearly 20,000 cases have been recorded by the police with the help of NGOs and activists but just a few arrests have been made. “We register a case and investigate it and even make arrests,” said Navinchadra Reddy, deputy commissioner of police (zone 10). The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 punishes all kinds of crimes against animals but the fine ranges between just ₹10 to ₹100. Moreover crimes against animals are put on the back burner by the police. “This is proof that crimes against animals are not taken seriously,” said Dr Radha Chaudhary, a veterinary. Increasing cases and lengthy and costly procedures to register a police complaint was taking a toll on the activists now. Mohnani stated that there was just one government run hospital for animals in Mumbai but it was not free and the person who reports the crime is handed over the bill for treatment of the injured or abused animal. Mohnani said that once a rescuer spots an injured animal, he immediately calls the BMC helpline which is not answered. If the rescuer gets hold of an official, he is asked to contact the nearest NGO or a veterinary doctor. The rescuer then has to pay for the ambulance to get the animal to the hospital in Parel or elsewhere. If the animal survives, the rescuer is asked to pay for its treatment or if it dies he has to pay for the last rites. He then has to spend time and money at the police station to register a complaint. “It’s expensive and time consuming, so these days if the animal survives, we avoid filing an FIR due to which many crimes are not registered with the police,” said Mohnani. During the lockdown, activists had to fight with several residential societies to allow pet owners to take them outside for their daily walks, “Animals do not understand lockdown, they need to relieve themselves but many residential societies banned the owners to do so. We had to register many police complaints for harassment to animals,” said Mohnani. WHAT THE LAW SAYSSection 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act makes all animal cruelties a criminal offence. Fines and imprisonment are both provided for. The Indian Penal Code has similar provisions. Under Section 506 of the IPC, it is a crime to threaten, abuse or harass neighbours who feed animals.IPC Section 428 and 429 prescribe severe punishment of up to five years imprisonment to people resorting to dislocation, abduction and acts of cruelty towards community animals or pets and in such cases the police can arrest any offender without a warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/animal-cruelty-cases-rose-in-mumbai-since-lockdown-claim-activists-101617712280585.html
06-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand forest minister posts a video fighting forest fire; slammed||Amid the raging forest fire in Uttarakhand which has affected over 1300 hectares of area, state forest and wildlife minister Harak Singh Rawat has drawn flak over a video, in which he and his aide are seen trying to douse a forest fire with what appeared to be a shrub or a stem.The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party said the video and stills shared on social media by the minister’s close aides were “mere publicity stunt”.“When the forest fire was raging, then the forest minister was nowhere to be seen. But now, when the choppers of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have arrived to fight the situation, he has now come up with a publicity stunt,” said Congress state president Pritam Singh, who earlier said the BJP led state government was “doing nothing” to control the forest fire.“Forests are Uttarakhand’s most precious assets after the Himalayas. And the lethargic response of the minister to such a serious situation shows this government doesn’t care about the forest of our state,” Singh said.Earlier on Monday, two Mi-17 helicopters reached Uttarakhand to help in fighting the forest fires which have so far affected about 1,300 hectares of forest area and claimed four human lives. Currently over 85 forest fires are raging in hill districts. This year since January 1, the state has reported 1,130 forest fire incidents, in which 1540 hectares of forest land has been damaged. Of these 1,130 forest fire incidents, the maximum 269 have been reported in Pauri Garhwal, followed by 116 in Tehri, 100 in Bageshwar, 94 in Pithoragarh, 93 in Almora, according to the data provided by the state forest department. Since 2000 to April 4 this year, the hill state has lost 49,231 hectares of forest land to forest fires.“When the people were sharing videos and photographs of the forest fire incidents on social media, urging the government to take note of the situation urgently, the minister didn’t pay any heed. Now, instead of taking concrete steps to control it and prevent it in future, he decides to come up with this ridiculous video just for publicity,” said Amarjit Singh, spokesperson of Aam Aadmi Party in Uttarakhand.Minister Rawat however, couldn’t be contacted for a comment till the filing of the story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-forest-minister-posts-video-fighting-forest-fire-with-twigs-slammed-101617711799524.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Woman seeking FIR against Jharkhand CM in Bombay HC withdraws petition||The woman who alleged she was harassed by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has informed the Bombay high court that she does not want to pursue the petition seeking the registration of an FIR against Soren anymore. She sought the permission of the court to withdraw the petition and all other pending litigations. The court, while allowing the request, has kept the petition for consideration on Wednesday. The woman had alleged that Soren was involved in an accident she met with in August 2020. The division bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing two intervention applications filed by Jharkhand-based former journalist Sunil Kumar Tiwari and NGO Stree Roshni Trust, who sought an order from the court to not permit the woman to withdraw her petition. The bench was informed by public prosecutor Deepak Thakare that the applicants had no locus standi as the woman had sought to withdraw her petitions and the applications were filed with political interest. Also Read | Soren approves proposal to drop Pathalgadi casesThakare further informed the bench that in 2013 the woman had filed a complaint before the magistrate???s court seeking to lodge a rape case against Soren but had withdrawn the complaint the same year. The plea before the bench now pertained to an accident she had met with in August 2020 in which she suspected Soren???s involvement; however, she now sought to withdraw that plea too. Senior counsel Aabad Ponda, representing the woman, submitted that the woman should not be forced to continue with the petition and she had no connection to the intervenors, and they seemed to be backed by a political party. In view of ???peculiar facts and circumstances of the case???, the court sought to interact with the petitioner in the chamber. In its order, the court noted that the woman appeared before the bench in the chamber and was identified by her advocate. The court also noted that ???she desires to withdraw the writ petition and she does not wish to pursue the allegations made in the plea and the statement was made voluntarily, without any pressure from either of parties.???||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-seeking-fir-against-jharkhand-cm-in-bombay-hc-withdraws-petition-101617711259585.html
06-04-2021||Other||Lukewarm response to free swab tests in PCMC||PUNE The response to the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s free swab tests in various localities has been lukewarm at best.The PCMC administration, along with the help of government hospitals, started swab testing camps since Saturday. “People hesitate to come forward and do the test. They still fear being sent to a Covid care centre for isolation and the family members also being quarantined,” said Dr Omkar Inamdar, Talera Hospital.Every day in two or three areas testing camps are organised between 10am and 3pm.On Sunday, one such camp was organised in Bijilinagar, Chinchwad, which has a population of 5,000-6,000 people and only 31 people came forward for the swab test.On Tuesday, a camp was conducted at Tanajinagar, Chinchwad, where in the first three hours, 31 residents came up for testing. “We feel more people should turn out for the camps. Even after one year, people have various myths regarding testing. We give one day prior information about the camp and all the corporators are spreading the messages in the locality,” said Dr Inamdar.The PCMC administration has decided to conduct more camps in market areas and shop complexes.Currently in PCMC there are 280 major, and 1,684 micro containment zones.“People should come forward and take advantage of all facilities which the administration is providing. They should stop believing in rumors about tests and vaccination. The chain of virus will be only broken if we come together and fight it,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.PCMC launches 24x7 helpline numbersBed management: 020-67331151; 02067331152The number has 10 lines and six staff members will be working on a shift basis.Doctor’s helpline: 020-67331142; 020-6733114110 doctors are hired to answer any Covid-related queries. A team of doctors will also counsel home-isolated patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lukewarm-reponse-to-free-swab-tests-in-pcmc-101617710839140.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP chief says one more MVA minister will resign in 8 days||With its morale boosted after two Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers resigned in the last 35 days, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to up the ante against the government. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that one more minister from the state government will resign in the next eight days.Speaking in Pune on the occasion of the BJP’s 41st foundation day, Patil said that there are at least seven ministers with criminal records in the MVA government. He said that the ministers’ offences are very serious in nature and claimed that the state government will fall on its own.“There are 6-7 ministers in the state cabinet who are facing serious criminal charges. One of the ministers is facing imprisonment for beating up a policeman, while another has recently revealed his relationship outside wedlock. One of the ministers’ son-in-law is in jail in connection with a drug case, while another is facing charges of beating a party worker. We are not interested in taking the resignation of any minister, but it is going to happen naturally. Like in cricket, the first few wickets bat for a longer time, but the tail-enders fall quickly. Similarly, the next resignations from MVA ministers will come at shorter intervals,” he said.Also Read | Patil starts stint as Maharashtra home minister with a promise and appeal in SCPatil said that while the list of wrongdoings of some ministers from the MVA government has already been in the public domain, a few more names will be added to it in the next few days. “The MVA government will collapse under its own deeds. There is no need to put in special efforts to topple it. The BJP will fight the elections on its own and form the government without joining hands with any other party,” Patil said.On Monday, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that a few more names will come to light for their involvement in the “extortion” case during the CBI investigation. “There are few more names that will be exposed in the course of investigation of the case. The alleged involvement of the home minister is just the tip of the iceberg. I believe many heavyweights from the ruling parties are involved in the entire case of ‘extortion’,” he said.According to the BJP leaders, the state unit has decided to go become more aggressive against the MVA government over issues such as corruption and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-chief-says-one-more-mva-minister-will-resign-in-8-days-101617710299610.html
06-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt rules out negotiations with RTC workers, warns against strike||With the employees of road transport corporations set to go on a strike on wage related issues from April 7, the Karnataka government on Tuesday warned of strict action and ruled out any negotiations with them.Noting that most of the demands made by the employees have been addressed despite financial constraints due to Covid-19, the government made it clear that their demand for implementation of the sixth pay commission report for the Road Transport Corporation workers cannot be fulfilled.The government has also made alternate arrangements by roping in private transport operators aimed at addressing inconvenience caused to the public, due to the strike, officials said."Transport employees have given a call to go on strike from tomorrow, the Chief Minister held a discussion in this regard, we are requesting employees not to go on strike keeping Covid-19 situation in mind.They had nine demands, eight of them have been fulfilled and implemented," Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said.Addressing reporters after meeting with the Chief Minister, he said their demand for implementation of the sixth pay commission report, and thereby give them the salary on par with the government employees, cannot be accepted."It cannot be given to transport employees," he said, however, the transport minister after discussion has agreed for an 8 per cent increase in salary as an interim relief, but it cannot be implemented immediately as the model code of conduct is in place and a letter has been sent to the Election Commission seeking permission.Workers of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), under the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League have given a call for strike from April 7.The protest is against the governments failure to implement a salary under the 6th Pay Commission for the RTC workers.Observing that so far pay revision used to take place for transport employees once in four years after discussion with them, Kumar claimed that for government employees pay commission implementation takes place after five or six years, some time 10 years also.Due to Covid-19 situation, lockdown and decline in number of passengers the transport corporations had no proper income and yet the state government ensured payment for staff on time, by spending ₹2,100 crore, he said.Pointing out that the Transport Minister and the Chief Minister have made an appeal, as the strike will cause problems for the public, the Chief Secretary said to address the situation the transport department will take measures."Private buses, maxi cabs will be left free, they will be allowed to operate in assigned routes.The Transport Commissioner is working on alternate arrangements across the state," he said.But still there will be some inconvenience, also Railways have been requested for special trains to places like Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Hubballi, Mysuru among others.The CM directed us to deal with the transport strike "strictly", Kumar in response to a question said.The government is mulling imposing Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA)."There will be no more negotiations or talks... still if they go for strike, all the measures that can be taken in the framework of law will be taken.This is the strict decision taken by the CM and it will be implemented... no work no pay will any ways be there," he said.Warning the employees against damage to buses and public assets in the name of strike, he said such things will be dealt with very seriously.Citing Covid-19 restrictions in place and a notification already issued under the Disaster Management Act stating that people cannot gather in groups, Kumar said if it is violated, action will be taken.Highlighting the situation faced by public transport corporations, he said 45 lakh passengers used to commute in public transport buses in Bengaluru alone per day, which has now reduced to 20 lakh, and may further go down due to COVID."Public transport corporations are facing ₹4 crore loss per day, the government is filling in for it," he said.Making it clear that action will be initiated against those involved in any kind of instigation, the Chief Secretary said the transport commissioner will take steps to ensure that autos and cabs don't charge exorbitantly, taking advantage of transport strike.The Transport Commissioner said notification fixing cab and bus fares has already been issued and no once can charge over it."If we get to know about it, strict action will be taken."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-rules-out-negotiations-with-rtc-workers-warns-against-strike-101617706851678.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Life on a finite planet||We are entering the 50th year since the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Environment in Stockholm, which was the first global conference to make the environment a major issue. It was also in 1972, that a group of young researchers at MIT, USA, presented their report called “Limits to Growth”, with the key message that unlimited economic growth on a finite planet is impossible. Over the last few decades, questions have been asked in relation to that message, and especially with greater understanding of climate change and globalisation: who is growing - is it transnational corporations? What does “growth” mean – is it the well-being of people, or do we mean GDP growth, even counting pollution clean-up as growth? What is the impact of economic growth on people and the environment – does it lead to a better life for all, or profits for some and poverty for many?Economic growth, especially in the last 50 years, has certainly led to increasing carbon emissions, and the prospect of dangerous climate change. We only have about a decade to get our act right.While India seems on track with renewable energy targets, the new discussion is: can India set itself more ambitious targets of carbon emission reduction?While the average carbon footprint per person in India is not high, globally, we still have the third largest collective footprint as a country. Growth in food, education, healthcare, infrastructure, has led to many gains over the past few decades. But, now we need to check our growing carbon footprint.The Climate Collective Pune (https://www.climatecollectivepune.org/) formed by a few like-minded individuals in 2018 has been deliberating upon the idea of carbon neutrality.Suggestions submitted to the environment minister include: very large increases in distributed solar power, including rooftop systems for domestic use; improving energy management and doing away with diesel gen-sets; complete (or maximal) shift to electric vehicles; and extensive ecological restoration and greening to sequester carbon.The Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), developed by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, has provisions for how to make buildings more energy efficient. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have already adopted it. MEDA and the Urban Development Department have key roles to play. Since electric cars and bikes are still cars and bikes, occupying road space and using energy currently still generated from dirty coal, we do need to change the way we travel. Reducing private motorised modes will improve road safety, make more efficient use of road infrastructure, and make active travel realistic and safer for those who do choose to walk and cycle. Last week, Climate Collective Pune launched Eco Fusion, an e-magazine to reach out to Punekars with ideas for becoming more environmentally responsible and climate resilient. In his article, Dr Chirag Dhara, a scientist with IITM, Pune, suggests that we must go beyond renewables and electric vehicles.We need a close look at growth and consumption such as private vehicles, fashion, junk food, fuelled by planned obsolescence and advertising leading to “manufacturing of desires”! These cause extravagant use of fossil fuels, minerals, fresh water which are in limited supply. Chirag suggests that we must engage with the idea of “de-growth”, and aim for a conscious change from profligate consumption.Ashish Kothari, a founder member of Kalpavriksh, suggests we should go further than de-growth, which is an idea emerging in the developed world. We need to listen to “ecological democracy” voices emerging in the grassroots movements in India.The key ideas of ecological democracy pertain to living within ecological limits, as well as with equity. There is no single right answer, but communities may evolve their own local solutions in a convivial way, fostering social justice using direct democracy methods. This itself can make life more meaningful.Alternatives Forum, or Vikalp Sangam (https://vikalpsangam.org/) has been documenting many such inspirational grassroots movements from across India.What is ecological democracy in the urban context, and in the urban-rural-regional context? Could urban movements engage more consciously with and benefit from the ideas of ecological democracy? Is it possible to start at a neighbourhood - or city-scale in Pune?The pandemic has increased economic recession and large-scale distress among urban poor and informal economies. How can we “decarbonise” as well as make life better, especially for the poor?These are among the most important conversations we must have.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-life-on-a-finite-planet-101617707659617.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh moves Supreme Court against HC order directing CBI probe into corruption allegations against him||Anil Deshmukh, who resigned as home minister of Maharashtra on Monday, moved the Supreme Court (SC) today against a Bombay high court (HC) order directing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to open preliminary investigation in the corruption allegations against him.The Maharashtra government too is moving the SC regarding the matter. "The government will challenge the high court's order in the Supreme Court," Dinesh Walse Patil, who replaced Deshmukh as Maharashtra home minister, said on Tuesday.Also read | Patil starts stint as Maharashtra home minister with a promise and appeal in SCThe move comes after the HC on Monday ordered a CBI probe against Deshmukh on allegations made by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, who accused the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader of running an "extortion racket".“There can be no independent probe if it is given to the police where Deshmukh is the home minister. The interest of justice will be done if the director of CBI is allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Such an inquiry be conducted in accordance with law and be concluded within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, it will be at the discretion of director CBI to decide on the further course of action,” the Bombay HC mentioned in its order, which came hours before Deshmukh resigned on Monday.Meanwhile, a CBI team comprising six officers, is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Tuesday to begin the preliminary enquiry, according to a news report by PTI on Monday.Also | BJP looks to corner MVA after Bombay HC order on DeshmukhFollowing the bomb scare case outside Antilia, residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai, Maharashtra government ordered the transfer of Param Bir Singh citing mismanagement of the case.In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked police officer Sachin Vaze, suspended in Ambani case, to extort money amounting to ₹100 crore per month from bars and restaurants. The NCP leader has denied all the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-moves-supreme-court-against-hc-order-directing-cbi-probe-into-corruption-allegations-against-him-101617707109180.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Leopard rescued from 40-ft-deep well in Pune district||Mumbai: A male leopard who had fallen into a 40-feet-deep well in Junnar taluka (Pune district) was rescued from drowning after a two-hour-long operation on Monday by non-profit conservation group Wildlife SOS, along with the Maharashtra forest department.Residents in Vadgaon Kandali village alerted the forest department about the incident on Monday, after hearing the animal’s distressed cries. A four-member team of rescuers was immediately dispatched to the spot. The animal was brought to safety after rescuers lowered a trap cage into the well. Those involved in the effort said that the animal, who was struggling to stay afloat in the well, sensed that this was its only chance of survival.After being lifted out of the well, the leopard was transferred to Wildlife SOS’s Leopard Rescue Centre for medical examination. Officials estimated the animal to be about five-year-old, and said that he will be kept under observation at the rescue and rehabilitation centre in Junnar for a few days.Dr Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “While the leopard was struggling to claw its way out of the well, he sustained minor abrasions at the nail region. We will keep the leopard under observation while he recuperates from this stressful ordeal.”Kartick Satyanarayan of Wildlife SOS, said, “The entire exercise had to be executed quickly and with painstaking care. We are grateful to the forest department for making the rescue a success. The startling increasing rate of habitat encroachment has resulted in decreasing prey base, territory and water sources for predator species like leopards that are then forced to come out into human habitation. Since these elusive cats usually prefer to move around at night, it is common for them to fall victim to uncovered wells.”Yogesh Ghodke, regional forest officer, said, “We suspect that the leopard had fallen into the well at night while on the prowl for food. The leopard is currently under temporary observation at the Wildlife SOS centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-rescued-from-40-ft-deep-well-in-pune-district-101617707059999.html
06-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh chief minister says not wearing masks amounts to 'crime'||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said not wearing a face mask amounts to crime and appealed to people to follow appropriate "social behaviour" to check the spread of Covid-19.The surge in cases now is due to people lowering their guard, Chouhan said after starting a 24-hour 'sit-in' here to spread the awareness among people about following the Covid-19 prevention guidelines.The CM launched the "Swasthya Agrah" (health request) at the Minto Hall in Bhopal at 12.30 pm on Tuesday and during his 24-hour 'sit-in', he will interact with people online and conduct his official work from the venue."Wearing masks and maintaining social distance are not in our habit. Besides these, we have to take other measures also to control the pandemic. So, I am sitting here for a moral request to make these things a part of people's habit," Chouhan told reporters.He said it is a "crime" if someone is not wearing a mask, because this also affects the health of others around that person.Chouhan said he launched an awareness campaign for wearing masks on Monday."I ensured that me and my family wear masks...the word 'mask' means 'mera aapka suraksha kavach' (my and your safety shield)," he said.The coronavirus cannot be controlled only by government's efforts, because the infection is being spread by (inappropriate) social behaviour, he said."We are making efforts to arrange facilities to fight the pandemic at the government level, but the infection spread has to be stopped by (appropriate) social behaviour," he said.Chouhan said people became complacent when the viral infection was brought under control in the country a few months back due to efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and launch of the vaccination drive."This has again caused the spread. Lockdown is an easy solution, but I don't consider it right. A limited lockdown is ok, but a permanent one is not a solution," he said.The CM said self-discipline is necessary to prevent the spread of the infection, and urged people to wear masks, maintain social distance, wash hands and adopt other precautionary measures.Chouhan said his office will function during his 24- hour sit-in campaign."I will review the Covid-19 situation in the state, talk to leaders of various sections of society and religious leaders on awareness about the disease and also hold a cabinet meeting, besides other works, during this Swasthya Agrah," the chief minister said.Chouhan also said he has urged his party (BJP) workers not to come to the venue of his campaign so as to maintain social distance.The state government is also making efforts to take the help of volunteers, who can register themselves for assistance in the vaccination process, spread awareness about the prevention norms, and help patients in home and institutional quarantine, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-says-not-wearing-masks-amounts-to-crime-101617704643383.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Senior judge of Patna high court tests Covid positive, admitted to AIIMS-Patna||A senior judge of the Patna high court tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna late Monday evening, according to hospital documents seen by HT. The judge is learnt to be undergoing conservative treatment for Covid-19.The judge, who was running fever for the last couple of days and tested positive for the infection on Monday, was advised hospitalisation by authorities at AIIMS. His name has been withheld at the request of hospital authorities.Patna high court has decided to hold only online hearing from Tuesday due to the recent spurt in cases. The HC was earlier hearing cases virtually and also in-person.“His vital parameters are stable and the severity of infection is mild at this stage. He does not require oxygen therapy as of now,” a government official who spoke on condition of anonymity said.There was no official word from the hospital. AIIMS-Patna superintendent Dr CM Singh declined comment saying he was busy. Director, AIIMS-Patna, Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, could not be reached on phone and hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, did not respond to text messages and phone calls.News of the judge contracting the infection came even as Bihar reported 935 new infections, the highest single-day spike in cases this year.Like several other states witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases in what is being referred to as the second wave of the infection in India, Bihar, too, has seen a spike with 3,422 cases reported after Holi between March 29 and April 4, in comparison to the 224 cases reported during the week ending March 7.State capital Patna has contributed most of the new infections, accounting for 432 of the 935 cases registered on Monday; 372 of the 864 cases on April 4; 359 of the 836 cases on April 3; 287 of the 662 cases on April 2 and 174 of the 488 infections reported in the state on April 1. The AIIMS, Patna has already scaled up the number of beds for Covid-19 patients from 60 to 110. The number of ICU beds for Covid patients have also been increased from 20 to 30 at the institute.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is reviewing the Covid-19 situation with health officials on a daily basis. He is also holding a meeting with district magistrates and superintendents of police on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senior-judge-of-patna-high-court-tests-covid-positive-admitted-to-aiimspatna-101617705019557.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Pandemic, fund crunch halt Delhi parking policy implementation||Haphazardly parked vehicles on roads and often pavements are a common sight in Delhi. Counted among the cities with poor parking facilities globally, Delhi continues to struggle to streamline its parking management despite a policy in place. Almost two years after the government notified the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules, 2019, it has been put on the backburner by the three municipal agencies tasked with its implementation. The Covid-19 pandemic, fund crunch, lack of resources, poor enforcement, resistance from market associations have been cited as the reasons for it.Delhi has at least 10 million registered vehicles including 7.9 million two-wheelers and 3.3 million four-wheelers. With 67,50,00 vehicles on an average added to Delhi roads annually, the parking woes continue to grow.As per the policy, civic agencies were to make area-specific Parking Management Area Plans (PMAPs), regulate pricing, identify spaces for overnight parking of commercial vehicles, manage on-street parking and ensure charging facilities for electric vehicles. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) started the implementation of the policy in Lajpat Nagar-III on a pilot basis in January 2020. It prepared a PMAP under which lanes were marked for parking and non-parking purposes. Signage was installed to indicate no parking zones, tow-away zones, one-way lanes, and roundabouts. Vehicles of residents were to be provided green stickers while those of visitors red ones.Also Read | Action on old vehicles, traffic congestion in Delhi’s plan against air pollutionSimilar plans were made for Krishna Nagar in East Delhi and Kamla Nagar in North Delhi and implemented under the supervision of the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), which was dissolved in October 2020.Officials cited a lack of funds and manpower due to the Covid-19 pandemic among the reasons for the non-implementation of the policy. The three pilot projects were put on hold due to the nationwide lockdown imposed because of the pandemic in March last year. A majority of the civic staff has been deployed on Covid-19 duties after lockdown norms were eased.Prem Shankar Jha, SDMC’s deputy commissioner, remunerative cell, said even after the lockdown was lifted, the progress on the implementation of the policy remained tardy because of lack of funds and resources. “Before Covid-19, we prepared PMAPs for at least 10 residential as well as market areas such as Malviya Nagar, Greater Kailash-2, Aurobindo Place, Janakpuri, Rajouri Garden among others. PMAPs were to be implemented at these places after the Lajpat Nagar-III pilot project but before we could start work, the pandemic struck and priorities changed.”A North Delhi Municipal Corporation official, who did not want to be named, said their priority is to pay salaries of employees and have no funds to implement the parking policy. “Due to Covid-19, the income of the corporation has drastically gone down. We are unable to pay salaries to the staff and they go on strike every now and then to demand pending salaries. We have a Kamla Nagar pedestrianisation plan ready, but we need resources and money for that. After Karol Bagh and Kamla Nagar, we had to prepare PMAPs in Kirti Nagar and Keshav Puram but that is put on hold for some time.”Anuj Malhotra, a transport expert, said the progress of the project was good until it was being monitored by the EPCA. “There used to be review meetings at regular intervals where civic bodies and other concerned departments used to give status reports on the preparation and implementation of PMAPs. But after EPCA was dissolved in October 2020, there was hardly any monitoring of the project,” said Malhotra, who assisted the civic bodies in formulating and implementing PMAPs for Lajpat Nagar, Kamla Nagar and Krishna Nagar.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said the implementation of the policy is a very complex process and unless there is a continuous, consistent and stringent monitoring mechanism, it is very difficult to push this in the right direction. She said the city needs a strong oversight system and therefore it is needed to be put in place as a mechanism for compliance.“The Supreme Court directive was very clear that the authorities will have to do this city-wide after the implementation of the three pilot projects in Lajpat Nagar, Kamla Nagar and Krishna Nagar. Even in pilot areas, things are now back to square one. So, the big message here is that unless you have continuous and stringent monitoring of the implementation, then even the small progress that we are making will get reversed,” Roychowdhury said. “We have no idea what happened to the progress of parking policy after EPCA was dismantled.”Experts also blamed a lack of proper coordination among agencies involved in the project.Roychowdhury called coordination among agencies a must for the success of any such big project. “There are several stakeholders involved in the implementation of the parking policy. So, that is why you need a strong oversight system for that coordination. A holistic approach is needed.”Malhotra suggested a state-level technical coordination committee for the implementation of parking reforms. “Such a committee should consist of senior urban designers, traffic modelling experts. The committee’s main job should be to coordinate among agencies and to review the PMAPs and provide solutions to tackling an area. It should directly report to the urban development minister or chief minister. The committee shall also coordinate between different departments to help implement the PMAPs.”A lack of a skilled technical workforce is seen as another reason for the lack of implementation of the policy. To address the issue, SDMC in September started training its officials, mostly engineers, on the modalities of PMAPs and how to implement them in neighbourhoods. “We have trained some staff in the three civic bodies to prepare and implement PMAPs, but we still need skilled hands,” said Jha.Malhotra said the municipalities should also hire in-house urban planners and urban designers to create PMAPs to meet the parking requirement of neighbourhoods.Roychowdhury said technical knowledge and skill-building is necessary to create technically sound teams to work on the creation and implementation of PMAPs with the help of professionals. She added the municipalities will have to make PMAPs in large numbers and for that, they need to develop a skilled workforce along with professional guidance.Civic authorities re-implemented the pedestrianisation plan on Karol Bagh’s Ajmal Khan Road on April 1 despite traders’ resistance. The emergency lane of the road, which was taken over by vehicles earlier, has since been reserved for walkers and street vendors. At some points, vehicles continued to be parked on the pedestrianised stretch. “We have reimplemented the plan as per the policy. Traders are opposing the move and we are now assessing the situation. We had invested time and money in making Karol Bagh a pedestrian-friendly market so we cannot let it become a chaotic market,” a municipal official said, requesting anonymity.In June 2020, vehicular movement was allowed on pedestrianised stretches in Krishna Nagar, Karol Bagh, and Kamla Nagar markets on the traders’ demand.Aman Rajput, East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s deputy commissioner, said that vehicular movement on the pedestrianised stretches under their jurisdiction continues as the traders are not supportive of the plan. “They say that their business is already down due to the pandemic and the people coming to markets prefer personal vehicles. So, they say that if the pedestrianisation plan is reimplemented, their business will suffer. We have also put on hold the PMPs for Laxmi Nagar and Geeta Colony as we cannot implement such plans without the public’s support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-fund-crunch-halt-delhi-parking-policy-implementation-101617702259248.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||100-member UP Police team takes custody of Mukhtar Ansari||Ten days after the Supreme Court directed the Punjab government to hand over gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari within a fortnight to Uttar Pradesh, a 100-member special team of the UP Police took him in an ambulance from the Central Jail at Ropar to Banda jail on Tuesday afternoon. Ansari, the Bahujan Samaj Party MLA from Mau, was handed over to the UP police team from Banda district, led by assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Satya Parkash, under heavy security at 2.15 pm. Also read: Ambulance used by Mukhtar to be brought to UP’s Barabanki from PunjabEarlier, a team of doctors from Ropar district administration conducted all medical tests of Ansari, who has been in the Punjab jail since January 2019 in connection with an extortion complaint by a Mohali-based builder. Ansari is wanted in several criminal cases in Uttar Pradesh. The Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government had to move the Supreme Court for his custody after the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab refused to send him earlier. The UP Police team, including two inspectors, four sub inspectors and a physician from the Banda district hospital, had reached Punjab past midnight on Tuesday to take him into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100member-up-police-team-takes-custody-of-mukhtar-ansari-101617702139127.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi above 5%: Why it's a matter of concern?||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced night curfew, which will be in place from 10pm to 5am, to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital. The decision has been taken after continuous rise in the number of cases over the past few weeks.But what has been equally worrying for the government is that the positivity rate - a measure of the number of positive cases from those tested - crossed the five per cent mark. This is the threshold that the World Health Organization (WHO) identifies as ideal for an outbreak to be considered as under control.Also Read: Will eateries be open? Delhi night curfew FAQs answeredWith 3,548 cases after 64,003 tests, Delhi's positivity rate jumped to 5.54% on Monday, which is the highest since December 2 last year.Why is this a matter of concern?The positivity rate determines the spread of the infection, and when it goes above the five per cent threshold, experts sound an alarm saying the disease in on its way to become unmanageable.And doctors agree with that. “We have to keep a close eye on the numbers. The increasing positivity rate indicates that the disease is spreading faster," Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital, said when the fresh spike just began in the national capital in March.“There is a laxity in the Covid-19 norms in Delhi now... This needs to change,” he added.How has Delhi fared in terms of positivity rate?On March 15, 368 cases were reported in Delhi, which showed a positivity rate of 0.6%. This is when Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said the national capital is at a benchmark of Covid-19 cases. "In Maharashtra, the positivity rate is 16 per cent, Gujarat's positivity rate is three times of Delhi. The positivity rate has reached six times in Punjab, seven times in Kerala and 30 times in Maharashtra," Jain said on March 15.Since then, the rate has been on an upward trajectory. In week starting March 22, new cases grew to 888 while the positivity rate inched up to 1.3%.On March 29, the day of Holi, the positivity rate rose to 2.7%. That day, 1,904 cases were recorded.In the week since Holi, the positivity rate rose exactly by double to reach 5.5%.What the Delhi government is doing?"The case positivity rate was 4.64 per cent on Sunday. Random tests are being done at a fast pace and capacity is being ramped up. More than 80,000 tests are being conducted a day which is five times more than the national average," Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain told reporters on Monday.The Kejriwal government is taking a number of other decisions to contain the contagion, the minister said, adding that micro-containment zones are being created wherever two to three Covid-19 cases are detected.What are the positivity rates in other states?In Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, the positivity rate stands at 14.6 per cent. Out of the 2,07,15,793 laboratory samples, which were taken until today, 30,57,885 have tested positive for Covid-19, the state government's health department showed.Punjab, another badly affected state, has seen its positivity rate grow at a fast pace. According to Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, a positivity rate of 2.9% was recorded from February 27 to March 5, which increased to 7.9% between March 27 to April 2.Also Read: List of restrictions in other statesIn Chhattisgarh, among the states where the Centre has sent its teams to help tackle the spread of the disease, the positivity rate stands at 20%., Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. The state's health minister TS Singh Deo said on Saturday that the positivity rate is not as high as compared to September last year. "In September, the maximum daily cases recorded was 3,900 from about 27,000 tests. The present number of daily cases on Thursday is from 40,000 tests. So the positivity per cent is less as compared to that in September," Deo told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-above-5-why-it-s-a-matter-of-concern-101617701604270.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari's custody handed over to UP Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday took custody of jailed gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari at Punjab's Rupnagar jail to transfer him to Banda prison.Ansari, BSP MLA from Uttar Pradesh's Mau, is facing 52 cases in the state and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage.Punjab Additional Director General of Police (Prisons), Praveen Kumar Sinha, told PTI that the custody of Ansari has been handed over to the Uttar Pradesh Police.Ansari, who has been lodged in the Rupnagar jail since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case, was taken in an ambulance, jail officials said.Earlier, Uttar Pradesh Police vehicles, an ambulance and a Vajra reached Rupnagar jail at around 12 noon.Uttar Pradesh Police personnel reached Rupnagar district on Tuesday to bring back Ansari.Heavy security arrangements were made by the Punjab Police outside the Rupnagar jail. Barricades were also put by the police on the road leading to the jail.The Supreme Court had directed the Punjab government to handover the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh Police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues.It had also said that a convict or an under-trial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another and the courts are not to be helpless bystanders when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangsterturnedpolitician-mukhtar-ansari-s-custody-handed-over-to-up-police-101617700800846.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Will I need an e-pass? Eateries will be open? Delhi night curfew FAQs answered||The Delhi government has imposed a night curfew with immediate effect in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the national Capital, according to a Delhi Disaster Management Agency (DDMA) order released on Tuesday. The curfew will be in place every night from 10pm to 5am till April 30. The decision was taken as the Capital registered 3,548 new cases on Monday – a number that was slightly lower than Sunday, although this was due to fewer tests. Here is all you need to know about the curbs:1. What does night curfew mean?Only essential services will be allowed in the seven-hour window. Only up to two persons will be allowed to be together. The order also clarified that there will be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of essential or non-essential goods. It stated that no separate permission/e-pass will be required for such movements. Only people arriving in the city from airports, railway stations, lSBTs will be allowed to travel that too on production of a valid ticket. 2. Who will implement it?District magistrates of Delhi, their counterparts – district deputy commissioners of police and all authorities concerned shall ensure strict compliance of this order.3. Are there any fines?In case anyone is found violating the instructions, the defaulting person(s) shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws.4. Will all restaurants, cinemas, malls, markets etc., have to be shut earlier to ensure 10pm curfew?No. Wedding halls, pubs, restaurants, party venues, markets and other places where people gather will have to shut by 10pm.5. What essential services will be allowed?Movement of persons related to commercial and private establishments providing the following essential services/commodities shall be allowed: shops dealing with foods, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment; banks, insurance offices and ATMs; print and electronic media; telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services, IT and IT-enabled services; delivery of all essential goods including foods, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce; petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets; power generation, transmission and distribution units and services; cold storage and warehousing services; private security services; and manufacturing units of essential commodities. Those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.6. Will e-passes be needed, or will identity cards work?Government officials, healthcare and frontline workers, diplomats will need to produce identity cards; those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.7. If e-passes are needed, how to get one?E-passes can be obtained by applying on the website www.delhi.gov.in.8. How about people coming to/from airports and railway stations?Travellers going to or arriving at the airport/railway stations/ISBTs will need to produce tickets upon request.9. Now that vaccination has been opened 24x7, what about people going to get shots?People on their way to be vaccinated for Covid-19 during the 10pm-5am window will also need e-passes to travel.10. What about hospital movement? How will it be facilitated?Ambulances will be allowed to ferry patients; anybody feeling sick can travel to meet a doctor, even if (s)he is not carrying a relevant document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-i-need-an-e-pass-eateries-will-be-open-delhi-night-curfew-faqs-answered-101617699438765.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC restricts entry of people at its offices as Covid-19 cases rise in Mumbai||In the wake of a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has restricted the entry of people at its headquarters and other offices in the city.Except for public representatives and citizens who have urgent work or meetings scheduled, no other visitor will be allowed to enter the BMC offices, as per a circular issued by the civic body on Monday.In exceptional cases, the department heads should issue entry passes to people on the basis of their negative RT-PCR test reports of less than 48 hours, said the circular.Civic officials have been asked to make provisions for accepting letters and representations at the entry gates of the BMC headquarters in south Mumbai and its other offices here, it said.They have also been directed to conduct online meetings with staff members, instead of physical meetings.The city civic body had enforced similar restrictions last year also to control the spread of the coronavirus infection, after its outbreak here in March 2020.On Monday, Mumbai reported 9,857 new cases of the infection, taking its tally to 4,62,302, as per the BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-restricts-entry-of-people-at-its-offices-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-mumbai-101617698549310.html
06-04-2021||Bangalore||Yediyuappa welcomes new age firms in Karnataka, assures support to Triton Electric Vehicle||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said his government was keen on supporting new age firms in Karnataka and assured to provide all necessary assistance. He was speaking at a virtual meeting with the CEO and founder of Triton Electric Himanshu Patel on investment opportunities for Triton Electric vehicles in Karnataka on Monday."The Government of Karnataka is very keen to support entry of new age firm like Triton Electric Vehicles and all assistance will be provided with complete customised facilitation," the Chief Minister was quoted as saying in an official statement. He explained that the EV cluster in Ramanagara is being created over an area of 500 acres, which will offer a strong and concentrated EV ecosystem. Karnataka being the first state to launch a dedicated Electric Vehicles policy in 2017 is now updating the EV Policy to make it more investor-friendly, he pointed out. Despite Covid-19 hitting the economy across the globe, the Government of Karnataka has extended all possible support to the industry growth, Yediyurappa said. He added that the New Industry Policy has special emphasis to make Karnataka an integral part of the global supply chain across industry sectors. The statement said the Triton's CEO expressed interest to invest in Karnataka and assured to look into the prospects. He also said he would be visiting India shortly for another round of discussions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyuappa-welcomes-new-age-firms-in-karnataka-assures-support-to-triton-ev-101617697942469.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: All shops to remain shut in Pune till April 30||Struggling to bring coronavirus positive cases under control, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday issued a fresh order notifying that barring the essential services shops, other establishments and markets in Pune city will remain closed till April 30.All private offices will also remain shut except the offices of cooperative, public and private sector banks, insurance companies, telecom firms, IT & ITes firms and other offices related to lawyers, CAs and financial entities, it said.As per the order, a curfew (barring essential services) will be imposed in the city from 6 pm on Fridays to 7 am on Mondays as part of the weekend lockdown."As per the state government's direction, except for the essential services shops, all the shops and markets in the city will remain closed till April 30. The implementation of the weekend lockdown order will also be done in the city effectively," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted.The PMC has already closed hotel, restaurants, and bars, except room service in the lodging hotels, within the city limits.Alarmed by the huge rise in cases over the last few days, the state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays from Monday to April 30, in addition to a slew of other restrictions like the closure of private offices, theatres and salons.The weekend lockdown will start from 8 pm on Fridays and last till 7 am on Mondays. Besides, prohibitory orders will be in force during the daytime on weekdays, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement.On Monday, Pune district reported 8,075 new coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally to 5,82,904 while 55 fatalities pushed the toll to 10,282, an official said.A total of 3,240 people were discharged during the day.With 2,152 fresh cases, the tally in Pimpri Chinchwad township has reached 1,53,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-all-shops-to-remain-shut-in-pune-till-april-30-101617697500317.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal fighting forest fires after prolonged dry spell||The prolonged dry spell this year has sparked off fires in the chir pine forests of the lower hills of Himachal Pradesh with 845 such incidents reported in April in Shimla, Solan, Mandi, Sirmaur, Bilaspur, Kangra and Hamirpur districts. The raging fire, which causes extensive damage to flora and fauna, has the forest department on its toes. In the past two months, more than 8,455.2 hectares of forest land has been destroyed due to the fire. Himachal Pradesh frequently witnesses forest fires during the dry weather as pines shed resinous needles that are inflammable. February recorded a rain deficit of 82% and March witnessed a deficit of 62%. “Two months have been dry, and the incidents of forest fires have increased as there is less moisture on the ground and temperatures have begun rising,” state forest minister Rakesh Pathania said. “We have roped in the fire department but dousing the blaze in the remote areas, particularly those inaccessible by road, is a challenge. The forest department is trying to rope in local people,” he said. Human negligence sparks off blaze Forest officials say that most fire incidents are started by human negligence as it’s been noticed that they start in and around habitations. More than a dozen such incidents have been reported from areas surrounding Shimla so far this year. The smoke blanket has become a health hazard for residents and environmentalists have sought a solution to the recurring problem. Sanjay Chauhan, a former mayor of Shimla, says, “One such fire is raging in the Junga Forest Range, 25km from Shimla. It’s visible from the Secretariat for the past four days but neither the forest department nor any other department has showed seriousness in dousing it. This forest adjoining Kufri wildlife sanctuary that surrounds Shimla is one of the biggest green covers and the catchment area for water sources of Koti and Brandi. The government should wake up and proactively protect forests.” Replace chir pine with broadleafed trees Environmentalists have suggested framing a forest composition policy and replacing the inflammable chir pine with broadleafed trees in the lower hills. “We see a similar scenario every other year but refuse to face the real issue of replacing the chir pine monocultures that are vulnerable to fire. Until there is policy and the chir is replaced, this problem will persist. It is not the responsibility of the forest department alone. Local communities are custodians living around forests,” says environmentalist Manshi Asher. She suggests creating forest protection committees that can take on this task with the support of the forest department. Fire watchers to aerial surveys to check spread Official data shows that 2018 was the worst year of forest fires with 2,469 incidents reported. It was the highest in eight years in which nearly 25,300 hectares of forest land in the state was burnt. In 2012-13, the second worst year, pine forests over 20,773 hectares were destroyed with a total of 1,798 fires reported. The state forest department has drawn up a policy for converting the chir pine waste into combustible bricks. Besides, it has deployed 6,000 members of the forest staff as fire watchers for the timely dousing of flames. It now plans to conduct aerial surveys to take stock of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-fighting-forest-fires-after-prolonged-dry-spell-101617693978424.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Starting today, night curfew in Delhi from 10pm to 5am amid rising Covid cases||The Delhi government has imposed a night curfew that will be in place every day from 10pm to 5am in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the national Capital, senior government officials confirmed to HT.During the seven-hour curfew period, movement of only government officials, healthcare workers, those working for essential services or arriving at airports, railway stations or interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) and those travelling for Covid-19 vaccination or any medical treatment will be allowed. “The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in recent past along with high positivity rate and therefore, it is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the territory of NCT of Delhi from 10pm to 5am, except for essential activities/services, as an emergency measure for well being and safety of people,” read the order issued by acting chief secretary Satya Gopal on behalf of the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA). It will be in force till April 30 or until further orders. The order, however, states that those working in private companies and engaged in essential services will have to get an e-pass for travelling within the city. The e-pass can be a hard or a soft copy which can be obtained by applying on the website www.delhi.gov.in, it stated. Besides, e-passes will also be required for those travelling for Covid-19 vaccination. “The concerned district magistrates shall be responsible for issuance of e-passes for above activities and for overall implementation of these measures in their respective jurisdiction concerned,” read the order. Also Read | Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Delhi govt orders increase in hospital bedsPublic transport such as Delhi Metro/ public buses/ autos/ taxis shall be allowed to function within the stipulated time for the transportation of only above-mentioned categories of people. The order also clarified that there will be no restriction on interstate and intra-state movement, transportation of essential or non-essential goods. It stated that no separate permission / e-pass will be required for such movements. But, those arriving in the city from airports, railway stations, lSBTs will be allowed to travel on production of a valid ticket. The curfew will mean that all restaurants, markets, wedding venues, pubs and other places where people gather will have to close up by 10pm every day.The decision was taken as the Capital registered 3,548 new cases on Monday – a number that was slightly lower than Sunday, although this was due to fewer tests. Consequently, the test positivity rate inched above 5%, the threshold that the World Health Organization identifies as ideal for an outbreak to be considered as under control. Night curfews are one of the most common non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPI) used in other states as well. These include districts in Punjab, Rajasthan and Gujarat. The strictest of the measures are in Maharashtra, where authorities imposed a night and weekend curfew, ordered non-essentials businesses to shut down, and asked most offices to switch to remote working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/starting-today-night-curfew-in-delhi-from-10pm-to-5am-amid-rising-covid-cases-101617692058300.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Bihar pollution board seeks check on air pollution amid Covid-19 surge||With the air quality index (AQI) in Patna and other cities remaining in the range between poor to hazardous, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has reiterated the need for government agencies’ help to curb toxic emissions and release of particles suspended in the air. In view of the rise in coronavirus cases, said to worsen and spread rapidly when the air quality is poor, BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh said the board will again sent letters to all the concerned departments, such as road construction, building construction, road and urban development seeking strict adherence to the clean air action plan and steps to check contamination of air. Nearly 800-1000 Covid-19 positive cases are being reported in Bihar after the resurgence of the disease in the past few days. Citing the recent study on factors for ambient air pollution, Ghosh said that neighbourhood or outside boundary sources were the major contributors for deterioration in AQI in Patna. “Domestic pollution, which is mainly caused due to biomass burning, is another major issue that the government should step in to address,” added the chairman. He said department of transport and industries were no longer contributing to the worsening AQI. “The Board has embarked up on a major drive to install state of the art air quality monitoring stations across the state to know the source of pollutants and take corrective steps to check them at the source,” said Ghosh. Chief executive officer of the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) Ramapati Kumar said that the prevailing scenario necessitated framing of city-based micro level planning to ensure smooth implementation of the clean air action plan. “The district level officers should be sensitised about strategy and implementation process of the plan. Apart from this, the government shall act on achieving low-hanging fruits such as replacing solid fuel with cleaner sources,” said Kumar. After strengthening the network to monitor AQI in Patna, the BSPCB has initiated steps to install air quality monitoring stations in 24 districts, besides Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali, this year. The board earlier proposed to set up air quality monitoring stations in all 38 districts, but availability of fund from both the Centre and the state government, restricted the plan to 24 districts of Valmikinagar, Siwan, Chapra, Buxar, Ara, Sasaram, Motihari, Bettiah, Muzaffapur, Aurangabad, Gaya, Rajgir, Begusarai, Bihar Sharif, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Muger, Saharsa, Bhagalpur, Katihar, Purnia, Araria and Kishanganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-pollution-board-seeks-check-on-air-pollution-amid-covid-19-surge-101617691998531.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||UP man shot by Nepal cops dies in Lucknow hospital||A 32-year-old man succumbed to his injuries on Sunday night over a month after he was injured in firing along the India-Nepal border in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district on March 4, a police officer said.Pilibhit police superintendent Kirit Kumar Rathod said Gurmej Singh was undergoing treatment at a Lucknow hospital and that his body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination for cremation on Tuesday.Also Read | Nepal to administer Chinese vaccines to citizens from April 7Another police officer said one Govinda Singh, 30, died on the spot after Nepalese police allegedly fired on three men involved in smuggling across the border.Police said security has been increased along the border amid resentment among local villagers over the Nepal police action. Shashtra Seema Bal, which guards the India-Nepal border, has restricted the movement of civilians across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-man-shot-by-nepal-cops-dies-in-lucknow-hospital-101617691098139.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi government imposes night curfew from 10pm to 5am till April 30 amid rising Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Delhi imposed a seven-hour night curfew from Tuesday till April 30 to tackle the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The announcement about the night curfew from 10pm to 5am comes a day after Delhi on Monday recorded 3,548 cases of coronavirus disease, according to health department bulletin, which have pushed the Capital’s caseload to 679,962. The death toll also rose to 11,096 after 15 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, the bulletin showed.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week said that the national capital is hit by the fourth wave of the virus, but a lockdown will not be imposed. "As per the current situation, we are not considering imposing a lockdown. We are closely monitoring the situation and such a decision will only be taken after due public consultation," Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also Read | Health minister to review Covid-19 situation with heads of 11 states today"Buses, metro, autos, taxis and other modes of public transport will be allowed to ferry only those people who are exempt from night curfew. Departments providing essential services remain exempted. Rules applicable to the movement of people and not essential goods and services," an official was quoted as saying by ANI.Private doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, with an ID card, will be exempted from night curfew. On producing a valid ticket, passengers going to airports, railway stations and bus stations will also be exempted including patients and pregnant women going for treatment, officials said according to ANI.To travel for getting vaccinated, people need to have an e-pass. "No restrictions on traffic movement during night curfew. Owners of ration, general, fruits, vegetables and medical stores will be allowed on e-pass. Print and electronic media personnel will be allowed to move on e-pass," the official said, according to ANI.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi is among the 11 states and Union territories displaying an upward trajectory in daily Covid-19 cases. The Covid-19 tests positivity rate of the national capital has spiked from being less than one per cent during the first week of March to over 5 per cent on April 5. Delhi on Tuesday also registered the top spot in reporting new deaths from the disease in the last 24 hours. As per the Union health ministry data, the Capital is one of the eight states that contributed 81 per cent to the new deaths reported in the past 24 hours-446.States and Union territories across the nation have imposed stricter restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19. Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have also imposed night curfew in the wake of rising cases of the coronavirus disease. Prior to the imposition of the night curfew, the Delhi government restricted the maximum number of people allowed in wedding ceremonies and last rites and opened schools only for students of Classes 9-12 for practical sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-view-of-rising-covid-19-cases-delhi-government-imposes-night-curfew-from-10pm-to-5am-with-immediate-effect-reports-ani-101617689673682.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Beam from railway bridge falls on parked trucks, kills watchman in Delhi||A 50-year-old watchman was killed after a concrete and iron beam of a railway bridge under construction fell on four trucks in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh on Tuesday morning, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said that at 9.38am, the police received information about a cement and iron beam that had fallen on four parked trucks. The beam was from a railway bridge, whose construction had apparently stopped in 2014, said Gautam.“Ram Bahadur, who worked as a watchman for the parked trucks, was sleeping in one of the trucks on which the beam fell. He was crushed to death,” said the additional DCP. Also Read | Delhi woman held with heroin in Mohali’s LalruPolice said Bahadur was from Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh and was living in Ashoka Park near Mata Mandir in Punjabi Bagh. Apart from the local Punjabi Bagh police, teams of disaster management and CATS ambulance also reached the mishap spot. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that two fire tenders along with the rescue teams were also sent to the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beam-from-railway-bridge-falls-on-parked-trucks-kills-watchman-in-delhi-101617689538353.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar vows to spare no one in Madhubani killings as criticism mounts||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has promised swift action against those responsible for killing five persons at Madhubani on Holi, after his government was roundly criticised on the state’s law and order situation.“I assure the people of state that whoever is guilty will not be spared,” Kumar said while speaking to reporters at the Janata Dal United (JD-U) office, where he also met party workers.The assassinations took place allegedly over a dispute to control fishing in local ponds. A group of 35 people were reported to have opened fire on rivals, mostly from one family, on Holi day. Apart from three brothers, one sub-inspector of the Border Security Force (BSF), who had returned home on leave, was killed. The mafia style execution in day light invited sharp reactions from even BJP leaders, including ministers in Kumar’s cabinet, with one leader calling it a “massacre” and alleging that police laxity was to be blamed for letting the strife fester.The CM said he had been briefed more than five times, including twice on Monday, on the investigations in the case, by the director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal. Nitish Kumar added that the probe will be expedited and the guilty once arrested will go through a quick trial.Kumar said the opposition’s remarks against him and his government were made for the sake of publicity. “Those who want publicity start speaking against me. They don’t have any work,” he said, and added that people were aware of the work done by his government.On Monday night, opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav tweeted to accuse Nitish Kumar of not showing any sympathy for the victims and announced that he will visit the family of the victims on Tuesday.“I will visit victims of the Madhubani massacre tomorrow. Forget about meeting the victims of this massacre, Nitish ji hasn’t even condoled the killings till now. Arrest of any noted criminal was also not done since the killings were carried out under the protection of his MLA and government,” Tejashwi tweeted.Darbhanga range inspector general of police (IGP) Ajitabh Kumar told HT that Madhubani killings were part of a war for supremacy between two groups. “A case has been lodged against 35 persons and dozens of unidentified accused. Eleven of the named accused have been arrested and jailed, while the administration has attached the properties of the two main accused—Pravin Jha and Navin Jha, who are still absconding,” said the IG, adding that proclamation notices have been put up at the houses of 10-accused in the case.A special investigation team (SIT) under the supervision of Madhubani superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satya Prakash has been constituted to arrest all the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-vows-to-spare-no-one-in-madhubani-killings-as-criticism-mounts-101617689298089.html
06-04-2021||Patna||Bihar CID sub-inspector found dead in hotel room in suspicious circumstances||A Bihar police sub-inspector (SI) was found dead in a hotel room in Gopalganj district late Monday evening under mysterious circumstances, said police officials.The SI identified as Sanjay Kumar, a native of Arara village in Vaishali district, was currently posted in Gopalganj in the Criminal Investigation Department’s (CID) crime branch. Police claim to have recovered a number of liquor bottles from the hotel room where was staying for the past three days since April 3, said Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar.Kumar left the hotel, located in Jadopur area, on Sunday saying he was going to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. He returned around 8.30pm, said the hotel staff.“On Monday, the SI did not come out of his hotel room till afternoon. At around 6.30pm, SI’s wife rang up the hotel manager to say Kumar was not responding to repeated phone calls, after which, hotel staff repeatedly knocked at Sanjay’s door without getting any response. The hotel staff then informed the police,” said Anand Kumar.When the door of room number 30 was opened in the presence of police, the SI was found lying on the bed. “He was taken to Gopalganj sadar hospital where he was declared brought dead by doctors,” the SP added.During the search of the room, police recovered three empty bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IFML), water bottle, cell phone and a bag. A team of experts from Muzaffarpur Forensic Science Laboratory was called in too.Police officials suspect the SI consumed excessive alcohol during his stay in the hotel. “The body has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of his death,” said Town SHO Surendra Kumar, however, he said the body did not bear any internal injury nor was a suicide note recovered.The SI received last call around 9.10am on Monday from his brother-in-law and stopped receiving calls after noon. Family members said he was a diabetic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cid-sub-inspector-found-dead-in-hotel-room-in-suspicious-circumstances-101617686177932.html
06-04-2021||Pune||Leopard falls in 40-feet-deep well in Pune, finally pulled out by rescuers||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-falls-in-40-feet-deep-well-in-pune-finally-pulled-out-by-rescuers-101617684017719.html
06-04-2021||Jaipur||16 inmates throw chilli powder in eyes of guards, flee from Rajasthan jail||16 prisoners at Phalodi sub-jail in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district escaped on Monday evening after first throwing black pepper powder in the eyes of jail guards and then beating them up into submission, claimed officials. The incident is reported to have taken place around 8:30 pm.“Of the escaped prisoners, three are from Bihar and the rest are from Phalodi, Baap and Lohawat areas of Jodhpur. Most of the inmates were booked in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases. First, they threw chilli in the eyes of the female guard deployed at the food mess. She fell to the ground and got injured,” said Phalodi sub-divisional magistrate Yashpal Ahuja who reached the spot after the incident along with senior officials.He said all police stations have been informed about the escape and they were on high vigil. “Public places are being checked and barricading has been placed at several exit points of the town. Nearby localities and CCTV footages are being scanned. Buses, trains, and other vehicles are also being checked. We are also investigating if the escape was pre-panned,” Ahuja said.Union minister and BJP’s MP from Jodhpur, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said the incident marked failure of the state government.“Law and order in the state is in a critical shape including the condition of prisons,” Shekhawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/16-inmates-throw-chilli-powder-in-eyes-of-guards-flee-from-rajasthan-jail-101617681137443.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Allow citizens above 25 to get Covid jab, Maharashtra CM requests PM Modi||Amid the spike in the umber of Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow people over 25 years of age to receive the vaccine. In a letter to Modi, Thackeray said if a large number of the working population is vaccinated, “the intensity of the cases would be lower than the treatment that they need today.” Currently, those above 45 years of age are eligible for vaccination.A day after the Maharashtra government announced restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Maharashtra on Monday recorded more than 40,000 cases with 47,288 new infections and 155 more deaths, taking the state’s tally to 3,057,885 and toll to 56,033.Mumbai continued to be the highest contributor to the daily caseload with 9,879 new cases and 21 deaths on Monday.Also Read | Covid-19: Google letters social distance, wear face masks in new quirky doodleThe state has 451,375 active cases, with the highest in Pune (81,378) and Mumbai (73,281). In the past two days, Maharashtra has recorded 104,362 new cases, while Mumbai has recorded 21,085 cases.Other cities like Pune, Nashik and Nagpur also recorded 4,250, 2,647 and 2,556 new Covid-19 cases on Monday.Thackeray, in his letter to Modi also requested for additional vaccine doses for six districts facing a surge in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-citizens-above-25-to-get-covid-jab-maharashtra-cm-requests-pm-modi-101617679877349.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders still closed, traffic diverted||Vehicular movement through Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate), Singhu, Tikri and a couple or more borders continues to face disruptions as the borders remained closed on Tuesday because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws. The agitation entered its 131th day on Tuesday; farmers from Punjab, Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been camping at these borders since November 25 last year.While the Singhu, Tikri, Mungeshpur and Harewali borders, all connecting Delhi with Haryana, are completely closed for the movement of all kinds of vehicles, the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border is partially closed. Of the six carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut expressway and NH-24, only one carriageway going towards Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, is open for vehicles. The other roads are still closed. Also Read | Experts see no link between Punjab Covid-19 surge, farm protest gatheringsMotorists travelling to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Meerut or other places in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are being advised to use other routes to enter Delhi. These entry points are Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Surya Nagar, Anand Vihar, Kaushambi, and Kondli borders. The diversions have caused increased volume of traffic and jams on these roads, especially during the morning and evening peak hours. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24 as well. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall border from where the motorists can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and access the Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or they can move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on. Delhi Traffic Police officers say that while updates regarding closure of the borders and alternate routes are posted on social media, people seeking traffic updates can also contact their 24X7 traffic police control room’s helpline 1095 or 011-25844444.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-still-closed-traffic-diverted-101617679157386.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky likely in Delhi today, air worsens||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, with a possibility of thunder and lightning. However, maximum temperatures are expected to remain around 38-39 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 20 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Monday was 18.5 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was 38.8 degrees Celsius -- four degrees above normal.Also Read | India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDDelhi’s air quality remained in the poor category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 239. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 205, which is in the poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Monday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “A marginal increase in dust long-range transport is expected on April 6 and 7. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and in the moderate to poor category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-likely-in-delhi-today-air-worsens-101617678197378.html
06-04-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man held for making 'inappropriate comments' to judge over phone||A man was arrested for allegedly making inappropriate comments to a judge over the phone, police said on Tuesday.The judge received the call through an app a few months back, they said.Based on the judge's complaint, the arrest was made on Saturday, police said.The accused has been identified as the son of a central government employee, they added."He used a mobile app to call the judge and make the inappropriate comments. We are grilling him," a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-man-held-for-making-inappropriate-comments-to-judge-over-phone-101617676676315.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||HC orders north corporation to clear salary, pension dues||The Delhi high court on Monday ordered the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to immediately pay the remuneration owed to more than 80,000 of its employees and pensioners, refusing to give the civic body more time to clear the over ₹400 crore amount due.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli, during the hearing, also criticised the Delhi government for not releasing funds to the civic agencies, thereby deepening the crisis.The court was hearing a plea by the north corporation, which sought more time to release payments to its employees and pensioners. It asked for modification of the court’s March 9 order, by which the three MCDs were ordered to clear salary, arrear and pension dues by April 5.“The right of the employees to salaries is a fundamental and non-payment directly impinges on their right to life and liberty,” said the court while dismissing the argument of the civic body on the fund crunch.Advocate Divya Prakash Pande, representing the north civic body, had submitted that one of the reasons of the fund crunch was non-payment of dues by the Delhi government.According to the civic body’s application, it has approximately 57,202 employees (including both permanent and daily wage workers) and approximately 24,853 pensioners.The court also pulled up the Delhi government.“You cannot shrug off your responsibility. There are full page advertisements everyday with pictures of politicians...From where the money is coming? We cannot ignore this,” the bench told senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, who appeared for the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-orders-north-corporation-to-clear-salary-pension-dues-101617668040666.html
06-04-2021||Dehradun||Lack of strategy impedes fight against forest fires||At least 85 forest fires are raging in Uttarakhand, and have destroyed 165 acres of land in the past 24 hours to 48 hours, forcing the state to seek the Centre’s intervention — two helicopters of the Indian Air Force were pressed into service Monday, and they flew several sorties to spray water over the fires — even as it became clear that the state, with a forest cover of 71% of its area, still does not have an effective strategy to deal with forest fires.Since 2000 to April 4 this year, the hill state has lost 49,231 hectares of forest land to forest fires. And, the first few days of April 2021 has seen the worst forest fires in the past one decade with the state government grappling to control the damage.Major forest fires are raging in at least 40 places in the state even as chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that around 12,000 forest workers were deployed and 1,300 fire crew stations were set up to douse the flames, which have so far claimed six lives and led to death of several animals.Forest department officials on Monday said that the fires were spreading to new areas because of the hot weather conditions and strong winds. According to India Meteorological Department, Uttarakhand has received 70% less rainfall than normal in March and there has not been a single rainy day in April, thereby providing perfect dry conditions for the fire to spread.Since January, the state has reported 1,130 forest fire incidents, which in total ravaged 1,540 hectares of forest land, the highest since all of 2018.On Sunday, in an emergency meeting, Rawat admitted the need for a long-term plan to check fires. He directed the officials to seek the help of van panchayats and local people in checking forest fires, and set up fire control rooms and fire stations at tehsil and block levels.At the ground level, when a forest fire occurs, there are three ways in which it can be doused. Using water, soil, or beating the forest fire with branches. As water is not available on hill slopes where forests catch fire and it is not practical or even possible to collect soil, the only way available to locals and forest officials is to beat the advancing forest fires with tree branches.But when the forest fires are raging, such methods are not of much help. There are also fire lines or spaces created in forests, which helps to check the spread of fires. But given the huge area under forests in the state, such lines also prove ineffective in most cases. Uttarakhand has a forest area of over 38,000 sq km, which constitutes 71% of the total geographical area of the state.Experts say the only effective way to deal with forest fires is getting locals involved to ensure that: one, such fires aren’t man-made; and two, when fires start, enough people are mobilised to fight them.But for that, the locals need to be made aware of how they will benefit.Ajay Singh Rawat, an environmentalist, said dousing forest fires should be a people’s movement and such fires should be declared as a national disaster.Maan Singh, nodal officer for forest fires in the state forest department, said that the real issue isn’t strategy but the enormity of the challenge.“The main challenge in hilly areas is how to douse the fire when no water is available. So, most locals try to check the advance of forest fires by beating it with big branches. We also go for routine cleaning of the forest lines. But as forests are huge, we don’t know where the fires will start,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/lack-of-strategy-impedes-fight-against-forest-fires-101617667207469.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 72 Covid deaths in a day, highest this year||Amid Covid-19 infection resurge, Punjab on Monday witnessed 72 Covid-related death, which is the highest deaths in a day this year, even as 2,692 fresh cases were reported. Before this, the highest deaths in a day had occurred on March 28 when 69 people lost their lives. Maximum 11 deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur, followed by eight fatalities each in Gurdaspur and Ludhiana, seven each in Jalandhar and Kapurthala, six in SBS Nagar, five each in Amritsar and SAS Nagar, four each in Patiala and Ferozepur, two in Fatehgarh Sahib and one each in Barnala, Muktsar, Pathankot, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. As per the media bulletin of the state government, maximum 452 cases were reported in SAS Nagar, followed by 390 in Ludhiana, 370 in Jalandhar, 202 in Amritsar, 195 in Hoshiarpur, 177 in Patiala, 142 in Kapurthala, 112 in Bathinda, 98 in Gurdaspur, 85 in Tarn Taran, 84 in Faridkot, 73 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 54 in Sangrur, 41 in SBS Nagar, 39 in Ropar, 35 each in Pathankot and Barnala, 34 in Moga, 30 in Mansa and 22 in Ferozepur. Meanwhile, as many as 2,515 persons were discharged after recovering from the virus on Monday. Meet vaccination, testing targets: Sidhu to civil surgeons Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday directed all the civil surgeons to ensure that Covid-19 vaccination, sampling and testing targets are met. He said besides the vaccination centres at hospitals, mobile vaccination camps are also being organised at pre-determined locations. He said 6,51,363 people vaccinated with the first dose those are above 45 years, and about 6,536 people have got both the doses. Expressing concern over the increase in Covid cases, he said that there was 2.9% positivity rate has been recorded from Feb 27 to March 5 whereas it increased to 7.9% between March 27 to April 2. He appealed to the people to get themselves tested as soon as the symptoms develop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-72-covid-deaths-in-a-day-highest-this-year-101617655338546.html
06-04-2021||Other||Parents’ protest over school fee spells trouble for Ludhiana commuters||Over 40 parents of students of Police DAV Public School protested outside the school and blocked the Hambran Road for around three hours. They alleged that the school authorities were forcing them to deposit the annual charges for last year as well as the new academic session.Parents stated that they had deposited the tuition fee and will not pay the annual charges as the schools were closed and the children were not utilizing the premises.The protesters also blocked the Hambran Road in protest. Commuters faced inconvenience as parents sat on the road and raised slogans against the school authorities. The police tried to pacify the protestors but the latter refused to budge, after which the police diverted the traffic to ensure its smooth flow.The parents requested the school authorities to hold a meeting with them to discuss the matter but the authorities asked them to meet the principal one by one and submit an application. The parents said that if the school authorities will not address this issue then they will continue the protest.Puneet Gupta, a parent, said, “My child is studying in the primary section of the school and the school authorities are demanding ₹8,600 as annual charges for last year and ₹9,300 for this session. We have requested the school authorities to waive off the annual charges. All the parents are ready to pay the tuition fee.”When contacted, school principal Anu Verma was not available for comments.Parents’ Association members stage protestThe members of the Parents’ Association, Ludhiana, protested at Bharat Nagar Chowk for two hours. They alleged that the private schools were forcing parents to deposit annual fee charges despite the schools having remained closed for more than 10 months last year.They also added that the private schools were asking parents to deposit a hiked tuition fee. Rajinder Ghai, president of the association said, “The private schools are charging development charges while the children have not even utilized the smart classrooms and computers. Even though Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed schools to only charge tuition fees, parents are being compelled to pay other charges and many of them who have been unable to, their children are not been allowed to attend online classes.”They submitted a memorandum with deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and requested him to issue directions to private schools to not charge exorbitant annual charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-protest-over-school-fee-spells-trouble-for-ludhiana-commuters-101617655276095.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||391 ‘black spots’ identified on roads in 12 Punjab districts||As many 391 ‘black spots’, highly prone to road mishaps, have been identified in 12 of Punjab’s 22 districts by a study on accident severity index of the state’s roads, according to director general (road safety) R Venkat Ratnam. Of these, 264 locations were found on the national highways, 64 on the state highways, 6 on link roads and 54 on roads within municipal limits, Ratnam told a meeting on Monday of high-powered committee for identification and rectification of ‘ black spots’ in the state. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan, who chaired the meeting, directed officials of the state departments concerned and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to rectify all the black spots so as to reduce the number of road accident fatalities. She also asked the principal secretary (finance) to explore the modalities to procure hand-held machines for the police to issue on-the-spot e-challans to the traffic violators. Director general police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said adequate personnel would be provided to the traffic wing and hiring will be done for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/391-black-spots-identified-on-roads-in-12-punjab-districts-101617654976905.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Cong leader murder: Gangster Bishnoi aide nabbed from Kasol in HP||The Punjab Police in a joint operation with their Himachal Pradesh counterparts on Monday arrested Gagandeep Singh, an aide of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, for allegedly playing a key role in planning and executing the killing of Youth Congress’ Faridkot district president Gurlal Singh Pehalwan who was shot dead on February 18. The accused was arrested from Kasol in Kullu district. In a press statement, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta said the killing was organised by Goldy Brar, who lives in Canada, with the help of Bishnoi to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar. On February 21, the Delhi Police had arrested Gurvinder Pal, alias Gora, Sukhwinder Dhillon, and Saurabh Verma, for their alleged involvement in the murder. The next day, the Punjab Police arrested Gurpinder Singh, a resident of Ghania Wala village, in the murder case for providing weapons to the assailants. Investigations revealed that Gurvinder Pal, alias Gora was sharing a flat with Gagandeep in Kharar where the conspiracy was hatched, the DGP said. The Delhi cops had also raided the flat in Kharar but Gagandeep gave them a slip. The accused was produced in a court that granted his police remand for further investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-cong-leader-murder-gangster-bishnoi-aide-nabbed-from-kasol-in-hp-101617654975828.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana factory roof collapse kills 4; 7 injured||Four labourers died and seven were injured when the roof of a four-storeyed auto parts factory collapsed in the industrial area along Daba Road in Ludhiana on Monday morning. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rescued nearly 35 people after the incident occurred at 9.50am at Jasmail Singh and Sons, the factory at Baba Mukand Singh Nagar in the industrial area. At least four people are feared trapped under the debris and efforts are on to rescue them. “Nearly 40 labourers were trying to lift the lintel level on the third floor when the structure collapsed,” said Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial probe and asked the Patiala divisional commissioner to submit a report within two weeks. He also announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the family of the deceased and free treatment for those injured. The industrial hub of Ludhiana is prone to disasters, owing to poor safety compliance and illegal constructions. According to municipal corporation authorities, the factory was operating in violation of building bylaws. “The owner was trying to extend the structure of the building by placing jacks on the third floor. There is no provision under the law to make any such alteration,” said MC master town planner Surinder Singh Bindra. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said a case has been registered against factory owner Jaswinder Singh Sonu of Dashmesh Nagar and contractor Mohammad Harun of Kakowal road under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Both are on the run, he added. The deceased have been identified as Mustakeen and Sagar Kumar, both residents of Bihar, and Peechu and Imtiaz of Kakowal road, Ludhiana, officials said. According to the eyewitness’, the contractor had started the construction work at 4 am When the roof collapsed, locals gathered at the spot and initiated rescue. Later, the police, fire brigade, NDRF and SDRF teams arrived at the spot. Kanwaldeep Singh, son of the owner of an electroplating unit adjoining the factory, said the debris fell on his five labourers, killing one on the spot. The condition of one of the injured is critical and he is undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital,” he added. The debris also fell on two pickup autos of a nearby electroplating unit, injuring a driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-factory-roof-collapse-kills-4-7-injured-101617654917601.html
06-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana factory roof collapse witnesses recount horror||It was a normal Monday morning for labourers working at the factories located in Baba Mukand Singh Nagar of Daba, an industrial area of Ludhiana. They were engaged in their routine activities when around 9.50am, they heard a loud explosion. Within seconds, the whole area was covered in dust. “At first, we thought an explosion had taken place,” said Jaspreet Singh, the owner of a factory located next to the four-storeyed auto parts factory, the roof of which collapsed on Monday morning when labourers were trying to lift its ceiling. “I rushed out and saw the whole area engulfed in dust and a sense of chaos all around,” he added. Jaspreet, along with the workers and owners of nearby factories, were the first ones to initiate rescue operations before the police and fire department teams reached the spot.“A few labourers managed to come out of the debris on their own while some were rescued by locals. A few minutes later, the fire brigade and police reached the spot and started shifting the injured to hospitals,” said Jaspreet.He added that it was fortunate that the factory where the mishap took place was closed for a day or else the casualties would have been higher. Labourers Ranjit Kumar, Sarwan and Sanjiv Kumar said they work in the factory next to the ill-fated building. After hearing the thud, they rushed out of the factory assuming that something heavy had come crashing down the sky. “When we came out, we heard the labourers trapped in the building crying for help. We rushed to the terrace and rescued some of them,” said Ranjit Kumar.Sanjiv Kumar said they arranged water for the rescued labourers and informed the police.Kanwaldeep Singh, son of the owner of an electroplating unit, adjoining the ill-fated factory stated that there was some damage to their building following the mishap. “Five of our labourers were present in the factory at the time. Debris of the collapsed roof fell on three of our labourers, including Sagar, 27, Santosh, 32, and Ashok Kumar, 30, leaving them injured,” he said, adding, Sagar died after reaching hospital, while Santosh is undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. The driver of a pick-up auto, which was parked nearby, was also injured as some of the debris fell on him. He received 24 stitches on his head. Kin wait anxiously for loved ones to be rescuedAs rescue operations continued around them, kin of the labourers feared to be trapped under the debris of the roof collapse site, grew more and more anxious with each passing minute.Refusing to leave till their loved ones were rescued, the kin stayed put at the spot, their eyes glued to the remains of the building.For many, the bad news came early. Mohammad Akram, brother of one the victims identified as Mustkeen, said, “I wanted my brother to work with me near Jalandhar bypass as it is close to our home. He had been working with the contractor, Mohammad Harun, for the last three months. On Sunday night, when we were having dinner, Harun came to take my brother for work.”“He had told us that he had got a new contract. They were going to the lift the roof of a building. I tried to stop my brother, as I felt it was a risky task, but the contractor forced him to go along,” said Akram. He added, “If I had managed to convince my brother to skip this contract, his life would have been saved.”Hailing from Araria of Bihar, Mustkeen is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons.Shamsil was one of the lucky ones. His brother Arzool was rescued by afternoon. “I had come to know about the incident around 10am. When I reached the spot, rescue operations were going on. Around afternoon, I came to know that the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams had rescued my brother,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-factory-roof-collapse-witnesses-recount-horror-101617654916091.html
06-04-2021||Other||390 new Covid cases take Ludhiana’s count past 36K||Eight persons died while 390 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Monday. The latest fatalities took the death toll to 1,177 while the cumulative count of cases went up to 36, 373. The district currently has 2,835 active cases while 32, 361 persons have so far recovered from the virus. Among the dead are an 85-year-old man from Jagraon, another 85-year-old man from Moti Nagar, a 70-year-old woman from Raikot, a 65-year-old man from Civil Lines, a 63-year-old man from Sarabha Nagar, a 62-year-old man from Samrala, a 54-year-old man from Haibowal and a 43-year-old man from railway colony. A health care worker, three teachers and a staff member of a school were among those who tested positive. The teachers are from BCM School, Shastri Nagar, AS School, Khanna, and Government High School, Jamalpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/390-new-covid-cases-take-ludhiana-s-count-past-36k-101617654677458.html
06-04-2021||Other||RBI clears ₹21,658 cr CCL for Punjab||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday cleared ₹21,658 crore towards Cash Credit Limit (CCL) for the procurement of wheat in Punjab during the ensuing rabi marketing season. The release of the CCL would help the state government in making payments to farmers against purchases of food grains in the current season, which would begin from April 10 and culminate on May 31, according to an official spokesperson. The Central government has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat at ₹1,975 per quintal, hiking it by ₹50 from last year’s ₹1,925 per quintal. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has directed the food and civil supplies department to ensure that farmers do not face any hassles in the procurement of their produce especially amid COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rbi-clears-rs-21-658-cr-ccl-for-punjab-101617654676223.html
06-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana nonagenarian shows the way, urges others to take the jab||Amid widespread hesitancy and rumours surrounding the Covid-19 vaccine, the district administration has found its star campaigner in 99-year-old Harbans Kaur who not just came forward to receive the first dose on Monday but also encouraged others to do so.A resident of Shimlapuri, Daba Road, the nonagenarian got the jab at a special camp being organised by the United Cycle Parts and Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Gill Road. Her son Nirmal Singh, 66, also got the shot with her.After getting vaccinated, Harbans said, “We remained trapped in our homes for over a year due to the virus. Today, my son told me that a vaccination camp was being held nearby. So I decided to accompany him. I have been told that a few people are hesitating to take the vaccine. But I can assure you that I am feeling perfectly fine after receiving the vaccine. So there is nothing to be worried.”Her son Nirmal Singh echoed her views, “I want to tell everyone that the Covid 19 vaccine is completely safe and everyone should get themselves vaccinated at the earliest,” he said. UCPMA president DS Chawla said the special camp will continue till April 10, 2021 and the vaccine will be offered to everyone free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-nonagenarian-shows-the-way-urges-others-to-take-the-jab-101617654496416.html
06-04-2021||Other||Roof collapse: Ludhiana’s industrial units run foul of most local building by-laws||The death of four labourers following the roof collapse of an auto parts factory is a grim reminder of the 2017 plastic factory collapse in the Industrial Area, which had led to the death of 16 persons, including nine firemen. Over three years and six months after the tragedy, no lessons have been learnt. A major chunk of city’s small and medium industrial units continue to violate building by-laws with no concern for safety of workers. The municipal corporation (MC) is happy, looking the other way.In Monday’s case, no permission was taken from anyone even as the owner, through a contractor, engaged 40 labourers to lift the roof of his lanter (roof or lentil), the First Information Report (FIR) says. The MC says lifting the roof is illegal, yet the area is littered with pamphlets advertising the same. Even in the 2017 incident, in which the owner of a plastic manufacturing factory, Inderjit Gola was arrested for culpable homicide, MC’s negligence was exposed as the five-storey building was actually supposed to be two-storey. More than half of the building was constructed without official sanction, endangering lives of those working there. Gola, who was booked for culpable homicide (Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code) after public outrage, is now being tried in court under the far lighter charge of Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) after he got relief from the Punjab and Haryana high court. “The case has been stayed due to covid-19 and he is out on bail,” said Gola’s advocate MP Singh. Since the incident, families of the 16 dead have been struggling to make ends meet. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabherwal said joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh has been deputed to conduct an inquiry into Monday’s incident. “Officials have been directed to check such illegalities,” he said. FIRE ANOTHER DANGEREven as the city reports 300 fire incidents every year with 70% (over 200) of these in industrial units, thousands of factories and commercial units continue to function without no-objection certificates (NOCs) for fire safety. A fire audit initiated in March 2018 to inspect commercial and industrial buildings was not completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roof-collapse-ludhiana-s-industrial-units-run-foul-of-most-local-building-bylaws-101617654256085.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A roadside grave||It lies by the roadside, looking abandoned, ringed by weedy bushes and by hints of all sorts of litter and hidden lives crawling within. This striking-looking stone grave, in central Delhi, is to be found on the traffic-free road that goes from Humayun’s Tomb to Damdama Sahib Gurudwara.Who lies buried there?Who knows.While Delhi harbours millions of people struggling through their daily lives, it is also a metropolis of the dead. Of many graveyards and of many old unknown graves littered across the landscape—today finding themselves by the busy avenues, amid the municipality gardens, along the chai stalls, and on less travelled footpaths where they remain hidden from view. Some of these graves are famous, a few are venerated as shrines of mystics, but most lie in neglect.This grave stands like another black hole in the city’s past. It clearly has to be of some eminent person. The structure is standing higher than the usual anonymous graves one is used to in the city. The grave’s stony surface seems uneven, as if forced to melt and solidify successively by the passage of several centuries and seasons. The plinth on which it stands appears to give the illusion of molten lava, newly stiffened. This sunny afternoon it looks cheerful, as if content in anonymity.Nearby, a man is lying on the pavement, sleeping soundly under the shade of a tree.Since the grave is across the road from the northern walls of the 16th century Humayun tomb monument, it might date from early Mughal-era, but it would be difficult to confirm its exact period. The gravestone is cracked, and damp, and is unadorned, without any design or calligraphy, giving no clue about the person underneath.It isn’t necessary to try to know more. In an era when every city street has been mapped for your mobile phone apps, and when you might Google something scandalous even on your boring anonymous neighbour, it is a consolation that some spots have escaped the tyranny of information. And that the person buried in this grave, for instance, is able to enjoy the precious right to be forgotten.Now a lonely-seeming animal appears, jumps over the grave and plops along its stone surface. As if it were his best friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-roadside-grave-101617653952649.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Five more arrested for Mar 27 attack on BJP MLA||BATHINDA The Muktsar police on Monday arrested five more people for their alleged involvement in the March 27 assault on Abohar MLA of Bharatiya Janata Party, Arun Narang.MLA Narang was gheraoed and assaulted by the activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) in Malout where he was to address mediapersons.In a statement, Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi said Lakhanpal Sharma, block president of BKU (Sidhupur), who was the main leader and organiser of the protest at Malout, was among those arrested on Monday. Other four were identified as Jasmel Singh alias Nikka, and Sandip Singh, both from Alamwala village; Kuldip Singh of Enna Khera village and Kulwinder Singh of Dannewala village.State president of BKU (Sidhupur) Jagjit Singh Dallewal chaired a meeting of union activists in Malout where the accused were garlanded before they were arrested by the police.Meanwhile, the SSP said that to date the police have arrested 30 people in connection with the case by identifying them from video footage of the incident and on the basis of statements of the complainants.A police spokesperson said Baljit Singh Midha was responsible for splashing black ink on the MLA, while Kuldeep Singh and Mandeep Singh were found to be involved in tearing off his shirt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-more-arrested-for-mar-27-attack-on-bjp-mla-101617653656001.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Experts see no link between Punjab Covid-19 surge, farm protest gatherings||Punjab health department experts say there is no direct link between flouting of Covid-19 protocols at the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws and a surge in the cases of virus infection in the state. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Our analysis reveals that 70% of the total cases reported this year so far are from urban areas where protocols were not followed at business, work and social gatherings. Only 30% of the cases are from rural areas which are hubs of farmer protests.” Also, the infection positivity rate in urban areas is 2.5% while it is 1% in rural pockets. The districts considered the hubs of farm protests, particularly those in the state’s south-west Malwa region, have the lowest cases in the state. For instance, Mansa and Barnala, which are witnessing a large number of protests and movement of farmers to Delhi, 510 and 368 cases were recorded from March 1 to April 4, much less than what many other districts are reporting in a single day. In south-west Malwa, only Bathinda district saw more than 100 daily cases on few occasions over the past one month. However, some doctors said testing in the villages of the belt has been inadequate as farmer unions have given call to boycott health department teams. Dr Bhaskar denied such reports. “Testing in all districts is being monitored as they are being given targets according to the number of cases. If the spread is slow, contract tracing will be less and so will be sampling,” he said. On Monday, 667 samples were taken in Mansa and 780 in Barnala. Districts like Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala are recording the highest surge in the state. Here too, most cases are being reported in the urban areas. Punjab Covid-19 management group head and former PGIMER, Chandigarh, director Dr KK Talwar said, “The likely reason behind less cases in rural areas is that the protests are being held in open areas. Virus is more likely to spread in indoor gatherings. In open areas, the chances of infection are less if you are in a small gathering and are wearing a mask,” said Dr Talwar. The health department data also shows not even a single super-spreader case has surfaced at farm protests in the state in the last 3 months. The urban pockets have seen many such incidents at marriages and funerals. In the Malwa belt, Mohali, Ludhiana and Patiala are the worst-hit districts but here too most cases were reported in urban areas, the figures show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/experts-see-no-link-between-punjab-covid-19-surge-farm-protest-gatherings-101617653479372.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chhattisgarh ambush: Missing Jammu jawan’s wife appeals Naxals to release him||Family members of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan, who went missing following an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, have appealed his ‘abductors’ to release him.Rakeshwar Singh Manhas from Lower Barnai area was a part of the CRPF team that was attacked by the Naxals.Manhas, as per his wife Meenu, was abducted by the Naxals.“I talked to my husband on Friday around 9.30pm and he told me that he is packing his bag and food for an operational duty and will talk to me tomorrow,” Meenu said. “Following the attack, a local reporter from Chhattisgarh called me and asked whether I wanted to say something to the Naxals and said that he would take our appeal to them. So, I told him that I wanted to request them (Naxals) to release my husband. He also asked me to send Rakeshwar’s photo to him on WhatsApp,” said the jawan’s wife.“The CRPF Group Centre at Bantalab has not also told us anything about his whereabouts. All of us are very worried,” she said.A part of CRPF’s special operation unit Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), Manhas was transferred to Chattisgarh three months ago.He had joined the premier central police force in March 2011 and has a five-year-old daughter.Manhas was previously posted in Assam.Search ops on to trace him: CRPFOn Monday evening, senior CRPF officers from the headquarters in Jammu visited the family and met the jawan’s wife and mother. They assured that every possible effort was being made to trace Manhas.CRPF’s Jammu sector spokesperson and deputy commandant Shivnandan Singh said, “We are getting reports from the media that he is probably with the Naxals. Search operations are on to trace him.”As many as 22 jawans were killed and 31 sustained injuries in the encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. After the carnage, Naxals decamped with the weapons, bulletproof jackets, and even the shoes of dead soldiers, as per the reports.Security forces have launched an operation along the Sukma-Bijapur border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chhattisgarh-ambush-missing-jammu-jawan-s-wife-appeals-naxals-to-release-him-101617653415838.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K High Court switches over to virtual hearing||Following the surge in Covid cases, the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, along with lower courts, has again switched over to virtual hearing. An order issued by chief justice Pankaj Mithal stated that the hearing of cases in the HC as well as district and subordinate courts and tribunals will be conducted through virtual mode. Entry of litigants and public into the HC premises will continue to be prohibited. “In addition to virtual hearing, the matters may also be taken up for physical hearing, where the learned counsel for both the parties to the give their consent for such physical hearing and if counsel for either party declines or fails to give such consent in that event the roster bench may consider the request of other counsel for physical hearing,” it read. In order to decongest the sections, offices and courts, the officials will be permitted to function in batches with 25% on rotation basis. These directions shall remain in force till April 18, unless reviewed earlier. 442 infections, two deaths reported in 24 hoursJ&K recorded 442 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the UT’s case tally to 1,33,454, health officials said on Monday. With two fresh fatalities in Kashmir division, the UT’s death toll reached 2,010. Of the new cases, 280 are from Kashmir division while 162 are from Jammu. Eighty-nine of them are travellers. The number of active cases reached 4,154, officials said. On Monday, 241 patients recovered, which took the recoveries to 1,27,290 and its rate to 95.38%. ‘Kashmir hospitals see spike in severe cases’A faction of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) on Monday said hospitals in Kashmir were witnessing a surge in severe cases of Covid. “A few weeks ago, we had seen a drop in number of severe cases, but they have increased again, much like what was witnessed last spring,” said DAK president Dr Nisar ul Hassan.“Patients in large numbers are coming to hospitals with severe bilateral pneumonia requiring oxygen, while some need intensive care and support of ventilators to survive the respiratory distress. Our beds are full, oxygen points are occupied and we don’t have space in ICUs,” he added. “Not only the elderly and those with underlying medical conditions, but young people are reporting with severe condition too,” the doctor said. “The virus has once again become dangerous and is behaving aggressively,” Dr Nisar said. 567 contract virus in HPHimachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 567 fresh infections, highest single-day spike this year, amid the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, confirming one sample positive for UK variant of coronavirus. The state’s tally reached 65,855 while death toll mounted to 1,063 after six patients succumbed to the contagion. A health department spokesperson said a doctor has tested positive for the UK variant in Solan. Meanwhile, the active cases in the state have climbed to 3,828 while 60,855 people have recovered. A total of 268 recoveries were logged on Monday.Dalhousie Public School cluster grows to 158Dalhousie Public School (DPS) cluster in Chamba district has grown to 158. Among the patients are more than 120 students while others are staffers.(With inputs by Naresh Thakur from Dharamshala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-high-court-switches-over-to-virtual-hearing-101617653360846.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||BJP fights uphill MC poll battle in Himachal as campaign ends today||Party candidates face rebels in Mandi, Dharamshala and Palampur; Bindal credited with keeping Solan house in order  Himachal Pradesh is seeing a no-holds-barred poll battle as electioneering for the municipal corporation elections drew to a close on Monday evening. The civic bodies of Dharamshala, Mandi, Solan and Palampur go to the polls on April 7. Dharamshala will elect its civic body for the second time, while the other three corporations are newly formed. The stakes are high for the ruling BJP, particularly CM Jai Ram Thakur in his hometown of Mandi, as the saffron party looks to continue its winning streak in the elections. Capturing the Mandi MC is not a cakewalk for the BJP in the face of rebellion by local MLA Anil Sharma, a former state power minister, who refused to campaign for the party. Sharma, the son of former Union telecom minister Sukh Ram, holds sway in Mandi town. The BJP faces revolt in six of the 15 wards in Mandi, where party candidates are pitted against rebels contesting as independents. State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap is confident of winning the election in all four MCs. He said the people have given a mandate in assembly, Lok Sabha and panchayat elections for the “pro-people polices” of the state government and this winning streak would continue. The Congress is a leaderless party which, foreseeing its defeat, has resorted to “cheap politics” of commenting against the chief minister, he added. BJP rebels queer the pitch in Dharamshala In Dharamshala too, the BJP is locked in a tough battle with the Congress and the rebels are ready to queer the pitch for the ruling party. Jai Ram Thakur has campaigned with all his might on his home turf but the voters in the rural areas that were merged in the Mandi MC are opposed to the government. While the Congress entrusted its election campaign to former Dharamshala MLA Sudhir Sharma, the BJP roped in firebrand minister Rakesh Pathania. To ensure its victory, the party brought in its troubleshooter and former Naina Devi legislator Randhir Sharma and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur in the last leg. The rebels are contesting in 10 of the town’s 17 wards. The party faces charges of intimidating independent candidates. While the Congress hopes to retain the Dharamshala MC citing development works, the BJP has charged it with corruption and delay in execution of the Central University project. In Palampur, the BJP has to contend with rebellion as the party’s troubleshooters failed to convince the rebels to withdraw their candidature. Sudhir Sharma said the development was Congress’ main poll plank whereas the BJP has nothing to list as achievement and thus was misleading people by levelling baseless allegations. He said the Congress will win Dharamshala MC with a thumping majority. Water shortage main poll issue in Solan Solan is the only corporation where the BJP house is in order. Former state party chief and ex-Speaker Rajeev Bindal, who has represented Solan in the assembly twice, is being largely credited for better management. Water shortage in the town is top on the agenda of both the BJP and the Congress. Bindal said Jai Ram Thakur was familiar with the problems in Solan town. He said the Congress has done nothing for Solan and the BJP will win all the 17 wards in the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-fights-uphill-mc-poll-battle-in-himachal-as-campaign-ends-today-101617653359870.html
06-04-2021||Other||Devotees to have access to Ramgarhia Bunga from Golden Temple parikarma||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is going to reopen historic Ramgarhia Bunga for devotees from the Parkarma (circumambulation marble path around the holy water tank called as ‘sarovar’) of the Golden Temple. The structure was erected in the 18th century by Sardar Jassa Singh Ramgarhia to protect the Golden Temple from the invasion of foreign rulers.“SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur will inaugurate work for reopening the entrance from the Parkarma on Tuesday. This will ensure that the sangat visiting the Sri Harmandar Sahib (the Golden Temple) can also visit this structure, with a major place in Sikh history, especially related to the 18th century,” said SGPC spokesman Kulwinder Singh Ramdas. The building of the Bunga adjoins Guru Ram Das Langar Hall (community kitchen) and its two minars along parkarma enhance beauty and attraction of the complex of the holiest Sikh shrine. Currently, it is accessible only from the langar hall, which is situated outside the Parkarma. This entrance is unknown to most devotees. Most historic bungas lying along the parkarma were demolished a few decades ago, this is the only Bunga that is still standing due to efforts of Ramgarhia Sikhs. The Sikh community, especially the Ramgarhias, have hailed this move of the apex gurdwara body.Sikh author Diljit Singh Bedi, also a former office-bearer said, “Initially, all Bungas including Ramgarhia Bunga were opened in the parkarma of Sri Harmandar Sahib. When parkarma was rebuilt under Kar Sewa during British era, the doors of this Bunga were closed from the parkarma.”“The Ramgarhias have been demanding reopening of these doors. It is good if the SGPC has met its demand as this is a precious structure of the Sikh community. I suggest a museum depicting the related history should be established inside this Bunga,” he added.The Ramgarhia Bunga houses a granite slab of Takht-e-Taus from the Red Fort on which all the Mughal emperors were crowned in Delhi. This slab was seized by Sikhs from Delhi, during an attack against the Mughal armies, and brought back to Amritsar as a symbol that the Mughal Empire will end with the removal of their coronation stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/devotees-to-have-access-to-ramgarhia-bunga-from-golden-temple-parikarma-101617653358700.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arch of world’s highest railway bridge on Chenab completed||The construction of the arch of the world’s highest railway bridge that soars 359 metres above the bed of the Chenab river in Jammu and Kashmir was completed on MondayThe Railways joined the two arms of the arch that currently stretch towards each other from both banks of the river. The 1.3km-long bridge aims to boost connectivity to the Valley and is being built at a cost of ₹1,486 crore as a part of the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Railway Link (USBRL) project. The bridge, which is 35 metres higher than the Eiffel Tower, is expected to be completed within a year, said Northern Railway general manager Ashutosh Gangal. “It is a historic day for the Northern Railways,” he added. Railways minister Piyush Goyal watched the lowering of the closure segment of the arch by a cable crane through a video link from Delhi. “This was one of the most difficult part of the bridge. This achievement is a major leap towards the completion of the 111km winding stretch from Katra to Banihal. It is arguably the biggest civil engineering challenge faced by any railway project in India in recent history,” he said. The Monday’s fixture completed the shape of the arch that will then loom over the treacherous Chenab, flowing some 359 metres below. After completion of the arch work, removal of the stay cables, filling of the concrete in the arch rib, erection of the steel trestle, launching of the viaduct and track laying work will be taken up. This bridge is 1,315 metres long. The construction of the bridge involves fabrication of 28,660 MT steel, 10 lakh cubic metre earthwork, and 66,000 cubic metre of concrete. The sophisticated ‘Tekla’ software has been used for structural detailing and the steel is suitable for -10 degrees Celsius to 40 degrees Celsius, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arch-of-world-s-highest-railway-bridge-on-chenab-completed-101617653356338.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas won’t procure wheat if DBT payment mode not withdrawn||Arhtiyas (commission agents) on Monday announced complete boycott of wheat procurement in Punjab over implementation of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode of payment to farmers. The Federation of Arhtiyas’ Associations of Punjab in its ‘Mandi Bachao Mahasammelan’ at Bagha Purana announced that the arhtiyas will not purchase the rabi produce this season if the new payment mode is not withdrawn. The arhtiyas also demanded release of pending of ₹131 crore from state government. The wheat procurement in the state is scheduled to start from April 10. Federation president Vijay Kalra said, “We have decided to boycott the wheat procurement. The Centre has time till April 9 to withdraw the DBT mode of payment.” He said, “The central government should ask farmers what they want. Most farmers fear that the banks will deduct their money if they receive payment through DBT as they have taken loans. They want the old mode of payment to continue.” ‘Confront MLAs, MPs for not supporting agitation’ Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) senior leader Balbir Singh Rajewal gave a call to confront every MLA and MP as they haven’t supported the farmers’ movement wholeheartedly. “We have received reports that the political parties have given directions to their cadres and MLAs to weaken the movement in Punjab. Political parties’ support to farmers is a façade,” Rajewal said. Ruldu Singh Mansa, another senior leader of the SKM, said, “The political parties are making noise that they are with farmers. But they are just trying to cash in on the farmers’ agitation. There are around 10 roads that lead to Delhi. If they are with farmers, why do not they block these roads.” SKM leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said, “The farmers will march towards Parliament in May because those who enacted the laws sit there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arhtiyas-won-t-procure-wheat-if-dbt-payment-mode-not-withdrawn-101617653299616.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s test positivity rate past 5% mark after 124 days||The Delhi government is considering imposing a night curfew in the city to stem a severe surge in Covid cases, a senior government official told HT, as the city’s positivity rate crossed the 5% mark on Monday after 124 days.The senior official, who asked not to be named, also said the government has not decided when the curfew will be imposed from, or its timings.With 3,548 cases after 64,003 tests, the positivity rate jumped to 5.54% on Monday, up from 4.64% the previous day. The Capital had not crossed the 5% mark since December 2, and this number also fell below 1%, and stayed beneath that threshold for 82 days.Experts regard the test positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection in a region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate below 5% for a two-week period for an infection to be considered under control.The number of tests conducted dropped on Sunday as compared to the previous week, when more than 72,000 samples were collected on average in the city each day.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“We have increased testing to between 80,000 and 90,000 a day. Whoever is found positive is isolated. We are tracing 20 to 30 contacts for each positive case and trying to contain them as well. We are also making micro-containment zones so that the spread of the infection is curtailed,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press briefing on Monday.The government also ordered 65 government and private hospitals to increase the number of Covid-19 beds, as hospitalisations continued to rise. The number of hospitalisations has inched close to 3,000, with 2,975 people admitted across city hospitals as on Sunday night.Jain on Monday also urged people who have recently recovered from the infection to donate plasma.He said the donations dropped over the last two months because there were few eligible donors, owing to the low infection rate over the last few months.“I appeal to all those who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma,” said Jain in a press briefing.“The cases have gone up suddenly, and it appears that the virus is more infectious. The behaviour of the people adds to the problem. New cases had gone down so much that people thought it [the pandemic] is over, and nobody thought it would come back. But we foresaw this. We saw the increase in cases in western countries,” said Dr Suranjit Chaterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital.The numbers reported on Monday correspond to tests carried out a day before, which is typically fewer in number on account of it being a weekend.A comparison of weekend case numbers captures how the situation in the Capital took a worrying turn over a span of four weeks: On March 15, 368 cases were reported from the tests a day earlier at a positivity rate of 0.6%.The following week, new cases grew to 888 while the positivity rate inched up to 1.3%.On March 29, the day of Holi, the positivity rate at 2.7% was double compared to a week ago. That day, 1,904 cases were recorded.In the week since Holi, when experts and officials urged people to minimise celebrations and visits to people outside of their household, the positivity rate rose exactly by double to clock in at 5.4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-test-positivity-rate-past-5-mark-after-124-days-101617652822923.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt owes ₹6,414 crore to PSPCL against power subsidy bill||PATIALA The poll promise of free and subsidised power is proving dear to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) as the state government continues to default on compensating it fully for the seventh year in a row. The shortfall in payment from the government to the power corporation against the power subsidy bill touched a whopping ₹6,414 crore last fiscal, which is expected to increase further in the election year (2022). The Punjab government is giving free electricity to agricultural tubewells, 200 units of free power to Scheduled Caste (SC) families and some weaker sections of society, besides giving subsidised electricity at ₹5 per unit to industry. As per the data compiled by the PSPCL for the 2020-21 fiscal that ended on March 31, Punjab government had paid only ₹9,986 crore against the power subsidy bill of ₹16,400 crore decided by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), leaving a gap of ₹6,414 crore. The government paid ₹6,743 crore in cash and the remaining were book adjustments in lieu of interests of Uday Bonds, infrastructure development fee, and electricity duty that the government collects. “Though, the government has paid more than the previous years, but it has defaulted almost 40% of the subsidy amount. For the last seven years, the default is increasing every year, forcing the PSPCL to take loans for working capital,” said a power engineer on condition of anonymity. Officials said PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Parsad has taken up the matter with the finance department repeatedly, but the issue is yet to be resolved. In fact, the arrears of last six fiscals, which amount to ₹6,500 crore (approx), had put the state government and subsequently the PSPCL under a financial stress. The power regulator had even given liberty to PSPCL to discontinue free power supply if the state government fails to pay up. However, the PSPCL never challenges the government on this account as the power subsidy is a political issue in the state, said an official. Every year, the default amount is passed on to the next fiscal. If ₹6,414-crore arrears of this year is passed on to the next year, the power subsidy bill will stand at approximately ₹17,000 crore. And previous trends show that the shortfall increases in an election year, as the government pumps in more funds for development works. Despite repeated attempts, additional chief secretary (power) Anurag Aggarwal could not be contacted for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-owes-6-414-crore-to-pspcl-against-power-subsidy-bill-101617652995827.html
06-04-2021||Other||Two girls raped in Amritsar||Two girls were raped in Amritsar over the past few days, with the police lodging a case in both the cases. In the first case, rural police have booked Golden (real name yet to be ascertained), of Khanpur village, which falls under Baba Bakala tehsil of the district, under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, for raping a 14-year-old girl.The victim’s mother had complained, “On April 3, I sent my 14-year-old daughter to a grocery shop in our village; she didn’t return till late evening. We searched for her, but in vain. During the night of April 3 and April 4, she returned home around 4am, very scared and nervous. She told us that a man identified as Golden, along with another man, kidnapped her and took her to a restaurant, where both the accused raped her.”In the second incident, a 15-year-old girl was raped by Gurdev Singh, 30, who has been booked under Sections 363, 366, 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO act at Kathunangal police station.“About 11.30pm on April 2, my 15-year-old daughter was kidnapped from the gate of our house, where she had gone to lock it. The accused took her to a hotel in Amritsar city and raped her,” said father of the victim in his complaint. “A medical examination of the victim has been conducted and raids are on to nab the accused,” said sub-inspector Simarjeet Kaur, investigating officer, Kathunangal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-girls-raped-in-amritsar-101617652395848.html
06-04-2021||Other||Antilia explosives scare- Mansukh Hiran death case: NIA recreates crime scene at Mumbai station||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), while recreating the crime scene in the Mansukh Hiran death case, took former police officer Sachin Vaze to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) on Monday. The agency discovered during investigation that the suspended cop had taken a train to Thane from CSMT on March 4, the day Hiran — who is linked to the explosives-laden car found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia in February — went missing. At 11:40pm, a group of eight to 10 NIA officers took Vaze to platform number 4, from where he had boarded a train to Thane on March 4. Hiran was allegedly murdered on March 4 and his body was found floating in a creek at Retibunder in Mumbra the next day. Earlier in the day, NIA had seized a high-end bike in the Antilia case from Daman. The bike was brought to the NIA office at Pedder Road and thoroughly examined by a Central Forensic Science Laboratory team from Pune on Monday. The bike, a Benelli DSK TNT 600GT, is registered at Thane in the name of a woman, suspected to be known to Sachin Vaze, said NIA. She was seen in a CCTV grab with Vaze at a five-star hotel with a currency counting machine in her hand. An NIA officer said that the bike appears to be modified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-explosives-scare-mansukh-hiran-death-case-nia-recreates-crime-scene-at-mumbai-station-101617651315140.html
06-04-2021||Other||Punjabi University passes ₹129-cr deficit budget||sh-strapped Punjabi University has passed a ₹129 crore deficit budget for 2021-22 in a meeting held on Monday. In 2020-21, the varsity had recorded a deficit of ₹296 crore, so if achieved, it will be reduced by 60% by the end of this fiscal. There has been a major cut in expenditure with budgetary proposals putting it at ₹472 crore, a cut of almost 30% over ₹676 crore in the last fiscal. The varsity’s income, however, is also projected to fall to ₹342 crore, a reduction of 10% over ₹380 crore last year. Officiating vice-chancellor IAS officer Ravneet Kaur, who is also the chairperson of the syndicate, said the budget was realistic. “The budgetary proposals have quoted actual and realistic figures related to both income and expenditure,” the V-C said. She claimed that previous years’ budgets were a farce. “The budget presented by the university authorities in the past financial years carried vague and superficial figures related to its expenses and income,” she claimed.INCREASE IN GUEST FACULTY REMUNERATION WITHDRAWNOn the proposal of the finance committee, the syndicate has also withdrawn the increased rates of the honorarium of guest faculty, presently working on per lecture basis on the varsity campus and its satellite institutions. According to revised rates finalised in March 2020, guest faculty are getting ₹525 per lecture from the previous ₹350 for a 45-minute lecture. For a one-hour lecture, the faculty gets ₹750 per lecture than ₹500 earlier. The rates were enhanced subject to a maximum remuneration of ₹30,000 per month. “An academic review committee has been formed which will verify and assess workload of guest faculty working on the varsity campus,” said a syndicate member on the condition of anonymity.The university syndicate has finalised a plan on settling ₹120 crore overdraft it has taken to pay salaries. The finance committee proposed that the varsity must pay ₹10 crore starting from October this year till 2023. From 2023 onwards, the university will pay ₹2.5 crore every month for the next three years, it was decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-passes-rs-129-cr-deficit-budget-101617651076533.html
06-04-2021||Other||Dilip Walse Patil gets charge of Maharashtra home dept||In 2019, when the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was formed, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dilip Walse Patil was a top contender for the home minister’s post. However, he preferred low-profile portfolios such as the excise and labour departments. Fifteen months on, the seven-term legislator from Ambegaon constituency in Pune district is the new home minister of the state.A close confidant of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Walse Patil, 64, is known as a shrewd politician and a good administrator. In the past two decades, he handled the responsibilities as the minister for energy, finance, higher and technical education and excise. He was also the Speaker of the Maharashtra Assembly between 2009 and 2014, and shares cordial relations with leaders across the parties.Though his father, Dattatray, was a Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) between 1967 and 1972, Walse Patil went to a district council school at his village Nirgudsar. He completed his Master of Law from a college in Mumbai and worked as Pawar’s personal assistant (PA), when the latter was Maharashtra’s chief minister for the second time in the late 1980s. Pawar, who was then a key Congress leader in Maharashtra, reluctantly gave Walse Patil a party ticket in 1990 from Ambegaon, considered to be a strong hold of Janata Dal, and was represented by stalwart Kisanrao Bankhele. Walse Patil was elected to the Assembly from the seat and never looked back. “The decision to join as Pawar’s PA was his conscious move, as he wanted to enter politics and watch his leader very closely heading the state. His father and Pawar were friends for years, after being elected to the Assembly for the first time together in 1967. His position helped him bag the ticket from a relatively difficult constituency, but also cultivated him as a shrewd politician, and he displayed the acumen as minister while handling very important departments including energy, higher and technical education and even as the Assembly Speaker,” said an NCP leader, who has closely worked with Walse Patil.In 2019, ahead of MVA’s formation, Walse Patil was asked to head the home department by his party chief, but he had reportedly refused the post. Leaders from MVA government, however, feel that it is the right choice made at the right time by the party leadership. “He is a politician who likes to speak less. He commanded respect in the departments he headed and had courage to take tough decisions. He is taking the reins of the home department at the time when the police force is infested with factionalism and groupism. He will ensure that the police force falls in line within no time,” said political analyst Pratap Asbe. Walse Patil was one of the first Congress legislators to join NCP, formed by Pawar in May 1999. In his third term as a legislator, he was made the higher and technical education minister in the alliance government formed by the Congress and NCP in 1999. In 2002, he was given the additional charge of energy department, while in 2004 the medical education was added to his portfolio, which he continued to handle till December 2008. He was the finance minister for about 11 months till October 2009. “The energy department came to him when the state was reeling under load shedding because of power shortage. He successfully chalked out a plan to set up new generation projects with 6,000-MW (megawatts) capacity and strengthening of power infrastructure. The Maharashtra State Electricity Board was restructured into four companies in 2005 under his leadership. Similarly, the formation of the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation, which played a key role in computer literacy in the state, was founded under his leadership. Will he be able to clear the mess in home department which has now put the MVA government in trouble? Only time will tell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dilip-walse-patil-gets-charge-of-maharashtra-home-dept-101617651015071.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Deshmukh’s exit: The start of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance’s troubles?||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, especially the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) faced an embarrassment on Monday as home minister Anil Deshmukh had to resign following the Bombay high court’s (HC) decision to ask the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct preliminary probe into allegations of corruption against him. Though NCP had decided not to drop Deshmukh (an NCP legislator) from the cabinet, the latter had to put in his papers after HC remarked how the Mumbai Police could probe allegations against the head of their department.When the state government announced probe by a retired judge into the allegations against Deshmukh on March 30, it was assumed that he would be asked to resign. This was necessary to ensure a fair probe and to send a message to people that the government was serious about the corruption allegations. According to party leaders, the NCP top brass did not want any action against Deshmukh immediately, though there was unanimity about shifting him out of the home department at a later stage. However, the HC order and the remarks made by the court forced NCP to ask Deshmukh to resign. The delay on their part or the assumption that HC would not have ordered a CBI probe has led to an embarrassment for the party.But then it has been a pattern with the MVA government and the NCP in the series of unexpected events ever since a vehicle with gelatin sticks was found outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25.Series of goof ups It began with a flip-flop over police officer Sachin Vaze. The government took its own time to shift him out of Mumbai Police’s crime intelligence unit, which was initially probing the case, even as Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis made direct allegations against him. While the Fadnavis-led Opposition launched a full-scale attack on the government following the death of trader Mansukh Hiran, the MVA’s response was confused, and lacked coordination. Vaze was suspended only after he was arrested. The same pattern was seen after allegations were made against Deshmukh over corruption, first by Fadnavis and then former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh.A reason for the same was the differences between chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. According to MVA leaders, Thackeray wanted NCP to drop Deshmukh from the cabinet following the allegation made by Singh. The NCP leadership on the other hand did not want to react immediately without understanding the political moves of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is also ruling in the Centre.“There was clear lack of coordination between the allies. The approach to handle the issue seemed casual. There was no reason for the government to delay the announcement for probe. And once the probe was announced, they should have asked Deshmukh to resign or kept him away from the home department. It is hard to understand why a seasoned politician like Pawar did not do so,” opined political analyst Hemant Desai.“With the entry of the CBI, things would no longer remain in control of the MVA government, as the central agency will conduct its own probe into the issue. And we have seen how the non-BJP parties have been accusing BJP of using central agencies against them for political purposes,” he added.A senior Congress minister pointed out: “NIA is already probing the Antilia explosives case. Now CBI will probe the corruption allegations against Deshmukh. It is just a matter of time that the Enforcement Directorate too joins them in probing the [alleged] dealings of Vaze, and those whose names have been cropping up in this controversy. Imagine what will happen if they find links to any of the top MVA politicians.”The fallout of the CBI probe is that the central agencies have now got something to put some of the key MVA leaders under the scanner. It could lead anywhere and affect the stability of the MVA government if any of their top leaders find themselves in trouble.“If something like this happens, the political stability of the government could get affected. There seems to be tough times ahead for the Thackeray-led government,” said Desai.Options before MVAIt has been a month of damage control for MVA leaders, and they are far from succeeding in it. With HC’s order on Monday, things could become more complicated.“Our immediate plan is to challenge the court order on CBI probe. Why is there a need for a parallel probe when a retired HC judge is probing the allegations,” said a senior NCP minister.The MVA will take a call on whether to challenge the decision in the Supreme Court as a government, or let Deshmukh appeal against it.The three parties will also have to come together and plan a joint strategy, which does not seem to be the case as of now.“It’s a three-party government and whatever happens, all the partners will have to face the consequences. However, the Vaze-Deshmukh controversy was treated as NCP’s matter. NCP consulted CM because they had to, but didn’t bother to seek our opinion. If it is a political battle, then all the three parties need to fight it together,” pointed out a senior Congress leader.“The MVA’s problems are unlikely to end with Deshmukh’s resignation. In fact, they would begin now,” he added.Meanwhile, Fadnavis on Monday said that some more names will come to light for their “involvement in the extortion case” during CBI investigation.“As per the information I have, there are few more names that will be exposed in the course of investigation of the case. I would not name them now, but a lot more information will come to the fore soon. The alleged involvement of the [former] home minister is just the tip of the iceberg. I believe many heavy weights from the ruling parties are involved into the entire case of extortion. If there is money laundering or other money trail found to be involved, ED may also come into the picture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deshmukhs-exit-the-start-of-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-alliance-s-troubles-101617650895094.html
06-04-2021||Other||Favour DBT, but Centre should defer it this wheat season: BKU (Ugrahan)||Even as the Centre and the state governments slug it out over the payment method to be adopted for wheat procurement, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahana), the largest farmer rights’ organisation in Punjab, has supported the direct payment mode to cultivators, bypassing the arthiyas or middlemen. However, union general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said on Monday that keeping in view of ongoing farmers’ agitation, which arthiyas have also joined, the Centre should postpone implementing direct benefit transfer (DBT) for the time being.He added that in the larger interest of wheat growers, the Centre should drop the clause of submission of land record, as a prerequisite of payment. “Since Punjab government has no official database to distinguish between cultivators and farmland owners, DBT would be jeopardised, if it is implemented forcibly. In this wheat season, the government should release payments through arthiyas and Punjab should build land record data to implement direct payment. This will benefit cultivators,” he added.He clarified that BKU’s demand of payment for wheat through arthiyas was meant to ensure it does not create a division in the agitation. Kokrikalan added that the call to gherao Food Corporation of India (FCI) offices in districts of Punjab on Monday saw a huge response from the agrarian community. “Farmer unions did not seek support of arthiyas, but they joined the agitating farmers for their own survival. Hundreds of workers are also dependent upon them for mandi work. The government should provide easy loans for cultivators to get rid of the unwanted arthiya system,” said Kokrikalan.He added that the conventional method of making payment to middlemen in foodgrain system is irrational and indicated exploitation of farmers. Indian agriculture is a rare exception where the producer is deprived of direct payment and practise should be stopped, he added.“Most arthiyas are unscrupulous moneylenders and there are instances of examples of them exploiting farmers. These moneylenders give loans on exorbitant interest and even manipulate record to exploit farmers. Our union is clear that cultivators have a natural right to get paid for their agricultural produce and must get the payment directly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/favour-dbt-but-centre-should-defer-it-this-wheat-season-bku-ugrahan-101617650655775.html
06-04-2021||Other||3,050 containment zones in Lucknow, Indira Nagar tops list with 400||LUCKNOW As the number of containment zones in Lucknow crossed the 3,000-mark (3050), the district administration and the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) geared up to implement UP government’s fresh guidelines aimed at re-defining containment zones here. As per the guidelines, an area within a radius of 25 metres will be a containment zone in case of emergence of single Covid-19 case while 50-metre radius area will be a containment zone in case of two or more cases and will be considered as a cluster.Elaborate arrangements were in place to cater to the needs of people residing in the affected areas, said officials. LMC officials said till now a containment zone was restricted to the house of a Covid-affected individual. But in case the number of infected people is more than one in a lane, the entire lane will be defined as a containment zone. “With the new guidelines, the area within 25 metres radius will be defined as a containment zone, if one person is found infected. However, if the number of people is more than one in an area, the containment zone would be established in 50-metre radius of the area,” said Dr SK Rawat, nagar swasthya adhikari, LMC, who ensures the establishment of containment zones. The nagar swasthya Adhikari said there were over 3,050 containment zones in the city. LMC records suggest that Indira Nagar tops the list of areas having maximum containment zones. There are over 400 containment zones in Indira Nagar locality – starting from Khurram Nagar to Chinhat crossing. Second on the list was Gomti Nagar, which had around 300 containment zones. Similarly, Aliganj had 182 containment zones, Alambagh 200, followed by Ashiana 190. “We have passed on the fresh containment zone guidelines to the officials. They will ensure strict implementation of guidelines,” added Rawat. Meanwhile, the district administration was re-introducing door-to-door home delivery system in areas having containment zones. “We have decided to restore door-to-door home delivery system in areas having containment zones. The facility is aimed at ensuring regular supply of essential goods to people residing in affected areas,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow. Prakash said the administration had prepared a list of delivery boys, traders and shops and circulated their phone numbers among the people through local corporators. “The Covid surge is worrisome. And the large number of containment zones is making the situation more deplorable,” said Prakash Sharma, who resides in A Block of Indira Nagar (one of the most affected areas). Sharma said though the administration claimed to have made elaborate arrangements for door-to-door delivery of essentials, the picture here remained different. “Most of the time, phone numbers of delivery boys remain busy, possibly due to bulk orders. And many times they are not keen on delivering goods in small quantities,” he lamented. Dileep Srivastava, corporator of Maithlee Sharan Gupta ward (Indira Nagar), claimed to have made all possible arrangements to cater to the needs of people. “We are ensuring regular supply of essentials and medicines. We have circulated our mobile numbers among people who are free to call us round the clock. However, there are chances when one may skip the order due to bulk orders,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3050-containment-zones-in-lucknow-indira-nagar-tops-list-with-400-101617650479774.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh nightclubs sealed for violating hookah ban||The Chandigarh administration has sealed two nightclubs in Sectors 7 and 9 for serving hookah to customers.On Sunday night around 1.30am, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, east) Ruchi Singh Bedi raided and sealed Illusion Club, functioning from the premises of Sultan, Sector 7, here for organising a party without permission and violating the norms fixed by the UT authorities. The club was also found serving hookah to customers.As per the administration’s directions, all clubs and restaurants are to down shutters by 11pm.Similarly, SDM (central) Harjeet Singh Sandhu ordered for the sealing of Pipe and Barrel Club, Sector 9, on Sunday for serving hookah.The UT administration banned serving of hookahs in view of Covid-19 pandemic last year. The order states that hookah is being smoked by customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having mouth piece, which is susceptible to physical mouth-to-mouth touch of many persons, thus leading to the virus spread.After commercial establishments failed to pay heed to the orders, the administration had decided to seal them temporarily. Separate FIRs are also being registered against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-chandigarh-nightclubs-sealed-for-violating-hookah-ban-101617650415692.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi woman held with heroin in Mohali’s Lalru||The police here have arrested a 56-year-old Delhi-based woman with 305gm heroin in Lalru. The accused has been identified as Poonam Gupta of Madaan Gari, New Delhi.As per information, Lalru station house officer SHO Sukhbir Singh, along with his team, apprehended the woman while patrolling near Essar petrol pump along the main highway in Lalru on Sunday. On checking her purse, the cops recovered 305gm of heroin.The SHO said that during interrogation, the woman revealed that she had acquired the narcotic substance from a person in Delhi and was to deliver the same to another person in Chandigarh, whose search is underway. Earlier too, a case under the NDPS Act had been registered against her in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, followed by a five-year imprisonment sentence.A case under sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against her at the Lalru police station.The accused woman also told the police that after the death of her first husband, she remarried a Nigerian man named Kingcley Kamalu. The woman is a frequent visitor to Kenya, and may be involved with drug traffickers there, which is being investigated thoroughly, said police.Two women caught with narcotics in Chandigarh Two women were arrested for possessing narcotics from different parts of city, police said on Monday.The accused are identified as Madhu, 35, and Banno, 32, both residents of Dadumajra. Two separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against them.Police said that Banno was nabbed near Sector 15 on April 4 and 9gram smack was recovered from her possession.A case has been registered against her at the police station in Sector 11. Banno is the sister of notorious drug peddler Bala, said investigating officials, adding that she is already booked in four NDPS cases, one case of assault and one of theft in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, police arrested Madhu from near Shani Mandir in Mauli Jagran. Around 50 promethazine hydrochloride and 50 pentazocine injections were recovered from her possession. A case has been registered against her at the Mauli Jagran police station. Police said Madhu, who also has four cases of theft against her, was produced before the court and remanded in one-day police custody for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-woman-held-with-heroin-in-mohali-s-lalru-101617650355874.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||School, college closure extended till April 10 in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has extended the closure of schools and colleges till April 10. The decision was announced by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore here on Monday in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city.The instructions to close all educational institutions of the city were first issued on March 23 and were later extended till March 31. Now, schools and colleges will continue to stay shut up to April 10 till further instructions from the UT administration.An official of the UT education department said, “While schools and colleges will remain closed for students, teaching and non-teaching staff are to report to duty.”As some exams for classes 9 and 11 had been postponed due to the closure of schools from March 23, officials said they were working on a solution for the same.Meanwhile, no new announcements have been made for Panjab University and Punjab Engineering College.Spokespersons from both the institutes confirmed that all classes were being conducted online as per the administration’s instructions and the same would be continued till further directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-college-closure-extended-till-april-10-in-chandigarh-101617650238420.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bizmen brothers robbed of ₹3 lakh at gunpoint in Chandigarh||Four armed miscreants robbed two businessmen of ₹3 lakh cash and gold jewellery near the furniture market in Sector 54 on Sunday night.The victims are identified as Rajinder Bansal of Mullanpur and his younger brother Rajesh Bansal of Phase 4, Mohali. The duo owns a furniture store in Sector 54 market.In their police complaint, they said that the accused first threw away their mobile phones and then snatched ₹3 lakh in cash, a gold ring and gold kara. They then drove off towards Sector 54 school on separate motorcycles.Police said that the spot where the crime took place didn’t have CCTV coverage, however footage of cameras installed nearby were being scanned for clues on the accused.“We are probing all possible angles, even the involvement of any insiders. We are yet to verify the claims about a revolver and knife being used by the snatchers,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (south).A case has been registered under Section 379 (A) of the IPC at Sector 39 police station.‘They threatened to shoot me if I moved’ Rajinder told the police that after closing the store at 9pm, he went around the back where his car was parked. He kept his bag in the four-wheeler and went to urinate. As he returned to his car, four bike-borne persons appeared and put a revolver to his neck.“They told me not to move or they would shoot me and asked me to hand over my belongings,” said Rajinder, who surrendered ₹1 lakh cash and his gold ring to the robbers.His brother Rajesh stated in his complaint that he was standing near his scooter when the miscreants approached him. “They threatened me with a knife and a gun and took ₹2 lakh and gold kara from me,” said Rajesh.Borrowed phone from watchman to call cops The Bansal brothers claimed that the accused had thrown their phones at a distance, but they couldn’t locate them in the dark after the robbers were gone. So, the duo borrowed a watchman’s phone to contact the police and report the armed snatching incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bizmen-brothers-robbed-of-3-lakh-at-gunpoint-in-chandigarh-101617650175733.html
06-04-2021||Other||No significant symptoms in 80% of Covid cases, says ACS||LUCKNOW “In 80% of Covid cases, no significant symptoms are being seen, so we should assume that anyone we are meeting can be infected. We should take precaution and avoid crowds,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, at a press conference on Monday. He said opt for hospital if you cannot manage good care in home isolation and use food/items that boost immunity such as neem leaves, etc. “If we get infected, we should stay at home if we have adequate facility and health condition allows. Else, we should get ourselves admitted to hospital,” he added. “Elderly and children need special care and they should not go out unnecessarily,” said Prasad. Across UP, 31718683 homes have been surveyed, covering 15.38 crore people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-significant-symptoms-in-80-of-covid-cases-says-acs-101617650119883.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two held with 4.7kg stolen gold jewellery in Mohali||The Mohali police have recovered 4.7kg gold jewellery after the arrest of two men who had broken into an SBI branch in Ropar’s Nurpur Bedi town on the night on March 28 and fled with 6kg gold jewellery from bank lockers.The accused have been identified as Sonu Kumar, the mastermind who is from Panipat and was staying in Nayagaon, Mohali, and his aide Amit Kumar, an auto driver from Chandigarh. While Sonu is already booked in 15 criminal cases, Amit has two FIRs registered against him, said Mohali superintendent of police (city) Harvinder Singh Virk, while addressing a media briefing on Monday. “They were riding a stolen motorcycle when they were arrested at a naka in Nayagaon. They were carrying the stolen jewellery besides 500 grams of intoxicating powder. A drill machine, electronic weighing machine and two stolen mobile phones were also recovered following their arrests,” he said.Virk said the duo had committed a large number of thefts in houses and banks, which have been solved with their arrest. “Investigations are underway and their accomplices will also be nabbed soon,” he said.The SP added that Sonu used to purchase drugs from the outskirts of Delhi and sell it further. Legal action will also be taken against the owner of the house in Nayagaon where Sonu was staying on rent if his tenant verification is not found, he said. The suspects are currently in five-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-with-4-7kg-stolen-gold-jewellery-in-mohali-101617650115797.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Increase Covid hospitals across state, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked officials for increasing the number of Covid hospitals and to ensure sufficient number of beds were available for Covid patients across Uttar Pradesh. The chief minister while reviewing the unlock situation at a high level meeting at his official residence here said sufficient number of para medical staff, nurses, medicines, medical equipment and back up of oxygen should be made in all hospitals. “Effective arrangements should be maintained for protection and treatment of Covid-19. Both Covid and non-Covid hospitals should be set up for treatment of patients suffering from any ailment,” he said.He said ambulance services should be run effectively and made it clear that those ambulances used for Covid patients should not be used for non-Covid patients. He also said patients should not be made to wait for ambulances. Yogi said infection rate of new strain of Covid-19 was very high and there was a need to maintain a strict vigil. “No gathering of more than 100 persons should be allowed at public places/programmes. Additional vigil should be maintained in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. Special care should be taken in districts having more than 100 Covid-19 cases,” the CM said. He said work on contact tracing should be carried out effectively and testing for Covid-19 should be carried out to the optimum. “RTPCR tests should be mandatorily carried out in all the doubtful cases. Special attention should be paid to social distancing and mandatory use of mask be ensured. Monitoring committees should work effectively in rural and urban areas,” Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/increase-covid-hospitals-across-state-says-yogi-101617650055034.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Active Covid cases get into 5 digits in Haryana||The number of active Covid cases and per week infections in Haryana got into five digits last week as the virus spread continued for an eighth consecutive week.However, there are two bits of good news as well. The state on Monday crossed the two-million mark by vaccinating 1,44,202 individuals during the twice-a-week mega-vaccination drive. Also, last week (March 29-April 4), increase in number of Covid cases were 2,523 as compared to 3,200 cases from the week before.According to the health department statistics, the state registered 10,414 cases last week as compared to 7,891 cases the week before (March 22-28).Gurugram with 3,167 active cases followed by Karnal 1,764, Ambala 1,350, Kurukshetra 1,059, and Panchkula with 1,046 cases were the leading districts in terms of active cases. The state’s recovery rate was 94.57% and case fatality rate was 1.07%.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said the virus is ascending fast. “After April 15, it will further pick pace and reach peak level by May-end. The surge in Gurugram is predictable. But what is worrisome is the spike in Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula districts,” Dr Chaudhary said.VACCINATION STEPPED UPAdditional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said they have stepped up the vaccination roll out and administered 1.44 lakh vaccine doses on the first day of mega-vaccination day.“We have vaccinated 20,12,332 individuals as on Monday. About 1,449 vaccination centres were set up for the drive. And 95% beneficiaries inoculated on Monday were above 60 years of age or between 45 to 60 years,” the ACS said.Arora said 1.9 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) have been administered the first dose of vaccine and about 1.14 lakh HCWs were administered the second dose.About 1.2 lakh frontline workers (FLWs) have been administered the first dose of the vaccine and 43,494 got the second dose.POSITIVITY RATE GOES UPHealth officials said sample positivity rate last week increased to 4.7 % from 4.6%.Four districts - Faridabad (8.4%), Gurugram (6.7%), Rewari (6.5%) and Panchkula (6.1%) continued to have a critical positivity rate of over 6%.Fifteen districts still have a positivity rate in the range of 2.7% to 5.4%. This meant that it is lower than the critical positivity rate of over 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.Three districts - Nuh (0.8%), Charkhi Dadri (1.1%) and Jhajjar (1.8%) continue to have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the last few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-covid-cases-get-into-5-digits-in-haryana-101617650003472.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to get new mayor on April 8||Mohali is set to get a new mayor on April 8. The municipal corporation is convening the first meeting of the newly elected General House at 3pm on April 8, where the councillors will take oath of office and elect the mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the agenda for the meeting has been issued to all the councillors. “Ropar divisional commissioner Anurag Verma will administer the oath, following which the elections will take place,” he said. In the elections held for 50 wards in February, the Congress won 37 seats while the Azad Group got 10 and three went to Independents. With the Congress enjoying a clear majority, its nominees are set to occupy the three posts. According to highly placed sources in the party, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, 48, a first-time councillor from Ward No. 10 and brother of Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, is the front runner for the post of mayor, while former senior deputy mayor Rishiv Jain, another contender, might have to contend with the same post once again. Kuljeet Bedi, who has won for the third time, is likely to get awarded with the post of deputy mayor, said sources.Amarjeet, who is looking after his family’s liquor and real estate business in Mohali, said he will accept whatever responsibility is given to him by the party. “For now, we should wait for April 8 as the party is yet to announce the names for all posts,” he said.In the 2015 elections, the SAD-BJP combine had won 23 seats, the Congress got 14, the Azad Group grabbed 10 and two went to Independents. Azad Group leader Kulwant Singh, a realtor, managed to get elected as Mohali’s first mayor with the Congress support. However, this year, he lost the elections from Ward No. 42.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-to-get-new-mayor-on-april-8-101617649998787.html
06-04-2021||Other||Allahabad HC suspends mediation cases till further order||In view of recent spike in Covid-19 cases, hearing in all cases listed in Allahabad high court mediation centre will remain suspended from April 6 till further orders.According to a notification issued by chairman of committee for mediation and conciliation centre at Allahabad, Justice Suneet Kumar, for further information regarding the status of the case, the concerned parties may visit official website of Allahabad High Court - www.allahabadhighcourt.in.The Allahabad High Court Mediation and Conciliation Centre (AHMCC), which was inaugurated on October 6, 2006, has been functioning on the compound of high court.During the proceedings, when it appears to the high court that a case is appropriate for being referred to mediation/conciliation, it may refer such case to AHMCC.Once the case is referred by the court for mediation, the parties visit the centre, where their disputes are resolved with the assistance of trained mediators. The settlement, accepted by the court, is binding on the parties and can be enforced as court’s order/decree.In another administrative order, the high court has directed all the subordinate courts of the state to strictly follow covid-19 guidelines and ensure that lawyers and litigants in limited numbers were allowed to enter the court premises.Further, as per guidelines of high court, every district court will function as per rules and guidelines issued from time to time and will take up judicial and administrative work except recording of evidence during trial. Also one or two courts in every district will function through video conferencing facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-suspends-mediation-cases-till-further-order-101617649935113.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Collector rates revised in Chandigarh after four years||Revising the collector rate after four years, the Chandigarh administration has slashed it by 10% for commercial properties and by 5% for industrial plots.However, the rate for agricultural land has been enhanced by 10%, while there is no change in the case of residential properties. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar on Monday.“The new collector rates have been decided after an analysis of sale deeds registered as well as survey of markets and villages. These will be enforced from April 12,” said Brar.Collector rate is the minimum property value below which it cannot be registered with the government. On collector rate, stamp duty is also paid.The reduction in rates was a long-pending demand of different business and industrial associations. The issue was also taken up in the latest administrator’s advisory council meeting. In 2017, the rate for commercial and residential properties was cut by 10% and 5%, respectively. Welcoming the decision, Kamal Gupta, president, Property Consultant Association, Chandigarh, said: “In some areas, the collector rate is much higher than market prices. We had sought around 20-25% reduction, but the administration’s decision will still help in reviving the real estate market.”Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh, said rationalisation of collector rates was the need of the hour and will help entrepreneurs restructure their asset to ward off economic crisis.The revised ratesIn the Industrial Area, Phase I and II, the collector rate has been decreased from ₹65,894 to ₹62,599 per square yard. For agricultural land, it has gone up from ₹1,15,50,000 to ₹1,27,05,000 per acre.When it comes to commercial properties (SCOs/SCFs/bay shops) along Madhya Marg and Sector-34/35 road, Sector 22 and Sub City Centre in Sector 34, it has gone down from ₹4,16,988 to ₹3,75,289 per square yard. In Sector 17, it has been reduced from ₹5,83,783 to ₹5,25,404 per square yard.In the Manimajra motor market, it has been slashed from ₹3,08,880 to ₹2,77,992 per square yard. The collector rates for shops in multiplexes and other malls have also been incorporated as was done for Elante Mall previously.Rationalised for housing societiesThe administration has also rationalised the collector rates for Chandigarh Housing Board/society flats, industrial houses and flats at Uppal Marble Arch, Manimajra. Now, the rates will be calculated on covered area basis (per square foot) rather than plot size (per square yard). For ground floor, it has been fixed at ₹4,500 per square foot. For first, second and third floor, it is ₹4,000, ₹3,690 and ₹3,200 respectively. For Uppal Marble Arch, it has been fixed at ₹6,000 per square foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/collector-rates-revised-in-chandigarh-after-four-years-101617649876304.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside Bhalchandra Shirsat’s disqualification from BMC standing committee||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday struck down the decision of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) general body to disqualify BJP-nominated corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat as a standing committee member. HC has ordered the civic body to reinstate him as a member of the standing committee of the civic body.Shirsat had approached the HC after the chairman of the standing committee had disqualified him on October 21, 2020. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni had concluded hearing of Shirsat’s petition last month and had reserved its order. During the hearing, advocate Amogh Singh for Shirsat had informed the court that the rules relied upon by the BMC standing committee to disqualify Shirsat was not as per the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, and hence it was “illegal” and in “colourable exercise of power”. The standing committee had based its disqualification of Shirsat on the fact that a member was required to be an elected member, and Shirsat’s disqualification was justified as he was a nominated member. BMC had opposed Shirsat’s petition on the grounds that he had not challenged the rules, which the HC had accepted and directed him to pay ₹1 lakh to the civic body for “wasting BMC’s time”. Thereafter, Shirsat had sought permission to amend the petition which was allowed and he challenged the rules that the civic body had relied on while disqualifying him. On October 23, the day when the civic body had held an urgent general body meeting to ratify the decision of the standing committee, the HC had granted interim relief to Shirsat to continue as a member of the standing committee until his plea was heard. While passing its order, the bench observed, “The act of removal of petitioner does not have statutory support and does not have legal ground. Petition stands allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-sets-aside-bhalchandra-shirsat-s-disqualification-from-bmc-standing-committee-101617649875072.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Second wave of Covid may pick pace in Haryana due to congregations||Unabashed political gatherings, social crowds and hordes of agitating farmers at Delhi borders threaten to accelerate fresh escalation of coronavirus (Covid-19) infections, now on for eight-weeks in Haryana.While the state government on Sunday tightened restrictions on assembly of people at social, academic, cultural, religious and political events and other congregations, its implementation will be a big challenge, particularly in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the Centre’s three farm laws.Kisan mahapanchayats and political gatherings being held every now and then further compound the problem.“When the government is unable to remove farmers from Singhu and Tikri borders, how can one expect that tightened restrictions will be implemented? It’s all a farce,” said an official.Health officials said most protesting farmers are reluctant to get vaccinated or tested.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said while the data does not suggest a spurt in the infections due to assembly of farmers on Delhi borders, such gatherings are certainly a cause of concern during a surge.The situation is under control in Jhajjar and Sonepat, the two Delhi bordering districts, where farmers have assembled in big numbers. “But such gatherings can lead to a wider spread of the infection, particularly in light of the fact that a big number of agitating farmers come from Punjab where the infection and mortality rate is high. The back-and-forth movement of farmers can also contribute to spread of the contagion,” the ACS said.‘WEARING MASKS CORRECTLY IS THE KEY’State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, who is also a member of India Task Force of Lancet Covid-19 Commission, said that political, social or religious congregations are going to add to the number of cases.“During a recent meeting of the India Task Force, we discovered that the fresh surge in Maharashtra started from Vidarbha where gram panchayat polls were held. It was a combination of vulnerable population and panchayat elections which pushed the infection rate high in the state,” he said.Dr Chaudhary added that wearing masks correctly, staying in open spaces where there is plenty of ventilation, and not pulling down masks in closed settings is key to checking spread of Covid.“This is in addition to vaccination and sampling. One must remember that the possibility of spread of the virus is much higher in closed or indoor settings,” he said.‘THERE IS NO COVID, BJP CREATING FEAR’Head of the Nain faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Joginder Singh Nain, said, “There is no coronavirus. None of the protesters have tested positive so far. The BJP government is creating fear among people in the name of the virus. If there is a virus, why are PM Narendra Modi and BJP’s senior leaders addressing rallies in poll-bound West Bengal?”State secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, Balbir Singh Thakan, said BJP has adopted every method to suppress the voices of farmers but to no avail. Now, they are trying to lift our dharna on pretext of fresh increase in Covid cases.“People neither appear for testing nor vaccination. If the virus is so dangerous, why did Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar addressed a condolence meet in memory of Rohtak MP Arvind’s father and why did deputy CM Dushyant Chautala hold a rally ahead of Holi in Palwal? Are the rules only for protesting farmer? We will continue our agitation until our demands are met,” he said.Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Inderjit Singh said farmers protesting at Tikri and Singhu borders are living on a village model and following all precautionary measures to tackle spread of the virus.“We have not asked anyone to resist testing or vaccination. There is no threat of Covid-19 at both the border areas,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-wave-of-covid-may-pick-pace-in-haryana-due-to-congregations-101617649816637.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Law colleges fear two first-year batches in 2021||At a time when colleges are gearing up for summer session examinations, first-year law students are only now beginning their academic year. With admissions to first-year law courses in both three-year and five-year courses still underway, colleges are now worried that they will end up with two first-year batches in 2021, leaving them unable to handle the same.“As per the recent announcement by the examination department of the University of Mumbai (MU), first-semester law exams are scheduled to take place in the second week of June, so the second semester exams will only take place in September or October, by when the next academic year admissions will begin. How are colleges supposed to handle two different first-year batches at the same time?” asked the principal of a suburban law institute.He added that this fear is affecting teachers who have been working non-stop since September last year, when MU asked colleges to start online lectures. “Last year, they started work with second- to fifth-year law students, now they’ll start lectures for first-year batches and also conduct two rounds of examinations between May and June 2021. And by the time the first-year batch is ready to graduate, the next academic year will begin,” he said.Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota. In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota.After much delay, the first lists of the three-year and five-year law courses were scheduled to be released in the first week of February, but the same had to be postponed again after the state common entrance test (CET) cell received complaints of error in student information. At present, the institutional round of admissions is underway and law colleges will start regular lectures soon.While the university has declared dates of commencement of exams, the department has also asked teachers to conduct extra lectures to complete the curriculum. “Law is a course which needs to be taught at length. And since classes are being conducted online, we’ve requested teachers to conduct extra classes on weekdays and weekends to ensure that students are not at a loss of academic time,” said AK Singh, dean, law department at MU. He further added that due to the fallout of delay in the 2020-21 academic year, it is likely that admissions to the next academic year could also get delayed. “Hopefully colleges will not need to face the problem of two first-year batches studying together,” added Singh.Meanwhile, Students Law Council has approached the vice-chancellor and director of examinations and evaluation of MU, requesting them to allow the 2020-21 first-year law students to study and appear for exams together with the 2021-22 batch. “This way, students as well as teachers will get time to breath, and there will be no need for repetition of syllabus in the same year,” said Sachin Pawar, president of the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-law-colleges-fear-two-first-year-batches-in-2021-101617649815554.html
06-04-2021||Other||Can’t remain a mute spectator: Bombay HC on PILs against Anil Deshmukh||The Bombay high court (HC) directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct and conclude a preliminary inquiry into the allegations raised in the three public interest litigations (PILs) as well as a writ petition filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others against former home minister Anil Deshmukh within 15 days. While directing the central agency for probe, HC admitted that the issues and allegations raised in the petitions were something that neither of the two judges had experienced.“The proceedings of which we are seized lays bare incidents, allegations and approaches of a kind which, at least, the two of us have not experienced before,” said the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni at the start of its order. The bench also observed in its 52-page judgment that Malabar Hill police had failed to take action on advocate Dr Jaishri Patil’s complaint, which had pointed to a cognisable offence being committed by Deshmukh. HC noted that it could not remain a “mute spectator” to the complaints received against high-level officers and ruled, “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of state machinery, which would stare at face when confronted with the expectations of law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials. This court cannot be a mute spectator in these circumstances.” It further observed that as the state police force was under Deshmukh [he resigned after HC’s directions for probe], it would serve the ends of justice if a preliminary probe was conducted by an independent agency such as CBI. “Deshmukh is home minister. The police department is under his control and direction. There can be no fair, impartial, unbiased and untainted probe if the same were entrusted to the state police force. As of necessity, probe has to be entrusted to an independent agency like CBI,” noted the bench in its judgment. “The allegations made by Shri Param Bir Singh are serious in nature and against the highest functionary of the government of Maharashtra, when it comes to the functioning of the police department. Prima facie, the issues are such that the very faith of citizens in the functioning of the police department is at stake. If there is any amount of truth in such allegations, certainly it has a direct effect on the citizens’ confidence in the police machinery in the state. Such allegations, therefore, cannot remain unattended and are required to be looked into in the manner known to law when prima facie they indicate commission of a cognisable offence. It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of the state machinery, which would stare at the face when confronted with the expectations of the law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials,” the court observed.Singh in his petition had alleged that the former home minister had bypassed him and directed police officers to “collect extortion/protection money” from restaurants and bars. He had further stated that even while the role of suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in the Antilia explosives threat case was being investigated, Singh was transferred to home guards by a home department order of March 17. Singh’s petition had stated that he had apprised the chief minister and the deputy chief minister of these developments through a letter on March 20, but as no action was taken against Deshmukh, he had approached the Supreme Court. However, after the Apex court directed him to approach HC, he had filed a criminal public interest litigation (PIL) seeking probe to unearth the alleged malpractices by Deshmukh through an independent agency such as CBI or the National Investigation Agency (NIA). HC said, “It is indeed unheard of and unprecedented that a minister could be so openly accused of wrongdoings and corrupt practices by none other than a senior police officer attracting wide attention from all and sundry.”Patil’s PIL pointed out that the police had failed to initiate any action on Patil’s plaint, let alone file a first information report (FIR). In light of this, the high court observed, “Such allegations, therefore, can’t remain unattended and are required to be looked into in manner known to law when prima facie they indicate commission of cognisable offence.” While citing an SC judgment of 1970 which dealt with allegations against a public servant accused of dishonesty, the bench said that as the Apex court had held that “there must be some suitable preliminary inquiry into the allegations by a responsible officer”, it was directing CBI to conduct a preliminary probe which is to be concluded in 15 days. The court then left it to the discretion of the CBI director to decide on further course of action on the completion of the preliminary inquiry.While restraining CBI from registering an FIR immediately on Patil’s complaint, HC held that as the concerns raised in all the petitions had been addressed, it was not keeping them pending and disposed of the three PILs, the writ petition and an intervention application.‘Constitution envisages rule of law, not rule of goons’ The court in its judgment said, “The rule of law, in terms of the Constitution, pervades over the entire field of administration and every organ of the state is regulated by it. In fact, what the Constitution envisages is a rule of law and not rule of goons having political support. An ordered polity within India to promote the integrity of the country and to enliven liberty, equality and fraternity, which Dr BR Ambedkar was heard to say in the Constituent Assembly, are not to be treated as separate entities but as a trinity, are fundamental principles engrained in the Constitution. This trinity can be bypassed or overlooked only if the fabric of which the Constitution is woven be torn to pieces. Regrettably, for indolent state mechanisms and politicians, this can never happen, for the courts shall not countenance violation of Constitutional principles by anyone, howsoever high an office he occupies... courts would ensure that democratic values are respected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-remain-a-mute-spectator-bombay-hc-on-pils-against-anil-deshmukh-101617649755040.html
06-04-2021||Other||Farmers hold protests outside FCI offices in Rohtak, Karnal||Following the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farm unions on Monday observed ‘FCI Bachao Divas’ by staging protests at the Food Corporation of India offices across state.The farmers demanded a remunerative MSP for crops and strict action against buyers who purchase crop below MSP.In Rohtak, farmers assembled at Mansarovar Park and took out a procession to the FCI office and observed dharna outside its main entrance.In Karnal, farmers held protests outside the FCI office and alleged that the corporation had sent a proposal to the government recommending reduction in moisture-level from 14% to 12%, along with reduction in procurement of damaged grain from the existing 4% to 2% and stricter quality control measures for paddy.Kisan Sabha leader Inderjit Singh blamed the BJP government’s policies for sending the FCI into bankruptcy and indebtedness.“On March 11, FCI sent a proposal to the government recommending tighter quality controls for the procurement of wheat and paddy. The presence of foreign materials and moisture content in food grains is weather related, and farmers cannot be penalised for it. All conditions including ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ or land revenue records to be withdrawn for purchasing,” he added.Bhiwani farm leader Dayanand Punia said crop procurement should be completed in minimum time. “Government should ensure that farmers do not face any problem due to lack of gunny bags. Also, the government should withdraw Centre’s three farm laws,” he added.Farmers also slammed the Union government for “ignoring the farmers sitting on protest at Delhi borders”.BKU (Charuni) district resident Jagdip Singh Aulakh said if these laws are not withdrawn, private traders will be given all rights to procure and sell foodgrains in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-hold-protests-outside-fci-offices-in-rohtak-karnal-101617649697277.html
06-04-2021||Other||Jarkiholi tests Covid positive, undergoing treatment, says doctor||Bengaluru: Former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, accused of sexual harassment, has tested positive for the Covid-19, said a doctor at the Gokak taluk hospital where he is undergoing treatment. “He had complained of fever and cough on Thursday night. A RT-PCR test was conducted on him and he tested positive. He has been advised to remain in home isolation,” Dr Ravindra of the hospital told reporters in Belagavi. He added that Jarkiholi complained of breathing issues around 10.30 pm on Sunday and was admitted to the hospital for further treatment. “Sugar and BP are a bit high, but he is stable...he is currently in ICU, depending on the situation we will decide,” he said. The doctor said that Jarkiholi had travelled to Maharashtra and Bengaluru where Covid cases are high and two of his contacts have already tested positive. Jarkiholi, who is facing charges of sexual abuse, had failed to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials on Friday, citing health issues. He was earlier subjected to questioning on March 29, during which he had sought four days’ time to answer their questions. Jarkiholi’s lawyer Shyam Sundar speaking to reporters in Bengaluru said, last time when the interrogation notice had come from the investigation officers, his client was unwell. “I have been now officially informed that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at the Gokak government hospital. Based on inputs from the doctors as to when he will be fit, accordingly, we will inform the investigation officers,” Sundar said. Urban development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj too earlier in the day said, Ramesh Jarkiholi has tested positive for coronavirus, and after recovery will participate in Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll campaign.Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, in Belagavi, the home district of Jarkiholi will go for bypolls on April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jarkiholi-tests-covid-positive-undergoing-treatment-says-doctor-101617649635005.html
06-04-2021||Other||B’luru logs over 3k new Covid cases, 18 deaths||Bengaluru As Karnataka continues to witness a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, the government on Monday initiated talks with private hospitals to set aside beds for infected persons.The state recorded 5,279 new cases on Sunday, including 32 deaths. The total number of active cases in Karnataka rose to 42,483. Bengaluru, too, registered its highest single day spike with 3,728 new infections on Sunday including 18 deaths, according to the daily bulletin of the health department on Monday. “We have initiated talks with private hospitals to reserve beds for Covid-19 treatment. As per the advice of the technical advisory committee, we need to consider the pandemic seriously till May end. We need to contain the second wave and save lives,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health & family welfare, medical education minister said on Monday.He said that the health department has already asked for 20% beds in government and private hospitals to be set aside for Covid patients.There are 345 patients in ICUs across Karnataka including 164 in Bengaluru, according to the health department.Experts from the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 have estimated that Bengaluru will witness around 6,500 new cases per day by April 20 if the surge continues.Even as the active case count in Bengaluru breached the 30,000 mark on Sunday (all reports are from one day earlier across the country) , business activities continued as usual in the IT city with only a few seen adhering to Covid norms by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.To contain the spread, the state government is aiming to increase the vaccination drive, but experts, have pointed out that inoculation (both doses) will only help prevent death or people falling seriously ill and not from contracting the virus itself.Karnataka has so far completed vaccination on 44,75,617 persons. The state also received fresh stock of vaccines on Monday.“All necessary measures have been taken to ensure sufficient supply of vaccine to the state and there is no question of shortage. State has received 15 lakh additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine in two consignments in Bengaluru and Belagavi,” Sudhakar said on Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday even held talks with Karnataka and seven other Covid-19 impacted states in the country to review the evolving health crisis.The Karnataka government on Sunday relaxed curbs on gymnasiums allowing 50 % occupancy against total closure till April 20 after gym operators and the regular gym-goers had given a representation to the chief minister. The government had imposed restrictions on many public events in its order on April 2 believing that public gathering could lead to the spread of Covid-19, which is rising alarmingly in the state. “Gyms will be allowed to remain open with the condition that the occupancy at any time cannot exceed 50 per cent of the capacity,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-logs-over-3k-new-covid-cases-18-deaths-101617649584585.html
06-04-2021||Other||Arrival picks pace in Haryana, most wheat crop remains unsold due to high moisture content||Even as the Haryana government has relaxed procurement norms allowing farmers to bring their produce to mandis without schedule but most wheat reaching in the grain markets do not fit the procurement guidelines.Farmers reaching the mandis said that procurement agencies did not procure their produce due to higher moisture content and wheat crop is being scattered in mandis to bring down the moisture content to the permissible limit of 12%.“I brought in 110 quintal wheat at 9am. Even my arhtiya reached out to mandi officials multiple times, but they did not come to measure the moisture content,” alleged farmer Angrej Singh, who was waiting for buyers at the new grain market in Karnal.Another farmer Krishan Kumar, of Kutail village in Karnal, said, “Following government orders that wheat will be produced without any schedule, I brought my wheat of two acre to the mandi on Sunday but the officials of procurement agencies refused to buy it saying that the moisture content is 13%. Now the officials are saying that the moisture content should be below 12%.”“Even government-approved companies sell their seed with 14% moisture content,” he claimed.As per figures provided by mandi officials, total 9,000 MT wheat is reached grain markets in Karnal and only 871 MT wheat has been procured so far. Almost 90% wheat is lying unsold and of this, 1,100 MT crop is lying unsold in just Karnal grain market.Officials associated with procurement procedure said wheat could not be procured because most of the wheat coming to mandis does not fulfil the criteria as the moisture content is high.Additional chief secretary, Haryana agriculture department, Sumita Misra visited the Karnal grain market to review the procurement operations. She said that the criteria for procurement are fixed by the Centre and the state government cannot change the condition of moisture content.“We examined the moisture content and it was found to be higher than the permissible limits. The wheat will be procured once the moisture comes to the permissible limit of 12%,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arrival-picks-pace-in-haryana-most-wheat-crop-remains-unsold-due-to-high-moisture-content-101617649584140.html
06-04-2021||Other||2 jawans killed in Chhattisgarh were to get married||Two jawans of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Andhra Pradesh who were killed along with 20 others in the exchange of fire with the Maoists in the forests of Bijapur in Chhattisgarh on Saturday night, were waiting to get married soon, their family members said. 22 security personnel were killed in one of the deadliest attacks by led by PLGA (Peoples’ Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion no. 1 led by Madvi Hidma in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district. Five soldiers were killed on Saturday when the gunfight erupted inside a forest near Jonaguda village on the Bijapur-Sukma border. 17 more bodies were recovered on Sunday. The wedding of 27-year-old Routhu Jagadish, a resident of Vizianagaram town, was fixed for May 22 while the parents of 28-year-old Sakhamuri Muralikrishna of Gudipudi village of Sattenapalli block in Guntur district were looking for suitable alliances for him. “Jagadish spoke to me on Friday and discussed about the arrangements to be made for the marriage next month. He said he would come to Vizianagaram this week on a holiday to do some shopping and other personal works. We were all waiting for his arrival,” said Jagadish’s father, Routhu Simhachalam, a worker in a petrol bunk.Jagadish’s mother Ramanamma was inconsolable. “Jagadish joined the CRPF in 2010 and got into the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) squad because of his daring nature. He was very active and jovial person. He has lots of friends in Vizianagaram,” Ramesh, one of his neighbourhood friends said. Hundreds of people took out a rally by holding tricolour, placards and banners in Vizianagaram town, raising “Jagadish Amar Rahe” slogans on Monday. They observed a shutdown at Gajularega area as a mark of respect to the departed soul. Meanwhile, Muralikrishna also joined the CRPF in 2010 and had been posted in CoBRA-210 wing. His father, Ravindra Babu,a private employee and mother Vijaya Kumar, a homemaker, were also planning to get him married this summer. “The family recently built a new house keeping in mind Muralikrishna’s wedding. He came home in February on a holiday and gave a green signal to his parents to look for alliances. He told them he would come back to the village once the marriage is fixed,” said one of Muralikrishna’s relatives. Expressing sorrow over the killing of the two bright jawans, state chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Mondayannounced an ex gratia of ₹30 lakh each to the bereaved families. He extended his heartfelt condolences to the family members of Jagadish and Muralikrishna, an official release from the chief minister’s office said. Meanwhile, the police administration in the Telangana districts of Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu and Jayashankar Bhupalpally, sounded a high alert in the villages which are on the borders of Chhattisgarh about the possible sneaking of Maoists and their supporting tribals into Telangana crossing Godavari river. A senior police official in the Bhadradri Kothagudem district said Terrem area, where the deadly encounter took place, was hardly 60 km away from Charla block in the district. “Whenever there is a massive encounter in Chhattisgarh forests, the Maoists make an attempt to cross the Godavari river and take shelter in the border villages of Telangana for sometime before retreating to their hideouts,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Within hours of the encounter killings, hundreds of police forces belonging to the CRPF, greyhounds (elite anti-Maoist forces of the Telangana police) and special party police of the districts swung into action and intensified the combing operations.“In coordination with the Chhattisgarh police, we have kept a watch on all the areas where there is a possibility of the Maoists entering the Telangana for taking shelter,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-jawans-killed-in-chhattisgarh-were-to-get-married-101617649575041.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Delay in UP RERA court’s orders aggravating homebuyers’ problems||Delay in publication of the UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP RERA) court’s orders is helping errant developers to exploit the situation to their advantage, and aggravating hardships of homebuyers. The Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association has written a letter to the UP RERA chairman Rajive Kumar highlighting the issue. “There is substantial delay in publication of RERA orders. In some cases, complainants (homebuyers) have been waiting for more than four months for the RERA court’s order after final hearing of cases,” said Alok Singh, convenor, Uttar Pradesh Aggrieved Home Buyers Rights Association. “Complainants have been calling the RERA office requesting to bring into public domain the RERA court’s orders. Execution of RERA court’s orders takes a lot of time. If orders are further delayed, then final execution of the order will take around two years,” added Singh. Legal experts are also of the opinion that RERA court’s orders must be published within a week of the last hearing of the case like the high court and Supreme Court orders. “Aggrieved home buyers are already suffering at the hands of developers. Delay in publication of the RERA court’s orders is helping defaulter promoters to exploit the situation further to their advantage,” said GS Chauhan, advocate, high court, Lucknow. UP RERA has launched an online e-court system for lodging of complaints against developers. This system of online filing of complaints is effective from February 3 last. Complainants can logon to the www.up-rera.in/ecourts/signup link for filing a complaint. After registration of complaint, a notice is sent to the developer with a deadline of 15 days to respond. If developer fails to submit his explanation within this period, then another notice is sent to him to submit his reply in the next seven –days. Thereafter, developer will not get another chance to file his reply. All these proceedings are online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delay-in-up-rera-court-s-orders-aggravating-homebuyers-problems-101617649517042.html
06-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali clocks 501 Covid cases, tricity breaches 900 mark||The tricity continues to reach new grim milestones in the second Covid-19 wave, as 910 people tested positive on Monday, highest since the outbreak last March.Mohali district, which has been contributing bulk of the cases, also breached the 500 mark for the first time. The previous all-time high for both was recorded on April 2, with 889 and 419 cases, respectively.On Monday, Mohali reported 501 cases, followed by 285 in Chandigarh and 124 in Panchkula district.With 300+ cases surfacing daily for the past one month, Mohali district’s total has surged to 28,711, of which 3,814 cases are active, highest in the tricity. On Monday, the district also reported four more casualties, which took the death toll to 450. Just five days into this month, the district has recorded 2,018 cases and 17 deaths, as compared to 6,315 and 48, respectively, in March. Mohali city accounts for most of the cases, with 386 surfacing on Monday, followed by 42 in Dera Bassi, 32 in Kharar and 26 in Dhakoli. Meanwhile, with 275 patients being discharged, the number of those cured climbed to 24,447, though the recovery rate has dropped to 85%. “The transmission rate of UK strain of the virus is quite high and it is spreading fast among youngsters,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, while urging people to take precautions and come forward for vaccination.One fatality each in Chandigarh, PanchkulaAn 85-year-old woman from Manimajra and 59-year-old woman from Barwala succumbed to the virus on Monday, taking Chandigarh’s and Panchkula’s death toll to 384 and 156, respectively. The two districts have reported only four and two deaths, respectively, this month, though experts warn the impact of the present surge will be seen in terms of fatalities in the coming weeks.The number of cases in Chandigarh has gone up to 28,479. While 25,033 (88%) patients have recovered, 3,062 cases are still active.In Panchkula, 13,777 (91%) people have tested positive, of whom 12,577 have recovered and 1,044 are still undergoing treatment.“A strict lockdown would be a harsh step but dealing with this situation requires restricted movement of people,” said Dr GD Puri, head of Covid-19 management committee at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. He said social distancing should be strictly implemented in public transport, restaurants should be allowed only takeaways and apni mandis and other events where crowding takes place should be restricted. “In offices, wearing of masks should be religiously followed,” he said. Covid care centre reopened at Sood DharamshalaWith active cases going beyond 3,000 and bed occupancy in hospitals reaching 50%, the Chandigarh health department has reopened the Covid Care Centre with a capacity of around 200 beds at Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said staff has been deputed for the centre.Kaur said facilities at GMCH are also being ramped up to deal with the surge. “When the need arises, we will press into service around 40 ventilators with a sufficient number of beds for moderate cases as well,” she said.At the PGIMER, out of 300 beds, including those with ventilators, 180 are occupied.“There is a huge influx of patients from Punjab and Haryana. Of every 10 patients reporting at the trauma centre, two to three test positive, who are also treated here,” said Dr Vipin Kaushal, medical superintendent of the Covid-19 hospital at PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-clocks-501-covid-cases-tricity-breaches-900-mark-101617649516501.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||State, Centre disagree over oxygen supply guidelines||A day after the Maharashtra government directed industrial producers of oxygen to reserve 80% supply for medical and pharmaceutical purposes, the Central government issued an advisory against doing so, stating there is sufficient oxygen supply and the decision would affect the industrial and manufacturing sector. According to data accessed by HT, while the monthly consumption of medical oxygen in the country was around 2,675 metric tonnes in September 2020, it was around 1,459 in March 2021. Guruprasad Mahapatra, secretary, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Government of India, said, “It is advisable not to cut down on supply to industry as long as there is no shortage in manufacturing and availability of oxygen, as that affects various industry sectors.” A note by the ministry also states that, “Overall, there is sufficient stock of medical oxygen in the country, and presently Maharashtra state is also picking up medical oxygen from Bhilai, Chattisgarh for Vidharbha and Nagpur region.” It also states that the demand is “within expectations” and “much lower than the daily oxygen offtake that took place in September 2020.” In its notification ‘Break the Chain’ released on Sunday, Maharashtra government stated that all industrial producers of oxygen should reserve 80% of their production (actual as well as capacity) for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. It also stated that “any industrial profess that is a net consumer of oxygen as a raw material is to be disallowed by default from April 10, 2021 onwards.” If industries are desirous of carrying out such a process, then they will have to seek permission, the notification states. In September 2020, industrial units across Navi Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad faced acute shortage of oxygen for industrial purposes. Sitaram Kunte, Maharashtra chief secretary, said, “Maharashtra has an installed capacity of 1200 MT, while the production is around 1050 MT. We are already utilising 650 MT of oxygen supply for close to 25,000 cases and the demand is only expected to go up in the coming days as cases increase. We have already conveyed to the ministry that we have to reserve 80% of the supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-centre-disagree-over-oxygen-supply-guidelines-101617649456365.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Non-teaching staff to report to work on alternate days: MU||Almost three weeks after the University of Mumbai of asked non-teaching staff to report physically, it has now asked staff to report on alternate days. In a circular issued on April 1, the university has asked class 1 and 2 officers to report at 100% attendance on alternate days. Class 3 and 4 officers have been asked to attend office at 50% attendance, in view of rising Covid-19 cases. This is applicable until April 25. Meanwhile, Mumbai University and College Teachers Association (MUCTA) on Monday said that some colleges had called faculty members to campus despite the state government guidelines to keep schools and colleges shut. “It is very clearly mentioned in the guidelines that school and colleges are closed. Despite this, it has been observed that some principals are forcing the staff members to come to colleges. If the guidelines are not followed, we will file complaints to Local Police Station, Collector and all authority,” said Subhash Athavale, general secretary, MUCTA. A senior official from the university said, “The guidelines said schools and colleges will remain shut for students. The university has also issued a circular for non-teaching staff. Faculty members may be called to complete preparatory work for upcoming summer semester exams.” All teaching is being done online.” “No faculty member has been called to campus. Only non-technical staff reported for duty. We are working on a schedule and will only call emergency staff to campus on a rotation basis,” said Manju Pathak, principal, CHM College, Ulhasnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nonteaching-staff-to-report-to-work-on-alternate-days-mu-101617649455749.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow district admn asks degree colleges to run only online classes||Owing to spike in corona cases in the city, the district administration on Monday asked all degree colleges affiliated to Lucknow University to run online classes only. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash issued the order asking degree colleges to resume online classes without any further delay.The decision assumes significance after a number of teachers at several degree colleges tested Covid positive last week. Thereafter, Lucknow University Associated College Teachers’ Association (LUACTA) chief Manoj Pandey urged the district administration to register FIR against those colleges who are not switching to online mode.At Mahila College, three teachers tested positive. Principal Nisha Gupta said these teachers informed her about their Covid report.LUACTA office-bearers said a few more teachers had tested positive. At IT College, a home science teacher tested positive, said principal Vinita Prakash who said that the institution had now switched to online classes.At Nari Shiksha Niketan too, a teacher tested positive. Pandey said, “The move will give some relief as students can now attend classes from home which is much safer place.”Last week, the state government had authorised the district magistrates to decide on closure of higher education institutes in their district. The order issued by additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg said the district magistrates will have to consider the situation of Covid-19 infection in their district before making any decision regarding closure. Garg in a letter dated April 1 and addressed to all VCs had further asked to conduct classes in online mode. Meanwhile, such institutions where annual exams are scheduled have been allowed to conduct the exams while following all necessary Covid-19 protocols. Lucknow University had on Thursday announced suspension of physical classes hours after government’s order. The varsity will conduct online classes till April 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-district-admn-asks-degree-colleges-to-run-only-online-classes-101617649455117.html
06-04-2021||Other||Lawyer who filed PIL in Bombay HC against Anil Deshmukh||Jaishri Patil, the advocate who filed a petition in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking directions to Malabar Hill police to register a first information report (FIR) against state home minister Anil Deshmukh in light of the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, is no stranger to filing sensitive cases related to crime, the Constitution and human rights. Some of the cases that she has taken up during her legal practice, which she started in 1998, include the dock workers’ and airline employees’ cases in 2005 and 2006, respectively. She came to limelight after filing a petition challenging the state’s 2018 decision to extend the benefit of reservation to Maratha community. Patil, who also practices in Supreme Court, has filed several PILs before the Apex court and HC, challenging the vires of Maratha reservation. The daughter of freedom fighter Dr Laxmanrao Patil who had participated in the liberation of Goa, she also holds a doctorate on the topic “Underworld Terrorism, Cross-border Terrorism and Human Rights, Study of Socio-Legal Aspects”. For seven years, she worked with the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC), where she undertook cases on custodial violence and sexual harassment of women at workplace. She has written a book titled Human Rights Perspective, during her tenure with MSHRC. She is a member of the Indian Constitutionalist Council (ICC) – a group of advocates providing free legal aid to the poor. Her husband, advocate Gunaratan Sadavarte, is also a practising lawyer in SC and HC, and has supported her in the Maratha reservation case. Observation by HC on Jaishri Patil’s petition“True, Dr Patil’s effort in drafting the CrWP (criminal writ petition) betrays lack of proper care and attention as well as expertise. But the issue raised by her is quite serious, and we do not think that it would be prudent to refuse interference only on such grounds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lawyer-who-filed-pil-in-bombay-hc-against-anil-deshmukh-101617649395564.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha curbs: Traders’ associations upset||Mumbai Traders’ associations are upset with the state’s decision to close down all shops and private non-essential business establishments from Tuesday, saying it will sound a death knell for the whole sector. The state has mandated that all shops, barring essential services, would be closed from 8pm on Monday till April 30 at 11.59pm. The Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT) has demanded compensation for this closure. “Small traders will be destroyed by this closure. Traders from Maharashtra will have to bear the brunt as other states will steal our businesses. If the government still wants to go ahead, they need to compensate us with salaries of our workers and business losses as well as waiver in property taxes,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT. Traders affiliated to the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) will put up banners opposing the closure as well as submit memorandums to local public representatives. The All India Electronics Association (AIEA) has condemned the move saying the closure will break the back bone of the economy. “We don’t mind stricter norms but allow us to open our shops. The government has allowed hotels to give deliveries, public transport to operate and film shootings. Why are they preventing traders from opening shops,” asked Mitesh Mody, president, AIEA. The Shiv Sena has defended the move. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has taken this decision after a lot of deliberations with the experts and with a heavy heart. Traders need to understand that the whole motive is to save lives,” said former minister Sachin Ahir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-curbs-traders-associations-upset-101617649396272.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||‘UP has adopted Pulse Polio-like strategy to fight Covid’||The state health and family welfare department has adopted a Pulse Polio-like campaign strategy to intensify the fight against the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, said a health department officer.Pulse Polio is an immunisation campaign established by the government of India to eliminate polio in India by vaccinating all children under the age of five years against the polio virus.“Health workers have been directed to intensify the surveillance in the containment zones by marking the start and end points of the surveillance activities there. Health teams will visit each household to collect information about the health condition of the family members and sensitise them about the symptoms as well as preventive measures,” he said.“The details of the people having symptoms like cough, cold, fever or trouble in breathing will be collected. The details will be passed to the district surveillance teams that will collect the samples of the suspected patients for test. Once the test is positive, the patients will be put in either home isolation or be shifted to the Covid hospital for medical care,” he added.“The strategy is to break the infection chain by identifying the infected person and separating him from the rest of the population. All the district magistrates and chief medical officers have been directed to constitute quick response teams equipped with ambulances for contact tracing and admission of patients in the hospitals,” the officer further said.“Till Sunday, the state had a total 6,287 containment zones in its 75 districts. The state government has announced the guidelines for the containment zones. District surveillance officer will inform district immunisation officer about the positive Covid cases in the containment zones. The containment zone for a single positive case will be of 25-metre radius and 50-metre radius for more than one case,” he said.“An area will be marked as containment zone for 14 days from the date of the sample collection of the positive case. If no fresh case is detected for 14 days since the last positive case, the area will be removed from the list of the containment zone,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-has-adopted-pulse-polio-like-strategy-to-fight-covid-101617649395059.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Petrol pumps, fruit vendors listed as essentials in Maha||Mumbai The state government on Monday issued a new notification putting some more services such as petrol pumps, fruit vendors, government and private security agencies in its enhanced list of essential services. Also, people coming from or going to the airport or railway terminus for outstation travel are exempted from night curfew, which is imposed from 8pm to 7am. They have also been exempted from the weekend lockdown, provided they are carrying a valid ticket.Lawyer’s offices have been exempted from closure. Similarly domestic help/drivers and cooks can work in the day time. With regards to them working after 8pm or on weekends, the local authorities of that place will take a call.Students appearing physically for exams would be allowed to travel in the night curfew or weekends, provided they are carrying valid hall tickets. Wine shops will be closed so liquor will be available in bars and restaurants through parcels. The state in its notification issued on April 4 has made the vaccination or negative report of RT-PCR mandatory for delivery boys engaged with e-commerce sector companies like Flipkart, Amazon. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said, “We have put that condition as delivery boys come in direct contact with household members at the time of delivery and visit multiple houses. If the delivery boy is above 45 years of age, he is fit to get vaccinated as per Central government norms, but if not, then he will have to carry an RT-PCR test report with him. We have demanded with the Centre to allow the vaccination of all above 25 years. If allowed, the problem for not just delivery boys, but even working class can be solved.” Karishma Pradhan, who was to travel to Bengaluru this Saturday, heaved a sigh of relief. “I was worried on how to go about due to lockdown. I even planned to defer my trip. However, now will continue as things are clearer,” said Pradhan, who is an IT professional working in a leading firm. Sanjay Pansare, director, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), said traders faced a lot of issues in the last lockdown as fruits were not included in essential services. “We faced harassment from the police and municipal staff as they insisted that fruits was not included and stopped us in many places. Since fruits are disposable items, we cannot keep it for long,” said Pansare. The order also emphasizes that staff working in offices of financial sector undertakings will have to get fully vaccinated or carry a negative RTP-CR result certificate, which is valid for 15 days only, till then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-pumps-fruit-vendors-listed-as-essentials-in-maha-101617649335021.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 9,879 new cases, 21 deaths||While the city saw slightly fewer cases on Monday compared to Sunday, the daily positivity rate jumped five per cent, from 21% on Sunday to 26% on Monday, amid the partial lockdown announced by the state starting Monday night. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation expects the lockdown will help bring down the cases and mortality rate.On Monday, the city reported 9,879 cases and 21 deaths. The case tally went up to 462,560 and toll to 11,800. The recovery rate in the city is 81%, with 376,484 recoveries, and mortality rate is 2.55%. There are 73,281 active cases in the city.The city’s positivity rate was around 5-7 per cent in February that went up to 10-15 per cent by last week of March, and in the last one week, the growth rate reached 26%. Over 4.3 million samples have been tested in the city since last year and overall positivity rate is 10.51%.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “The lockdown will definitely help us bring down the cases in the city. It will help us test, trace and treat and with this the growth rate will automatically come down. This is proved globally and locally that the cases will come down with lockdown. However, I cannot give a date, but in the coming days we will get to see the change.”Further, the BMC on Monday issued a circular due to which visitors will now not be allowed to enter BMC headquarters and ward offices unless of some emergency work. According to the circular, several visitors will also be issued a pass including contractors, consultant and other vendors, in case they can show their negative report.According to BMC officials, all restrictions announced by the state government on Sunday will be implemented in the city, however, on certain issues, the BMC is expected to issue a clarification by Tuesday. The BMC has also decided to launch an awareness campaign in all 24 wards of the city wherein the BMC will go out on streets making citizens aware about the need to behave in Covid-19 appropriate manner. The city’s former hotspot, Dharavi, reported 47 new cases on Monday, taking the total to 5,238 cases in the past one year. There are 828 active cases in Dharavi and 4,093 have been discharged.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal called up a 76-year-old Covid-19 patient’s relative who was trying to get a bed in a private hospital for five hours. Chahal called up the relative and got her aunt a bed in the civic body’s Seven Hill hospital. The relative took to Twitter expressing her displeasure over not finding a bed. Post this, Chahal called up the relative. Later, the BMC in a tweet, said, “Ma’am. Hope you got clarity on a call from our Municipal Commissioner Mr Chahal, on how you violating the protocol led to all the confusion. We request all Mumbaikars to contact respective war rooms or 1916 - we have enough beds vacant and no one needs to go through this chase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-9-879-new-cases-21-deaths-101617649275614.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Defence Corridor: UPEIDA inks 2 MoUs for investment in Jhansi, Aligarh||Awanish Kumar Awasthi, the chief executive officer of UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), on Monday signed two memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with M/s Delta Combat Systems Limited for investment at Jhansi and Aligarh node of UP defence industrial corridor.“The company has proposed to invest ₹250 crore on setting a defence industry over 100-acre land in Aligarh,” said a spokesperson for UPEIDA.The company’s chairman Kumar Santosh said the company will manufacture the latest model of art assault rifles in the unit at Aligarh node of the defence corridor. “The company has also planned to invest ₹250 crore by installing MROs of ammunition, unloaded rockets, MANDAD, ATGM combat vehicles in Jhansi node. The company intends to employ at least 250 people,” he said.To give impetus to development, investment and increase the manufacturing capacity, the state government has decided to develop the UP Defence Industrial Corridor.The defence industries are proposed to be set up on 1,086-hectare land in Jhansi node of the defence corridor. The state government has acquired 1,035-hectare land whereas 74-hectare land has been purchased in Aligarh node.The defence corridor would come up in Bundelkhand region and is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs. The corridor would have six nodes- Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore defence industrial corridor in Bundelkhand region which is considered as one of the most backward regions in the state. The Yogi government has offered financial benefits for such units willing to give year-long skill development training along with job to the youth. As the defence corridor is aimed at generating more jobs for drought–hit Bundelkhand region, the Yogi government has offered capital subsidy for such industrialists that are willing to invest up to ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/defence-corridor-upeida-inks-2-mous-for-investment-in-jhansi-aligarh-101617649275057.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Delhi govt orders increase in hospital beds||With hospital beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients filling up fast, the Delhi government has ordered 11 government and 54 private hospitals of the national capital to increase the number of beds, orders issued by the Delhi government stated on Monday. This will add 1,540 beds in the government sector and 3,297 beds in the private sector. Of these, 1,073 beds will be in the intensive care unit (ICU).“The positivity rate and the number of active cases in Delhi was 2.71% and 8,838 on 31.03.2021 respectively. The same increased to 4.67% and 13,982, respectively on 04.04.2021. The occupancy of COVID ICU and ward beds across 33 private hospitals has increased markedly and the overall occupancy of COVID ICU beds and COVID ward beds in these hospitals on 05.04.2021 was 78% and 68% respectively,” read the order from Dr RN Das, medical superintendent, Delhi’s Nursing Home Cell.City’s private hospitals have been asked to reserve at least 30% of their total ward and ICU capacity or double the number of beds occupied on April 5, whichever is higher, the order stated. “Every day we are freeing up more and more beds for Covid-19 patients. Last year, all non-emergency surgeries were put on hold. Patients were anyway not coming to the hospitals because of the Covid-19 scare. Now, even the non-Covid services are running at about 70 to 80% of what it was before Covid-19,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine, Indraprastha Apollo. Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine, Max Healthcare, said, “The cases are rising exponentially. The pace at which the number of cases went up this time around did not give us any time to ramp up the capacity. The situation is heading towards what it was during November.” The occupancy of beds was high across various major private hospitals – 82.4% at Indraprastha Apollo, 88.1% at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, and 70.6% at Max hospital, Saket. Among government hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital was directed to increase the number of Covid-19 beds from 300 to 1,000, with the number of ICU beds increasing from 50 to 200. The hospital was the first Delhi government-run centre to be designated as a Covid-19 centre in March last year after which all 2,000 of its beds were earmarked for the treatment of the viral infection. “We have received the order to increase the number of beds, we will have to move some patients around but we have as many beds available at the moment. We have a capacity of 2,000 beds and there are only 700 non-Covid patients admitted at the moment. The medicine and casualty blocks will be reserved for Covid-19 patients,” said a senior administrator from the hospital. Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, where none of the beds was earmarked for Covid-19 as the number of cases went down, has been asked to increase the number of beds to 500, with 100 beds in the ICU. “Logistics required, if any, may be sourced by using powers delegated under section 50 of the Disaster Management Act,” read the order by SM Ali, special secretary (health). This is the second time when the Kejriwal government has directed to increase the number of beds across some of the major private hospitals within the week. On March 31, 33 major private hospitals of the city were asked to add 1,080 beds. This comes as the city witnessed a sudden jump in the number of new Covid-19 cases recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-delhi-govt-orders-increase-in-hospital-beds-101617649216292.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers request special vaccination drive for teachers and staff ahead of board exams||Ahead of Class 10 and 12 board exams in Maharashtra, teachers across the state requested the education department to give them Covid-19 vaccine on a priority basis.Teachers said that since it is important for all teachers on supervision duty to be virus-free, it is important to get them vaccinated soon. “Teachers should be vaccinated at special centres which should be set up in various schools. This way, teachers and non-teaching staff who will work for board exams will be safe to work,” said Shivnath Darade from Shikshak Parishad, a teachers group which wrote to the department recently.As per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) released on the conduct of board exams, teachers and non-teaching staff have to be vaccinated before the conduct of board exams in the state. Similarly, staff members who will be on exam duty have to get negative RT-PCR report 48 hours before exams.Teachers said the government should arrange for mass testing and vaccination for teachers. “If teachers have to get tested in such a short window, the government should set up centres in their respective schools. This way, it’ll be easy to cover the entire supervision staff at various centres,” said a teacher from a suburban school.While HSC (Class12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC (Class10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 3.3 million students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teachers-request-special-vaccination-drive-for-teachers-and-staff-ahead-of-board-exams-101617649214986.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Monday figures: 3999 fresh cases, 13 deaths||: Active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh almost doubled in just 4 days since April 1, with the state on Monday reporting 3999 fresh cases and 13 fresh fatalities, taking the overall death toll to 8894. The number of fresh cases on Monday surpassed the October 2, 2020, figure, which was 3946 covid cases, in the state. There has been a rise of 91.47% in the tally of active cases, 22820 to be precise, since April 1, when there were 11918 active cases in the state . Similarly, Lucknow that reported 1133 fresh cases on Monday, recorded a rise of 82.59% in the number of active cases from April 1 (3912) to April 5 (7143), bringing down significantly the vacancy in covid facilities in the district. “Of the total 22820 active cases in the state, 12338 are in home isolation, 512 in private hospitals and remaining at government covid facilities, including medical colleges,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Monday. IN Lucknow, 4168 patients are in home isolation and 1006 at covid facilities. The statewise figures on Monday read -- Lucknow 1133, Kanpur 208, Prayagraj 479, Ghaziabad 46, Gautam Budha Nagar 97, Meerut 74, Varanasi 337, Gorakhpur 102, Agra 89, Bareilly 62. Among fresh fatalities, maximum 5 were reported from Lucknow, two each in Prayagraj and Varanasi and one each in Kanpur, Gautam Budha Nagar, Pratapgarh and Sultanpur, according to the state health department data. In fact, all 75 districts reported fresh cases. State has tested 355,75,232 covid samples till now, including 1,61,270 tested in the past 24 hours (over 84000 RT PCR). The maximum 14 lakh tests till now have been conducted by the KGMU. In all, 602,319 patients have been discharged till now in the state. In Lucknow, fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar (71), Alambagh (41), Rae Bareli road (32), Mahanagar (34), Hazratganj (42), Aliganj (37), Talkatora (51 ), Gomti Nagar (78), Chowk (55), Ashiyana (43), Madiaon (31), Vikas Nagar (36), Hasanganj (25), Chinhut (24), Jankipuram (31) and Thakurganj (22). “Lucknow till now has reported 91073 cases, of which 82689 have recovered. The recovery rate is 90.79%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors. During the day, samples of 21408 people were taken for contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/massive-jump-in-number-of-cases-in-up-101617649155712.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Allow citizens above 25 to get vax, CM requests PM||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow people above 25 years of age to receive the vaccine. In a letter to Modi, Thackeray said if a large number of the working population is vaccinated, “the intensity of the cases would be lower than the treatment that they need today.” Currently, those above 45 years of age are eligible for vaccination. A day after the Maharashtra government announced restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state, Maharashtra on Monday recorded more than 40,000 cases with 47,288 new infections and 155 more deaths, taking the state’s tally to 3,057,885 and toll to 56,033. Mumbai continued to be the highest contributor to the daily caseload with 9,879 new cases and 21 deaths on Monday.The state has 451,375 active cases, with the highest in Pune (81,378) and Mumbai (73,281). In the past two days, Maharashtra has recorded 104,362 new cases, while Mumbai has recorded 21,085 cases.Other cities like Pune, Nashik and Nagpur also recorded 4,250, 2,647 and 2,556 new Covid-19 cases on Monday. Meanwhile, the state government on Monday issued a new notification, putting some more services such as petrol pumps, fruit vendors, government and private security agencies in its list of essential services. Also, people coming from or going to the airport or railway terminus for outstation travel are exempted from night curfew. They have also been exempted from the weekend lockdown, provided they are carrying a valid ticket. Lawyers’ offices have also been exempted from closure. Similarly domestic helps/drivers and cooks can work in the day. With regards to them working after 8pm or on weekends, local authorities will decide the same. Students appearing physically for exams would be allowed to travel in the night curfew or weekends, provided they are carrying valid hall tickets. Wine shops will be closed, so liquor will be available in bars and restaurants through parcels. Further, the BMC issued a circular due to which visitors will now not be allowed to enter BMC headquarters and ward offices unless for some emergency. According to the circular, visitors will also be issued a pass, including contractors, consultant and other vendors, in case they can show their negative report. According to officials, all restrictions announced by the state will be implemented in the city, however, on certain issues, the BMC is expected to issue a clarification by Tuesday. Earlier, Thackeray, in his letter to Modi, also requested for additional vaccine doses for six districts facing a surge.He wrote, “Maharashtra has also requested for additional doses so that six districts facing the surge of Covid can be covered on priority and in greater speed. Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad can be covered in a matter of three weeks, for the population of above 45, if 1.5 crore doses are made available to the state by the government of India.”He also stated that Maharashtra is the number one state in the country in terms of number of doses administered. “As of Sunday, 4th April 2021, we have administered 76.86 lakh doses of Covid vaccine, which is highest in the country,” Thackeray wrote. He also apprised Modi of the “break the chain” initiative taken by the state government to curb the spread. The state government Sunday issued directives for a partial lockdown in the state from 8pm on Monday to April 30, owing to the alarming increase in cases. Besides a complete lockdown on weekends, a strict night curfew of 11 hours, and prohibition of gatherings of more than five people during the day, the state announced shutting down of shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities, restaurants, eateries, malls, theatres, multiplexes, and religious places.However, the decision is being opposed by many shop-owners in the city. Viren Shah from the federation of retail traders welfare association said that the members had detailed discussion on Monday regarding the notification. “We oppose the decision of closing down non-essential shops without any subsidy being offered. Our representatives will be meeting all government authorities to register our protest in the next few days,” Shah said. However, experts said the health infrastructure in the state is already burdened and the measures will help contain the spread. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force, said that the directives should help in improving the situation in the next two-four weeks. However, it depends upon enforcement of the guidelines at the local level and co-operation by citizens.“There is still a large invisible pool of suspected and asymptomatic Covid patients in the state. These measures are to identify these patients and ensure micro-containment so they do not become super-spreaders. Our health infrastructure is already burdened. People have to co-operate by following appropriate Covid behaviour,” Dr Joshi said.Meanwhile, the state government has issued a new notification, putting some more services as essential — petrol pumps, data centers, fruit vendors etc. Also, the people coming or going to airport or railway stations for outstation travel, too, are exempted from the night curfew.Moreover, the Central government has constituted 50 high level multi-disciplinary public health teams, highest so far, to be deployed to 50 districts across Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab owing to the ‘recent very large numbers of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and daily mortality being consistently reported by these States’. “The teams are being rushed to 30 districts of Maharashtra, 11 districts of Chhattisgarh and 9 districts of Punjab to assist the State Health Department and local authorities,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Monday.The teams are ordered to reach their respective allotted states latest by April 7, and before that the centre has also scheduled an orientation session on April 6. Kunak Kumar, ministry of housing and urban affairs is the nodal officer for Maharashtra. (inputs from Naresh Kamath, Rhythma Kauland Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-citizens-above-25-to-get-vax-cm-requests-pm-101617649155043.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Air India Boeing pilots seek urgent meeting with aviation minister over pay cut||Air India’s Boeing pilots have written to the aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri seeking an urgent meeting with him. The letter dated March 31 emphasised that Air India group flew over 2.9 million passengers through the pandemic as frontliners, yet since April 2020, an “illegal pay cut” has been forcefully implemented upon them which no other public sector undertaking (PSU) has undergone.“…effective April 2020, a unilateral and illegal pay cut has been forcefully implemented upon us...throughout the pandemic no other PSU has undergone such a drastic pay cut. Air India awarded a 70% pay cut to the very section of employees who during Covid times reported for duty, putting themselves as well as their near and dear ones at risk of getting infected. At the same time the management gave themselves a paltry 10% cut while effectively being cocooned in the safety of their own homes,” the letter stated.The pilots had written to their management on March 23 highlighting factors such as the airline management’s decisions to remove pre-flight Covid testing and cancel or curtail pilot leaves. They also questioned the government on not rolling back their pay cuts despite seeing a rise in domestic travel.Air India did not comment on the matter.A pilot said, “In our recent letter to our CMD Shri Rajiv Bansal dated March 23, we highlighted several factors such as the Air India management’s decisions to remove pre-flight Covid testing, cancel or curtail pilot leaves and, the most recent one, to discontinue providing all meals to pilots in rooms at domestic hotels. These strategic and intentional decisions of the management are a clear indication that they believe that the worst is behind us.”They pointed out the steady return of the aviation sector towards normalcy, despite which their wages continue to be paid out with the 70% pay cut.“We strongly urge you to intervene and roll back this unilateral and illegal pay cut enforced on the licensed category of Air India’s employees as of January 1, 2021 in line with other Indian airlines. At this crucial juncture of the government’s efforts to privatise Air India, we reach out to you with a lot of apprehensions about our arrears, wages and service conditions which have not been addressed since 2006. We request you to grant us an audience at the earliest,” the letter concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-boeing-pilots-seek-urgent-meeting-with-aviation-minister-over-pay-cut-101617649035587.html
06-04-2021||Lucknow||Yogi gets first dose of Covid vaccine, appeals to follow protocol||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath received the first jab of Covid vaccine at Civil hospital here on Monday. Appealing to all eligible people to go for the vaccination, Yogi also spoke about carelessness in following Covid protocols and stressed on checking vaccine wastage.“The new wave is a result of carelessness as people stopped using masks and also are not maintaining social distancing. We also need to control vaccine wastage,” said the CM.“When my turn came, I took the first dose in the fight against Covid. I thank the PM for making two indigenous Covid vaccines available to countrymen in time and also express gratitude to the scientists who launched the two vaccines. The PM has appealed frequently to take vaccine dose and follow protocol,” Yogi said after taking the vaccine jab.“The CM stayed for 30 minutes after receiving the Covid vaccine jab and asked us about the vaccine and its protocol,” said Rashmi Singh, the vaccinator who administered the dose to the CM.“For the past one year, health workers and corona warriors effectively fought against the pandemic and did not even care for their lives. I appeal to people in the state that we need to take precautions even after getting vaccinated against the Covid,” he added.“The vaccine is safe and we should take it with respect. This vaccine should be given to all eligible people when their turn comes to get a safety shield and we shall win this fight against Covid completely,” the CM said.The nationwide third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive started on Thursday (April 1) under which the Centre opened up the vaccination for everyone aged above 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-gets-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-appeals-to-follow-protocol-101617648975699.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body orders fire safety audit of all private, govt hospitals||In the wake of two fire incidents reported at two Covid-19 hospitals in the past two weeks, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to conduct a fire safety audit of all private, government and civic-run hospitals in the city. BMC has on Monday directed the chief fire officer of Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) to conduct an audit of all such hospitals in the city and submit a report within 15 days. There are over 1,300 such hospitals in the city. This comes in the backdrop of nine Covid-19 patients losing their lives after a fire was reported in Sunrise Hospital housed inside Dreams Mall in Bhandup followed by the fire at Dahisar Covid-19 Jumbo Centre on Sunday. In the second incident at Dahisar, no injuries were reported, but more than 50 patients were shifted owing to fire in their hangar.Two months ago in a similar exercise conducted by BMC, fire safety lapses were found in around 701 hospitals and nursing homes across Mumbai. The list includes 38 government and BMC-run hospitals. The fire safety audit was conducted in the backdrop of the fire that broke out in a government hospital in Bhandara in January, killing 10 infants.In a circular issued by him on Monday, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “In the wake of fire incidents at several locations in BMC limit, it has been decided to conduct fire safety audit of all private, government and municipal hospitals for their fire safety compliances.”The circular added, “In case of any shortcomings/ deficiencies observed from the fire safety point of view during such inspection, action under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006 shall be initiated. The chief fire officer will submit the report to this effect within 15 days.”Meanwhile, fire safety violations have also been reported from restaurants and hotels. In a report submitted by MFB in November 2020, between January 2019 and October 2020, 57% of 12,743 hotels, malls and other commercial establishments in the city have been found violating fire safety norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-orders-fire-safety-audit-of-all-private-govt-hospitals-101617648856471.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests four with ₹1.87-crore red sandalwood||Unit 5 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch busted an international red sandalwood smuggling racket on Saturday night and arrested four persons with 1,779 kgs of red sandalwood worth ₹1.78 crore. A crime branch officer said the red sandalwood was brought from Karnataka by road and the accused were supposed to smuggle it abroad.The arrested accused are Prasad Khamkar, 33; Manish Patyani, 35; Nishant Malhotra, 42; and Harendra Tiwari, 48 —all residents of Mumbai. Police officers have been questioning them to find out more facts that how long the accused have been involved in the smuggling racket.The officer said they acted on a tip-off that a gang has brought red sandalwood in Dharavi area from Karnataka and laid a trap in Dharavi on Saturday night. The team saw a suspected, loaded tempo leaving the area and chased the vehicle. The police team eventually intercepted the tempo on Sahar Road in Andheri (East), said joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe of the crime branch.Police found red sandalwood covered in gunny sacks in the tempo. Tiwari was driving the tempo while Khamkar, Patyani and Malhotra were sitting inside, said a crime branch officer.They were brought to the unit office in Kurla and the tempo with red sandalwood was seized. During questioning, the accused revealed that they were shifting red sandalwood from Dharavi to a godown at Sahar Road, said the officer. “The accused were planning to send it abroad. We have been investigating to find out how many others are involved in the racket. Soon a police team will visit Karnataka for investigation once we find the name of supplier,” added the officer.The accused have been arrested on Sunday morning and were produced in the court which remanded them in police custody till April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-four-with-1-87-crore-red-sandalwood-101617648854978.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Waste to art: Imitations of Sarnath Stupa, Taj Mahal and Ganga ghat installed at Mahamaya Flyover in Noida||Noida: Inspired by Delhi’s ‘Waste to Wonder’ theme park, the Noida authority has installed imitations of Taj Mahal, Sarnath Stupa and the river ghats of Benaras along the Mahamaya Flyover in the city. The imitations are made out of waste and are part of the ‘Waste to Art’ project of the authority, officials said. “The authority often conducts encroachment drives across the city’s footpaths and other public places, which result in the generation of a lot of waste. All such pieces of wood shards, metal bolts and other such things have been used to create the installations,” said Anand Mohan Singh from the Noida authority’s horticulture department. The installations were recently inspected by the authority’s chief executive officer, Ritu Maheshwari. “Some finishing touches are required at the installations. The platform of the Sarnath Stupa installation needs to be raised. I have also instructed officials to increase the number of lights that have been put inside the structures,” said Maheshwari. The aim of the ‘Waste to Art’ project is three-pronged, said Maheshwari. “Our first aim is to project Noida as the gateway of Uttar Pradesh, so we are trying to display heritage places of the state through these structures. Secondly, we want to attract tourists to Noida and project it as an upcoming destination for investors. Thirdly, we want to promote the habit of recycling and waste management which everyone should follow in their daily lives,” she said. She added that these installations have been designed by the same artist who created Delhi’s Waste to Wonder park. “The installations have been created as part of a company’s corporate social responsibility project,” Maheshwari said, adding that a waste to wonder park in the city is also in the pipeline. “We are planning a theme park in Noida which will have artifacts of UP’s heritage sites made out of waste. However, the project is still in its initial stages and will take another two-three months to materialise,” she said. The Noida CEO added that 10 more such installations are being planned along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway as well. “We have planned 10 more such installations depicting tourist and heritage sites of UP to be installed along the Noida expressway. We are looking for firms to come forward and take those up as part of their CSR,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/waste-to-art-imitations-of-sarnath-stupa-taj-mahal-and-ganga-ghat-installed-at-mahamaya-flyover-in-noida-101617647834970.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Ambulances to be used centrally for ferrying Covid patients||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government has issued directions that all the ambulances under the ‘108 service’ in the state will be used for ferrying patients requiring emergency services, including Covid-19 patients, officials of the district administration said on Monday. The officials also said that the ambulance service will be made available centrally through its emergency response centre (ERC) based at Lucknow. On July 30 last year, a cap of 50% was announced for the ambulances under the ‘108 service’ for ferrying Covid patients. However, the order was modified on February 9 this year in which 10% of ‘108’ ambulances were to be used as the Covid cases had started to decline. However, with the spike in cases in March, another order was issued on March 24 in which the usage was fixed at 25%, while the respective district magistrates were authorised to give permission for usage above the limit under extraordinary circumstances. “The latest order states that all the ‘108’ ambulances could be used in emergency situations, including ferrying Covid patients. A meeting to this effect was also held on Sunday,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The Ghaziabad district at present has 16 ambulances under the ‘108 service’ and five advanced life-support (ALS) ambulances at its disposal. “The latest directions mean that all the ‘108’ and ALS ambulances will be available for emergency services, including for ferrying Covid patients. However, they will be operated through the ERC at Lucknow through information given by the district’s Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre. Earlier, an officer from the health department was coordinating for arranging ambulances at district level,” said an officer from the district health department. The latest order further said that one attendant will be allowed with Covid-19 positive patient in an ambulance, and both will be provided triple layered mask and hand gloves. It also said that supplementary oxygen therapy will be given to a Covid patient when required and the entire ambulance will be disinfected as per protocol after transportation of patients. According to the state control room records, Ghaziabad on Monday recorded 46 Covid-19 cases. With this, the district has now 397 active cases. Overall, the state on Monday recorded 3,999 fresh cases, as per the control room figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ambulances-to-be-used-centrally-for-ferrying-covid-patients-101617647774980.html
06-04-2021||Noida||Co-Win’s error results in highest inoculation in a day in Noida||NOIDA: Confusion prevailed at many government hospitals of Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday as the Covid-19 vaccine registration remained open on the Co-Win portal, despite the fact that no inoculation was taking place at these facilities. As a result, the vaccination centres of the district on Monday were overcrowded and as many as 10,327 people took their jabs, which is the highest number of vaccination in a single day so far, officials said. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district in-charge of vaccination, said that as per the earlier government order, the vaccination was scheduled for all seven days in the district. “But the order was amended on April 2 that vaccination will be done six days a week (except Sunday) in government hospitals. However, due to some technical glitches, the Co-Win portal remained open on Sunday and over 500 people reached different vaccination centres after their registration. However, they realised that it was not the fault of district health department and agreed to be vaccinated on Monday,” he said. Tyagi further said that due to beneficiaries’ registration on Sunday and Monday, as many as 10,327 people received their jabs on Monday. “It is the highest number of vaccination in a day so far. To avert an overcrowding situation and longer waiting time, we had increased the vaccination centres in the district from 75 (on Saturday) to 83 today that included 42 government hospitals,” he said. The last time GB Nagar had crossed the 10,000 vaccinations was April 2, when 10,111 beneficiaries were inoculated.Meanwhile, the district, which was left with only about 8,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, received 15,000 vials of vaccines on Monday, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY on Monday directed that the monitoring of all the containment zones should be intensified. “As per the new state guidelines, if one Covid-19 case comes on a floor of a multi-storey building, the entire floor will be declared as a containment zone. If more than one floor comes under scrutiny, then the entire building will be converted into a containment zone,” he said. As per the state government’s order, containment zones are redefined for the purposes of “medical surveillance activity”. In such areas, medical teams shall track contacts of Covid-19 patients and symptomatic persons for the purposes of testing and isolation (of positive cases), so that chain of infection is broken, the officials said.“There shall be no sealing or stopping of movement of persons. However, it is advised to the residents living in containment zones/areas to exercise self-restraint and to follow all Covid protocols,” said the DM in a statement released on Monday.Expressing satisfaction over the work being done by home isolation cell in the integrated Covid-19 control room in sector 59, the DM said that the cell is keeping round-the-clock monitoring of health conditions of the home isolated persons. “The home isolation cell has 21 operators, four doctors and a nodal officer. They are keeping a close tab on the persons, who have recently travelled to foreign countries in the recent past. As per the cell’s records, there are altogether 283 international travellers in the district, including 236 from the United Kingdom, 26 from South Africa, 13 from Dubai, seven from Brazil and one from the USA,” Suhas said. The additional chief medical officer, Dr Lalit Kumar, who is the nodal officer of the home isolation cell, said that at present, the district has 250 Covid-19 positive patients, who have been granted home isolation. “We call them at least thrice in a day to know their temperature, oxygen level and other symptoms. Besides, the cell receives at least 150 in-bound calls from different persons about the symptoms of Covid-19 and criteria to get permission for home isolation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cowins-error-results-in-highest-inoculation-in-a-day-in-noida-101617647714914.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi police probe allegation of custodial brutality||The Delhi Police are probing an allegation of custodial excesses at Shahbad Dairy police station, after a 46-year-old scrap dealer, who was suspected to be involved in the sale of stolen copper scrap, filed a complaint with senior police officers.Rajeev Ranjan, the deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), confirmed the initiation of an inquiry, but said he would share the findings and comment on the merits of the allegations only once it was completed. “A thorough and independent inquiry is being conducted. It is in its advanced stage,” said Ranjan.The scrap dealer, Jagaram Chaudhary, was taken in for questioning after his name was revealed by another suspect in a case of copper scrap being siphoned off during a scrap trade.A resident of Shahdara in east Delhi, Chaudhary has been in the scrap trade for three decades and is assisted by his nephew, Dinesh.Chaudhary, who claims innocence in the theft case, alleged that on March 28, he was subjected to brutality by three policemen at the Shahbad Dairy police station after arriving there to be questioned in the theft case.On March 30, Chaudhary contacted a lawyer and sent his complaint to senior police officers, the lieutenant governor, and a host of other officials. An inquiry was subsequently initiated on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allegation-of-custodial-excesses-by-cops-being-probed-101617647417379.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Private school shut after 7 students test Covid-positive||At least seven students of Arya Kanya Gurukul in New Rajinder Nagar tested positive for Covid-19 following which the institute was shut on Monday until further orders, school officials said. Another private school in west Delhi on Monday cancelled a scheduled exam after a class 12 student tested positive for the virus.According to officials at the Gurukul, around 16 students were taken for testing on April 1 to a government mohalla clinic after they displayed Covid-like symptoms. Usha Sareen, manager of the gurukul, said, “None of our students tested positive in the rapid antigen testing. So, we sent them for RT-PCR testing, the results of which arrived on Sunday. Seven students were positive and six of them have returned to their homes, while one is quarantined at the school. We are closely monitoring the student and taking all precautions.”The school, which is operated by women’s group Pranti Arya Mahila Association, offers education from class 4 to class 12. “Around 130 students have been staying on-campus since last December. The president of mahila association had first tested positive and hospitalised. Some students, who had come in her contact, later developed symptoms. We have sent all students back to their homes. We have sanitised the gurukul and closed it until further orders,” Sareen said.With Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the national capital, several schools have reported incidents of staff and students testing positive for Covid. A private school in west Delhi on Monday cancelled a scheduled exam after a class 12 student tested positive. In a message sent to parents on Sunday, the school said, “Due to some unforeseen circumstance, the class 12 improvement test of physics and accountancy scheduled on April 5 stands cancelled.” The school has advised students who came in contact with the student concerned to get themselves tested before coming back to the campus.In Delhi, only students enrolled in classes 9 to 12 for the academic session 2020-21 have been allowed to come to schools for practicals, remedial classes, and exams.Meanwhile, the principal and some staff members of another private school, DAV Sreshta Vihar, have also tested positive for Covid-19. An official at the school said, “The principal and other staff members are in quarantine at their homes. They have not visited the school in the past eight days. We are taking all Covid-19 appropriate precautions as students are coming to school for the ongoing practical exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seven-students-of-arya-kanya-gurukul-contracts-covid-another-private-school-cancels-exam-after-a-student-is-positive-101617647417961.html
06-04-2021||Other||One killed, 2 hurt in three firing incidents in outer Delhi||New DelhiOne person was killed and two others, including a Delhi University (DU) student, were shot at in three separate incidents reported from different parts of outer Delhi between Saturday night and Monday morning, police said. While both the attempt to murder cases have been solved, the police are yet to make breakthroughs in the murder case.In the near fatal attack on the DU student, the police said, they have arrested three men, including the brother of the student’s female friend. In the other case, two minor boys were apprehended for trying to kill a 31-year-old property dealer, investigators said.On Monday, around 9.30am, the Mangolpuri police station received information about a man’s body, with his throat slit, lying in a public park in West Enclave near Mangolpuri. The man was later identified as Chandrabhan (single name), a resident of L-block in Mangolpuri, who painted houses for a living. A murder case was registered and investigations launched, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.Police said that through Chandrabhan’s family members they have so far learnt about his relationship with a woman living in Mangolpuri with whom he was planning to get married. The family also told the police that Chandrabhan had left home with some people in a black car on Sunday evening.“Prime facie, it appears that the killers were known to Chandrabhan. We are probing the case from all possible angles, including that of personal enmity,” added the DCP.Around 12 hours before Chandrabhan’s body was discovered, an 18-year-old student of DU’s Swami Shradhanand College was shot twice after three men riding a bike opened fire at him with two pistols outside his home in Nehru Enclave near Alipur. As many as five bullets were fired. The first-year student, Karan Thapa, was admitted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, where his condition is still serious, the police said.Initial investigation into the attempt to murder case revealed that one of the attackers, Vikrant alias Nonu, 21, was the brother of the woman with whom the college student was friends. Vikrant did not like Thapa talking to his sister, so he roped in two of his friends, Vikas Pandey and Ashish, both 24, and fired at Thapa while he was sitting with his friends near his home, said DCP (outer-north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh.According to the police, the firing incident took place around 9.30 pm on Sunday and the three suspects were arrested on Monday from different places in Alipur. Two pistols and a bike that were used in the crime were recovered, along with three cartridges, the police said.In another firing incident, 31-year-old property dealer, Jitender alias Kaku, was shot at by two persons known to him near his home in Kirari near Aman Vihar on Saturday night. Two minors, aged between 16 and 17 years, were apprehended and two pistols recovered from them within an hour of the crime, the police said.“The attack was the result of a personal enmity. Kaku had earlier been booked for two crimes,” said DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-killed-2-hurt-in-three-firing-incidents-in-outer-delhi-101617647416838.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Mall visitors shrug off Covid-appropriate behaviours||Despite the surge in Covid-19 infections in the city, citizens continue to display laxity towards appropriate and safe behaviours in public spaces, such as malls and markets. During a spot check by HT at some popular malls on Monday, many visitors were seen not wearing masks while a few among those wearing one did not do so appropriately.At Select Citywalk mall, lack of mask discipline was the main concern, as visitors maintained sufficient distance from one another after announcements were made through a public address system.A few shopkeepers HT spoke to said that social distancing was not a problem as the footfall was declining due to the recent surge in cases. However, they said that most visitors remove their masks while clicking pictures and failed to put them back.Yogeshwar Sharma, chief executive officer and executive director, Select Citywalk, said that Covid-19 protocols at the mall were enforced rigorously since the lockdown ended last year. “We have always stressed on mandatory wearing of masks for all visitors, retailers, and staff at all points, as well as regular disinfection of all public spaces. We have strived to educate all visitors on our Covid-19 protocols, and will continue to do, as a part of increased vigilance,” said Sharma.At V3S mall in Laxmi Nagar, staff members were stationed at the entry gate to carry out thermal checks and sanitise visitors. However, visitors were not following physical distancing norms and many of them did not cover their mouth and nostrils with the mask. Many were also seen sitting in clusters on the mall courtyard.A few shopkeepers HT spoke to expressed concern over the lack of appropriate behaviour but said their businesses cannot survive another hit, as witnessed during last year’s lockdown.Visitors at the mall, who were seen flouting the mask rules, said that they had taken them off while clicking pictures and failed to put them back on.Despite efforts, the V3S mall administration couldn’t be reached for comment.Police officials said that around 20 fines were issued outside the V3S mall premises every day. “People start wearing masks when they see us approaching. Unless told, they do not wear the mask. We first click a picture and then ask them to pay the fine. If they create a nuisance or resist, we take them to a police station and take appropriate action under section 188 of the IPC,” said assistant sub-inspector Sohnveer, Preet Vihar police station.The deputy commissioner of police (east), Deepak Yadav, said that they were prosecuting people and owners of business establishments for violating the Covid-19 guidelines under a carpet challan system. “Under this initiative, we send multiple teams to shopping malls, banquet halls, restaurants, nightclubs or other public places for surprise checks or after receiving inputs regarding mass violations of Covid-19 guidelines. Our prosecution has doubled in the past few days. We also carry out awareness campaigns at such places and educate people about the rules and punishments,” said Yadav.Officials of the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), an umbrella body, said that they were continually pursuing members across the retail spectrum to ensure that comprehensive guidelines were strictly followed to curb the spread of the virus. “We are deeply concerned with the second wave of Covid across the country. Whether it be allowing one person in 75 sq ft of space, having a technological solution for density checks, regular checks on visitors and partners following all Covid-appropriate behaviours, frequent sanitisation of commonly touched points etc., the shopping malls industry has been strengthening protocols to ensure the safety of consumers, retailers, and staff members,” said SCAI officials, in a written statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mall-visitors-shrug-off-covid-appropriate-behaviours-101617647415585.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||St Stephen’s to reopen today, two blocks to stay shut||Four days after 13 students and two staff members of Delhi University’s St. Stephen’s tested positive for Covid-19, the college on Monday said it will reopen its entire campus, barring two blocks, from Tuesday. Students who tested positive for Covid-19 have been quarantined in two separate buildings in these blocks.The college came under scanner after it was found out that the students and staff had tested positive after their return from a college trip on March 31.Sub-divisional magistrate of Civil Lines Rajesh Chaudhary said, “All positive patients have been isolated and others have been tested as well. Further contact tracing and testing will be continued as per guidelines in this regard. Normal working has been allowed to be resumed subject to strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour,” he said.Principal John Varghese said on Monday, “On the basis of site visits, Covid tests done and test results received, the SDM, Civil Lines has notified Mukherji East in Extension Block and the Sports Complex for strict perimeter control and necessary procedures for containment of Covid-19.” He added that these two blocks will be “out of bounds for all” with effect from April 5 and “until further notice.”“Other areas of the college campus will be open for routine work with effect from April ,6 following all Covid safety measures and faculty and staff may return to normal duties as per routine,” he said.A first-year student and hosteller, requesting anonymity, said, “We were worried after 13 students tested positive. Some of those interacted with us, had meals, and shared rooms while they carried the virus. The situation is better now and testing has been initiated. Now, we have a volunteer team who take packed food to those isolated in the two blocks.”Until the incident, teachers were using the college to hold staggered classes for hostel residents and local Delhi students and to conduct online lessons. “We had been planning to start blended offline-online classes for our students after Easter. But that doesn’t look possible now. A lot of students and teachers don’t have the confidence to try and hold in-person classes because it would be too risky due to the surge in cases again,” said Nandita Narain, who teaches Mathematics in the college.Principal Varghese said the college had conducted a Covid test for all resident students, housekeeping and mess staff on Saturday and all were found to be Covid-negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/st-stephen-s-to-reopen-today-two-blocks-to-stay-shut-101617647416177.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal asks PM Modi to remove age caps for Covid vaccinations||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to remove age-related restrictions for the ongoing vaccination drive and ease protocols for starting new vaccine sites, in the light of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases across the country, the chief minister’s office said in a press statement issued on Monday. The state government also ordered its hospitals to run one-third of their inoculation sites 24x7.“The increase in the rate of transmission of Corona across the country has presented new concerns and challenges. The vaccination campaign needs to move more rapidly in this context. If rules for opening new centres are simplified and everyone is allowed to be vaccinated irrespective of age, then the Delhi government can vaccinate all Delhi residents within three months. In the fight against Corona, the Delhi government has had the support of the Centre at every step,” said the statement citing Kejriwal’s letter to Modi.The test positivity rate crossed the 5% mark on Monday for the first time in 124 days as the fourth wave continued to surge in the Capital. The World Health Organization recommends a positivity rate below 5% for an infection to be considered under control.“Now you can get Covid vaccine anytime in Delhi. Beneficiaries should come forward and get the shot. We will not let there be a shortage of facilities,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet.Two weeks ago, all Delhi government hospitals were asked to open six vaccination sites and run them for 12 hours between 9 am and 9 pm.“One-third of the vaccination sites in all the Delhi government hospitals will also function from 9pm to 9am,” read the latest order by S Sunil, deputy secretary of Delhi’s health and family welfare department.On Thursday, Kejriwal, in a press briefing, ruled out the possibility of a lockdown or curbs in Delhi at this stage, even though he admitted that a “fourth wave” of the Covid-19 pandemic is raging in the Capital. He also asserted that the government will scale up its strategies on test, tracing, containment and vaccination, even as he appealed to people to take all necessary precautions.“We must move the vaccination campaign forward in a more swift manner. This needs to be done at two levels. First, there is an urgent need to increase the number of vaccination centres. For this, the pre-conditions placed by the Centre regarding vaccination centres need to be relaxed. For example, according to the central government’s instructions, vaccination centres can only be set up in hospitals or dispensaries. Initially, this was done to ensure that if someone had an adverse reaction to the vaccine, they could be treated immediately in the hospital. The vaccination drive in the last three months has shown that the vaccine is safe. It is, therefore, requested that this condition be removed so that large-scale vaccination centers can be built in schools, community centers, and other places… The Delhi government will ensure that it takes all necessary precautions. In this instance, for example, arrangements for ambulances, etc, will be made at every centre,” said Monday’s statement, citing Kejriwal’s letter to Modi.“It [the vaccine] should be made available to everyone by removing the age limit to immunisation,” the statement continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-pm-to-remove-age-caps-for-covid-vaccinations-101617647414942.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Calls grow for fee waiver for EWS students till class 12||The debate on extending free education up to class 12 to economically weaker section (EWS) students of private schools has risen once again with parents of several class 9 students saying they have been told to pay the school fee from this academic year.Many parents said the demand is like a bolt from the blue and the fee of approximately over ₹7,000 a month is beyond them as they earn only about that much or less in a month.The Right to Education (RTE) Act mandates that 25% of seats in entry-level classes (kindergarten and class 1) at private school be reserved for EWS and disadvantage groups (DG) students. It guarantees free education to such children till the completion of class 8 and the state and central governments reimburses schools a fixed amount towards this.In the past few days, several private schools in Delhi have sent out letters to parents of class 9 students asking them to pay fee from this academic session, on a par with general category students, or leave the school.When the first batch of EWS students completed class 8 in 2019 in Delhi, parents and educationists had demand that free education be extended till class 12. But no state has extended it till now.As per Delhi school education rules, private schools on government land have to provide free education to EWS students up to class 12. But, there is no such compulsion on schools on private land.Advocate and president of All India Parents Association Ashok Agarwal had filed a PIL in the Delhi high court demanding the extension of free education till class 12 in 2019. “The Centre had last month informed the court that it is not considering an extension. Who will take responsibility for the children already enrolled under RTE? The centre and state governments should come together to amend the RTE Act and extend it up to the senior-most class that a school offers. Meanwhile, the state governments can also reimburse schools for students who have reached class 9 and are struggling to pay the fee,” he said.A senior official of the Delhi government, who asked not to be named, said the decision of extending the free education till class 12 cannot be taken by a state government unilaterally. “Presently, central and state governments are sharing the reimbursement cost paid to schools under the RTE Act in a 60:40 ratio. If the state takes any decision of extending the Act, it will have to bear the entire cost. So, any decision of extending the Act will be taken either by amending the Act or on a mutual understanding between governments on how to share the cost,” the official said.Meanwhile, parents are left to endure the uncertainty and worry about raising the fee.For instance, NC Jindal Public School in Punjabi Bagh sent letters (HT has seen them) to parents of over 50 EWS students on March 20 and told them to pay the fee by April 10.“You’ll also be required to furnish an undertaking that you will continue to do so in the future also. In case you fail to inform that you are willing to pay the fees of your ward as per the general category students or fail to respond to this letter, the name of your ward will stand struck off from the school register with effect from March 31, 2021,” the letter read.The father of a class 9 student at the school, who asked not to be named, alleged that his son had not been able to join his online classes. “The school never told us that our child would be transferred to the general category after class 8. We have no means to pay (the fee of) ₹7,000 a month. It’s more than half my monthly salary. I don’t know what to do. I am thinking of taking a loan for my son’s education now,” he said.School principal DK Pandey did not respond to calls, messages and emails seeking comment.Another school in west Delhi, Hansraj Model School, sent a similar letter to parents of over 100 EWS students and told them to pay the fee by April 15.The mother of a class 9 student at that school, requesting anonymity, said, “My husband works at a tea shop and by no means will we be able to pay the fee of a private school. We have no option but to shift him to a government school, though he is totally against it. He started crying when we told him that we are planning to change his school.”School principal Heemal Handu Bhat did not respond to calls, messages and emails seeking comment.Parents of both these schools had protested against the letters and submitted a memorandum to the Delhi lieutenant-governor demanding an extension of free education up to class 12 on Friday.In the past two years, while some parents have already transferred their wards from private to government schools, others have been trying to arrange money by whatever means possible.The father of a class 10 student at St Thomas School, Dwarka, said the school had withheld his son’s class 9 results. “Last year, when he started class 9, the lockdown had been imposed and the school did not ask us for money. It was in October that we got to know that my son had been transferred to the general category and we were supposed to pay the fee. I somehow managed to pay the fee for two months after which he was allowed to appear for the exams. Now the school has asked me to pay the fee dues in order to release his results,” he said.When contacted, school principal Menaka Singh said in an email response: “We would like to state that as in the past, our school continues to comply with the RTE Act, Delhi School Education Act, and all other applicable laws. We have no further comment.”Among those who have been forced to switch to a government school in class 9 was Kavyanshi, a resident of Tilak Nagar. Her parents shifted her to a government school last October after failing to pay her private school fee. “I am still trying to adjust with my new teachers and classmates. It feels like my entire world has changed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-free-education-from-class-9-parents-of-ews-students-in-pvt-schools-worried-about-paying-fee-101617647357508.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Govt orders additional 4,857 beds in hospitals as cases surge||With an eye on the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, the Delhi government on Monday ordered 11 of its hospitals to add 1,540 beds and 54 private ones to add 3,317 beds for these patients. Just over 1,000 of these would be for intensive care, according to the government.This was the second time in a week that the government moved to increase the number of beds in major private hospitals. HT reviewed occupancy rate at private hospitals to find that several had already reached close to 80%.On March 31, 33 major hospitals had been told to add 1,080 beds for Covid patients as the city witnessed a sudden jump in the number of new Covid-19 cases, almost doubling between March 31 and April 3. These hospitals were covered once again in Monday’s order from Dr RN Das, medical superintendent of Delhi’s Nursing Home Cell.“The positivity rate and number of active cases in Delhi was 2.71% and 8,838 respectively on March 31. The same has increased to 4.67% and 13,982, respectively by April 4,” read the order. Monday’s numbers, 3,548 fresh cases on the back of 64,003 tests, pushed the positivity rate up to 5.54%, the first time it breached 5% since December 3.“In order to augment the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients and at the same time to also ensure that treatment of non-Covid critical patients is not compromised, 54 large private hospitals having bed strength of 100 beds or more are directed to reserve at least 30% of their ICU bed capacity or double the occupancy as on April 5, whichever is higher and 30% of their ward bed capacity or double the occupancy as on April 5, whichever is higher for Covid related treatment,” the order further read.The order translates to an additional 4,857 beds.“Every day we are opening up additional beds for Covid-19. Last year, all non-emergency surgeries had been halted and patients were anyway not coming to hospitals because of the Covid-19 scare. Now, non-Covid services are running at about 70 to 80% of what it did before Covid-19,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant for internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo.Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine, at Max Healthcare said, “The cases are rising exponentially. The pace at which the number of cases has gone up this time around did not give us time to ramp up capacity. The situation is heading towards what it was during November.”During a check, HT found that the occupancy of beds was high at some big private hospitals – 82.4% at Indraprastha Apollo, 88.1% at Sir Ganga Ram hospital, and 70.6% at Max hospital-Saket.Among the government hospital, Lok Nayak was directed to increase the number of Covid-19 beds from 300 to 1,000, with the number of ICU beds increasing from 50 to 200. Lok Nayak was the first Delhi government-run centre to be designated as a Covid-19 centre in March last year, after which all 2,000 of its beds were earmarked for only the treatment of the viral infection.“We have received the order to increase the number of beds. We will just have to move some patients around but we have the requisite number of beds available at the moment. We have a capacity of 2,000 beds and there are only 700 non-Covid patients admitted at the moment. The medicine and casualty blocks will be reserved for Covid-19 patients,” said a senior administrator from Lok Nayak hospital.Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where none of the beds were earmarked for the infection, has now been asked to reserve 500 Covid beds, with 100 of them being in the ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-orders-additional-4-857-beds-in-hospitals-as-cases-surge-101617647356280.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Karol Bagh traders oppose pedestrianisation move||Citing that sales had halved since the pedestrianisation of the Karol Bagh main market road was reintroduced on April 1, traders on Monday demanded a roll back of the plan. They also approached New Delhi Lok Sabha member Meenakshi Lekhi, requesting a withdrawal of the restrictions.“The reintroduction of the pedestrianisation plan in the Karol Bagh market at this point of time is not a good idea as it is adversely impacting our business, which has gone down by over 50% in just a couple of days after the implementation. Seeing an uptick in Covid-19 cases, people don’t want to visit markets using public transport. They prefer private vehicles and now, as traffic is banned on the main market road, the number of shoppers has gone down,” Murli Mani, the president of Ajmal Khan Road Vyapar Mandal, said.However, officials said that there was no plan to withdraw the restrictions. “As of now, there is no plant to roll back the decision. But we are in touch with traders and assessing the situation. We will take necessary measures as and when required,” said Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation.Karol Bagh was the first shopping hub in Delhi to be pedestrianised, as part of which the main market road, Ajmal Khan Road, was restricted to vehicles in May last year.However, on demand from traders, a six-metre emergency lane on the road was opened to traffic in July. On April 1, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation reintroduced the restrictions.On Monday, the traders also protested in the market to oppose the move.Mani said that they wrote to area MP Lekhi demanding the withdrawal. “Our meeting with the Meenakshi Lekhi was scheduled for today (Monday), but she was not in town. We are planning to meet her tomorrow. We have submitted a letter of our demands,” Mani said.HT visited the market on Monday and found that traffic did not ply on the main Ajmal Khan Road although vehicles were parked outside a few shops. The main road was largely occupied by hawkers selling clothes, bags, shoes and utensils. Benches were stained with spit marks and dustbins were overflowing at a few locations. Although the traffic police and civil defence volunteers placed barricades, a few two-wheelers and e-rickshaws were seen navigating their way through the crowds on the stretch.“We are against the idea of pedestrianisation at a time when coronavirus cases are increasing. If this continues, then traders will literally be on the road as their business will be severely impacted. We have always supported the government and the civic body, but it’s their time to think about us and let vehicles ply so that the market remains alive,” said Ajay Bajaj, advisor, Karol Bagh Traders Federation.However, shoppers said they had a better experience when there were no vehicles. “When the market road is reserved for pedestrians, the shopping experience is pleasant as we can roam freely without the fear of being hit by a vehicle. When the stretch is pedestrianised, then everything looks in order,” Utkarsha Dixit, a shopper, said.Another shopper, Ashutosh Singh, said that most of the space that used to be covered by vehicles is clear now. “There is no clutter and no cacophony of vehicles in the market now,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/karol-bagh-traders-oppose-pedestrianisation-move-101617647354939.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Resident bodies help govt implement Covid measures as cases surge||As the Covid graph of the Capital continues its steep northward surge, the Delhi government has fallen back on the help of resident welfare associations (RWA) across the city to help it in implementing containment measures to check the virus spread, senior state officials said on Monday.Delhi on Monday witnessed 3,548 cases, at the back of 64,003 tests, at a positivity rate of 5.54%. Delhi’s positivity rate stayed below 5% for 124 days till it crossed that threshold on Monday.Officials said that RWAs across the city had started working in sync with various district administrations to help the government increase Covid vaccination coverage and ensuring delivery of essential goods at the doorsteps of patients in home isolation, the official added.“The government has held hundreds of meetings with resident welfare groups across the city since the beginning of the pandemic, seeking their cooperation in Covid-19 management. Such groups have been immensely helpful in the fight against the virus on a wide range of areas – increasing tests, making home isolation and containment possible, implementing Covid-19 regulations — especially after lockdown restrictions were relaxed — and now in the vaccination drive,” said Delhi revenue minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday.On April 1, when the vaccination drive opened for all individuals aged over 45 years, a few vaccine sites in north-east Delhi recorded unusually high turnouts.“We witnessed a lot of people arriving from specific localities in large groups. On the first day, we first saw a bus full of beneficiaries arrive at the vaccine site. Then electric rickshaws full of beneficiaries started making rounds. When this phenomenon into the second day, we realised that the mass arrival of beneficiaries was a result of an initiative by local resident welfare groups. It helped speed up the vaccination drive,” said a medical officer in-charge of a vaccine site in north-east Delhi, who did not wish to be identified.Since April 1, several vaccine sites across the city have witnessed a similar trend – large groups of people arriving to get their shots. Most of these beneficiaries often turn out to be neighbours from specific blocks and pockets of localities — like GTB Enclave, Keshavpuram, Model Town and Sarvapriya Vihar among others, said senior officials in the health and revenue departments of the government.Senior government officials said that hundreds of resident welfare associations across the city have also been helping the district administrations in scaling up tests and delivering essential goods to the residence of home isolated patients. As on Sunday, Delhi had 7,144 individuals in home isolation.“Delhi will not see a lockdown any time soon. So Covid-19 cases will fluctuate. This means that the government has to keep up its testing, tracing, isolation and vaccination efforts. And they cannot do it alone. Community involvement is vital. Our vaccination endorsement drives have so far been successful,” said BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi RWA front.Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi – another umbrella body of RWAs in the city – said: “Other than helping with vaccination registration, test camps and distribution of face masks, several RWAs are now also ensuring the supply of essentials both to the residence of home isolated patients and in containment zones in their neighbourhoods. It is a bit easy now, compared to the situation last year, because containment zones are much smaller. There are no barricades. One can easily drop items outside the door.”As on April 4, Delhi had nearly 3,000 micro-containment zones.“Now that the vaccine drive will be open for people aged over 45 years, we will intensify our campaign. We have already arranged cars, for elderly people who register themselves in advance in slots between 9am and noon. We can extend the timings in the coming days,” said Atul Kapoor, president of the south Delhi RWA Federation.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Such community participation is extremely essential in the management of pandemics and disasters. It is good that a city like Delhi is witnessing more community participation at a time when cases are increasing again. The government should engage in more systematic ways to convert such community participation into an asset in the fight against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/resident-bodies-help-govt-implement-covid-measures-as-cases-surge-101617647294926.html
06-04-2021||Other||4 cops injured in Bihar as students’ stir turns violent||At least four police persons, including a station house officer (SHO), and about a dozen others were injured here on Monday when a protest by students against the Bihar government’s decision to defer reopening of schools, colleges and coaching institutes by a week due to surge in Covid-19 turned violent.To control the situation, the police resorted to lathicharge and firing in the air, which left several students also injured.“Some anti-social elements joined the students and provoked them to attack the police and vandalise the property. Altogether, 17 people have been arrested. We are conducting raids to identify and arrest the miscreants,” said superintendent of police Ashish Bharti.District magistrate Dharmendra Kumar and other senior officials also visited the scene with a large contingent of police. Reinforcements were called the situation is under control now, said Bharti.Agitating students blocked the old GT Road at Post Office Chowk, burnt tyres, and vandalised more than 15 vehicles, besides attacking the collectorate, SDM office and Nagar Parishad office.Town police station house officer Kamakhya Narayan Singh and three constables were injured before reinforcements arrived.The DM refuted reports that police opened fire. “In view of the raging pandemic, it had been decided to keep all educational institutions shut till at least April 11. But some coaching institute owners instigated students to indulge in lawlessness and many anti-social elements took advantage of the situation,” he said.“We are duty-bound to identify the culprits and take action. They may end up having adverse entry in their character certificates which could deprive them of many career opportunities,” he said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-cops-injured-in-sasaram-as-students-stir-turns-violent-101617640934696.html
06-04-2021||Other||Who is Madvi Hidma? Mastermind of U-type Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh||38-year-old battle-hardened Maoist commander, Madvi Hidma, is the mastermind of Saturday’s gruesome ambush on security forces which killed at least 22 soldiers and injured several others at Bijapur-Sukma districts’ border in Chhattisgarh. He heads the first military battalion of the CPI (Maoist).As per the security officers aware of the developments, the possibility of Hidma laying a trap by providing false intelligence input to security forces about his presence in the jungles cannot be ruled out. “Hidma planned to lure security forces but for 15 days the security forces did not reach the area. He was getting desperate,” a police officer said, adding, “Hidma called over 300 armed cadres from different parts of Bastar who gathered close to the encounter spot”. The security forces personnel were trapped and ambushed around noon on Saturday. Considered one of the most dreaded Maoist leaders in Bastar, Hidma was born in Purvati village of south Sukma as is also known as Hidmalu and Santosh. He has a reputation as a ruthless rebel leader who runs a network of dedicated informers across the region. Hidma belongs to the Muriya tribal community of Bastar region. His village is still out of bounds for the police. Hidma reportedly received guerilla warfare training in the Philippines and is also believed to have carried out several attacks in the last decade. “Bastariya muriya tribals are aggressive and Hidma has already established himself as a master strategist and successful operational commander,” said a police officer. Also read: Govt will end Maoist menace, says Amit Shah on Chhattisgarh visitHidma is also known to be a shadowy figure who avoids media glare. A journalist who claimed to have met him several years ago said he came across someone who was determinedly reticent. His inner circle consists of heavily-armed youths, mostly his childhood friends.The brutal encounter carried out by Hidma, involving hundreds of Maoists, has led to security forces rethink their strategy. A senior Chhattisgarh police officer, who did not want to be named, said the encounter has prompted the security forces to have a strategy re-think as the forces cannot provide Maoists with any more strategic advantage in such encounters.Another police officer said the apparent reason for the Maoist attack could be the Chhattisgarh Police’s plan to open a security camp in Silger village just ahead of Terrem jungles. The region is considered a core area of Maoists. The camp would have cut a crucial Maoist corridor connecting Bijapur to Sukma and the rebels would have lost control over the region.The Maoists, who claim to be fighting for land rights of marginalised tribal communities, are active across 10 states and Chhattisgarh is seen as one of their last remaining strongholds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/who-is-madvi-hidma-mastermind-of-u-type-maoist-ambush-in-chhattisgarh-101617620716681.html
06-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh resigns as Maharashtra home minister after HC orders CBI probe||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh resigned on Monday, hours after the Bombay high court ordered a federal probe into allegations of extortion against him, in what is the most high-profile casualty so far in the sensational Sachin Vaze-Antilia explosives case that has roiled Mumbai.Later the same evening, officials said the state government was considering challenging the HC order in the Supreme Court because Maharashtra had already ordered a judicial probe into the same allegations on March 30.The high court’s decision, allowing a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into allegations against Deshmukh levelled by Param Bir Singh, the former commissioner of Mumbai Police, opens a new chapter in a 39-day long drama that has seen several twists and turns.It started with the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, gathered momentum with the alleged murder of the man in possession of the car, and who had reported it stolen, Mansukh Hiran, and took a surprising turn with the arrest of a politically connected assistant inspector of police Sachin Vaze in the explosives case (he was subsequently named in the murder investigation too).Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in an attempt to manage the fallout, transferred Singh, with Deshmukh clearly articulating that the move was prompted by his mismanagement of the case. A miffed Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister, airing allegations that Deshmukh instructed Vaze to run an extortion racket and raise money ( ₹100 crore a month).Both Deshmukh and the MVA government sought to brazen it out initially even as Singh approached the Supreme Court seeking a CBI investigation. The apex court, after commenting on the timing of and motive behind Singh’s letter, refused to intervene and order a CBI probe, and said he could approach the high court.After Monday’s ruling, it became clear that Deshmukh could not continue in his role, and he resigned, citing “moral” grounds. “The high court asked the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry ...In the wake of the court’s decision I don’t feel morally right to continue on the position of the home minister. Hence, I have decided to step down from this position on my own,” read Deshmukh’s letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.A CBI team from Delhi, comprising half a dozen officers, is expected to reach Mumbai on Tuesday to investigate the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh, said officials with knowledge of developments. The Delhi team will be assisted by Mumbai officers because the agency has only 15 days to complete the preliminary inquiry. The agency will record the statements of the petitioners, including Singh, said the officials cited above.Deshmukh is a senior member of the Nationalist Congress Party, which, along with the Shiv Sena and the Congress, makes up the MVA. He was replaced as home minister by Maharashtra labour and excise minister Dilip Walse Patil. The departments under Patil’s charge – labour and excise – will be handled by rural development minister Hasan Mushrif and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, respectively, an announcement from the chief minister’s office said.The MVA government will respond after studying the judgement, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. “No investigating agency is an incarnation of God. The issue is political, too. Our tradition is that we honour decisions of the judiciary.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the home minister was left with no option but to resign after the court’s ruling. “It was inevitable. The decision should have been taken long back...I am surprised to see the silence maintained by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on this entire episode,” said former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.After resigning, Deshmukh took a flight to Delhi where he met Congress leader and prominent lawyer Abhishek Singhvi. A senior NCP functionary said he was also likely to meet Kapil Sibal, another top legal counsel, and discuss the merits of approaching the Supreme Court against the HC decision.On Monday, the Bombay high court directed CBI to complete a preliminary investigation into Singh’s allegations of an “extortion racket” in the next 15 days. The court left it to the discretion of the CBI director to decide the further course of action.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs), including that filed by Singh, the HC observed that there couldn’t be an independent probe into the allegations if it was handed to Mumbai Police, which reports to the home department.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni said this was an “extraordinary” and “unprecedented” case that warranted an independent inquiry.“To instil public confidence and safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens, it is necessary that an inquiry and investigation is conducted by an independent agency and for such reasons, we consider it to be in the paramount public interest that an independent probe in the present circumstances would meet the ends of justice,” said the bench in its decision.Singh, who was removed as police commissioner on March 20, filed his plea four days later. He sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants. Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing.Soon after the court’s order, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met and decided it would be embarrassing for the NCP and the MVA government if the home minister was questioned by the CBI, said NCP leaders in the know.On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned outside Antilia, the residence of billionaire Ambani, with explosives, and a threat letter. It emerged that the car had been reported stolen on February by a car dealer from Thane, Hiran. Vaze was named in charge of the investigation — reports say he was the first officer on the spot — but transferred on March 12 after Fadnavis said he was connected with Hiran.On March 5, Hiran was found dead in mysterious circumstances. That case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency, which is also probing the explosives case. NIA officials suggested Vaze may have orchestrated the whole thing to regain his stature in the force.Shortly after Deshmukh’s resignation, the BJP targeted Thackeray. “I find it interesting that Anil Deshmukh has taken moral responsibility. How about the responsibility of the CM...When will CM Uddhav Thackeray speak?” Union minister of law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad said.The Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the verdict sets an unfortunate precedent. “The NCP or MVA has never denied any investigation into the allegations. In fact, the state government has already instituted an inquiry by a retired high court judge, which was upheld by the Bombay high court,” said NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase.The Shiv Sena said it believed in morality. “The Shiv Sena believes in ethical politics and hence we accepted the resignation of Deshmukh to facilitate the CBI probe,” said Sena legislator Manisha Kayande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-decides-to-step-down-as-maharashtra-home-minister-101617615855092.html
06-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s first Partition Museum likely to be ready by August this year||Letters, certificates, clothes, utensils, and photographs belonging to those who migrated to Delhi from across the border during the 1947 India-Pakistan partition will be on display at the Capital’s first Partition museum, which is likely to throw open its doors in August this year. The inauguration of the museum is set to coincide with the state government’s ongoing Freedom@75 celebrations — announced by the Delhi government in its annual budget last month to celebrate 75 years of Independence next year.The museum will be set up at the Dara Shikoh Library Building in Kashmere Gate and will be managed by The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TACHT), which has the experience of having set up a similar museum in Amritsar. The trust adopted the heritage building inside Ambedkar University campus as a part of Central government’s Adopt a Heritage initiative on March 15 this year.Kishwar Desai, chair at TACHT, said that the project, tentatively named ‘Dastaan-e-Dilli’, will contain three museums related to the history of Delhi and the changes brought about by events and individuals. While the first one – on the partition – is expected to be ready in August, a second museum on Mughal prince Dara Shikoh, and a third on medieval and ancient antiquities from the Delhi state archaeology department will also come up later, Desai said.The trust, which calls the partition museum a “people’s museum”, said it had collected various artifacts, including the bare basics that people managed to bring with them — like clothes, utensils, letters, documents, photographs and certificates among others — while hurriedly trying to cross the border during the partition, which some estimates say left 2 million people dead and another 10 to 20 million displaced.For instance, a more than a century-old land deed — scripted in Urdu — giving details of the Late Lala Bishandas’ land in Jhang, Pakistan, will be on display at the museum. The family migrated to Delhi during the partition, like millions of others.A certificate of appreciation from Mahatma Gandhi awarded to a contractor Lala Beli Ram for planning Gandhi Square in Lahore, Scandal Point in Shimla, the Clock tower in Lyallpur (now known as Faisalabad in Pakistan), Gulab Devi Memorial hospital in Lahore, will also be included in the museum.“Within these artifacts are the stories of people who were forced to migrate overnight when the country was divided. It serves as a lesson that we should not divide and rule. The museum will also have inspirational stories of people who survived and those who helped them when they returned to this country after losing almost everything,” said Desai.The heritage site will also be developed as a cultural hub. “We plan to have cultural performances, a cafeteria, and several galleries. The plan is to have a large cultural hub at the heritage site with indoor and outdoor performance venues,” Desai said. “We would definitely welcome engagement from students of Ambedkar University, which is inside the campus and even those from Delhi University which is not very far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-first-partition-museum-likely-to-be-ready-by-august-this-year-101617561731393.html
