09-04-2021||Other||3 months after vaccination drive, just 60% of Punjab’s health workers have taken 1st dose||Punjab has been requesting the Centre to change its vaccine strategy and allow vaccination for less than 45-year-olds in view of the spike in covid numbers, but the state’s execution of the existing drive has been poor. In almost three months, since the vaccination drive was launched on January 16, Punjab has given the first shot to only 60% (six of every ten) health workers and the front-line workers. Till April 8, around 1.54 lakh health care workers have taken the first dose, with 375 workers inoculated on Thursday. There has not been a single day when the state has managed to meet its target for vaccination of health care workers. According to the Centre’s notification, health workers include doctors, nurses, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife, paramedical staff, support staff, Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers and medical students. Officials, who are part of the vaccination drive, said the state continues to be the worst-performing state in the country to vaccinate its registered health workers. Last month, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had warned health workers, who do not get vaccinated despite being given repeated opportunities. “If health workers get infected at a later stage, they will have to bear the cost of their treatment and will not be allowed quarantine/isolation leave,” Sidhu had warned. No change, however, is even now visible on the ground. Officials said ASHA workers and ANMs have been found to be the major defaulters, who were on field duties. Officers claim they have been using their own vaccination as a bargaining chip to get their pending demands approved from the state government. “What will happen, even if we get ourselves vaccinated? If we can survive in the first wave when the government did not provided us anything, we will live even without the vaccination. We won’t take the jabs till the government accepts our demands,” said state president of ASHA workers’ association, Kiranjeet Panjola. They want better working conditions and pay. Punjab health and family welfare director Dr KB Singh said, “The stubbornness of a few is responsible for this. Unfortunately, a few health workers have not understood that the vaccine is for their safety and to protect their family members as well. We have held meetings, but to no avail.”In stark contrast to the health workers, 92% of front-line workers have already received the first shot. Among front-line workers, Punjab Police, which is the largest component in this category, is the best performer with around 90% already taking the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-months-after-vaccination-drive-just-60-of-punjab-s-health-workers-have-taken-1st-dose-101617992835395.html
09-04-2021||Other||Tarn Taran panchayat land dispute: Harvest wheat, but deposit sale proceeds with govt, HC to 7 private cultivators||In a case of alleged usurpation of 196 acre of panchayat land through a lease procured at low rates by seven private cultivators at Gaggrewal village in Tarn Taran district, the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed that they can harvest the wheat crop. The bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and justice Vivek Puri, however, has ordered that proceeds of the sale of this crop be deposited with Jalandhar divisional deputy director of rural and panchayat department. In case of emergency, these private respondents shall be at liberty to approach the divisional deputy director for release of funds against proper security, the court added. The Gaggrewal panchayat had approached the high court through its counsel RK Grewal seeking cancellation of these land deeds and to seek an order restraining these private land cultivators from harvesting the crop. Their plea had added that the Jalandhar divisional deputy director had cancelled the land deeds; they had also challenged the order of the director of rural and panchayat department. The panchayat filed a case for cancellation of two leases of 196 acre of panchayat land executed in 2015 and 2017 with the Jalandhar divisional deputy director, Jagwinderjit Singh Sandhu, for violation of Village Common Land (Regulations) Acts 1961. In October 2020, Sandhu quashed the two leases. The private landowners appealed and the commissioner, panchayat lands, ordered that the 2015 lease shall continue till its term, while the 2017 lease was quashed.After this, the panchayat moved the high court. “Private cultivators have usurped 196 acre of panchayat land for a very meagre amount of less than ₹5,000 per acre whereas prevailing actual approximate rate of lease of similar land in Gaggrewal or surrounding areas is over ₹30,000 per acre, which comes out to about ₹60 lakh. Private cultivators have caused a huge loss to gram panchayat,” the panchayat’s plea said, adding, “The panchayat urges the court to stay the order passed by commissioner panchayat lands till pendency of matter.”Deputy director writes to BDPO for implementationOn Friday, divisional deputy director Sandhu, has written a letter to Khadoor Sahib BDPO for the implementation of court order in the case. “Keep vigil on the crop and the money after its sale should be deposited in the divisional deputy director account immediately after the harvesting of the crop. If police assistance is required, it will be taken at your level on the basis of court order,” the letter says. It adds that if the high court’s orders are not followed, then the BDPO’s responsibility will also be fixed, along with action against the private cultivators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-panchayat-land-dispute-harvest-wheat-but-deposit-sale-proceeds-with-govt-hc-to-7-private-cultivators-101617992475284.html
09-04-2021||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad Yadav's hearing on bail plea postponed by a week||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred by a week the hearing in bail petition of jailed RJD president Lalu Prasadin a fodder scam case. The bail prayer in the Dumka treasury casewas postponed for April 16 by Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh after the CBI sought time to file its reply on the matter. Prasad's lawyer Kapil Sibal appearing through video- conferencing argued that the central probe agency was deliberately delaying the matter as it wanted to keep his client in the jail "due to political reasons." Accepting CBI counsel plea for more time, the court directed it to submit its counter-affidavit on the matter in the next three days and put the matter for hearing on April 16. The case relates to illegal withdrawal of ₹3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury in 90s in Bihar. Prasad continues to remain in jail pending bail in the Dumka treasury case. He has already acquired bail in three other cases of the multi-crore rupees fodder scam. Prasad is presently recuperating at AIIMS New Delhi where he was airlifted in January last. Devashri Mandal had filed Prasad's bail application in the High Court saying that the RJD chief has completed half of the sentence in the case so he should be allowed bail. The plea also cited poor health condition of septuagenarian Prasad. On February 19 last, the court had rejected bail to Prasad as he had falled short by 17 days to complete half of his sentencing. After completing the said period in jail, Prasad once again sought bail in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lalu-prasad-yadav-s-hearing-on-bail-plea-postponed-by-a-week-101617991614741.html
09-04-2021||Other||Agra reels undervaccine shortage||Agra The Taj city reeled under shortage of vaccine all through the week and those reaching health centres for inoculation returned disappointed. The vaccine was available at the District Hospital, SN Medical College and Lady Lyall Hospital but not at most centres spread all over the city. Chief medical officer (CMO), Agra, Dr RC Pandey admitted there was shortage of vaccines at centres this week but claimed that there was no shortage of the second dose. “There has been shortage of vaccines at various centres and those coming for vaccination had to return dejected. The state authorities have been apprised of this and we hope that a fresh consignment of vaccines would reach Agra by Saturday,” he said. “However there is no shortage of second dose vaccines,” he said. Most of the health centres had been vaccinating people with Covishield. At certain centres, Covaxine was also given. There were about 227 vaccination centres and 208 of them faced shortage of vaccines, revealed sources. “ I have been going to the community health centre in Gandhi Nagar at 9 am for the past three days. The staff goes to fetch vaccines but returns with complaint of ‘no stock’. Like me, many are returning without being vaccinated,” said Rajeev Agarwal, a shopkeeper in Gandhi Nagar market. “On the one hand, the government is urging people to get vaccinated but on other hand, there is no stock of vaccines for days together,” he complained. When vaccinated, those getting first dose of Covishield were asked to get the second dose about a month later but now the beneficiaries are being asked to wait for 6 to 8 weeks. In most most of the centre, staff sat idle and a notice was pasted that there was no vaccine at health centre. “Due to this shortage of vaccines at centres, more and more people are reaching the District Hospital, SN Medical College and Lady Lyall where the number swells leading to a crowd and posing risk on account of lack of physical distancing,” complained a person standing in queue at the District Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-reels-undervaccine-shortage-101617991754712.html
09-04-2021||Lucknow||CM: Provide help to disaster-affected people in timely manner||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday directed officers to provide all possible help and relief to people affected by any disaster in a timely manner. Extra vigil should be maintained keeping in mind fire accidents during the summer season. Fire stations should be kept fully active in all districts, he said.The chief minister was reviewing the disaster relief work at a high-level meeting held at his official residence. He directed officers to distribute the compensation amount admissible to the affected people within 24-hours in case of fire incidents.“In case of fire due to electric wire, power corporation should distribute relief amount to the victims within 24-hours. In case of fire in field barn, mandi parishad should distribute relief amount to the affected farmers within 24-hours through the district administration. The district administration should provide relief money to the affected people in 12-hours if a house is burnt due to fire,” Yogi said.The chief minister said, the relief commissioner’s office should actively work to provide relief to the disaster-affected people. The coordination and contact with the concerned district administration should be maintained. The report of fire and storm events should be made available to the chief minister’s office regularly by the relief commissioner’s office, he said.The meeting was attended by chief secretary RK Tiwari, director general of police, Hitesh C Awasthi, additional chief secretary MSME and information Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary chief minister, SP Goyal, additional chief secretary health, Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary panchayati raj and rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh, principal secretary chief minister and information, Sanjay Prasad, relief commissioner, Ranveer Prasad and information director Shishir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-provide-help-to-disaster-affected-people-in-timely-manner-101617989234277.html
09-04-2021||Other||Man killed in tiger attack in Dudhwa buffer zone||A 45-year-old man was killed by a tiger on Friday while he was grazing his cattle on the fringes of Manjhra Purab reserved forest area of Dudhwa buffer zone, officials said.The jungles are close to Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary (KWS) that is part of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve and is populated with wild animals including tigers, leopards and tuskers etc.Reports said, Om Prakash of Dumeda village under Tikonia kotwali area along with his fellow villagers was grazing cattle when the big cat came out of the woods and dragged him into the forests.His fellow villagers raised alarm and informed Belrayan forest range officials, following which range officer Vimlesh Kumar along with field staff rushed to the spot.The forest officials combed the area and managed to recover the body.Deputy director, Dudhwa buffer zone Dr Anil Kumar Patel confirmed the killing and asked the villagers to keep away from the forest areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-dudhwa-buffer-zone-101617989114169.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai witnesses marginal rise in number of fresh Covid-19 cases, deaths||Mumbai reported 9,202 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, a marginal increase from Thursday’s 8,938 infections, taking the disease tally in the financial hub to 501,182, the state's health department said on Friday. The city also recorded 35 fatalities in the same period, which pushed its death toll to 11,916, the health department’s bulletin showed. On Thursday, 25 people succumbed to the coronavirus disease.Mumbai has 90,333 active cases, according to data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). It also said that 5,099 patients recovered on Friday and so far 397,613 patients of the coronavirus disease have been cured in the city. Mumbai’s recovery rate dropped to 79% and the current doubling rate in the city is 34 days.Weekend lockdowns have been imposed in the state to check the rise in the number of cases but Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government will be forced to consider a lockdown if the state government is unable to cope with the surge in Covid-19 cases. The civic body has ordered that all beaches in the city will remain shut due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The Mumbai Police also urged people to remain indoors in order to stop the spread of Covid-19.Several vaccination centres in Mumbai faced Covid-19 vaccine shortage on Friday, people familiar with the development told news agency PTI. Out of 120 vaccination centres in the state, 75 had to suspend the vaccination drive due to a shortage of doses. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar earlier warned that inoculation drive in the city may come to a halt if fresh stocks of vaccines do not arrive. BMC health officials said that the city will receive 1.80 lakh fresh doses of Covid-19 vaccines.Pune (100,051 active cases), Thane (67,479 active cases), Nashik (36,019 active cases) and Nagpur (63,036 active cases) are other districts along with Mumbai, which reported a surge in fresh cases on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-witnesses-marginal-rise-in-number-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-deaths-101617986413354.html
09-04-2021||Other||3 women given ant-rabies shots instead of Covid-19 vaccine||MEERUT In a bizarre incident, three aged women claimed they were administered anti- rabies injections instead of Covid-19 vaccine at the community health centre of Kandhla in Shamli district on Thursday. District magistrate Jasjit Kaur has ordered an inquiry and said suitable action would be taken against medical staff responsible for this negligence. Kaur said that Anarkali,72, Saroj,70 and Satyawati,60 had gone to CHC Kandhala on Thursday to get Covid vaccine shots. After registration they mistakenly went into the general OPD instead of going into the room where vaccination was underway. She said that in government hospitals, three days were fixed for administering anti-rabies vaccines and the same was scheduled on Thursday also in the general OPD. The three women stood in the wrong queue and received anti-rabies injections. The DM said that the action showed sheer negligence of the medical staff. “ I have ordered an inquiry and appropriate action would be initiated against the errant staff for their negligence”, said Kaur. One of the victims Anarkali said that she got suspicious when the staff members didn’t ask for her Aadhar card. “When I asked, the staff said, ‘Kutta kate ke injection lagwane me Aadhar card ki zaroorat nahi hoti hai ( No need of Aadhar card for administering anti- rabies injection)’ “, said Anarkali who also complained of headache and giddiness after receiving the anti-rabies injection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-women-given-ant-rabies-shots-instead-of-covid-19-vaccine-101617985813346.html
09-04-2021||Other||10.23 lakh doses of Covishield arrive||Jharkhand on Friday received 10.23 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre, officials said.Earlier, on Thursday, two lakh doses of Covaxin vaccine had arrived from Delhi. “As scheduled, we received 1,023, 800 doses of Covishield vaccine from Delhi on Friday. The state has now an adequate stock of vaccines for a comprehensive vaccination drive. There were 10, 68, 392 doses of Covishield and 2,14, 449 doses of Covaxin vaccines at the state’s disposal by 7.30 pm Friday,” KK Soan, state health secretary, said.As per state health department, a total of 17,423 persons were administered the vaccine on Friday, of which 14,089 persons received their first dose, while 3,334 received the second. Jamshedpur on Friday received 68,250 doses of Covishield vaccine after receiving 14, 400 doses of Covaxin doses on Thursday. With this, the vaccination drive across 25 government-run free vaccination centres and 27 paid private vaccination centres was likely to resume functioning normally from Saturday.District IDSP nodal officer cum additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Sahir Pal said the drive will now be back on track with the arrival of both the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1023-lakh-doses-of-covishield-arrive-101617985753280.html
09-04-2021||Other||UP’s Tika Utsav aims at 25 L vaccine shots in four days||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh aims to give Covid vaccine shots to 25 lakh people between April 11 and 14 under the special ‘Tika Utsav’. “The Prime minister has given a call to organise Tika Utsav between April 11 and 14. Uttar Pradesh has chalked out a plan to conduct the programme to boost vaccination among eligible age group,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary ,information in a press conference on Friday. UP would start the special campaign with 6,000 vaccination sites and aimed to take their number to 8000 by April 14, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. Till now, UP has administered a total 8165788 vaccine doses, including first dose to 6968387 people and 1197401 second doses. All above the age of 45 years are being vaccinated in the state. “To prepare for the special campaign and train staff, only medical colleges and district hospitals will run vaccination sites, while private hospitals and other facilities will not vaccinate,” said Prasad.A three-day programme has also been organised in which the governor will interact with different groups. On April 11, it will be political parties in conversation with the governor, on April 12 all mayors and corporators and on April 13 spiritual leaders will interact with the governor and also the chief minister. The entire special campaign will follow Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-tika-utsav-aims-at-25-l-vaccine-shots-in-four-days-101617985633412.html
09-04-2021||Other||Admn on high alert as 26 cases found in poll-bound Madhupur||Days before polling was scheduled to begin for Madhupur assembly seat, as many as 26 Covid-19 cases were detected in last 24 hours in the constituency, officials of the district Disaster Management (DDM) said on Friday. A total of 72 positive cases were registered during this period in Deoghar, under which Madhupur assembly constituency lies. “ Seventy-two cases were registered in the district, including 26 in Madhupur in last 24 hours,” said deputy commissioner (DC) cum Deoghar district electoral officer Manjunath Bhajantri.However, a senior official of district administration, requesting anonymity, said night curfew was imposed in all blocks of the district, except Madhupur, in wake of the rising cases. “Due to the upcoming by-election, the curfew has not been imposed in the constituency. However Covid-19 protocols were strictly being followed,” the official said.The by-election for Madhupur assembly seat was scheduled to be held on April 17, while counting of votes will done on May 2. In a recent meeting held meeting with representatives of all political parties, the DC directed to alert people during campaigning in the constituency about the danger of infection and strict use of mask as well sanitizers.Sectors magistrate and police officers deployed in the assembly were also directed to ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admn-on-high-alert-as-26-cases-found-in-poll-bound-madhupur-101617985573376.html
09-04-2021||Other||Tejashwi urges Guv to dismiss Nitish govt over violence against MLAs||PATNAThree days after seeking the Assembly Speaker’s attention towards the alleged assault on legislators by police in the state legislature premises, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday tweeted a letter that he had sent to Governor Fagu Chauhan seeking dismissal of the state government and stern action against the officials for the unprecedented violence on March 23. In a two-page letter that was written on April 3 and posted on Twitter today, Yadav alleged that the way the government got the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, passed by the Assembly by giving a free hand to police personnel to brutally assault the MLAs was dangerous for the democracy. A video footage of the incident was also sent along with the letter. He said some of the leaders were thrashed in such a way that they had to be admitted in hospital for treatment. “One of the MLAs, who was admitted in the ICU of PMCH after the violence, is still under treatment. Many lady MLAs were pulled up by hair and dragged out of the assembly premises,” said the RJD leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tejashwi-urges-guv-to-dismiss-nitish-govt-over-violence-against-mlas-101617985514317.html
09-04-2021||Patna||23 passengers from Maharashtra test positive||Around 23 passengers who arrived from Mumbai have tested positive at the Patna railway junction and the Jaya Prakash Narain international airport here. Seventeen of the 655 train passengers tested positive after reaching Patna on board the special Kurla-Patna Express early Friday morning, said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. Six air passengers, who came from Mumbai, also tested positive at the airport on Thursday. “The infected train passengers were initially taken to the Covid care centre, set up at the Hotel Patliputra Ashok, for isolation. After screening and documentation, they were given the option to avail of government isolation facility or isolate themselves at home,” said Dr Singh. The passengers were tested for Covid-19 through rapid antigen kits. This was the first of the special trains to reach the state capital from Maharashtra after what is seen as the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The train had other passengers, along with migrant workers on board, said a senior officer of the East Central Railways. Last year, the railways had operated Shramik special trains between May and July for ferrying migrant workers. The trains had brought around 24 lakh migrant workers to Bihar from different parts of India. The railways are operating 16 special trains to Bihar from Maharashtra. In addition, it will operate three more special trains to Darbhanga, Patna and Danapur in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Most of the passengers who returned from Mumbai were either daily wage workers or worked in some factory and were compelled to return home after they failed to get work in view of increase in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. “Work has stopped following lockdown. It is better to be at home rather than to stay in Mumbai without work,” said Mohammaed Aftab, a mason from Siwan. “I was lucky to get a ticket. Many others want to return apprehending complete lockdown,” he said, adding that this time it was a smooth journey back to Patna. Thousands of people from dozens of villages in Purnia, Araria, Katihar and Kishanganj are in Mumbai. “Many have returned and others are returning,” Raman Kumar Jha, a resident of Jahanpur village in Araria, said. Md Firoz (30), a resident of Amour in Purnia, however, said the situation is not so bad. “I have just returned from Mumbai by special train for some urgent personal work and will return to Mumbai soon,” he said.Migrant labourers, who had gone to Punjab for harvesting, have also started returning. “Migrant workers are now returning from Punjab by trains and buses after wheat harvesting,” Shanichar Rishi, a ward member of Dagarua, said.Trains back homeLast yearRailways had operated Shramik special trains between May and July for ferrying migrant workers, bringing home around 24 lakh of them from different parts of India. This yearRailways is operating 16 special trains to Bihar from Maharashtra, which is witnessing the highest number of Covid-19 cases in what’s being called the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/23-passengers-from-maharashtra-test-positive-101617985453333.html
09-04-2021||Other||Fresh stock lands; ‘Vaccine Express’ carries the day, red faces in its wake||PATNABihar’s health department had to face some embarrassing moments when its refrigerated van, the “Vaccine Express”, failed to start after the much-awaited consignment of Covid-19 vaccines, airlifted from Pune, had been loaded in it at the Patna airport on Friday. As many as 89,689 vials, each containing 10 doses of Covishield, arrived by a SpiceJet flight around 1.40 pm.However, the vehicle, sent to transport the vaccines from the airport to the state’s vaccine depot at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, failed to start as its battery had drained out. With vaccines in it, the driver requested some bystanders to push the van, leaving health officials accompanying it red-faced. Minutes later, the vehicle started and then revved up. The state health department has had to do face some challenging moments over the past few days among spiraling Covid-19 cases and dwindling stocks of the vaccine. Covid-19 vaccines had dried up at the state vaccine depot on Tuesday. The health department had to close down some vaccination session sites, bringing their number them down from over 2,000 to 1,234 in the state on Thursday due to shortage of vaccines. While advising districts to go slow on vaccination, it also had to reallocate vaccines from underperforming districts to locations where utilisation was more. Bihar has a storage capacity of 51 lakh vials at its state vaccine store in Patna and 10 regional vaccine stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-stock-lands-vaccine-express-carries-the-day-red-faces-in-its-wake-101617985393279.html
09-04-2021||Other||Covid curbs back in Bihar schools shut till April 18||PATNAAmid surge in Covid cases in Bihar, the state’s crisis management group (CMG) has decided to impose partial restrictions on trade and business activities and has extended the closure of schools till April 18. “All schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed for further one week till April 18, but examinations will be held as per schedule and as per Covid-19 guidelines,” said Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, disaster management department and health department. Earlier the government had closed all schools, colleges and coaching institutes from April 5 till April 11, leading to protest in some districts by students.Chief minister Nitish Kumar said, “It is not a lockdown but partial restrictions have been imposed following the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases. We will review the situation in 4-5 days. The government hasn’t thought in terms of night curfew as of now.”Bihar reported 2,174 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of active cases to 9,557. On April 8, the state had reported 1,911 positive cases. Amrit said the government has also decided to impose certain restrictions on shops and business establishments. “Till April 30, all shops and business establishments will remain open till 7 pm and they will have to follow all Covid-19 protocols. Masks and sanitizers will be mandatory. However, this restriction will not apply to restaurants, dhabhas and shops serving food, which can remain open beyond 7 pm,” he said.The government, has, however, put a cap on the number of persons in the restaurants and this will be not more than 25% of their seating capacity. The home delivery and take away food will function normally.The government has decided to close all religious places in the state till April 30 while cinema halls have been allowed to operate with 50% of their capacity. Government and private offices can function with only 33% employees on a given day. However, industrial units have been put out of the purview of these restrictions. With marriage season scheduled to start for April 14, the government has capped the number of guests to 200. Same applies to shraddh (last rites). For cremation, 50 people would be allowed. The government, however, has put restrictions on holding a function at public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-back-in-bihar-schools-shut-till-april-18-101617985333322.html
09-04-2021||Bangalore||With nearly 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, Karnataka reports highest daily spike this year||Karnataka on Friday reported 7,955 new Covid-19 cases and 46 new fatalities, taking the southern state’s coronavirus disease tally to 1,048,085 and the death toll to 12,813, data from the government bulletin showed. The state’s active caseload jumped by 4,689 cases from the 53,395 reported on the previous day and currently stands at 58,084, the bulletin showed.Today's Media Bulletin 09/04/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/f9P186rllt@mla_sudhakar @PriyankKharge @BelladArvind @kiranshaw @WFRising @BangaloreBuzz @RCBTweets @NammaKarnataka_@ADinfodeptBIDAR @MangaloreCity @allaboutbelgaum @mysuruvarthe pic.twitter.com/clp20GZeutThe situation in Karnataka seems to be deteriorating without any respite as the state reported a record number of daily new cases yet again this month. The daily new infections in Karnataka have been increasing steadily since early March 2021. The state had reported more than 3,000 new cases on March 28 (3,082 cases), over 4,000 new cases on April 1 (4,234), over 5,000 new cases on April 5 (5,279) and over 6,000 new cases on April 6 (6,150), all for the first time this year.Also read | Delhi records 8,521 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike this yearMeanwhile, 3,220 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease on the day, taking the recoveries to 977,169 and the recovery rate to 93.23 per cent so far. According to the bulletin, the government has tested 135,163 samples comprising 7,230 Rapid Antigen Tests and 127,933 RT-PCR tests and other methods on Friday. With this, 22,458,762 samples have been tested in the state so far. Karnataka has so far vaccinated 5,345,480 beneficiaries under the Covid-19 vaccination drive.Watch | Odisha: After vaccine shortage reports, long queues outside vaccination centre﻿Bengaluru Urban continues to remain the worst affected district in terms of both the number of Covid-19 cases reported at 470,014, as well as the active caseload at 42,525. Also, the district contributed 5,576 cases, which is 70 per cent of the 7,955 cases reported in the state on Friday. However, Bengaluru Urban also tops the list of districts with the highest number of people vaccinated at 939,854 and the maximum number of recovered patients at 422,719, data from the bulletin showed.Among other districts, Kalaburagi with 1,766 active cases of Covid-19, Mysuru with 1,682, Bidar with 1,538 and Tumakuru with 1,514 remain the worst affected in terms of current active caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/with-nearly-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-karnataka-reports-highest-daily-spike-this-year-101617984620920.html
09-04-2021||Patna||Amid Covid-19 surge, Bihar orders closure of schools till April 18||Bihar on Friday joined several states which have closed down schools because of the surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as chief minister Nitish Kumar deferred opening them until April 18. Before this, schools in Bihar were scheduled to reopen on April 5 but was postponed to April 11 as the state saw rising infections. “The order of closure of schools (which was deferred from) April 5 to April 11 has been extended for one more week,” Nitish Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bihar CM Kumar also said that adequate arrangements will be made for people returning to the state. He said that people arriving from Maharashtra will be tested for Covid-19 at railway stations. “Those arriving via trains from Maharashtra will be tested for Covid-19 at railway stations,” he said. The state government on Tuesday had instructed officials to ready quarantine centres at block level as people return from states witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases.Bihar government’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said all shops will be permitted to remain open till 7pm in the state. Amrit also said restaurants, dhabas and hotels will be allowed to operate with 25% capacity while public transport and movie theatres can operate at 50% occupancy. He said essential services will be exempted from these regulations.Bihar recorded 2,174 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, according to data released by the state's health department. The state has recorded more than 274,000 cases and the death toll has reached 1,598 with three fresh fatalities.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also ordered the closure of schools in Delhi until further notice. Haryana also ordered the closure of schools till April 30 for students till Class 8. Odisha on Wednesday had ordered the suspension of physical teaching of Class 9 and 11 students at all schools till April 30. The Jharkhand government also closed schools and said that students will be taught online but allowed students of Class 10 and 12 to attend classes only after receiving prior permission from their parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/amid-covid-19-surge-bihar-orders-closure-of-schools-till-april-18-101617984288278.html
09-04-2021||Other||Roadmap for trillion-dollar economy: UP govt cancels global bids for appointment of consultant||LUCKNOW The UP government had made an announcement, proposing to make the state a trillion-dollar economy over the next five years. But for now, the target does not seem achievable as the government has cancelled the global bids invited for appointment of a consultant, nearly four months after zeroing in on the selection of a bidder. The decision was taken due to some lacunae in the process of examination/evaluation of the bidders, said officials. “The state government has cancelled the bids. However, the process is underway for the appointment of consultant to make UP a trillion-dollar economy,” said RK Tiwari, chief secretary. “For technical reasons we have cancelled the process of bidding for appointment of a consultant to draw a road map to boost the size of GSDP to one trillion dollars in five years (2020-2025). We are initiating the process of bidding afresh and hope to complete the same in the next two to three months,” said another officer. A notice with subject line ‘Request for proposal for selection of consultant to boost Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Uttar Pradesh to one trillion dollars in five years (2020-2025)’ was issued by special secretary, planning, in this regard. “The undersigned is directed to refer to the tender ID2020_DPUP509747_1 dated 10-09-2020 on the subject cited above and to say that the said tender process is hereby cancelled with the approval of the competent authority. Fresh tender notice in this regard is likely to be published soon,” said special secretary, planning, in the notice dated March 22, 2021. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first floated the idea of UP’s trillion-dollar economy while speaking at the Uttar Pradesh Investors Summit-2018 on February 21, 2018. Modi said Maharashtra too had set a target to become a trillion-dollar economy. “Can Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh compete with each other to become trillion-dollar economies? Will UP government compete with other states? More the competition, more will be the investment. This will result in creation of more jobs and strengthen the concept of cooperative federalism,” said Modi at the summit in 2018. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team began working on the idea soon thereafter. The state government began inviting suggestions and various rounds of discussions were held with reputed institutions on the issue. A formal process of floating global bids for appointment of a consultant began on June 19, 2020. The state government decided to revise the Request for Proposal (RFP) document and the timelines. The bidders were asked to submit their e-bids by October 9, 2020. The revised RFP expected the selected consultant to perform the ‘Herculean Task” of taking the size of UP’s GSDP to trillion dollars. In all, the state government received eight bids. Those who submitted the bids included a premier management institute of the country. Four of the bidders qualified the technical round and their financial bids were opened on November 27, 2020 and the authorities nearly zeroed in on the selection of a bidder as consultant. “UP government has already lost so much time in bidding to select a consultant. If they want to invite fresh bids, they should do so faster as they are losing precious time,” said Alok Ranjan, former UP chief secretary. The cancellation of bids is bound to upset the state government’s applecart. The state government is unlikely to achieve the objective of taking the size of GSDP to one trillion dollars in the next five years. “UP government’s objective of taking the size of GSDP to one trillion dollars is more of an aspirational goal than an achievable target in a given timeframe. Instead of setting short-term targets, the state government should come out with a long-term vision for the economy. The state government should emphasise on qualitative development instead of focusing on the size of GSDP,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/roadmap-for-trillion-dollar-economy-up-govt-cancels-global-bids-for-appointment-of-consultant-101617984073084.html
09-04-2021||Other||Yogi for WFH in 4 dists, to convene all-party meet on Covid situation||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday decided to convene an all-party meeting next week on the Covid situation in the state, which reported 37 more fatalities, raising the death toll due to the pandemic to 9,039. He also directed officials to re-introduce ‘work from home’ (WFH) in offices in four districts – Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur City. “All government and non-government offices in these four cities should make provisions for ‘work from home’, as per convenience and operate with 50% human resource capacity or on shift basis,” said the chief minister during a high level Covid review meeting at his official residence in Lucknow.While the CM and Governor Anandiben Patel will meet political leaders on April 11, on the two subsequent days, they will meet mayors and religious leaders to discuss the situation and seek their participation to spread anti-Covid awareness.The CM instructed officials to set up three new dedicated Covid hospitals in Lucknow in the next three days. Yogi asked for a 300-bed Covid hospital at Balrampur Hospital and conversion of Era Medical College and TS Mishra Medical College into Covid hospitals. He asked officers to ramp up vaccination in Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Agra, Gorakhpur, Meerut, and Varanasi. For effective prevention of Covid, action should be taken in accordance with the mantra of ‘test, trace, treat’, added Yogi. “The state must do two lakh Covid tests each day, of which half should be done by RT-PCR method,” said the CM.Yogi also issued guidelines for increasing the number of beds in Level-2 and Level-3 Covid hospitals.After reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, the CM decided to go for an on-the-spot review of steps taken in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur to contain the virus. Minister for medical education Suresh Khanna and minister for health Jay Pratap Singh, along with senior officers, were tasked to carry out the review in the remaining districts to bring about an improvement in the Covid situation. Meanwhile, preparations were on to make the ‘Teeka Utsav’ (vaccination festival) from April 11 to 14 a success across the state. At his video conferencing with chief ministers on Thursday evening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a call to hold the ‘Teeka Utsav’ from April 11 to 14 to ensure more vaccinations for people in eligible age groups. Subsequently, the CM had asked officers to work out modalities for the vaccination festival. Focus on 10 dists accounting for over 50% of cases in UPLUCKNOW The UP government also braced for a strategy to check the spread of infection in 10 districts that accounted for over 50% of Covid cases across the state. At the moment, UP had 48,306 active cases and Lucknow accounted for 13,478 cases, Kanpur Nagar 2,477, Prayagraj 5,502, Varanasi 4,553, Ghaziabad 574, Gautam Budd Nagar 940, Meerut, 1,027, Gorakhpur 1,334, Bareilly 708 and Jhansi 972, as per the health department. “Districts accounting for more than 50% of the total cases in UP are in focus. The CM is visiting Prayagraj and Varanasi and will be going to Gorakhpur on Saturday. Minister for medical education Suresh Khanna has been sent to Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut and Saharanpur while minister for medical and health Jay Pratap Singh Singh will be in Kanpur, Agra, Jhansi and Bareilly,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information.Chief secretary RK Tiwari and additional chief secretary rural development Manoj Kumar Singh will review the Covid situation in Lucknow, he said.Chief secretary and ACS (rural development) would review the situation including availability of beds, medcines, medical equipment and ambulances along with the situation at the crematorium in Lucknow and give necessary directives for improvement, said officials. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-for-wfh-in-4-dists-to-convene-all-party-meet-on-covid-situation-101617983772903.html
09-04-2021||Pune||No shot given at 36 centres in Pune due to shortage; stock arrives at Friday night||Pune: After a week of vaccinating highest number of beneficiaries daily, not a single shot was given at 36 out of the 130 vaccination centres in Pune city on Friday. The administration awaits fresh stock supply even as politics over vaccine continues. Two days after state health minister Rajesh Tope said that there is shortage of vaccine which will hamper the vaccination drive, Pune Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders stated that the Centre has now started to directly supply vaccines to the district. Meanwhile, around 10 pm on Friday, Pune gets 1.25 lakh vaccines.On Monday, the district saw over 85,000 beneficiaries get vaccine in a single day which has been reducing ever since. On Thursday, only 54,000 got the vaccine at 427 sites of which 130 were from Pune city. On Friday, of these 130, only 94 could vaccinate beneficiaries as the 36 sites had to be shut because of shortage of vaccine. Many had to return home, especially those who had come through walk-in including those who had come for their second dose. Dr Anjali Tilekar, ward medical officer of Kothrud-Bavdhan said that only 150 shots were given in Sutar Hospital. BJP leader and MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted on Friday evening, “The Central government has now started direct supply of vaccine to Pune. 2.48 lakh vaccines have already arrived today, additional 1.25 lakh will reach the district by Sunday.” Pune major Murldihar Mohol also assured that vaccination would continue in the city on all days, including weekends. He said, “Out of the total stock of vaccines which would arrive to Pune, 40% would go to PMC, 40% to Pune rural and 20% to PCMC.” Even as BJP leaders made these claims, as of late Friday evening, the administration still awaited its fresh stock of vaccine. Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said, “We have got the message that the vaccines would reach Pune shortly, but we do not know how they would come and where we would have to collect them? As in directly from Serum Institute, or the airport or we will have to go to Mumbai to collect it. We have our vehicles ready to collect as soon as we get the message.” Another PMC health official also confirmed that by late Friday evening the stocks had not yet arrived. The official said, “As of now we have created the session sites for vaccination at PMC hospitals and the private hospitals would decide for their centres depending on their available stock. We are hoping to get some stock by late night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-shot-given-at-36-centres-in-pune-due-to-shortage-stock-expected-by-friday-night-101617982872817.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records another highest single-day spike with 58,993 fresh Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Friday recorded nearly 59,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 301 related deaths, even as the health minister Rajesh Tope said a lockdown can be imposed in the state if the infections continued to surge. With the new cases and fatalities, Maharashtra’s tally stands at 3,288,540 and the death toll at 57,329, according to the state health department bulletin. Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit region in the country and witnessing the second wave of the pandemic that began around February 11, reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases and 376 deaths on Thursday. The state recorded 59,907 cases on Wednesday, its highest daily spike since the beginning of the pandemic. “We would need a complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that immediately. If hospitals are overwhelmed, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step can be taken," Tope told a television channel.However, Tope said he was hopeful that the government would be able to check the surge with the curbs which are already in place. Officials also said that the government was considering extending the weekend lockdown beyond Monday.Mumbai's tally of the coronavirus disease crossed the 500,000-mark on Friday as the city reported 9,200 new cases and its death toll mounted to 11,909 after 35 patients died, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Mumbai’s caseload mounted to 5,00,898. The civic body’s data also showed that the number of deaths reported on Friday is the highest since October 26 last year, when 37 Covid-19 patients succumbed. The state’s capital city recorded 8,938 cases and 25 deaths on Thursday. The city has added nearly 100,000 new cases in the last 12 days. The state’s health department has said the number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is likely to cross 1,100,000 by April 30 in the absence of adequate measures to control the spread of the virus. “We are recording more cases than we predicted. The state has already recorded 50% more active cases during this wave, in comparison to the previous wave in September 2020. If cases increase in this proportion, by April 17 we will have around 568,000 active cases,” Pradeep Vyas, the state health department principal secretary, said on Wednesday.Officials have said the surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease caused stress on the health infrastructure in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-another-highest-single-day-spike-with-58-993-fresh-cases-101617981680863.html
09-04-2021||Other||Woman kills 1-month daughter by dumping in toilet pit||A 26-year-old woman brick kiln labourer has been arrested for killing her one-month-old child, the third daughter, by dumping her in a temporary toilet. Police said the incident happened at Kler village of Faridkot district on Friday and the accused, Saina, of Ajit Para in Banda district of Bihar, was upset at the birth of another girl in the family. She already had two daughters and a son.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satwinder Singh Virk said Saina been also been booked for murder on husband Raju’s complaint. “Saina gave birth to third girl at the brick kiln last month, but she wanted a son. She already has two daughters and a two-year-old son The family had been working at the same brick kiln for five years and came to Punjab every year for this,” he said.“Raju has said that she was not happy with the birth of third girl child and refused to take care of her. On Friday, about 4 am, she took the child to a temporary toilet and dumped her alive in the pit. When he enquired, she claimed she did not know, only to later confess her crime. When the child was pulled out of the toilet pit, she was found dead,” he added. A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the IPC at Faridkot Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-kills-1-month-daughter-by-dumping-in-toilet-pit-101617981555727.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 8,521 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike this year||Delhi recorded 8,521 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, in the highest single-day spike of this year, and 39 related deaths the government health bulletin showed on Friday. With the new jump in Covid-19 cases and fatalities, the infection tally in Delhi stands at 706,526 and the death toll at 11,196. The number of active cases in the Capital stands at 26,631, the bulletin also showed.On Thursday, the national capital recorded 7,437 Covid-19 cases, which was the highest single-day spike in over four months. As many 8,593 Covid-19 cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours last year on November 11, 2020, the date which holds the record for clocking the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Officials have been warning that if the current trend continues, Delhi would soon cross its earlier record of a single-day spike, and Friday's spike in cases shows that Delhi was merely 72 cases away from breaching that number.The current positivity rate in Delhi is 7.79%, according to the government notification, which added that a total of 109,398 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the national capital till now. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently at 1.58%, as per the health bulletin. A night curfew has been imposed in the national capital till April 30, while similar curfews have been implemented in Noida and Ghaziabad as well, as well, to curb the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in and around the National Capital Region (NCR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-8-521-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-this-year-101617980568574.html
09-04-2021||Pune||229 villages in Pune district are yet to report first Covid case||Even as Pune district continues to remain the most affected district in the country, with maximum active Covid-19 cases and daily Covid-19 fresh cases, there are 229 villages in the district which have not reported a single Covid-19 case since the pandemic began last year. The secret has been Covid-appropriate behaviour and a successful quarantine of those travelling to the city for work or trade purposes. Of the 1,405 villages under the Pune Zilla Parishad, 229 have been able to successfully live a Covid-free life. These villages have not reported a single Covid-19 positive case since March 2020. These 229 villages account for a population of 0.6-0.7 million of the 5.2 million rural Pune population. The villages have successful drives to detect SARI and ILI patients and also have penalised people for not wearing masks. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune Zilla Parishad said, “These villages do have people who travel to the city or town area for trade and work purposes. However, the containment measures are so successful in these villages that they have bene able to keep the virus at bay for over a year now. The Covid- appropriate behaviour has been considered as asocial practice and so even though there are no cases, people are penalised for not wearing masks and anyone travelling to the city for any work is quarantined upon their return.” Prasad added: “In some of these villages while there have been cases in nearby villages, they have remained untouched. We also have 200-odd villages who have reported single digit Covid19 cases. These positives are also of those who were migrants and there was no local transmission in these 200 villages.” Theses 229 gram panchayat’s with no cases are from talukas connected to the city including Haveli, Ambegaon, Bhor, Khed, Mulshi, Maval, Purandar, Shirur, Junnar and Velha among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/229-villages-in-pune-district-are-yet-to-report-first-covid-case-101617980532400.html
09-04-2021||Gurugram||NGT slams Gurugram civic bodies for 'serious failure' at Bandhwari landfill site||The National Green Tribunal has slammed Gurgaon civic bodies over clearing of legacy waste at Bandhwari landfill site saying there has been serious failure of the authorities in performing their responsibility.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said though an action plan has now been filed, whether the municipal corporations concerned and the Urban Development Department of Haryana execute it in mission mode and within reasonable time remains a moot question."It is established on record that so far there has been serious failure of the authorities in performing their responsibility under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 to effectuate the right of the citizens to clean environment," the tribunal said."Since the tribunal has already monitored the failures of the authorities for sufficiently long time, the State must now take ownership of its basic responsibility in the interest of rule of law, protection of environment and public health," the bench said.The green panel also directed that compensation for damaging the environment may be deposited in a separate account and used for restoration of the ecology.Legacy wastes are the wastes that have been collected and kept for years at some barren land or a place dedicated for Landfill (an area to dump solid waste).Out of 33 lakh ton dumped waste, less than 1 lakh ton (which is hardly 2 per cent) has been remediated in the last more than one year, the tribunal had noted.The green panel had earlier directed the Gurgaon Municipal Corporation to clear 25 lakh tonnes of legacy waste at Bandhwari landfill within six months and warned that failure to do so may result in coercive action, including non-payment of salaries.NGT had slammed the Haryana government and its civic bodies over the disposal of industrial waste and construction debris in the Aravalli forests along the Gurgaon-Faridabad road.The green panel was hearing a plea filed by environmentalist Vivek Kamboj and Amit Chaudhary, alleging that the municipal corporations of Gurgaon and Faridabad were disposing industrial waste and construction debris in these forest areas.Kamboj had referred to a media report which said construction debris were found dumped in the forest and quoted a local resident as saying that several vehicles dumped waste there every Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ngt-slams-gurugram-civic-bodies-for-serious-failure-at-bandhwari-landfill-site-101617977888211.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Cinema Paradiso||There are many ways to map the evolution of a city, but perhaps none as meaningful as through its cinemas — those darkened temples of dreams and desires where the real and the reel and the personal and the public meld so tantalisingly. These days, with the unceremonious ease by which we call up movies on OTT platforms, our ADHDs in full throttle as we frolic wantonly between Oscar winners, sci-fi thrillers, classic romances and run- of- the-mill new releases, does anyone recall the stately thrall with which the city’s cinemas once held us? From the flea-infested Lido of our suburban childhood where we’d be dragged by nannies to see mythological tear jerkers, to the silk and velvet- curtained, embellished-ceilings of Metro, Eros and Regal and that Golden Triangle of peerless entertainment that was Sterling, New Empire and Excelsior (with Vithal’s Bhelpuri and Waikiki at convenient equidistance), to the post-liberalisation, polished sheen and deep pile carpets of the latter day multiplexes — watching a movie used to be a singular occasion, one which had rites and rituals all of its own. First, one had to secure one’s entry into the promised land. In the days before internet and BookMyShow, this meant a trip to the theatre where the film was showing and yes, standing in the “advance booking” queue. This could take anything between a few minutes to an hour (the queues outside Metro during the screening of Bobby disrupted traffic at Dhobhi Talao so much that bus conductors would refer to it as the ‘Bobby’ stop), but it was a passage of time, brimming with opportunity. For here, you would be afforded an introduction to others who had the same tastes as you; plainly speaking, this meant people who were as crazy as you to wait in a long line under a hot sun to secure their three hours (counting the trailers, advertisements, Films Division newsreel and intermission) of preferred pleasure. Believe me when I say that it aced any algorithm Mark Zuckerberg could ever have invented. When released at Eros, Woodstock had been a festival of bandanas and blue jeans; Love Story at the New Empire saw a hall full of weeping girls with Ali McGraw eyebrows, and The Young Ones at Regal attracted a posse of the city’s puffs; and it would not be wrong to say many a young girl met a many a young boy in these propitious circumstances (and went on to watch many a future film together as a couple). But even before you gained access to the movie of your choice, you had to cross the first gatepost: your inquisitor behind the box office window, pointing impatiently at his hand-drawn seating chart. This would be your moment of reckoning — the snooty Dress Circle or the plebeians stalls? The above-board, good-intentioned, middle-of-the-hall family seat or the college hooky player’s last row, or worse still, the horny teenager’s darkened corner for an afternoon of unbridled necking? Of course, you might have been one of those whose cinema -going escapades were more spontaneous, requiring you to resort to the “current booking” queue. Here too, you’d be faced with soul-searing questions: Wait your turn and risk the horror of a “houseful” sign appearing? Or dare to descend into the dark world of the neighbourhood friendly black marketeer, ever at hand with his sideways hiss? Nevertheless, whichever way you earned your seat, you would be undoubtedly attired in your Sunday best as you entered the cinema’s portals; and by the time you were greeted by its heady whoosh of central air-conditioning, redolent with the aroma of popcorn, sickly sweet colas and mayo-drenched chicken rolls, you’d already be transported. And what a trip it was: The audience at the Regal screaming in faux-fright during the screening of Titanic as the ship appeared to tilt into the hall; the Eros turning in to a choir of little girls during My Fair Lady as they sang along with Audrey Hepburn; a spate of macho-moxie at the Strand where Mackenna’s Gold and the Terence Stamp Bud Spencer franchise played on for weeks. And the food! Mutton patties at Regal; chilled cold coffee and Coca Cola from a dispensing machine at Metro; chicken Rolls and Punjabi samosas at Eros; softie ice cream at the New Empire. If anything, the advent of multiplexes turned the cinema experience into even more of a moveable feast. Now you could pre-book your order of multigrain dahi papdi chaat and veggie stix sour cream and have it delivered to your seat as you snuggled under a fluffy blanket. Of course, traditionalists bemoaned the fact that multiplexes lacked the art deco grandeur of standalone theatres. And yes, their assembly line proximity could be the cause of occasional hilarity. A dotty old aunt who went to see Dhoom but had mistakenly wandered into the auditorium screening Shrek 2 only realised her error during the film’s intermission; and yes, the vegetarian in urgent need of his chunky chaat often received a portion of someone else’s junglee chicken. No matter, these were minor hazards compared with the thrill of reclining in a darkened hall, among strangers when your chosen movie began, heralded, of course, by a furious whooshing and shushing and last-minute coughing. How thrilling to be suspended in that undiluted mass of human emotion and allow yourself to be charmed, seduced, frightened out of your wits, or to shed a silent tear, so separately and yet so concurrently. And then, of course there was the leaving of the theatre — as singular an experience as that of entering it; walking en masse on shaky legs through the exits and down mysterious labyrinths of stairs, while your eyes slowly got accustomed to the bright lights and your mind hovered dreamily between the show reel of images and stories you’d just witnessed and the demands and duties of your post-movie day. Indeed, there are many ways to trace the evolution of a city, but perhaps none as meaningful as through its cinemas; why is it then so hard to gauge from this journey of 70-mm screens and stereophonic sound to the 11-inch screens on our smart phones, whether our lives have been enhanced or diminished in the process?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-cinema-paradiso-101617977893483.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi shuts schools over rising Covid-19 cases. These states have already closed them||Authorities across states have been forced to take immediate measures to curb the spread of infections amid the growing number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Several states, including Delhi, Punjab, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, have shut down schools and colleges. Not just this, some states have also postponed examinations for Classes 8, 9 and 11 and board exams for Classes 10 and 12 to curb the pandemic. Schools and colleges had shut down in March last year, ahead of the national lockdown, to curb the spread of the disease but institutions had reopened as caseload subsided.Here are some of the states where schools have been closed again:1. Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced that all schools and colleges will be closed in the national capital given the massive rise in coronavirus disease cases.2. Maharashtra: The Maharashtra government has said that students from Classes 1 to 8 will be promoted to the next class without any examination. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted, "In view of the ongoing situation due to Covid-19, all state board students across Maharashtra state from Class 1st to Class 8th will be promoted to the next class without any examinations. A decision regarding students of Class 9th and 11th will soon be taken."3. Bihar: The Bihar government has extended its order and asked all schools, colleges and coaching centres to remain shut till April 18. "Order for closure of schools from April 5 to April 11, has been extended for one week," Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Friday.4. Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered schools to remain closed for Classes up to 8 till April 11. Earlier, the schools were supposed to remain close till April 4, however, after seeing a spike in Covid-19 cases, the chief minister extended the date.5. Gujarat: School for Classes 1 to 10 has been asked to shut for an indefinite period in Gujarat from April 5. According to a decision taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, classroom teaching for Class 10 and 12, as well as colleges, would continue.6. Chhattisgarh: Schools and colleges in Chhattisgarh were ordered to be shut down on March 22. State chief minister Bhupesh Baghel government has said that students of all classes will be promoted without examinations, except those from Class 10 and 12.7. Tamil Nadu: The Tamil Nadu government has ordered the closure of schools from March 22 for Classes 9, 10 and 11 till further notice.8. Punjab: Schools and colleges in the state will remain shut till April 10. Earlier, the state government had ordered the schools and colleges to close down till March 31.9. Rajasthan: Schools in Rajasthan have been asked to close for the students from Class 1 to 5 until further notice. While the exams of classes 8, 9 and 11 have been postponed, exams for class 8 will start from May 6, for class 9 from April 26 and for class 11 they will begin from April 24.10. Madhya Pradesh: The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government has announced that schools in the state will remain closed for the students from Class 1 to 8 until April 15. Those for students of Class 9 to 12 will be conducted offline from April 1, with the consent of the parents.11. Karnataka: Karnataka's chief secretary P Ravi Kumar has issued an order to shut down boarding and residential hostels for primary and secondary schools and optional attendance for students of Classes 10, 11 and 12. Physical classes for Classes 6 to 9 will also be suspended.12. Himachal Pradesh: Schools and colleges have been ordered to remain shut till April 15. Students of classes with scheduled examinations in the near future can visit schools and educational institutes to clear any doubts with the written consent of the parents and guardian, an official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shuts-schools-over-rising-covid-19-cases-these-states-have-already-closed-them-101617971588902.html
09-04-2021||Other||UP CM urges people to make ‘Teeka Utsav’ a success||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday called upon eligible beneficiaries in UP to participate with zest in the nationwide ‘Teeka Utsav’ (vaccination fest) from April 11 to 14 and get inoculated against Covid. He also instructed officials to set up three new dedicated Covid hospitals in Lucknow in the next three days and re-introduce work from home in four districts – Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur City.Yogi announced that he, along with Governor Anandiben Patel, would jointly hold dialogue with various groups over Covid vaccination awareness and other issues related to the pandemic. The two will hold talks with the presidents of various political parties and leaders of various parties in the state legislature on April 11; the next day with all mayors and corporators, and with religious leaders on April 13.The chief minister said this at a high level Covid review meeting he held on Friday at his official residence in Lucknow. Yogi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a call for observing ‘Teeka Ursav’ from April 11 (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule’s birth anniversary) to April 14 (birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar). “Make the Teeka Utsav successful and ensure that social distancing and mask-wearing are followed during the utsav,” he emphasized.Yogi asked for a 300-bed Covid hospital at Balrampur Hospital and conversion of Era Medical College and TS Mishra Medical College into Covid hospitals. All the dedicated Covid hospitals must have isolation beds, ventilators and High Flow Nasal Canula (HFNC) machines, said the CM.The CM also asked officers to ramp up vaccination in Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Agra, Gorakhpur, Meerut, and Varanasi. For effective prevention of Covid, action should be taken in accordance with the mantra of ‘test, trace, treat’, he added. In Uttar Pradesh, there are around 125 laboratories in the public sector and 104 laboratories in the private sector for Covid testing and the state must do two lakh Covid tests each day, of which half should be done by RT-PCR method, said the CM.Yogi also emphasised on maintaining adequate availability of oxygen supplies, health personnel, medicines, medical equipment and backups in Covid hospitals. He also issued guidelines for increasing the number of beds in Level-2 and Level-3 Covid hospitals.There would be no dearth of resources and the hospital administrations should inform the government immediately in case of any need, said a statement from the CM’s office.WFH to curb Covid casesThe chief minister said that all government and non-government offices in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur City should make provisions for ‘work from home’, as per convenience. In a meeting, he directed all government and non-government offices in these cities to operate with 50% human resource capacity or on shift basis. Writer: Pankaj Jaiswal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-urges-people-to-make-teeka-utsav-a-success-101617974771483.html
09-04-2021||Other||Cong poised for major changes in coming months||Lucknow: The Congress move to appoint three new secretaries to assist Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in the state last month may be the beginning of many major changes the party may propose to carry out in coming months. As the appointment of the three secretaries takes the total number of All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries to nine, the party leaders have begun talking about the likely changes when the Congress gets a new president in coming months and how they may help AICC general secretary (incharge UP) Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in accomplishing her UP mission. “We are looking at a larger national level role for AICC general secretary (in charge for Uttar Pradesh) Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. She has already begun moving out to campaign for the party in other states. We understand some of the AICC secretaries working in the state will also be moved out. AICC secretary Rana Goswami is contesting elections in Assam and he has been practically relieved of his responsibility here,” said a senior Congress leader. As major changes in the Congress in coming months have become a talking point, the party men are again demanding that Rahul Gandhi should be convinced about assuming role as party president and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra be given a larger role in the party organisation. “UP’s party men want a larger role for Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. We hope Rahul Gandhi will agree to take over as president if the party goes for a new leader after elections to five state assemblies and announcement of results on May 2, ” said the leader. AICC secretary Zubair Ahmad, who was appointed in charge for panchayat elections in UP along with AICC secretary Dheeaj Gurjar, said the party men in the state had been making the demand in this regard and a decision would be taken only by the party high command. Khan said the three secretaries had been appointed to strengthen the party organisation in the state and some of the party’s secretaries may be shifted. He said work was allotted to seven secretaries who were made in charges of 8 to 12 districts to oversee the party’s preparations and support for candidates in panchayat polls in the state. It may be mentioned that on March 27, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal had issued an order appointing three AICC secretaries Rajesh Tiwari, Tauquir Alam and Pradeep Narwal for the state. Other AICC secretaries attached to the general secretary in charge Priyanka Gandhi include Zubair Khan, Rohit Chaudhary, Dheeraj Gurjar, Baji Rao Khade, Sachin Naik and Rana Goswami. “Rajiv Tiwari is working with Chhatisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Earlier, he worked for training of the UPCC team. Chattisgarh’s team will now be camping in some districts for panchayat elections,” said another leader. “Changes are always made for the better. The party is bringing in leaders who have worked at the ground level and have remained involved in training programmes earlier. We are sure the changes will strengthen Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s mission for Uttar Pradesh,” said Congress spokesman Surendra Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-poised-for-major-changes-in-coming-months-101617970750803.html
09-04-2021||Other||UP claims faster economic recovery||Lucknow: The state government on Tuesday claimed a faster economic recovery, achieving nearly 71.8 per cent revenue against targets for 2020-2021 amid the fight against Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. The state government’s recovery of tax revenue in 2020-2021 fell short only by 3.3 per cent against the previous year, earning a revenue of 1.23 lakh crore (2020-2021) against the revenue of ₹1.19 lakh crore in 2019-2020. “Our revenue from taxes from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2020 is only 3.3 per cent less than the amount recovered during the same period in 2019-2020,” said minister for finance Suresh Khanna while briefing media persons about the revenue recovery situation in the state in 2020-2021. Khanna said the state government had also received additional amount of about ₹8000 crore from the centre. He said the state government was to get a sum of about ₹1.52 lakh crore from the centre, which later revised the figures to only ₹1.40 lakh crore and later reduced this amount further to ₹98,000 crore only. “The centre has, however, given ₹1.06 lakh crore now as the tax collection went up there,” said Khanna. “This is in sync with the trends of increase in revenue observed since the lifting of lockdown in second quarter of 2020-2021. This is a good sign that the state government’s own revenue has been augmented by increase flow of resources from the centre. This also indicates that the state’s economic recovery is better than expected,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor, department of economics, Lucknow University. Khanna said the state government’s tax and non-tax recovery from March 1 to 31, 2021 had shown an increase of ₹3030.48 crore against the recovery in the same month in 2020. He said the state government collected a sum of ₹16,476.33 crore against ₹13,445.85 crore collected in March 2019. He said the collections under VAT and GST heads fell short of about ₹1095.74 crore with the state government getting revenue of ₹8769.15 crore against ₹9864.89 crore in 2019-2020. The GST and VAT collections remained 103 per cent of targets of ₹8471 crore. The state government’s recovery from excise was ₹2518.50 crore, 114.7 per cent of targets and it got ₹1247.06 crore from stamps and registration, 105.8 per cent of targets. The state government’s earning from transport was 154.33 crore, lower than the figures of 2019-2020 and 100.8 per cent of targets for 2020-2021. It may be mentioned that the state government’s estimated expenditure on payment of salary and pension etc. remains about ₹13000 crore to ₹15000 crore per month. The state government may have to spend more under the head as the freeze on DA announced during lockdown may end in the coming months. The state government will have to take measures to augment its revenue to meet committed expenditure and provide more funds for development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-claims-faster-economic-recovery-101617970390750.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to remain shut for all classes in view of Covid-19: Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government said on Friday all schools will remain shut amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected nearly seven lakh people and killed 11,157 in the Capital, as the country has been hit by the second wave of the pandemic.कोविड के बढ़ते मामलों के कारण, दिल्ली में सभी स्कूल (सरकारी, प्राइवेट सहित), सभी क्लासेज के लिए अगले आदेश तक बंद किए जा रहे हैं।Several other states and Union territories have also closed down schools and colleges to curb the surging infections. "Due to increasing cases of Covid-19, all schools, government and private, in Delhi are being closed for all classes till further orders," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.After the pandemic broke out last year, schools were shut for most students but those in Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 had started attending them because of their board examinations, which are slated for May-June.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage﻿The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) came under fire from students and opposition parties alike for not cancelling or postponing the exams further.Delhi's Covid-19 situation has been worsening. On Thursday, it registered 7,437 fresh cases, the highest since November. Last week, Delhi reported 4,684 new infections every day on average, the highest the seven-day average has touched since December 1. In order to further curb the spread of the infection, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on April 6 imposed a night curfew in Delhi between 10pm and 5am till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-remain-shut-for-all-classes-in-view-of-covid-19-kejriwal-101617969150318.html
09-04-2021||Bangalore||Health and essential services allowed during 10 days "Corona Curfew" in K'taka||A day ahead of the 10-day "corona curfew" coming in to effect in some district centres of the state, the Karnataka government said on Friday factories, companise and organisations that have night shifts can continue to do so, but employees have to report at the work place before 10 pm.It also has given exemptions to health and emergency services and also to vehicles providing essential services, among others.Following the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday had announced the curfew between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19.An order signed by Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, while prohibiting all kinds activities during curfew hours, has announced exemptions to certain essential services.Those given exemption include those who have been suffering with health issues along with their attendants for obtaining health services.All other commercial activities have been prohibited, according to the order.Only vehicles providing essential services, those carrying freight, home delivery, E-commerce and empty vehicles have been allowed to operate during the curfew hours, it said.Also travelling to distant places by bus, train and aeroplanes have been allowed, it said, adding that passengers are allowed to travel by auto, cabs and other modes from their house to bus or train stations or airport and vice versa on the basis of their official tickets.Directing officials concerned to strictly implement the order, it further said action will be taken under the the Disaster Management Act 2005, IPC and other acts against those found violating it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/health-and-essential-services-allowed-during-10-days-corona-curfew-in-ktaka-101617968128445.html
09-04-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh to soon have women on MGNREGS job sites||Uttar Pradesh, which is the worst performer in women employment under the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS) in the country, will now appoint women mates on all MGNREGS job sites with more than 20 workers. The move comes in a bid to directly employ women as site managers and indirectly attract women to opt for MGNREGS employment. The state rural development department has already taken a first major step towards it. “The appointment will begin soon after the panchayat election results are out and new panchayats are formed,” said Yogesh Kumar, additional commissioner, MGNREGS, UP.In two successive orders, the department is making a provision for appointing women mates (job sites managers) across the state while also fixing the criteria on allocating one woman mate to every 20-40 workers. While one order to this effect was passed on international women’s day on March 8, the second one was issued on March 19. Not only this, to make speed up the appointment process, the government will select women mates from the existing women self-help groups (SHGs) in every panchayats. The first phase of panchayat polls are due on April 15 and the results will be declared on May 2.Also read: After Lucknow, UP’s Moradabad imposes night curfew to check Covid-19 casesDuring the Covid-19 pandemic, the state managed to employ a whopping 1.11 crore people - a workforce dominated by men. Now, the state has decided to introduce women mates for job-sites, all-women worksites, and women-specific jobs.As per data, Uttar Pradesh generated only 32.52% of women person-days of the 30.55 crore person-days of work generated in 2020-21. The state registered a whopping 87% increase in person-days generated against the previous year. Women’s share, however, remained unchanged in the last five years. In 28th position, UP ranked lowest in the country with only Jammu and Kashmir, and Lakshadweep falling below in women’s employment under the MNREGS. Kerala, Pudducherry, and Tamil Nadu were among the top rankers on women’s count with 91.41%, 87.04%, and 84.88% women person-days respectively. “We have zeroed in on some significant factors and have also prepared remedial strategies to attain 50-55% women participation in 2021-22 and we are starting with women mates,” said Kumar. According to the orders, the women mates will be selected by the respective gram panchayats, would be registered as semi-skilled workers, trained at the block development level and their emoluments will be between ₹315 to ₹405 per day, according to the existing wages range of various PWD (public works department) circles in the state. The direct mandate for the women mates will be to manage job sites - taking measurements of the job done by workers, muster-roll maintenance, attendance, arrangement for water, shade, creche, etc. “Socio-cultural set-up and physical intensive works are inhibiting factors behind the low female participation. Women do not like to work in men dominated worksites and on physically gruelling jobs. So, we have decided to introduce steps such as women mates and will introduce all-women worksites and women-specific works, such as plantation, gardening, nutrition gardens, nurseries or organic cultivations,” Yogesh said. He said the department would be able to employ at least 35,000 women as women mates across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-to-soon-have-women-on-mgnregs-job-sites-101617967572577.html
09-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s event calendar: April 9-April 15||Romanza Italian : Online concertRomanza Italiana features Italian lyric soprano Maria Luigia Borsi, who has had a brilliant career singing all over the world from Salzburg, Zurich to Berlin, and from her native Italy to Japan, Russia, US and the UK. For this special concert recorded for us, she sings beautiful songs of Tosti, Catalani, Puccini and Leoncavallo. She will be accompanied by pianist Antonio Artese, who is a doctorate from University of California, Santa Barbara and is currently Dean of the Global Academic Programs at the Accademia Musicale Chigiana in Siena, Italy. He accompanies Ms. Borsi on a Fazioli piano.When: Sunday, April 11, 6pmWhere: Online - go to https://poonamusic.com/streams/Resin Art workshopLearn to make a beautiful resin tray and coaster in this online workshop. No prior experience is required. Complete kit for the workshop will be delivered at your door step, including tray, four coasters, four pigment colours, ice-cream sticks, resin and hardener, mica powder, paper glass tissue, basic paints, gloves, measuring cups, and sandpaper.All techniques will be taught via online zoom video conferencing appFees: ₹2,650/-When: April 10, 2021Where: Online on Zoom, by Urja Art StudioContact: 097305 57776Crochet classes for beginnersThe delicate art of crocheting is a lifelong skill that you can use to make beautiful gifts for others and items for yourself and your home. You will be learning crochet and different techniques in five sessions.You will learn introduction to hooks, yarns, basic starting knots, slip knot chain and single crochet, magic ring/changing colours, half double crochet stitch. This workshop is for all above age of 12.Fees: ₹2,200/- (inclusive of tax and convenience charges)When: Every Friday, from April 9 to May 7; 4.00 pm to 5:30 pm Where: Online session on ZoomWhatsApp: https://chat.whatsapp.com/K3j1qNIjqWlBobA2fsKxFdCopperplate calligraphyCopperplate is a form of calligraphy done with a pointed metal calligraphy nib. The style is primarily used in English and American calligraphic traditions. The style originated in the 16th and 17th centuries as a quill-written cursive script, often called roundhand. The application of script is nowadays wider for example, title of movies, book covers, name plates, house names, and cake tops. It’s used on wedding invitations and for preparing guest names.When: April 10, 11Where: ‘Live” class will meet on Zoom. It will also be recorded and posted for later viewing.Contact: Avinash Kharat +91 95525 22019Shibori fabric dyeing workshopIn this workshop, you will learn five techniques of Shibori, and can take home swatches and a scarf made by you.When: April 10, 11am to 2 pmWhere: OnlineFor details/registrations, contact: 9822 2544 72.Apna Open Mic - 76th Online EditionApna Open Mic is the Open Mic Platform brought to you by Cafe Comedy. With its online edition, it is inviting fresh talent to showcase their work on an emerging and non-judgmental platform.For details: +91 9512182874When: Saturday April 10, 08:30 pmWhere: OnlineFree online two-day meditation training programme This training program provides an introduction to Pranahuti Supported Meditation (PSM). This is a comprehensive self-contained spiritual practice that aims to assist a person to evolve into cosmic consciousness. This workshop contains four experiential guided meditations, and covers the topics of methods of meditation, holistic way of living, control of mind and concentration.To learn more or apply: https://www.meditationtrainingclass.org/When: Saturday, April 10, 9:30 am to Sunday, April 11 6:30 pmWhere: Online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-event-calendar-april-9-april-15-101617967210875.html
09-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Blending the art and science of coaching team sports||In team sports, the development of individual players is the responsibility of the coach, while simultaneously attempting to win as many games as possible in the most competitive leagues, such as the NBA and football’s English Premier League. Through years of observing the best coaches in the sport of basketball at its highest level, there are a few outstanding similarities that successful coaches share to benefit players. Some of the key factors in coaching and developing talented players revolve around intangibles, resulting in greater player motivation and effort, which enables an individual’s talent to shine through. The cumulative effect of talented individuals all performing at their best results in team success. Great coaches are deliberate about consciously giving their talented players a sense of autonomy. Athletes are often motivated by feeling like they are in control of a situation, and in the field of play an athlete is only as good as his or her ability to make decisions quickly and decisively. Giving players a choice and control over what they do includes them in the process of improvement and feeling a sense of responsibility to the success of the team. Examples of this can be seen when championship coaches such as Gregg Popovich and Steve Kerr allow their veteran players to lead timeout huddles, trusting that the players will be able to impart key concepts of game play and strategy to all members of the team. This increased autonomy gives players a sense of belonging to the group and helps them relate with their teammates during the game instead of being disconnected. Focusing on more tangible attributes that great coaches display, they often understand the concept of self-determination among their players and are therefore, very deliberate about the types of feedback they provide. It is clearly obvious that players respond differently to various types and frequency of feedback on their performances. The best coaches are adept at communicating roles, game situations, and technical skill execution pointers to their players in order to get the best performance out of them. Communicating these pieces of information at a sub-optimal time could result in over-thinking from the player and thus be detrimental to player performance in the complex environment of the game. The final critical piece of coaching is developing players’ ability to execute technical skills during gameplay. Elite coaches understand that technical skill execution in the game environment is the result of advanced decision-making and pattern recognition skills in their players. Players must first see and perceive a situation, after which they must utilise the technical skills available to them to perform an action that increases their teams’ chances of a successful outcome. The best coaches teach their players these concepts through constraints-led coaching techniques which allow players to harness the creativity in their technical skills to make quick decision that repeatedly produce positive outcomes. By teaching in this manner, coaches do not limit their players’ creativity and allow them to understand their individual strengths and weaknesses so that they can figure out what technical skills apply to each scenario presented to them in gameplay. In combination, the attributes and coaching techniques above employed by great coaches result in a greater degree of “automatic processing” from players during the fluid changing scenarios in a game. This developed sense of game intelligence will likely contribute to greater team success and positive outcomes in team sport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-blending-the-art-and-science-of-coaching-team-sports-101617967031263.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic to be diverted in Haryana as farmers block KMP eway tomorrow||In view of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to shut down the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway for 24 hours from 8am on Saturday, the Haryana Police issued a traffic advisory on Friday. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said traffic diversions have been planned in Sonepat, Jhajjar, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Faridabad, Gurugram and Nuh districts. Also read: Resume talks with farmers: Haryana minister to Centre amid Covid surgePassengers coming from Ambala or Chandigarh side on National Highway-44 may go towards Ghaziabad and Noida in Uttar Pradesh via Karnal to Shamli and from Panipat to Sanauli in UP. Besides, vehicles going towards Gurugram and Jaipur can turn towards National Highway-71A from Panipat via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari. The blockade is from 8am on April 10 till 8am on April 11. The ADGP said in view of the gathering of farmers on KMP Expressway, all range ADGPs/IGPs, commissioners of police and district SPs have been instructed to ensure maintenance of law and order. Virk said citizens are being informed about these arrangements in advance so that they are able to plan and modify their journey accordingly. District authorities concerned have been asked to issue local advisories also in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-to-be-diverted-in-haryana-as-farmers-block-kmp-eway-tomorrow-101617965636150.html
09-04-2021||Other||Goa forest department sanctions 99% tree felling applications, says NGO; HC seeks response||The Goa Forest Department has been approving almost all applications for felling trees with an approval rate of 99.3%, data sourced by an NGO, Living Heritage Foundation, has revealed. As per the NGO, this has led to the felling of close to 89,000 trees in Goa. The NGO has moved the Bombay High Court at Goa which has directed the ‘tree authorities’ of the North and South Goa districts that are set up under the Goa Preservation of Trees Act, 1984 to file status reports regarding their functioning. “Over a period of ten years, out of all the applications that were received for felling trees, 99.3% were approved and only 0.3% were rejected,” the foundation found through RTI applications. This, the NGO has said, is only the tip of the iceberg since trees are often felled without any permission, much less compensatory afforestation. Several calls to officers at various levels of the state forest department went unanswered. Deputy Conservator of Forests, Jabestin A, responded but refrained from commenting on the matter.According to data furnished by the NGO, between 2010 and 2019, the Forest Department received 4,041 applications for felling 88,978 trees. Out of the total 4,041 applications received, 2,537 were sanctioned and only 19 were rejected while the rest were kept pending. “A ratio of sanctioned to rejected applications is 99.26% and only 0.74 were rejected. However, the act stipulates that if a tree officer fails to communicate his permission or refusal within a specified period, it shall be deemed to have been granted. If the 1,444 pending applications are taken to be deemed to be sanctioned then the sanctioned to rejected ratio would be further abysmal,” NGO director Mohan Kumar said. “Failure to effectively oversee replantation of trees that have been felled has led to a loss of tree cover to the state of Goa and its residents to the tune of over 77000 trees. They claim that over 13,000 trees have been replanted but no data on the survival of such planted trees is visible,” the NGO said in its petition. “The state of Goa and its residents have lost nearly 74,445 trees due to the dereliction of duties shown by the respondent,” it added. “As a result, Goa is rapidly losing its tree cover, which poses severe challenges in the present and future. Damages caused by the negative impact of non-implementation of environmental legislation enacted to protect the environment have to be seen not only beyond their face value in the present but future damages too need to be taken into account,” the NGO said. The NGO has also alleged that the Goa Tree Authority has not been meeting at all despite being mandated to do so at least once every three months. The tree authority, which is constituted under the Goa Preservation of Trees Act, is tasked with the preservation of trees, carrying out a census of trees, setting standards for plantation of trees, development and maintenance of nurseries, overseeing planting and transplanting, among other responsibilities,“Between January 2010 and June 2019, the Tree Authority should have met at least 38 times as the tree act mandates it to meet at least once in every three months but going by the submissions, it seems that the Authority has been dormant, non-functioning and has failed to discharge its duties ever since its constitution in 1998,” the NGO said in its petition before the High Court. The State Forest Department has been given time till April 28 to file its reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-forest-department-sanctions-99-tree-felling-applications-says-ngo-hc-seeks-response-101617964256066.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: NIA court remands Vaze to judicial custody till April 23||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday remanded suspended police official Sachin Vaze to judicial custody till April 23. Vaze was arrested for his alleged role in planting an explosive-laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.Vaze was produced in court as his period of NIA custody ended today but the agency did not seek his further custody and pleaded that he may be remanded to judicial custody instead. His lawyers pleaded the court that Vaze be kept in a secure cell in prison as they apprehend a threat to his life. The court noted the request. During the hearing, the NIA brought to the notice of the court the leak of Vaze’s letter. It claimed that the letter was written while Vaze was in their custody. On Wednesday, when he was produced before the court, he was allowed to meet his lawyers for five minutes which is when the letter exchanged hands, they alleged.Also Read | 8 seized vehicles used by ex-Mumbai cop are worth ₹1.5 crore in marketThe court reprimanded the defence lawyers that they were asked to follow proper procedure, but they did not.Vaze, who was arrested on March 13, has been booked under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention)Act. Under the act, the agency can seek the custody of an accused up to 30 days which otherwise is restricted to a maximum of 14 days. Since his arrest, Vaze has been in NIA custody. A Scorpio car that Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran had been driving for three years and reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilia on February 25. It had 20 loose gelatin sticks. Vaze is also an accused in Hiran’s death case.Hiran, a 48-year-old auto spare parts businessman, was likely murdered and his body washed up ashore at a creek in Thane district on March 5. The murder is also being probed by NIA.Meanwhile the special court has allowed the plea of Central Bureau of Investigation for access to NIA records of investigation into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-nia-court-remands-vaze-to-judicial-custody-till-april-23-101617963715870.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Viswajeet Khanna is new PSERC chairman||The Punjab government on Friday appointed senior IAS officer Viswajeet Khanna as chairman of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC). He will take over from Kusumjit Sidhu, who completes her tenure on April 12. At present, Khanna is posted as the financial commissioner, revenue. After his joining on Monday, he is expected to release the power tariff for this financial year. Khanna, who is scheduled to superannuate as an IAS officer on June 30, will take premature retirement and head the power regulator body. This appointment is for five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/viswajeet-khanna-is-new-pserc-chairman-101617963595917.html
09-04-2021||Lucknow||After Lucknow, UP’s Moradabad imposes night curfew to check Covid-19 cases||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad on Friday decided to impose a night curfew from 10pm to 6am for a week in a bid to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the nation witnesses a surge in infections. The curfew will begin on Friday night and will continue till April 16, the district administration said in a statement.The directive issued by the district magistrate pointed out that essential services will continue functioning normally during the curfew period. The district administration said that essential services like health services, doorstep delivery of essential items like medicines, food items like fruit and vegetables, cooking gas cylinder and compressed natural gas (CNG) will not come under the ambit of curfew. It also highlighted that people involved in these activities will be allowed to work seamlessly and they will have to present their identification cards, stating the reason for being out during curfew hours.The statement also outlined that people travelling to and from railway stations and bus stands will not be stopped. “The bus and train tickets should have the travel date and those tickets will be considered as passes for people travelling during the curfew time. Travellers are urged to keep their tickets with them and are requested to present them to the authorities if asked,” it said.Goods carriers, petrol stations, toll plazas and CNG stations will not fall under the ambit of the curfew. The curfew will also exempt workers involved in sanitation and cleaning duties, employees associated with the state electric corporation, roadway and railways. Media personnel will also be allowed to work but they have been urged to carry their identity cards with them at all times. Factories have also been allowed to operate during curfew hours keeping in mind Covid-19 preventative measures. Factory workers working night shifts have been asked to carry their identification cards with them.Other people involved in essential services like security guards, ATM maintenance workers, telecom operators, electricians, plumbers, air conditioner mechanics will be allowed to operate once they state their reason for travel.Several districts in Uttar Pradesh have imposed night curfews in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Gautam Buddh Nagar, Allahabad, Meerut, Bareilly, Kanpur, Lucknow and Ghaziabad have imposed night curfews this week. The state reported 8,490 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and 39 fresh fatalities. UP has recorded 654,404 Covid-19 cases and 9,003 related deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-lucknow-up-s-moradabad-imposes-night-curfew-to-check-covid-19-cases-101617962436051.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Resume talks with farmers: Haryana minister to Centre amid Covid surge||Worried about the huge presence of agitating farmers at the Delhi border amid the Covid-19 second wave, Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij on Friday said he will write to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to restart the dialogue with farmers and break the logjam. “The presence of such a huge crowd of farmers at Haryana’s borders is a matter of worry for me. The Covid-19 infection is spreading at an alarming speed. I have to shield (protesting) farmers also from the virus,” Vij told reporters on Friday, saying the state government will discuss and act on all directions Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave on Thursday, including night curfew. Also read: ‘No plan to curtail train services’: RailwaysReiterating the significance of dialogue in hammering out solutions of complex problems, Vij said he will soon write to Tomar to resume talks with the farmers, who have been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws. He said dialogue is the only way to diagnose the problems of the farmers so that those gathered at the Haryana-Delhi border call off the stir. Protests leave BJP-JJP leaders red-faced There is growing concern that the massive presence of agitating farmers at Delhi border has the potential to become a superspreader event. Also, another worry of BJP-JJP government in Haryana is borne by the fact that the protesting farmers and the organisations supporting them have not been allowing BJP-JJP leaders to hold public functions in the state. Such is the situation that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has been holding virtual ceremonies (via videoconferences) to inaugurate developmental projects. Not just this, every now and then BJP-JJP leaders are being left red-faced by the boycott calls given by farmers who are not allowing leaders to enter villages. Stricter guidelines on gatherings in place With coronavirus cases increasing, the Haryana government has imposed fresh curbs on indoor and outdoor gatherings, besides funerals from April 5. While the gathering at funerals has been restricted to 50 people, at indoor events, 50% of the hall capacity and not more than 200 people will be allowed to assemble. For outdoor functions, the state government has allowed 500 people to assemble. “The new guidelines issued on Sunday are being implemented strictly in order to wipe out the virus,” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resume-talks-with-farmers-haryana-minister-to-centre-amid-covid-surge-101617962215710.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister contests Centre's claim over vaccine wastage||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Friday rejected the Centre's claim that more than five lakh vaccine doses were wasted in the state, the worst hit by Covid-19 in the country.Tope contested the figure put out by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar on vaccine wastage, saying it was not correct."Wastage quoted is actually national average wastage percentage. State wastage is lesser than half of the national average wastage percentage," Tope tweeted.On Thursday, Javadekar had said the Maharashtra government should not play politics over vaccination.Giving figures, Javadekar had said the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses supplied to the state till date was 1,06,19,190."The consumptionwas 90,53,523 (of which 6% per cent wastage - over 5 lakh), Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280 andDosage available - nearly 23 lakhs," the Union Minister had tweeted.Maharashtra, reeling under a spurt in Covid-19 cases, has sought more vaccine supplies from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-contests-centre-s-claim-over-vaccine-wastage-101617962064511.html
09-04-2021||Gurugram||Night curfew: Private vehicles from Delhi banned from entering Gurugram post 10pm||Entry of all private vehicles in Haryana’s Gurugram from the Delhi border has been banned after 10pm till April 30 in view of the night curfew in the national capital to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Gurugram Traffic Police posted a traffic advisory on its official Twitter account and urged citizens not to travel during the night.A night curfew in Delhi was imposed by the Arvind Kejriwal-led government from Tuesday till April 30 to curb the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in and around the National Capital Region (NCR). On Thursday, similar night curfews were also implemented at Noida in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar, as well as in the state's Ghaziabad district, both adjoining Delhi. In the seven-hour window between 10pm to 5am, only essential services and movement of emergency personnel shall be allowed.आमजन से अनुरोध है कि दिल्ली में नाईट कर्फ्यू(10PM-05AM) लगाया गया है जिसके कारण रात्रि के समय दिल्ली सीमा में निजी वाहनों का प्रवेश वर्जित है।अतः रात्रि के समय यात्रा ना करे। @gurgaonpoliceIn view of this night curfew in Delhi, the Gurugram Traffic Police, in its advisory issued on Thursday, informed that an additional police force has been deployed at the Gurugram-Delhi border. Authorities will ensure that the movement of vehicles is only restricted to those allowed to operate during the night curfew, as per instructions issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Those found violating the night curfew timings shall be dealt with strictly, the advisory mentioned.The Gurugram Police will keep a strict vigil on the movement of all vehicles entering Gurugram from Delhi through the border and will ensure adherence to the appropriate protocols. The advisory urged citizens to keep track of the stipulated night curfew timings and ideally avoid arrival into the city after 10pm when it will come into effect.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 infections in Gurugram continued to spike on Thursday, with the district reporting 741 new infections, marking the second consecutive day when the daily spike this year reached its highest. On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded 611 new infections, The positivity rate -- the proportion of samples testing positive from the total tested -- in the district is currently at 7.8%, as per the health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-vehicles-from-delhi-banned-from-entering-gurugram-post-10pm-101617959584397.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Journalist Varun Hiremath, accused of rape, given interim protection from arrest||The Delhi High court on Friday granted interim protection from arrest to Mumbai-based journalist Varun Hiremath who is accused of raping a Pune-based model.A single-judge bench of Justice Mukta Gupta granted interim protection to Hiremath along with a direction to join the investigation and "put his version forward" to "verify the true facts of the case".Varun Hiremath was represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Vijay Aggarwal who were briefed by the team of Karanjawala and Company comprising of advocate Sandeep Kapur and others.Earlier Hiremath's bail plea was dismissed by the trial Court.Varun Hiremath was anticipating arrest in connection with the FIR filed by a 22-year-old, Pune-based woman in the Chanakyapuri Police Station of New Delhi under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), and 509 (insulting modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.The Delhi Police had then issued a lookout circular against him, barring him from leaving the country.Earlier, Bombay High Court vide order dated February 1 rejected Hiremath's transit anticipatory bail after observing, "There is no dispute about powers to grant transit anticipatory bail. The applicant is charged under Section 376 of IPC. The applicant may approach the appropriate court. I am not inclined to grant such relief in this case."According to the said FIR, the woman had alleged that Varun Hiremath, while visiting Pune had met her on "Tinder", a geosocial networking and online dating platform, and had allegedly developed a sexual relationship with her.Thereafter on February 19, when Hiremath had come to visit Delhi, the woman decided to meet him in the national capital on February 20. A meeting took place between the two of them in Khan Market after which they went to the ITC Maurya hotel.According to the complaint, it was alleged by the woman that she was raped by Hiremath in the said five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri. However, the said allegations are denied by Hiremath as being "false and frivolous" as the FIR was registered after a delay of 3 days on February 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/journalist-varun-hiremath-accused-of-rape-given-interim-protection-from-arrest-101617961746390.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt approves proposal to set up 12 retail outlets of IOC on jail land||Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday accorded approval to a proposal by the Punjab Prisons Development Board (PPDB) to set up 12 retail outlets of Indian Oil Corporation on land owned by the prisons department.         Chairing the first meeting of the newly-constituted PPDB, Amarinder was informed by the officials that this project, besides giving employment to 400 released prisoners, would generate an expected revenue of ₹40 lakh per month.      Briefing the chief minister, the board's Member Secretary and ADGP Prisons, Praveen Sinha, said prisoners with good conduct would be employed at the retail outlets and preference would be given to women prisoners.The chief minister also granted approval to the brand name, 'Ujala Punjab', for all products manufactured by jail inmates, a state government statement said.      Approval was also accorded to the board for taking over all the factories established in jails, existing projects being run in Punjab prisons under PPP mode and commercial activities being done at the open jail in Nabha.Briefing the chief minister, Sinha said products like bedsheets, towels, mops, furniture, stationery, soaps and sanitizers will be manufactured in prison factories under the board.       Sinha suggested to the chief minister that these products should be bought directly by various government departments as per existing provisions.      He said the board was also planning to set up a corrugated boxes manufacturing unit for meeting the demand of cooperatives Milkfed and Markfed.     Approval was also granted to the board to collaborate with various Punjab government departments for supply of products made in prison factories.Sinha said to make these projects commercially viable and profitable, many units shall be set up under PPP mode and skill training would be provided to 3,000-4,000 prisoners to make them employable in various ventures upon release.          The chief minister also okayed the board's proposal for tie ups with Punjab technical and school education departments for setting up of Industrial Training Institutes inside the prisons and running National Open School/University courses, respectively, in jails to train prisoners and make them employable post their release.     Sinha suggested that educated prisoners, who have two or more years of imprisonment left, can be trained by the education department to become teachers for the other prisoners and provided help to clear courses from Open School and Universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-approves-proposal-to-set-up-12-retail-outlets-of-ioc-on-jail-land-101617959591524.html
09-04-2021||Jaipur||Will run out of Covid vaccine doses by Sunday: Rajasthan official||Rajasthan may be unable to conduct the Covid-19 vaccination drive from Sunday as the state’s stock of doses will last for just two days, a top health department official said on Friday. “We are left with 9.7 lakh vaccine doses. [Most districts]...will have no stock from Saturday evening. The state on average is daily vaccinating around 4.5-5.5 lakh people,” the official said, requesting anonymity. He added even some districts were likely to exhaust their stocks on Friday.The official said the state is hoping to get new stock from the Centre, but it has no assurances yet.“A letter was written to GoI [the government of India] three days back asking for smooth and regular supply of vaccines...”Also Read | Vaccination programme going slow, alleges Rahul Gandhi in letter to PMIn March, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said they were getting an inadequate supply of vaccines.To be sure, while overall supplies may be there at the state level, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Several states on Thursday warned they would run out of coronavirus vaccines in the next few days and were being forced to shut inoculation centres.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reiterated there was no shortage, and the country has over 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline. He called for “an end to fear-mongering”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/will-run-out-of-covid-vaccine-doses-by-sunday-rajasthan-official-101617961255549.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||51 vaccination centres remain closed in Mumbai today||Fifty-one Covid-19 vaccination centres in Mumbai were closed on Friday amid a shortage of doses in the city, officials said. Some of the operational centres were likely to declare they are out of stock during the day and close their operations, they added. Effectively 69 vaccination centres were working in the city on Friday morning.Mumbai has 120 vaccine centres, which have been conducting over 200 sessions daily.Assistant Commissioner (G/North ward) Kiran Dighavkar tweeted late on Thursday: “Vaccination centres which will be operational in Mumbai on 9 April [Friday], 2021. However, due to limited stock, this might exhaust at early, and few centres will be declared out of stock.” Dighavkar added all centres will start vaccinations at full capacity as soon as possible.On Thursday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation vaccinated 56,909 people. As many as 51,433 received their first doses, and 5476 the second.To be sure, while overall supplies may be there at the state level, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Maharashtra was among the states that on Thursday warned they would run out of coronavirus vaccines in the next few days and were forced to shut inoculation centres.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reiterated there was no shortage, and the country has over 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline. He called for “an end to fear-mongering”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/51-vaccination-centres-remain-closed-in-mumbai-today-101617961075546.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi night curfew: How to apply for e-passes if you fall in exempt categories||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has made e-passes mandatory for people who want to travel during the night curfew hours, between 10pm and 5am. Apart from essential services and journalists, no other movement is allowed during the time, the DDMA has said.Till Thursday, the district authorities in Delhi received over 1.19 lakh applications for e-passes but 87,000 have been rejected as either they did not fall in the exempted categories or wrong entries were made by them, news agency PTI reported.The highest number of applications were received in New Delhi district at 20,267, followed by 19,646 in South West and 13,025 in West.How to apply for e-pass> Log on to delhi.gov.in> A new tab has been activated of the home page for e-pass. Click on that.> You will be redirected to a new page where you will have to choose your preferred language between English and Hindi.> Choose 'E-pass for travel during night curfew' in the field 'What do you need help with?'> Enter contact number, name, district, address of destination, type of services, dates for which the e-pass is required. Upload ID proof copy and any other supporting document like visiting card, business licence etc.Who can apply for e-pass?The government has mentioned a few categories of services which are exempt from the night curfew. These include:> Shops dealing with essential items like medicine, dairy, bread etc.> Banks, insurance offices, ATMs> Internet and cable services> E-commerce delivery movement> Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG services> People associated with power supply services> Cold storage, warehousing service> Person going for Covid-19 vaccinationA printed copy of the e-passes has to be carried during night hours. Journalists won't have to carry e-passes, the DDMA has said modifying its order. The order will be in place till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-night-curfew-authorities-rejecting-maximum-e-pass-applications-here-s-how-to-apply-for-epasses-101617958815287.html
09-04-2021||Patna||Bihar Speaker calls for strong action against policemen for unruly behaviour with legislators||Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Thursday held a high-level review meeting with Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and IG (Patna) Sanjay Kumar Singh in the light of allegations of indecent behaviour by police personnel with Vidhan Sabha members on March 23 during the Budget session over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. The Speaker said that police had to be deployed that day along with marshals due to a significant shortage of Vidhan Sabha security personnel. “Nobody can be given the right to cross the ‘Lakshman Rekha (line)’ of decency and decorum – be it a member or any police official. Decent behaviour with the members is expected in all circumstances. There can be no compromise with the honour of the members. The dignity of the House is supreme,” the Speaker said, asking the officials to examine the footage to identify the guilty. Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 was passed on March 23 by the Bihar Assembly. As per reports, police were deployed inside the House without any debate to evict the protesting members amid unprecedented scenes. The assembly witnessed over half a dozen adjournments and ransacking of tables and chairs by an angry Opposition. Many of the members had to be forcibly evicted by the police. IG, Patna, Sanjay Kumar Singh refused to on the matter. “When there is any development, we will share,” he added.During the meeting, the CCTV footage of the Vidhan Sabha and the footage made available by leader of opposition and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was examined. The Speaker directed Vidhan Sabha in-charge secretary Bhudev Rai to make all possible footage connected with that day’s turn of events available to the two officers. Tejashwi also wrote to the Speaker on April 3, demanding the sacking of the guilty police officials who, he said, “brutally assaulted the members at the behest of the state government while discharging their democratic right”. Yadav asked the officials to ensure strong actions against the policemen responsible for unruly behaviour against the members after identifying them through an examination of audio-video footage of the House’s proceedings and circumstantial evidence. Barely two days after the unsavoury incident, Sinha asked additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad and DGP SK Singhal to identify the police officials who resorted to indecent behaviour with the legislators. Sinha has also asked for a report in this regard and called for the video footage of that day for a thorough review by the ethics committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-speaker-calls-for-strong-action-against-policemen-for-unruly-behaviour-with-legislators-101617959995436.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Crowding at Mumbai’s outstation train terminuses not due to migrants’: Rail authorities||Railways authorities on Friday said that crowds at outstation train terminuses in Mumbai are not because of migrants workers rushing back to their states given the Covid-19 lockdown but the summer-time rush of people returning to their native places. A Central Railway official said, “videos and images of people crowding inside outstation trains and on platforms are old and fake”. “We have cross-checked the serial numbers outside the train compartments in the videos and pictures that are being circulated and they do not match with the trains operating. No unreserved passengers are allowed to travel. The passengers have booked their train travel earlier,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Both Central and Western Railway said they were allowing only travellers who have booked the tickets in advance due to Covid-19 rules. Such rush is seen every year during the summer vacations and to cope with the demand, they are also plying unscheduled or special trains, they added.The Central and Western Railway also suspended railway platform tickets on all railway stations in the city to prevent those who rush to stations without a valid ticket for travel.Four special outstation trains towards Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Assam have been planned by the Central Railway.Also read: Covid-19 - No more platform tickets at these Maharashtra railway stationsThe Western Railway will be also be operating 14 special outstation trains. Further, with the increase in the number of passengers, additional special outstation trains will be planned.Railway authorities have registered a complaint with the Government Railway Police (GRP) cybercrime cell regarding the spread of old videos of crowding inside the outstation train compartments.Further, the railway authorities have also clarified that there has been no panic booking among passengers till now.“There has been no panic booking till now. We have our commercial and Railway Protection Force (RPF) teams deployed to monitor the on-ground situation,” said Shalabh Goel, divisional railway manager, Central Railway.The number of coaches in special outstation trains are also being increased by the railways.“We are increasing the number of coaches in outstation trains as we witness the increase in the number of waitlist passengers. In March, 575 coaches were added to clear passenger rush. Crowding on railway stations is also being witnessed as passengers are coming four to five hours before train scheduled.” said Alok Kansal, general manager, Western Railway. Transport experts have asked the state government to deploy volunteers outside railway stations. “Volunteers should be deployed outside railway stations to guard and ensure no crowding takes place. The volunteers should also take down details of passengers travelling in order to track their movements. This will particularly help to monitor the crowd and stop the spread of the virus,” said transport expert Ashok Datar. Meanwhile, experts have cautioned against overcrowding citing the worsening state of Covid-19 infections. “Any type of overcrowding is a super spreader. Last year, when people were going back and reaching destinations, tracking and symptom inspection were being done. This will be helpful now as well. An exit swab or antigen test on reaching the destination will help. Anybody moving across borders should be monitored. Symptoms should be checked or home isolation must be done,” said epidemiologist Dr Lancelot Pinto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crowding-at-mumbai-s-outstation-train-terminuses-not-due-to-migrants-rail-authorities-101617959695521.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two workers die, five injured in blast at steel factory in Nalagarh||Two workers died and five were injured in a furnace blast at Timco Steel factory in the industrial town of Nalagarh in Solan district on the border of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab on Friday. “We received information at 1am about the blast in the furnace of the factory at Dabhota. Molten material fell on the workers,” Nalagarh sub divisional magistrate Mahender Pal Gujjar said. Also read: Direct tax collection in FY-21 at ₹9.45 lakh croreTwo of the injured, who were in a critical condition, were rushed to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh. They succumbed to injuries there. They were identified as Mukhtiyar Singh and Dhana Singh. The SDM said the condition of one more worker was serious. Those with minor injuries are undergoing treatment at Lord Mahavira Hospital in Nalagarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-workers-die-five-injured-in-blast-at-steel-factory-in-nalagarh-101617959335575.html
09-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: Free travel for 50 kms for Divyangs in state-run buses||In an effort to make public transport more comfortable and convenient for persons with disabilities, the state transport corporation has offered them the facility to travel free of cost up to 50 kilometres in its buses and a discount of 50 per cent on further travel.The transport corporation will provide them with Unique IDs to enable them to avail this facility. In 2017, the office of the persons with disabilities (PwD) had demanded that the transport department provide this facility to the Divyaangs.“We have been informed today that the transport department has approved our demand. To check the misuse of the facility, it has been decided to make it available only to the persons with 40% disabilities,” Shivaji Kumar, state’s disabilities commissioner, said.The PwD office has also been informed that the state transport department has asked transport corporation to ensure safe and convenient journey for Divyaangs in its buses and that be helped in boarding vehicles and get seated on seats reserved for them. “The transport corporation has also been directed to reserve seats near the main entrance and that display system and sound system in transport corporation buses be functional and in good condition,” Kumar said.Shyamkishore, an official from the transport corporation, said bus stoppages are also being made disabled friendly. “Altogether, 15 stoppages in the state, including the one in state capital, are being developed as per requirement of the persons with disabilities. Amenities like wash rooms, drinking water points and ramps are being constructed there,” he said. The rest of the bus stoppages will be considered in the next phase, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-free-travel-for-50-kms-for-divyangs-in-state-run-buses-101617958231782.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Partial lockdown leads to drop in local trains, BEST passenger traffic in Mumbai||The number of passengers travelling by local trains and BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport(BEST) buses in Mumbai has significantly dropped ever since Maharashtra imposed a partial lockdown earlier this week.Central and Western Railway suburban network have experienced a drop of 700,000 passengers. Earlier, 2.2 million passengers travelled by local trains daily on Central Railway as opposed to 1.9 million passengers travelling presently. Likewise, Western Railway had 1.8 million passengers travelling daily earlier and the number has come down to 1.4 million.Under the new phase of Break the Chain by the Maharashtra government, public transport, including buses, auto rickshaws, taxis, and flights can operate at 50% of their seating capacity, while no standing passengers in buses and outstation trains are allowed.Also Read | Covid-19 dose shortage hits vaccination drive in Mumbai: Report“There has been a decrease in the number of passengers travelling by local trains after the lockdown was announced. People are working from home that has resulted in the drop,” said a senior Central Railway official.The number of passengers travelling on BEST buses has also dropped by nearly 300,000. From 2.3 million passengers travelling by BEST buses on April 1, the number dropped to 2 million on Tuesday.BEST officials said this was also because no passengers were allowed to travel while standing.“As per the directives, only seating passengers are allowed. This is being checked by bus conductors. This has also led to the decrease in the number of commuters. This should help in keeping Covid infections in check as there cannot be overcrowding inside the buses now,” said a senior BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/partial-lockdown-leads-to-drop-in-local-trains-best-passenger-traffic-101617958975307.html
09-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa urges KSRTC, BMTC employees to call of strike||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) employees to end the strike and get back to work."I request KSRTC and BMTC employees to come and join the duty and start running buses from today as we are aware due to COVID-19 we have already suffered. Being the transport department it is our duty to give service to the people at this point of time listening to some unions and some people and stop giving service is not the right thing. We have already suffered, we are spending 85 per cent for the expenses and we have only 15 per cent for the development of work," said the Chief Minister.He further said that it is not possible to implement the 6th pay commission at this point in time."We did not stop providing salary to any employee is even in the time of pandemic even though income was less. I am very much optimistic and I am waiting to have talks with them. I am confirming once again that it is not possible to implement the 6th pay commission at this point in time. So, I request once again to come and join the duty," he added.The bus services remain affected in the state for the third consecutive day as KSRTC employees go on with their indefinite strike.KSRTC employees have given a call for a strike with the following demands: salary hike, permanent job, wages and shifts. The employees are working as contract workers in the department.The KSRTC had issued temporary permits to private buses for the convenience of passengers.South Western Railway (SWR) informed that it will run additional trains from April 8 to 14 in view of the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Employees (KSRTC) strike.Earlier in the day, the Karnataka Transport Department has said that they can take action against KSRTC and BMTC employees and two other organisations who are supporting a strike by using Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-urges-ksrtc-bmtc-employees-to-call-of-strike-101617957908632.html
09-04-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat poll: BJP gives ticket to Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Sengar’s wife||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared its list of panchayat poll candidates for five districts of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday which included Sangeeta Sengar, wife of former party MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar. Kuldip Sengar’s party membership was cancelled after he was convicted in a rape case of a minor in December 2019.Sangeeta, who has been given a ticket from Fatehpur Chaurasi Tritaya seat for the Zila Panchayat member, has been the Zila Panchayat chairperson of Unnao from 2016. When Sangeeta had become the chairman, the panchayat elections were not contested on party lines. Although, this has changed this time as all political parties have decided to declare its candidates for the seats.Kuldeep Sengar had won the assembly polls from Bangarmau seat of Unnao in 2017. In December 2019, Sengar was convicted and jailed for life in a rape case of a minor in Unnao. Sengar’s brothers and others were also chargesheeted by the CBI for conspiring to implicate the victim’s father in a false case. The victim’s father later died in the jail following assault injuries. In March 2020, Sengar along with all others who were accused were sentenced to ten years in jail and fined ₹10 lakh in connection with the custodial death of the Unnao rape victim's father.The Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections, which are being seen as crucial test for the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state, will take place in 58,189 village panchayats and will be conducted in four phases beginning from April 15 and concluding on April 29 with counting of votes scheduled for May 2.In the first phase which will take place on April 15, voting will take place in 18 districts of the state. In the second phase which is scheduled for April 19, polls will be conducted in the 20 districts. In the third phase, voting will take place in 20 districts on April 26 and in the final phase which will be conducted on April 29; voters will exercise their franchise in 17 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-poll-bjp-gives-ticket-to-unnao-rape-convict-kuldeep-sengar-s-wife-101617955801492.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Court dismisses IPS officer’s defamation case against Arnab Goswami||The sessions court recently dismissed a defamation complaint filed by deputy commissioner of police Abhishek Trimukhe against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, his wife and ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd. The court helt that the complaint filed was not in confirmation with the law prescribed.In an order released earlier this week, sessions judge Uday Padwal said Trimukhe’s complaint was not according to Section 199 of Criminal Procedure Code. As per the said law, the public prosecutor has to be the complainant, which was not so in Trimukhe’s case where he was listed as the complainant.“The sanction to make a complaint is also given to the public prosecutor and not to Shri. Trimukhe. Therefore, the present complaint ought to have been made by the public prosecutor alone, which is not the case here,” the court observed while dismissing the complaint.Also Read | TRP scam: Maharashtra to complete probe against Republic TV in 12 weeks“He has the remedy to make a complaint before the competent magistrate. His filing the complaint even through the public prosecutor, however, would not confer any jurisdiction on this court to take cognizance of the alleged offence,” court said.In his complaint filed on February 2, Trimukhe claimed that Goswami made several defamatory statements against him during a panel discussion pertaining to the phone records of actor Rhea Chakraborty, in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14, 2020. Trimukhe claimed that the discussion was posted on the company’s YouTube channel on August 7 the same year.The police officer alleged that the same content was also published on the microblogging platform, Twitter, by Goswami later on. “Accused No. 1 (Goswami) has published several defamatory tweets and has essentially reiterated and re-circulated the contents of the defamatory telecast to an even larger audience by means of Twitter. The tweets are without context and have been wilfully circulated to damage the complainant’s reputation,” states the complaint.“The accused persons are well aware that investigation into the death of late Mr. Sushant Sing Rajput (being a well-known Bollywood star) will garner significant public interest. The accused persons, instead of conducting themselves as responsible journalists (self-proclaimed) / citizens, have chosen to profit from the situation by sensationalising and scandalising the same, and using Mr Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and photograph (by tagging him) to disseminate the story to as many people as possible, all the while intending to defame the complainant,” read the complaint||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-dismisses-ips-officer-s-defamation-case-against-arnab-goswami-101617955794927.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Guinness record runner Sufiya on completing Golden Quadrilateral: Easy to train body, hard to train mind||Many of us have been locked down with work, and here’s Sufiya, a Delhi-based ultra runner who recently ran more than 6,000 kilometres across the Golden Quadrilateral in a record time of 110 days and 23 hours. This breaks the previous Guinness World Record by over 82 days! On achieving this new feat, Sufiya says, “I’m ecstatic at the moment! The run was gruelling and tested me on various stages, but I was bent on completing this attempt at a world record, while spreading the message of hope (humanity, openness, positivity and equality) that has been my motto in all my runs.” This was Sufiya’s second attempt at completing the Golden Quadrilateral run. “I had started in early 2020, and even reached Maharashtra when the lockdown was announced. I got stuck there for over two months and eventually had to forfeit the attempt and had to fly back home. But that made my resolve to complete the run stronger!” recalls Sufiya, adding, “On 16 December 2020, I set out once again from Delhi, and finally chased my target by finishing at India Gate on April 6... I kept a steady target to cover 60 kms per day. I don’t have a crew, doctor or therapist. Vikas, my partner, travels with me and acts as my coach, guide, and therapist. And the circumstances during this run often went against us. Right before I reached Bengaluru, I developed a severe case of food poisoning. But I continued my run after taking medicines and a drip. It’s easy to train the body, but it’s harder to train the mind. Anything can be achieved if one remains positive in the face of adversity!”The 35-year-old started running in 2017, after a tiring job in the aviation industry left her with no time for the gym. “I used to feel lethargic all the time since I worked night shifts. My partner Vikas, who is a cyclist himself, motivated me to start running, and that’s how my tryst with long distance running happened,” recalls Sufiya, who in spite of the financial challenges quit her job to pursue running full time. Previously a Guiness Record Holder for being the first and fastest female in the world to run from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, Sufiya says she found immense support from various people in the country, during her last run. “India really is incredible. Various running groups in different cities accompanied me in different legs of the journey. Someone would hand me a water bottle without even knowing what I was participating in. There is so much warmth in people, no matter where they are from. This is what inspires me, and I want to spread the message of love and positivity among others through my runs.” “In 2023, I’m planning to run around the world and cover a distance of 30,000 kms. I believe in the idea of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, which means that the world is one family. Amid all the differences in the world, it’s running gives me the opportunity to explore different places and meet different people. That is what I hope to continue,” she concludes. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/guinness-record-runner-sufiya-on-completing-golden-quadrilateral-easy-to-train-body-hard-to-train-mind-101617954781976.html
09-04-2021||Pune||Pune: Case registered against at least 50 traders for violating Covid-19 norms during protest||Pune police have registered a case against at least 50 traders at Vishrambaug Police station for violating Covid-19 guidelines during their protest on Thursday against restrictions imposed by the state government in view of rising Covid-19 cases.The traders association yesterday held a protest at Laxmi road in Pune against the restrictions imposed by the state government in view of the rising cases of Covid-19.The traders demanded to allow the opening of their shops and they also threatened to open them defying the state orders if not allowed officially.In order to control the new infections, the State government has imposed night curfew and weekend lockdown until further orders. The Pune Municipal Corporation had ordered for the closing of all establishments and markets except the essential services shops till April 30.Pune district registered 12,090 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 6,16,127.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases, 36,130 recoveries, and 376 deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health department informed on Thursday.According to the state government's data, the active number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 5,21,317.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-case-registered-against-at-least-50-traders-for-violating-covid-19-norms-during-protest-101617951209054.html
09-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Transport department warns of action against KSRTC, others over strike||The Karnataka Transport Department on Friday said that they can take action against Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) employees and two other organisations who are supporting a strike by using Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) power."To use ESMA power we have permission by the labour department. We can take action by using ESMA powers, if we reach that situation we will take action," said Anjum Parvez, principal secretary Transport department.ESMA empowers the government to punish employees who refuse to serve in essential sectors which include healthcare, transport, electricity, food, drinking water and security.Meanwhile, the bus services remain affected in the state for the third consecutive day as KSRTC employees go on with their indefinite strike.KSRTC employees have given a call for a strike with the following demands: salary hike, permanent job, wages and shifts. The employees are working as contract workers in the department.The KSRTC had issued temporary permits to private buses for the convenience of passengers.South Western Railway (SWR) informed that it will run additional trains from April 8 to 14 in view of the Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Employees (KSRTC) strike.Meanwhile, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday said he has fulfilled eight of the nine demands put forward by the workers union. He also appealed to the workers to end the strike as a salary hike of 8 per cent has also been considered."We will wait for one or two days and if they do not come we will take action, we are operating private buses for the convenience of the people," he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-transport-department-warns-of-action-against-ksrtc-others-over-strike-101617950757664.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to begin sero surveillance from Monday, 28,000 samples to be collected||After a gap of two months, Delhi is gearing up to conduct its sixth round of sero-surveillance from Monday, according to senior officials from the health department. The survey will measure the increase in the number of people exposed to the infection between January and April. The protocol followed for the current round of the survey will be the same as the previous round – just over 100 samples will be collected at random from each of the 272 municipal wards in the city. The total sample size will be 28,000. The fifth serological survey in Delhi to detect Covid-19 antibodies showed that 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled tested positive, the government said in February.Also Read | Herd immunity difficult to achieve: AIIMS director Randeep GuleriaThe questionnaire will ask for a history of vaccination and previous infection in people whose blood samples are collected to test for the presence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus. “The participants for the survey will be selected at random and not depending on whether they have been vaccinated. However, since the vaccination drive started between the two surveys, we will naturally ask the participants for their history of vaccination,” said a senior official from the health department, requesting anonymity. Without the information about a participant receiving the jab, there is no way of knowing whether the antibodies developed are due to an infection or vaccination. The test kits used for the surveillance are qualitative ones, meaning they can just tell whether a person has the antibodies or not. They cannot measure the level of the antibodies. “The kits used for sero-surveillance tel us whether a person has antibodies against Sars-CoV-2. Whether through vaccination or through natural infection, the antibodies developed are similar and protect against another infection. Also, if the researchers collect data on the date that a person received the shot, we might be able to guess after what time they develop antibodies,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital. The previous round of sero-surveillance, for which the data was collected between January 11 and 21, found that 56% of Delhi residents had antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The number was higher still in south-east district where the prevalence of antibodies was 62%. The experts had believed that the high sero-prevalence led to the slowing down of the disease spread in December and January. However, the infection has picked up pace again with cases surging in the city. Delhi reported 7,437 new cases of the infection on Thursday. Delhi’s first serological survey was done in June-July and it had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people had antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-begin-sero-surveillance-from-monday-28-000-samples-to-be-collected-101617949794565.html
09-04-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19 surge: Calcutta HC to hold hearings through hybrid mode till April 30||In view of the recent surge in the Covid-19 cases, the Calcutta High Court, on the recommendation of its Covid Committee, on Thursday decided to hold hearings through hybrid mode (both physical and virtual) from April 12 to 30, 2021 at principal seat at Kolkata and circuit benches at Jalpaiguri and Port Blair.A notification issued by the Court said, "Proceedings shall be held physically or virtually or in a hybrid of the two modes as per existing Notifications. Physical appearance and examination ofwitnesses in the suit court are postponed to a date after 30th April, 2021, subject to review of the Covid situation."The notification further stated that the Court shall only entertain applications, motions, admission of appeals and part-heard hearing matters, adding that other hearing matters shall be listed after April 30, 2021, on review of the Covid situation."Litigants are not permitted to enter the Court premises unless they have to appear in person or summoned by the Court. However, the litigants are permitted limited access on the ground floor for attestation of affidavits", it said.As per the notification, matters in the list of each Bench except the Benches dealing with bail and anticipatory bail application should be around 60."The Office bearers of the Bar are requested to advise their members to leave Court immediately after the matter in which they are appearing physically, is over. They are further requested to persuade any member having cold, cough or fever to abstain from attending Court." it further read.The Members of the Bar are requested to follow the Covid-19 norms, it added.Meanwhile, India witnessed the highest single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases, for the third consecutive day, after reporting over 1.31 lakh cases on Friday.According to the Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With this fresh surge, the total number of infections has reached 1,30,60,542.With 780 new Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, the toll in the country has mounted to 1,67,642.Currently, there are 9,79,608 active cases in the country.As many as 61,899 people were discharged or recovered on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 1,19,13,292.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-surge-calcutta-hc-to-hold-hearings-through-hybrid-mode-till-april-30-101617948302384.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 dose shortage hits vaccination drive in Mumbai: Report||Several vaccination centres across Mumbai, including a jumbo Covid-19 facility in business district BKC, suspended inoculation on Friday morning due to a shortage of doses, BMC sources said.The remaining centres are likely to suspend the vaccination drive by afternoon or evening as the available stock is fast depleting, according to the sources.Meanwhile, Mumbai is expected to get up to 1.80 lakh fresh doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Friday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) executive health officer Mangala Gomare told PTI.According to the sources, as many as 75 of the 120 centres, mainly at private hospitals, suspended vaccination on Friday morning due to unavailability of doses, while some other centres suspended the drive within a few hours after the stock got over.The jumbo Covid-19 centre at BKC, where the civic body has set up a mega inoculation facility, also suspended vaccination after administering less than 200 doses available in stock, a doctor from the centre said.On Thursday, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had told PTI that due to a shortage of doses, the vaccination drive will come to halt at all centres in Mumbai from Friday, and sought immediate supplies to replenish the existing stock.The civic body of Mumbai had claimed it had suspended vaccination at 25 centres in private hospitals on Thursday due to unavailability of doses.Asked about the situation, Gomare said the centres where vaccine doses have run out of stock have suspended the drive, but exact details were not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-dose-shortage-hits-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-report-101617948346904.html
09-04-2021||Bangalore||RTC employees strike in Karnataka enters third day, bus services hit||Bus services were hit in Karnataka for the third consecutive day on Friday, as the stalemate between the employees of the road transport corporations, who are on an indefinite strike on wage related issues, and the state government continued.With the government on Thursday evening reiterating that it was not possible to fulfil their demand for the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission report, RTC employees have decided to continue with the strike.As employees belonging to all the four transport corporations did not attend duty, buses continued to remain off the roads across the state, including Bengaluru, affecting daily commuters.Passengers travelling to and from distant areas and office-goers were the most affected.Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles were seen providing services to stranded passengers in different parts of the city and the state.However, the number of passengers using private buses continued to remain scarce in the city, as people were using their own vehicles or were seen using cabs, Metro and auto rickshaws, especially in the city areas, private operators said.Metro has increased the frequency of its services between 7 AM and 9 PM.Amid threats of ESMA and "no work no pay", very few RTC workers have returned to work and buses are said to be operating on some routes in the city along with police escort, sources said, adding that there are similar reports from few other places in the state.Transport Department Principal Secretary Anjum Parvez on Thursday had said as a temporary arrangement, employees who have retired in the last two years have been requested to come back to service."They should be physically fit, medical and eye tests will be done."Also requesting employees to get back to work, as the government has fuliffed 8 of their 9 demands and has decided for 8 per cent salary increase as an interim relief, he had said that per day loss because of the strike is about ₹20 crore.RTCs that have been warning employees about continuing with the strike, have started taking action against trainee employees and are issuing notice for absence from work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rtc-employees-strike-in-karnataka-enters-third-day-bus-services-hit-101617946735750.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||36 Pune traders booked for violating norms at protest against Covid restrictions||Following protests by shop owners against new Covid-19 restrictions, the Pune Police have booked 36 traders including Fatechand Ranka, the president of Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), for violating Covid-19 norms. The FIR was lodged at Vishrambaug police station late Thursday under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code based on a complaint given by police constable Ganesh Turke. “We lodged a police complaint on Thursday night against Fatehchand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association of Pune, and35 othersfor protesting on Laxmi Road on Thursday morning. Ranka and other traders gathered on Laxmi Road without maintaining proper social distancing. We have registered a case against the traders under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code,” said police inspector Sanjay Mogale of Vishrambaug police station.On Thursday, traders and shop owners took to the streets to protest against the new Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government to keep non-essential shops closed till April 30.While the traders vowed to open shops on Friday, they later postponed the decision till Monday if the government does not withdraw its lockdown order, said Ranka.Also Read | Maharashtra reports 56,286 new Covid-19 cases, 376 deaths“We wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar [on Wednesday] and conveyed our demand to allow us to reopen non-essential shops. We are ready to follow all protocols, so why this compulsion of closing non-essential shops just before the festive season?” said Ranka.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed teams to act against shopkeepers trying to reopen their establishments. “We have already asked shopkeepers to follow government directions given the seriousness of the situation. If there are any violations, we will act against shopkeepers based on the orders from state government,” said PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar. Darshan Rawal, secretary, United Hospitality Association, said, “The newly imposed restrictions are equal to a complete lockdown for us. The decision by the government is affecting lakhs of people.”Rahul Yemul, owner, Peshwai Creations, said, “Though our shop is closed, our daily expenses have increased. We have to pay for the salaries of our staff, electricity bills and shop maintenance. We will take all safety measures, but lockdown is not the solution.”Jetharam Tak, one of the workers at a cloth shop, said, “I am completely dependent on this job to earn for my family. All our savings have been used up in the last year due to the lockdown. Common public is suffering due to the pandemic, the government should not burden us more.”Meanwhile, hospitality associations organised silent protests, under the aegis of the United Hospitality Forum of Maharashtra, against the recent lockdown order.The campaign #MissionRoziRoti has gained momentum on social media with restaurateurs and hoteliers posting pictures, messages, and videos showing support and solidarity to the campaign.Maharashtra on Thursday reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases and 376 deaths, taking the tally to 3,229,547 and toll to 57,028. Active cases in the state have touched 521,317 while cumulative case fatality rate stands at 1.76%. On Wednesday, Maharashtra conducted a total of 236,815 tests, with a positivity rate of 23% for the day.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is likely to cross the 1,100,000 mark by April 30, if adequate measures, such as imposing restrictions on movement or business, are not imposed to control the spread of the virus, according to the state health department. This is being considered as the second wave in the state which began around February 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/36-pune-traders-booked-for-violating-norms-at-protest-against-covid-restrictions-101617946853894.html
09-04-2021||Other||Amid vaccine shortage, no inoculation in Maharashtra’s Pimpri-Chinchwad today||Municipal authorities in Maharashtra’s Pimpri Chinchwad on Friday said they have halted the Covid-19 inoculation drive in the city due to a shortage of vaccines.“We are trying to procure doses. Once they are available, vaccination will resume,” said Pavan Salve, additional health officer, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil that they run 60% of the 80 vaccination centres in the industrial city near Pune. Municipal authorities in Pune said they were continuing the inoculation and have 25,000 vaccine doses left.To be sure, while overall supplies may be there at the state level, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.At the 427 centres across the Pune district, 54,059 doses were administered on Thursday. In Pune city, 18,480 people were inoculated on Thursday at 130 centres.The world’s wealthiest countries are getting vaccinated 25 times faster.Also Read | The world’s wealthiest countries are getting vaccinated 25 times fasterSayali Wagh, 56, a local resident who had to return home without getting her jab said: “A notice board was placed outside the centre stating vaccination will not be done... Officials at the centre said that they are awaiting the doses and asked me to come tomorrow.”A civic official, who spoke on condition of anonymity said: “We are procuring excess doses from hospitals to supply vaccines to hospitals which have zero doses.”Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said they have received over 577,000 doses of vaccines.“...125 vaccination sites... are actively inoculating beneficiaries. We had 45,000 doses. And there are 25,000 doses remaining with us so far,” said Kumar. “Some hospitals in the city may not have the doses, but there was enough stock with Pune Municipal Corporation to continue smooth inoculation.”Maharashtra was among the states that on Thursday warned they would run out of coronavirus vaccines in the next few days and were forced to shut inoculation centres.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reiterated there was no shortage, and the country has over 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline. He called for “an end to fear-mongering”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-vaccine-shortage-no-inoculation-in-maharashtra-s-pimpri-chinchwad-today-101617946673510.html
09-04-2021||Other||Odisha to hand over unused govt buildings, ponds to women self-help groups||In more sops to the women self-help groups in Odisha, the Naveen Patnaik government on Thursday directed the district administrations to hand over unutilised government properties such as government building, shops, ponds to them so that they can use them.“All such unused government property in the block, panchayat and district levels should be handed over to the local Mission Shakti SHGs within two months. Once these assets are under the control of women SHGs, these groups will manage the unused property for the betterment of the locals and society,” said chief minister Naveen Patnaik.Incidentally, the announcement has come about a week before the bypolls to the crucial Pipili assembly seat. Though the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) held the seat, the party is facing a tough fight from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The move to give more work to the SHGs would definitely add to their confidence and provide more money in their hands. It’s a concrete step towards women empowerment and in line with chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s faith in women of Odisha carving a separate niche in the society,” said Pratap Deb, BJD spokesman.Though the women SHGs existed in Odisha in the 90s, they got a separate identity when the BJD, under chief minister Naveen Patnaik, rode to power in 2000. A year after becoming the CM, Patnaik started the Mission Shakti programme and began the formation of these SHGs. The self-help groups were started to organise women into groups for holistic empowerment and targeted livelihood activities. Today, there are a little over 6 lakh SHGs in Odisha under Mission Shakti with 70 lakh members.These SHGs take loans from banks and provide small non-agricultural loans to their members at a high interest rate, make packaged ready-to-eat fortified power food for children in anganwadi centres and look after the mid-day meal schemes of state’s schools.In 2020-21, at least 2 lakh SHGs were given credit linkages worth ₹3,411 crore. For SHG groups that take loans up to ₹3 lakh from banks and repay on time, the state government takes care of the interest payment. The government now plans to give interest-free loans, up to ₹5 lakh each, to these women SHGs instead of the current ₹3 lakh. The government is also planning to provide ₹50 lakh to each SHG federation in a block for the construction of special mission Shakti Griha.Also Read: Negative RT-PCR report compulsory for people coming to OdishaApart from providing small loans to the members, these SHGs are also engaged in a variety of works, including the collection of power tariff from consumers. A little more than a year ago, the government tied up with e-commerce platforms Amazon and Flipkart to help the SHG members gain access to a bigger market. An exclusive Mission Shakti e-commerce portal is also being developed in collaboration with the Tata Trusts to market women SHGs products online. In May 2019, the Naveen Patnaik government approved the provisioning of services and goods for different government departments through Mission Shakti, which would provide direct business worth ₹1,000 crore to the SHGs every year.The growth of SHGs in Odisha over the last 20 years is also matched by the rising participation of women in elections. In 2000, when Naveen Patnaik was first elected as the CM, only 55.6% of the women electorate cast their votes as against 63.8% of men voters. In 2019 polls, close to 75% of the women electorate exercised their franchise as opposed 71% men. Over the last several assembly polls, the BJD, backed by the women voters, has done well.Last year during the Covid-19 pandemic, SHG groups in urban areas were engaged as implementing partners under the Urban Wage Employment Initiative. Apart from this, around 400 SHGs manufactured over 3.3 million masks for distribution among people last year. During the Covid-19 lockdown, when dry ration and vegetable shops were shut in rural Odisha, these groups distributed more than 9 million cooked meals through the free kitchen centres managed by them in Odisha’s gram panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-to-hand-over-unused-govt-buildings-ponds-to-women-self-help-groups-101617941032339.html
09-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal govt reactivates Covid Patient Management System; daily count crosses 2k||The daily count of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal crossed the 2,000-mark earlier this week prompting the state government to reactivate its Covid Patient Management System (CPMS) in various hospitals The system allows effective monitoring of patients. West Bengal reported 2,783 new cases on Thursday and seven deaths. In early December 2020, the state had reported an almost equal number of cases. The daily number of cases dropped to around 130 in mid-February this year.“With cases surging, the CPMS has been reactivated. The system was launched in July 2020 for better management of Covid patients. The system also had an OTP-based interface that allowed family members of a Covid-19 to get regular update about their kin’s wellness,” said a senior official of the state government. All hospitals have been directed to log the details of Covid-19 patients in realtime and update the patient monitoring score at least four times a day. Also Read | Covid-19 in India: Hard lockdown ruled out, PM Modi says focus on testing“Hospitals have been directed to upload data related to the admission, treatment, discharge and death of a Covid-19 patient on the CPMS, including the early warning score and basic health parameters,” said a health department official. The system was put in place last year after several hospitals in Bengal drew flak from family members of Covid-19 patients who alleged that they were not getting any information about their kin undergoing treatment. At least 96 doctors were deployed and worked 24x7 to maintain the CPMS, including providing telemedicine to Covid-19 patients. Health experts have said that one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases in West Bengal are mass gatherings – road shows and public meetings - before the elections. “With elections going on, political parties are organising huge public rallies and roadshows every day and thousands of people are gathering together. Precautions such as social distancing and wearing masks have taken a back seat. Under such circumstances there has been a staggering rise in Covid-19 cases,” Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee that was set up in 2020 to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters, had said earlier this week. On February 26 when the Election Commission of India announced the poll schedule, there were 3,343 active cases in the state. On Thursday, the state reported 16,109 active cases in various state-run and private hospitals – a rise of nearly five times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-reactivates-covid-patient-management-system-daily-count-crosses-2k-101617938751919.html
09-04-2021||Other||Negative RT-PCR report compulsory for people coming to Odisha||With Odisha’s daily Covid-19 cases slowly inching towards 900, the state government on Thursday made it compulsory for incoming travellers to produce a negative RT-PCR report on their arrival. The report should be obtained not more than 72 hours before entry to the state. Besides, a Covid-19 negative report, a person can also produce a final vaccination certificate, an official order stated.In the order, the Special Relief Commissioner’s office said people coming to Odisha by any public transport, such as train, bus, aeroplane, or waterways etc., will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report obtained within 72 hours of entry or a final vaccination certificate (after two doses of vaccination). The SRC’s notification said people coming to Odisha without such a report shall have to undergo seven days of mandatory home or institutional quarantine.On Thursday, Odisha reported 879 new Covid cases.The state government has also suspended all public transport from Odisha to Chhattisgarh and vice versa till April 30. The transport department has been asked to set up Border Check Points at strategic locations/border entry points to manage the entry of incoming persons/vehicles.Meanwhile, Odisha chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra urged Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma to cancel all passenger trains, including local and mail/express from Chhattisgarh with effect from April 10. Mahapatra said Indian Railways should ensure that all passengers travelling to Odisha, from anywhere by train, must have an RT-PCR negative test report not more than 72 hours old from the date of journey or a second dose vaccination certificate.Though the Covid-19 situation in Odisha is not alarming, officials said the cross border movements of people may worsen the situation in almost all border districts of Odisha. There has been a significant surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh.The state government has authorised the collectors of Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Koraput, Malkangiri, Ganjam, Gajapati, Rayagada, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Balasore districts to set up and operationalise Temporary Medical Centres/Cluster Temporary Medical Centres as per the requirement to provide institutional quarantine facilities for people coming from other states. The expenditure for opening and running of such facilities shall be borne under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to release ₹300 crore to the state for the management of the upsurge in the Covid-19 pandemic.“During 2020-21, Odisha requested for ₹400 crores under the Emergency Covid Response Plan but we received only ₹146 crores. In view of the new wave of Covid, it is requested that at least ₹300 crores be released to Odisha for 2021-22 for Covid Management,” Patnaik said.The chief minister also raised the issue about vaccine supply and requested the Centre to ensure an advance release of at least 10 days’ stock of vaccines for Odisha.“Odisha has been doing well in vaccination program with among the lowest wastage in the country and efficient system of administering the vaccine to eligible beneficiaries,” the CM said. “We have not been able to ramp up the vaccination due to supply issues. We are currently able to vaccinate 2.5 lakh people daily and have the capability to increase further. We request for at least 10 days of vaccine stock for Odisha,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/negative-rt-pcr-report-compulsory-for-people-coming-to-odisha-101617937911662.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri border continue to remain closed||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remained fully closed on Friday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws. Along the Delhi-UP border, one carriageway of the Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway. In their advisory, the Delhi Police have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists after remaining closed for several weeks until late January. Also Read | ‘Was in wrong place at wrong time,’ says Deep Sidhu on R-Day violenceSome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continued to remain closed fully or partially. Traffic police officers also said that Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-border-continue-to-remain-closed-101617937371697.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Clear sky likely in Delhi today, air quality to improve||Delhi is likely to see a clear sky on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 18 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 19.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius—a degrees above normal. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 161. On Friday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 153 in the moderate category. Also Read | Mysterious plumes of methane gas appear over BangladeshAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has improved to moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and in a south-westerly direction. A marginal improvement in air quality is expected for the next two days (Friday and Saturday). AQI is forecasted to stay in the moderate category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-likely-in-delhi-today-air-quality-to-improve-101617936171942.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI records statements of Sachin Vaze, former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday recorded the statements of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil and suspended officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the corruption allegations made by the ex-top cop against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal was also summoned by the central agency on Thursday and CBI was recording his statements till the time of going to press.In his statement, Singh submitted the printout of Patil’s chat with him, in which the ACP mentioned meeting Deshmukh, said a CBI official.CBI had also summoned advocate Jaishri Patil on Thursday to record her further statement, but she couldn’t appear as she had to attend the hearing of the appeal filed by Maharashtra government and Deshmukh, challenging the Bombay high court (HC) order which directed the central agency to conduct preliminary inquiry into the corruption allegations. “Singh has also handed over some other documents as evidence. As of now, we have recorded statements of Jaishri Patil, Singh, Patil and Vaze, and are investigating further,” the official said.Patil, whose statements were recorded on Wednesday too, said she will be visiting the Defence Research and Development Organisation guest house on Friday to give CBI her statement.Meanwhile, the CBI moved the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, seeking direction to the NIA to share the records related to the investigation into the Antilia explosives case. The court will hear the plea on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-records-statements-of-sachin-vaze-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101617929546684.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: After Delhi, night curfews in Noida, Ghaziabad||District administrations in Noida and Ghaziabad on Thursday put in place curfews between 10pm and 5am till April 17 to arrest a surge in Covid-19 cases in the two Uttar Pradesh districts. All government and private educational institutions have also been barred from holding in-person classes till April 17.In separate orders, the two administrations said the movement of essential goods or commodities and medical and other essential services will be exempt from the restrictions.The order comes a day after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a videoconference with officials of 13 high Covid-19 caseload districts and two days after the Delhi government imposed similar restrictions.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY clarified that all examinations, including practicals, will be held according to the schedule and are exempt from the school closure order.“We will aggressively enforce rules regarding wearing of masks and social distancing at public places and workplaces,” he said.Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We will review the situation after April 17. With restrictions in place, we hope the spread of the infection will be checked.”Central and state government officials and health care staff will be exempt from the night restrictions. Pregnant women and those in need of medical help too are not covered under the restrictions, the orders by the two administrations said.Suhas LY said those travelling towards and from the airports, railway stations and bus terminals will have to produce a copy of their ticket. “Any violation of this order will lead to action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, 2005,” he said.According to the state health bulletin, the Covid-19 tally in Gautam Budh Nagar district mounted to 26,821 on Thursday, as 134 more people tested positive for the infection, the highest single-day rise this year.Ghaziabad, meanwhile, added 108 cases on Thursday.Experts said the restrictions will have a “limited impact” because the city has no major spots for night life and that movement is usually limited after 10pm in any case.“It acts as a deterrent against night life, parties, restaurants and even late-night functions. When people know that there are restrictions, they will automatically prefer not to move out. However, officials should also consider closing markets early. Further, since they have started marking containment zones, there should be restriction on movement of people. Otherwise, there will be no check on the spread of the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research.On April 3, the state government rolled out directions for surveillance in containment zones.“Instead of night restrictions, authorities should focus on enforcement of Covid protocol in markets, weekly markets and other public places besides the containment zones... There is also a need to increase vaccination coverage,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Ghaziabad wing of the Indian Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-after-delhi-night-curfews-in-noida-ghaziabad-101617912469030.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||We have no choice but to implement DBT for farmers, says Punjab FM Manpreet||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday said the state government has “no choice” but to implement the Centre’s mandated instruction on direct benefit transfer (DBT) of minimum support price (MSP) to farmers from the current procurement season that starts on April 10. Manpreet, after a lengthy discussion with Union food minister Piyush Goyal on this issue, said the Centre rejected the state government’s demand to give more time to implement DBT for farmers. Besides Manpreet, Punjab food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla and Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh were present in the meeting. “Punjab ministers in the meeting agreed to implement the DBT for farmers from this season,” Union food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey told PTI. The Centre and Punjab, however, were able to reach a common ground on the issue of extension to the new system of giving farad (land record) at time of procurement of the produce, recovery of pending rural development fund (RDF) of the previous kharif procurement and release of incidental payments to the tune of Rs. 1,500 crore. “We had sought more time because in Punjab there is a traditional arhtiya system. ....But the GoI dismissed our demand. We tried a lot but they did not listen,” Badal told reporters after 2.30 hours of meeting. “We will have to implement the DBT for farmers from the current season itself and a new mechanism will be worked out,” he added. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called a meeting with ‘arthiyas’ (commission agents) on Friday to discuss about a new mechanism ahead of wheat procurement that will commence from April 10. Punjab procures wheat and rice at MSP on behalf of the central government under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Currently, MSP to farmers in Punjab is paid through arthiyas unlike directly to farmers’ bank accounts in other states. Citing reasons for rejecting Punjab’s demand, Badal said the central government was arguing that the food stock procured belongs to it and the state government is just an agent and should make payment directly to farmers. Union minister Goyal said the arhtiyas’ role in the procurement process will continue and they will get a fixed commission of ₹48 per quintal. However, the arhtiyas in Punjab said they will go on strike from April 10 and boycott the procurement process. “We will shut mandi operations and not allow procurement to take place,” said VK Kalra, head of a faction of arhtiyas’ association. There are 33,000 arhtiyas in the state and they are considered money bags for the political class for the reason that they handle the MSP to the tune of ₹60,000 crore every year for two procurements in rabi and kharif season and a 2% commission which make a whopping ₹1,200 crore. “Tomorrow, the CM will meet arthiyas and take them into the loop. We will develop a system that will give some protection to arhtiyas,” said Ashu. He said said the Centre has agreed to defer implementation of land records integration (required to track land ownership of farmers during procurement) by six months. On release of pending RDF to state, the minister said about 2% RDF is fixed for Punjab. The state is getting only 1% and the rest 2% is pending. “GoI is not happy with the justification given by us. They assured that GoI will release arrear of 2% fee if the state government gives a credible justification on where the funds have been spent,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/we-have-no-choice-but-to-implement-dbt-for-farmers-says-punjab-fm-manpreet-101617912348777.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases gallop in Capital: Delhi adds 7,437 infections, most since Nov 19||Cases of the coronavirus disease in Delhi are currently rising at a rate not seen even during the worst phases of the previous three waves of Covid-19 in the Capital, indicating that the fourth wave of infections is well on course to break all previous records, shows data analysed by HT.On Thursday, Delhi reported 7,437 new Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day increase in cases since November 19, even as the Covid-19 positivity rate – the fraction of tests that return positive – continued to rise and touched 8.1%.For the week ending on April 8, Delhi has now reported 4,684 new infections every day on average, the highest the seven-day average has touched since December 1. While in absolute numbers, this is the worst case rate in over three months, the numbers get far more alarming in terms of rate of increase.Just seven days ago, the seven-day average of daily cases was just 1,783. This means that in just a week, the rate of new infections has increased by 163%.This is a week-on-week growth rate much higher than what was witnessed in Delhi during any of the first, second or third waves, data shows. During the first wave (between early May and early July), the seven-day average of cases peaked at 3,446 and the week-on-week growth touched a high of 101%. In the second wave, which peaked at 4,174 cases in mid-September, the growth rate never went beyond 58%. Even during the third wave, when the seven-day average of new cases soared to 7,341 in mid-November, the week-on-week growth rate remained under 40%.A growth rate of 163% is the largest rate of increase in cases witnessed in the Capital since the first week of April last year. To be sure, in April 2020, the outbreak in India was just a month old (the first batch of cases were reported on March 3) and the volume of cases was significantly lower — Delhi was reporting around 50 new cases a day then.In fact, if cases stay on this course of growth for one more week, then the city may be reporting more than 10,000 cases a day — far beyond the third wave’s peak.The case-spike has the state government and experts worried.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said, “The pace at which cases are increasing, we worry it might break the previous record. We cannot say anything for sure, but many other states have a higher positivity rate than Delhi.”The Capital added a record 8,593 cases on November 11, at the peak of the third wave of the infection in the city.Jain said the vaccination drive needed to be sped up and that the Delhi government has written to the Centre urging them to allow vaccinations for everyone above the age of 18.The Centre on Wednesday allowed states to start vaccination drives at workplaces, to speed up the pace of inoculations.The positivity rate in the city has also increased rapidly. Just a week ago, the positivity rate was 3.57%, while it was 1.8% seven days before that.Delhi’s positivity rate remained 1% for 82 days before it breached the threshold on March 20.“Infections are increasing rapidly. The virus is clearly transmitting faster. One of the reasons for the faster spread of the infection is that young people are out and about. It makes a lot of a difference. For example, young people tend to speak louder; it has already been established the louder you speak the farther the viral particle spreads. It can travel up to six metres and not just two metres that we ask people to maintain,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). He headed the Delhi government’s first committee on Covid-19 control and management.He also said that eating together increased the risk of transmission several times.“If you are eating together in restaurants and offices, the risk of transmission goes up. Statistics from the district of Columbia in Washington DC showed that there was a 10-fold increase in the number of cases and five-fold increase in the number of deaths 100 days after restaurants were opened up,” he said.Meanwhile, 37 doctors treating Covid-19 patients at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital tested positive for Covid-19, hospital officials said, adding that the majority of them had mild symptoms. Thirty two doctors are in home isolation, and five are admitted in the hospital.HC stops hybrid hearings after spikeThe Delhi high court and the city’s seven district courts have stopped hybrid hearings (physical and virtual) till April 23 and will only hear cases through video conferencing from Friday in the wake of a sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 infections in the city.In a notification, Manoj Jain, registrar of the Delhi high court, said that the full court of the Delhi HC has decided to take up cases virtually “in view of the alarming rise in the Covid-19 cases in the NCT of Delhi”.“….this Court shall, with effect from April 9, take up matters as per the existing arrangement with regard to listing of cases, through virtual mode only, till April 23,” the order read.“All the courts of Joint Registrar (Judicial) shall also, with effect from April 9, hold courts through virtual mode only, till April 23,” it added.The courts in the city had earlier started physical hearing from March 15. However, it later switched to hybrid hearings after requests from lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-gallop-in-capital-delhi-adds-7-437-infections-most-since-nov-19-101617911888169.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls not referendum to my 3-year rule: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday said that to interpret the outcome of the MC polls as a referendum to his three-year rule would be an unfair assessment. “Elections to the municipal corporation are different. Here issues are local and national issues do not count,” Thakur said, while blaming the Congress for running a vicious campaign against the party. Thakur said his government had upgraded the nagar panchayats in Solan, Palampur and Mandi for the planned development of towns. “My party has won the elections in Mandi with overwhelming support and is close to victory in Dharamshala . We accepted the challenge to hold elections on party symbols. Congress has little reason to be elated as the BJP has emerged victorious in the elections,” he said, adding that the outcome of the elections will not have any bearing on future politics. He said rebellion had hampered the party’s prospects in Solan, Palampur and Dharamshala. “There have been some shortcomings. We will assess and rectify them,” he said. Hints action against Mandi MLA Jai Ram hinted that action will be taken against BJP’s Mandi legislator Anil Sharma for defying the party dictate during the MC polls. “The high command will initiate action against Sharma. I do not want to say much as his state is pitiable. We already threw him out from the cabinet,” said the CM, in response to a question at a press conference in Shimla . Thakur was flanked by state party chief Suresh Kashyap , Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, health minister Rajiv Sehjal and party general secretary Trilok Jamwal. Four-time legislator Anil Sharma was not included in the any of the poll panels. He has been sidelined by the party ever since his son Ashray contested to Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket and he was compelled to quit the cabinet. Sharma had launched an offensive against the CM during the campaign and countered him over lack of development in Mandi town. “What should I say about Anil as BJP won from his home ward and from the adjoining one,” he said. Sharma’s defiance had become cause for embarrassment for BJP in polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-polls-not-referendum-to-my-3-year-rule-jai-ram-101617912229373.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas’ strike against online payment halts wheat procurement||Ambala/Karnal The wheat procurement that started on April 1 in the state came to a halt on Thursday as the commission agents (arhtiyas) started their indefinite strike against the direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode of payment to farmers. The strike was announced after a state-level meeting of arhtiyas in Karnal on Tuesday. On the first day of the strike, negligible wheat procurement took place at Ambala grain markets by 3pm. Situation was the same in Karnal and Kurukshetra mandis. In Ambala, around 50 gate passes were issued at Gate No. 1 to the farmers, who unloaded their produce under the sheds but no other work was initiated by the commission agents. President of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas’ Association Ashok Gupta made it clear that their strike will continue until the government withdraws the order to pay farmers directly. “We don’t know why the government is adamant on DBT. We want the government to leave this decision on the farmers as done last year,” he said. Farmers, on the other hand, accused the government and arhtiyas of harassing them. “Both the government and the arhtiyas are harassing farmers. Harvesting is picking up and the arhtiyas have declared the strike,” said farmer Ramesh Kumar, who was waiting for buyers at Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra district. Dhuni Chand, president of a body representing commission agents, said the online payment will affect all and it doesn’t benefit farmers. “The farmers will be allowed to come to the mandis but no loading or packing of their produce will be done by labourers,” he said. A group of labourers who were relaxing under a shed at Ambala City grain market said they were bound to follow the orders of arhtiyas. “We don’t know the issue exactly but we can’t go anywhere. We are sitting idle since morning and they’ll call us late at night to start packing,” one of them said. Dilbar Singh, a farmer from Sambhalkha village of Ambala, said he was aware of the strike but had to come to the mandi to unload his crop. Ambala deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said despite the strike, procurement was initiated at some purchase centres in Naraingarh and Naneola around 2:30pm. The Haryana Arhtiyas’ Association demanded that the farmers be given an option to choose the mode of payment. Government officials said they were planning to start the procurement with the help of depot holders. On Thursday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a video conference told the deputy commissioners and officers of the procurement agencies that the government has already accepted the demand of commission agents to clear their pending commission and labour charges with interest. He asked the officials to hold talks with arhtiyas. He also asked them to ensure that all the farmers of the state got registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Bayora’ portal. Commission agents divided In Karnal, a group of around 200 arhtiyas decided to join the procurement operations after a meeting with deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. “We have decided to start procurement operations as the government has responded positively to our demands. Strike is not a solution and the arhtiyas should not harass farmers,” said commission agent Dharambir Singh Pada, president of arhtiyas’ association at Karnal grain market. Accusing Ashok Gupta of misleading the commission agents and harassing farmers, Pada said the option to choose mode of payment should be given to the farmers but strike is not a solution. Also, the government also started disbursement of payment directly into the bank accounts of farmers on Thursday. Several farmer unions in the state have already come in the support of the direct payment to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arhtiyas-strike-against-online-payment-halts-wheat-procurement-101617912173744.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Transfer forest land for BKC, Dharavi stations for Metro-3’||The Maharashtra government recently directed that two patches of mangrove forest in Dharavi and Bandra-Kurla Complex – measuring 0.34hectares and 0.91hectares, respectively – be handed over to the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) to build the BKC and Dharavi stations on the Metro-3 (Colaba-SEEPZ) line. Officials in the forest department clarified that the handover will be made “at the earliest” by the mangrove cell. Stage 1 and stage 2 clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (1980) had already been granted by the MoEFCC’s regional office in 2017 and 2019. “What remains is for the land to be handed to the user agency, namely the MMRCL, so that work can proceed. The land will be transferred shortly by the DFO, MMCU. All other clearances, including CRZ and permission from the High Court for diversion of mangroves, are in order,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF), mangrove cell. As per guidelines laid down by the National Green Tribunal, the user agency is mandated to issue a public notice so that any objections may be directed by citizens and interest groups to the NGT directly. The MMRCL issued a public notice on April 8, along with copies of the Stage 1 and 2 clearance (which are also available on its website). The clearances were issued in 2017 and 2019, followed by the state government order for transfer of land on March 23. Official estimates suggest that about 1,000 mangrove trees will be cleared in total for both stations. To mitigate this loss, the MMRCL had submitted an in-situ mangrove conservation plan to the forest department. In addition to this, the MMRCL has been directed to plant 5,000 mangrove trees at an alternate site for compensatory afforestation. Land transferred for creek bridgeIn a boost to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) Vasai-Bhayander creek bridge project, the Central government’s Department for promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) has transferred a 9.86-hectare land parcel to the state government’s urban development department for construction of the bridge. MMRDA, on Thursday, called the move a major breakthrough for the project that is expected to cut travel time between the Vasai and Bhayander by 45 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transfer-forest-land-for-bkc-dharavi-stations-for-metro3-101617911988159.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Ransomware attack on MIDC server: Attack origin traced to Russia-Kazakhstan||The ransomware attack on the server of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), which disrupted the functioning at the MIDC’s head office in Mumbai and 16 other regional offices last month, was carried out somewhere in Russia-Kazakhstan, investigation of the cyber police station has revealed. However, the cyber police are yet to identify the perpetrators. On March 21 at 2.30am, a ransomware, SYNack, attacked the MIDC system. The attack was on the local server system to take unauthorised access of the computer system of MIDC and encrypted data. Because of this, MIDC personnel could not use the system data for over a week. This also damaged the computers at the corporation’s 16 regional offices. The email sent by the attackers explained the kind of attack and their demand for ransom, the police said. Ten days later, MIDC filed an official complaint with the cyber police on April 1. It is being alleged that the hackers had demanded ₹500 crore ransom, however neither the police nor the MIDC officials have confirmed the amount. “The technical investigation indicated the attack’s origin could be Russia-Kazakhstan region. Efforts are being taken to know the exact location,” a senior police officer part of the investigation told HT. After the attack, all computers were disconnected from the server. The corporation also asked all its departments to shut the system and not to switch on the computers until the issues were resolved completely. This had caused disruption of services across the state. Earlier, MIDC has claimed that all their systems were hosted on the ESDS (cloud service provider) and local server of the corporation and for security and maintenance purpose, the corporation was using a well-known anti-virus. The corporation claimed that as backup files of its website, Single Window Clearance system, Building Plan Approval Management System (BPAMS), ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), computerised land distribution system, water bills, etc. are stored on different networks, they are all safe. Later, the services were restored completely. A team of cyber police officials had visited the MIDC office, made enquiries with the technical staff there to understand the nature of attack. Earlier, an attempted cyber sabotage allegedly by a Chinese state-sponsored cyber threat group had caused massive power outage in Mumbai last October. Then home minister Anil Deshmukh had said that the Maharashtra cyber police had found evidence which suggested that the grid failure in Mumbai on October 12 last year, which resulted in the city plunging into darkness, disrupting train services and shutting down the stock market, was likely to be a cyber sabotage. The New York Times, citing a report by a US-based cybersecurity firm, had claimed the Chinese-state sponsored groups had targeted power sector in India with malware. This came months after the clash between troops of the two nations in Galwan valley in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ransomware-attack-on-midc-server-attack-origin-traced-to-russiakazakhstan-101617911928707.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Less than 1% Maha e-waste recycled last year’||Of the total quantum of electronic waste generated in Maharashtra last year, less than 1% was recycled, suggests data with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board. This was revealed 8 during a webinar on waste management, organised by a consortium of three advocacy groups along with the Maharashtra environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara initiative on Thursday.According to records maintained by the MPCB for 2019-20, 975.25 tonnes of e-waste were recycled during the financial year 2019-20 by nine empanelled recyclers. Another 11,015.49 tonnes was dismantled (and is awaiting recycling) by 90 empanelled dismantlers. However, as per the MPCB’s own estimate -- which was modelled using techniques laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board -- the state produced approximately 10,00,000 tonnes of e-waste during the same period. Satish Sinha, associate director, Toxic Links, one of the three groups, said, “A majority of it is handled by the informal sector, which is illegal.”Nandakumar Gurav, a regional officer with the MPCB, said, “The data suggests that a disproportionately large quantity of e-waste is being handled by the informal sector. We have issued directions to every urban local body to streamline the collection and treatment process as per the Centre’s e-waste management rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/less-than-1-maha-e-waste-recycled-last-year-101617911928084.html
09-04-2021||Other||Central teams visit three Punjab districts to review covid scenario||Separate teams of experts from the Centre arrived in Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Hoshiarpur of Doaba on Thursday to review the covid-19 situation. In Hoshiarpur district, where the number of infections have grown alarmingly with 611 deaths to date, the two-member expert team held a meeting with civil, police and health department officials in the mini-secretariat and gathered information on positive cases, micro-containment zones and isolation monitoring mechanism. The team comprising Aparna Pandey, advisor, National Centre for Disease Control, and Ashok Singh, a professor of Lady Hardinge College, Delhi, said it would visit hospitals, community health centres and containment zones to review the on-ground situation. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district, two experts from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi, had arrived, confirmed civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor.In Jalandhar district, state health department officials said the team had reached and will study the impact of UK strain on symptomatic patients and review the situation for the next three days. A Central team is scheduled to visit Kapurthala on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-teams-visit-three-punjab-districts-to-review-covid-scenario-101617911872476.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||CBI frames charges against 8 in 2017 double murder case||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has framed charges in the January 2017 double murder at Chautala village in Haryana’s Sirsa district, where two men were gunned down at a kinnow waxing plant. The court of Sushil Kumar Garg, the special CBI judge at Panchkula, framed charges under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against Chhotu Ram Bhat, Mahendra, alias Gangajal, Sukhwinder, alias Minda, Mukhram, alias Kalu, Sukhdeep Singh, Harsimrandeep Singh and Sukhpreet Singh, alias Budha. Charges under Section 506, read with Section 149, of the IPC were also framed against Ravinder.“A prima facie case for commission of offences punishable under Section 25 of the Arms Act is made out against accused Harsimrandeep Singh, Sukhpreet Singh, Chhotu Ram Bhat, Mukhram and Mahendra,” the court said. The case was argued by senior public prosecutor KP Singh. The court summoned prosecution witnesses on the next date of hearing on July 16. The accused, who are in jail, will be produced through video-conference. In January 2017, Satbir Punia, 40, and Amit Saharan, 38, were gunned down in the office of a kinnow waxing plant of Pradeep Godara at Chautala village. The assailants came in a vehicle and started firing indiscriminately on entering the office where Satbir and Amit were sitting. The FIR was registered at Dabwali Sadar police station on January 12, 2017. In 2018, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the CBI to probe, after Navina, the wife of Amit Saharan, requested for transferring the investigation of the case. The CBI filed a chargesheet on December 15, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-frames-charges-against-7-in-2017-double-murder-case-101617911871302.html
09-04-2021||Other||More trouble is in store for Maharashtra govt||Even as it is struggling to handle the Covid-19 surge in the state, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is battling the political crisis following the allegations levelled by former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh and now suspended police officer Sachin Vaze. MVA also suffered a setback on Thursday after the Supreme Court (SC) refused to stay the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe ordered by the Bombay high court into the corruption allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Latest in the row faced by the ruling coalition are the allegations made by Vaze, who is in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his role in the Antilia explosives case. Echoing the charges made by Singh, Vaze in a letter has claimed that the top MVA ministers had asked him to extort money from entrepreneurs and establishments. He named Deshmukh and transport minister Anil Parab in the letter. With SC allowing the CBI inquiry, MVA will have to face further embarrassment, as Deshmukh would be called for the same in the coming days. While Deshmukh had to resign as home minister following HC’s order for probe against him, another minister, Sanjay Rathod, who handled the forest portfolio, had to step down after his name was dragged in a case pertaining to the suicide of a Tiktok star in Pune. The allegations made by Vaze have given fresh salvo to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Thursday, Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, in a press conference, demanded the resignation of MVA government on the grounds that Vaze’s letter has exposed the coalition government. He also made a scathing attack by terming MVA as “Maha Vasooli Aghadi” and said the common minimum programme (CMP) of the coalition government is to “collect money through the police.” “The Vaze controversy, planting of a bomb by police and “vasooli” by the home minister of a state … the list goes on. Such pervasive corruption shows the character of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra. They have no right to remain in power and we demand their resignation,” Javadekar said in Delhi. State BJP also stepped up its attack on MVA, with party chief Chandrakant Patil saying that the allegations by Vaze and Singh are related to “organised crime” by ministers, and need to be probed under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca). “If the evidence comes out on paper, provisions of Mcoca will have to be invoked for investigation against MVA ministers... Maharashtra is a fit case for imposing President’s rule,” Patil told reporters, adding that two more ministers will have to resign in the coming two weeks. Responding to the allegations, state Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil said that people have started believing that BJP is behind all the developments, as BJP leaders seem to be knowing what will happen next. “People have started believing that those [BJP] who want to dispel MVA government are behind these allegations. BJP leaders were saying that they will take more wickets [force more ministers to resign] in the next two-three days and then the media gets a letter from NIA written by Vaze, in which he has made allegations against some more ministers. Therefore, it appears that first BJP leaders had created an environment of suspicion and then NIA disclosed some information. Whether this means probe or politics needs to be investigated,” Patil said, casting aspersions on the role of the central investigation agencies in the entire issue. Political analyst Prakash Bal said that BJP wants to bring down MVA government, which is now obvious, but the MVA government, especially chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, is not confronting them and without it BJP will not back down. “Thackeray should have at least taken up the issue of vaccination shortage. The way Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan castigated the Maharashtra government, Thackeray should have come out openly and said that the Centre is not providing them with adequate vaccine doses to deliberately create a crisis in the state,” Bal said, pointing out to fresh clashes between MVA government and the Centre after state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday pointed out the shortfall of vaccine doses in the state which has led to shutting down of vaccination centres in many parts of the state. Responding to it, Dr Harsh Vardhan said he has been witnessing “misgovernance and utter casual approach on part of Maharashtra government in battling the virus” throughout the year.” Bal added, “The MVA government is failing to take BJP head on. Unless they become aggressive, BJP will try to push them to the wall. TMC (Trinamool Congress) chief Mamata Banerjee is a perfect example for them [MVA] as she is facing a similar situation in West Bengal but is fighting back fiercely.” On Thursday, the state crossed the 3.2 million-mark after 56,286 new cases took the tally to 3,229,547. The death toll breached the 57,000-mark after 376 fatalities on Thursday took the figures to 57,028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-trouble-is-in-store-for-maharashtra-govt-101617911808731.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-manager, aide held for defrauding KCC Bank of ₹2.39 crore||A former Kangra Central Cooperative (KCC) Bank manager and his aide were arrested on Thursday for defrauding the bank of ₹2.39 crore through forged records in 2017. The accused banker has been identified as Kamal Dev Bhogal, who has already been dismissed from service and the co-accused Sandeep Kumar is a primary school teacher.The arrests were made by the Himachal Pradesh State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), vigilance, Sagar Chand said the enquiry revealed that Bhogal had fraudulently created cash credit limit (CCL) accounts in the name of 10 persons and also prepared false loan applications for ₹20 lakh in the branch where he was posted.The loans were sanctioned by Bhogal and the loan amounts credited in the CCL accounts were fraudulently withdrawn without the knowledge of the persons holding such accounts. All the loans were sanctioned within a span of 12 days. Of the 10 people on whose name the CCL accounts were created have been traced and have denied having signed any loan paper. Addresses of the people on whose name these loans were sanctioned belonged to Bhadsali village of Haroli sub-division. The scam was busted when some these people got bank notice for defaulting on instalments.The enquiry also revealed Kumar who had acted as guarantor for each of the 10 loans had mortgaged his property worth ₹ 5 lakh for each loan against which a combined loan of ₹ 2 crore was obtained. Further, the guarantor sold this land in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exmanager-aide-held-for-defrauding-kcc-bank-of-2-39-crore-101617911748896.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Assault on Anil Vij’s brother: State govt reinstates suspended DIG Ashok Kumar||Ambala Two months after Ambala Range deputy inspector general (DIG), vigilance, Ashok Kumar, was suspended after being booked for allegedly assaulting Kapil Vij, the brother of Haryana home minister Anil Vij, the state government reinstated him on Thursday. In an order issued by additional chief secretary Rajiv Arora, the 54-year-old officer was reinstated at Ambala itself. During his suspension announced on February 9, Kumar was posted at the office of RTC, Bhondsi in Gurugram. His suspension order was issued on the day he was granted interim bail by the court of additional sessions judge Sundeep Singh that had asked him to join the investigation within three days. The 2006-batch IPS officer was booked under various sections of the IPC on Feb 7 after a verbal spat with Kapil Vij. “I was attending a birthday party at Sirhind Club where Kumar was also invited. The officer under the influence of alcohol and without any provocation started abusing me and my family, and also threatened me of dire consequences. Kumar said he was DIG vigilance and nobody could harm him. He also made obscene gestures at me while leaving,” Kapil Vij had said in his complaint. Kumar’s counsel Satinder Singh Garg, while appearing in the court denied the allegations and placed four photographs on record. Three purportedly showed Kumar was not having alcohol and the fourth showed complainant (Kapil Vij) sitting at a table with a glass of drink in front of him. It was also alleged by Garg that the complainant was misusing the position of his brother Anil Vij and had rudely told Kumar to serve him at the party. While, Kumar had joined the investigation after reporting to the Ambala Cantt police station two days after the court order, several protests by his community groups were held in neighbouring districts in his favour. Kumar had been reportedly trying to bring an end to the controversy and had also met Anil Vij at his residence last month. However, both the parties refused to speak to the media on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assault-on-anil-vij-s-brother-state-govt-reinstates-suspended-dig-ashok-kumar-101617911690368.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||2019 Hoshiarpur firing case: HC grants bail to gangster Binny Gujjar, co-accused||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to gangster Deepak Kumar, alias Binni Gujjar in a case involving a firing incident at the house of a liquor contractor in Hoshiarpur in December 2019. The court had taken up the petition of Gujjar and his co-accused Saurav Jindal who also given bail. The firing was allegedly carried out after Naresh Aggarwal, the liquor trader, did not pay a ransom. Gujjar was stated to be the mastermind of the incident, police had claimed. The incident took place on December 20 that year when some unidentified persons started firing outside Aggarwal’s house. A case of extortion and attempt to murder was registered the next day at the Model Town police station in Hoshiarpur. In the high court, Gujjar argued that he was lodged in jail at the time of incident, said lawyer Mandeep Kaushik. The police had named Gujjar and others as accused on the basis of a confessional statement of one Paras Sharma who had told court that he was in touch with the gangster through WhatsApp and that the latter ordered the firing and arranged for weapons and transport.The police had argued that both are habitual offenders were involved in multiple cases and hence bail should not be granted to them.The court observed that veracity of the confessional statement would be tested during the trial and also it remained unexplained as how Gujjar had access to a mobile phone in jail. It also took note of the fact that both the accused have been behind bars since more than a year. The trial will take some time to conclude as charges have not been framed, the court said allowing their bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2019-hoshiarpur-firing-case-hc-grants-bail-to-gangster-binny-gujjar-coaccused-101617911691336.html
09-04-2021||Other||Probe against Anil Deshmukh: Experts say Maharashtra govt panel’s findings to be redundant||More than 10 days after the single-member committee was appointed under retired justice KU Chandiwal to probe the allegations levelled against former home minister Anil Deshmukh, the investigation is yet to begin.A section of the state leadership and legal experts feel that the probe by the committee has become redundant after the Bombay high court (HC) on March 5 ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the allegations. However, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to go ahead with the probe by the committee, constituted on March 30, to investigate into the allegations of corrupt malpractices by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The government has been told that the findings of the panel would have limited legal standings as the CBI probe would have wider scope. “There are instances of parallel investigation by such committees in the past too. We also have checked with justice Chandiwal if he still wishes to continue with the probe after the HC order. The orders related to the remuneration, office space and other logistical assistance will soon be issued,” said an official from Mantralaya.Former advocate general Shreehari Aney said the Chandiwal committee will no more serve its purpose. “The CBI inquiry does not stop government from going ahead with the probe by the committee but it has become redundant in law as CBI’s scope of investigation is much larger than that of the committee. CBI’s findings would result in prosecution, whereas the Chandiwal committee’s findings are just fact findings in nature. It would be ultimately the prerogative of the state whether to accept it or make it public. I fear in the given case, one might be confronted with two different reports on fact,” said Aney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-against-anil-deshmukh-experts-say-maharashtra-govt-panel-s-findings-to-be-redundant-101617911688711.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,600kg lahan, 3 stills seized from two Amritsar villages, one held||A joint team of police and excise department on Thursday recovered 3,600kg lahan (raw material used for making liquor), 30 litre illicit liquor, 26 drums along with three stills from Chak Mishri Khan and Khiala Kalan villages of Amritsar district in an early morning raid.The raid was conducted in the wake of unearthing of illicit liquor manufacturing rackets in the two villages days ago. Sandeep Singh of Khiala Kalan was arrested in this connection while two of his accomplices are absconding, officials said. The stills were being operated from three houses — two in Khiala Kalan and one in Chak Mishri Khan. Two of the stills are electric and they can process large quantities of liquor, they added.Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said they got a tip-off that some people were still running the illegal trade in the two villages. A team comprising police and excise officials was formed to carry out the raid, he added.“Our teams are also been working to attach the assets acquired by the accused through the illegal trade. A case under various sections of the Excise Act was registered against the accused,” he said. On March 27, a high-profile illicit liquor manufacturing racket was busted at Chak Mishri Khan and four persons were arrested with 116 tonne lahan, 400 litre illicit liquor, 10 stills among other items.Also, an illicit liquor manufacturing unit was busted at Khiala Kalan on March 1 and 110-tonne lahan and 1,780-litre illicit liquor were recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3600kg-lahan-3-stills-seized-from-two-amritsar-villages-one-held-101617911573160.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers will maintain discipline while marching to Parliament: SKM leader Charuni at Batala rally||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday said the farmers will maintain discipline while taking out a march to Parliament next month to make the central government heed to their demands. Addressing a ‘kisan rally’ at the grain market in Gurdaspur district’s Batala to mobilise farmers and labourers for the agitation against the three agriculture laws, Charuni said, “The Centre has not held talks with us over the issue for the last two-and-a-half months. The farmers and labourers have common concerns. First, the government passed anti-labourer laws and then anti-farmer legislations. Some corporate houses want to rule over all sections of society. These big companies will swallow small businesses. We need to fight them together.”The SKM will hold programmes on the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar on April 14 and on May 1 to mark Labour Day under the leadership of labourers, he said. “We are reaping what we had sown. We don’t think before voting for anyone. We always vote for a professional politician who considers politics business. We never vote for those who fight for civil rights. Or we vote for singers and actors. For instance, you voted for actor Sunny Deol and the result is in front of you. We must introspect,” he added. During the protest, the farmers should not use force against the police and other government officials who merely perform their duty, he said.Apart from SKM leaders, Punjabi singers such as Kamal Khan, Resham Anmol, Bir Singh, Debi Makhsoospuri, and Haryana youth farmer leader Navdeep Singh also addressed the gathering.Covid-19 guidelines were not adhered to during the rally with majority of the protesters seen without masks. Social distancing was not maintained either. There is no coronavirus when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses election rallies, some farmer leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-will-maintain-discipline-while-marching-to-parliament-skm-leader-charuni-at-batala-rally-101617911570447.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Moga ASI, constable dismissed for helping gangster get passport||The services of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a constable were terminated for clearing the name of a gangster during the passport verification process in 2017 even as he had at least 7 cases registered against him at the time. The gangster, Sukhdool Singh, alias Sukha, who hails from Duneke village of Moga district, had flown to Canada the same year. Sukha was even listed as a proclaimed offender (PO) in two cases at the time of making his passport. The ASI, Prabhdyal Singh, was posted in the human trafficking branch while constable Gurwinder Singh was deployed in the uniform branch of the Moga police. An official said in 2017, ASI Prabhdyal was posted as a passport inquiry officer while Gurwinder was at the Sadar police station. The incident came to the fore when former Moga deputy mayor Jarnail Singh received threat calls from some gangsters and lodged a police complaint. Sukha allegedly issued threats to Jarnail not to contest the Moga municipal corporation (MC) polls, it is learnt.“He (Sukha) asked me to not contest from ward number 49. He also made threat calls to my relatives,” Jarnail said.Superintendent of police (headquarters) Gurdeep Singh said, “The action was taken against the ASI and the constable after a departmental inquiry was conducted against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-asi-constable-dismissed-for-helping-gangster-get-passport-101617911568649.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to up antigen testing as Covid cases soar||The Punjab government has decided to increase antigen testing citing sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the last couple of days even as the Centre has raised questions on some states banking heavily on such tests instead of the RT-PCR method. Punjab’s virus positivity rate till the week ending April 7 was found to be as high as 7.6%. Senior health department officials involved in Covid-19 management said so far the state had capped antigen at 10% of the total tests. “As the state’s positivity rate is increasing and the government has set daily testing target at 45,000, we have decided to raise antigen to 25% of the total tests,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. As per the Union health ministry’s guidelines, antigen testing should not be more than 30% of the total tests. “The accuracy level of antigen test is nearly 30% as it can show false negative results. But since cases are increasing quickly, we have to rely on antigen testing in which reports come within half an hour. It will help in early detection of cases. Moreover, if a person is found negative, we send their samples for RT-PCR tests as well,” Dr Bhaskar said. The results of the RT-PCR testing, which has much higher level of accuracy, take at least 48 hours to arrive.The state on Wednesday conducted 44,250 tests, the daily highest so far, with average daily growth rate of new infections in the week from March 31 to April 7 touching 1.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-up-antigen-testing-as-covid-cases-soar-101617911513243.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Poll outcome suggests strong undercurrent against BJP: Rathore||After bagging Solan and Palampur municipal corporations, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the poll outcome was a referendum for the policies of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government.In a scathing attack on the BJP, Rathore said despite being in power, BJP was only able to win one of the four MCs with full majority, which suggests that there is a strong undercurrent against the ruling party. Saying that the victories in Palmapur and Solan will energise the party cadre, Rathore dedicated the victory in the MC polls to the party workers “BJP only won the Mandi MC where the CM had to campaign from door-to-door, making it a prestige issue. BJP resorted to pressuring and influencing voters by misusing the administration and government machinery. In Dharamshala, the BJP did not get a clear majority despite blatant misuse of power,” he said.He said Congress gave such a tough competition to the BJP during the election campaign that it had to rope in the entire Cabinet and even the national leaders. “After the Panchayati Raj Elections I had openly challenged the CM to conduct these elections on party symbols, which the CM has also acknowledged and with the dedicated efforts of our party workers we won more seats than BJP in MC elections and the majority in two MCs,” Rathore had said. “The BJP termed these elections as a semi final to 2022 Vidhan Sabha Elections and the results show that people have lost faith in the saffron regime, he said adding that victory has boosted the party cadre and will help it in the upcoming byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Vidhan Sabha. Rathore said that Congress will progress further under the leadership and guidance of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Rajeev Shukla and with the able guidance of former CM Virbhadra Singh, Congress will also win the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections .Rathore said of the 64 wards he himself had visited 45 wards organised more than 50 Nukkar Sabha’s and established eoordination with all the senior leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poll-outcome-suggests-strong-undercurrent-against-bjp-rathore-101617911509295.html
09-04-2021||Other||Couple held for duping men in the name of foreign bride||Police have arrested a couple for duping over 50 young men, wanting to marry a foreigner, by posing as relatives of such a prospective bride. The racket had been running for five years. Dirba DSP Mohit Agarwal said that the accused used to give a matrimonial advertisement in newspapers claiming themselves to be relatives of a woman hailing from foreign country. “To the families of the men who contacted them, they appeared as genuine. However, as the date of the first meeting approached they asked the men or his family to transfer them money online. They claimed to be struck in a problem or having been involved in a car accident etc,” the DSP added. The accused are Harbans Lal, 45, and Gurmeet Kaur, 42, hailing from Barnala, but currently living in Mohali and were arrested from Malerkotla bypass Dhuri on Wednesday Police say 18 mobile phones, 17 SIMs, a diary with details of the payment they got and a KUV Mahindra 100 have been recovered from the accused. “There was no bride. However, they gave advertisements and spoke over the phone. The mobile SIMs and bank accounts were registered in the name migrant labourers, whom they helped get small loans from banks etc,” the DSP added. The police had received two complaints and a case is already registered against them under Sections 420 (cheating) of the IPC and 66 (D) (Cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the IT Act at Sandhaur police station on January 14. Another case will be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couple-held-for-duping-men-in-the-name-of-foreign-bride-101617911333155.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre allocates 17.9 lakh Covishield doses to Haryana||Chandigarh The Centre has allocated 17.92 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine for Haryana which are expected to arrive between April 15-20. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the state government has about 8.40 lakh vaccine doses available which should hold good for the next 6-7 days. “We are also getting about 1.50 lakh Covaxin doses in the next couple of days,’’ Arora said. Arora, who on Monday held a meeting with Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan regarding faster replenishment of vaccine in light of initiation of inoculation for people in 45-59 age group (with and without comorbidity), said the state has so far received about 30.41 lakh doses, including about 27.56 lakh doses of Covishield. “There is absolutely no shortage of vaccine,’’ the ACS said. “We received about 6.67 lakh Covishield doses on Wednesday evening. The Central government has committed 17.92 lakh doses between April 15-20,’’ he said. Health officials said more than 22 lakh individuals were vaccinated till Wednesday. This included about 3.11 lakh health care and frontline workers who were administered the first dose and about 1.60 lakh health care and frontline workers who were administered the second dose. Besides, about 16.55 lakh persons in the above 60 and 45-59 age group have been inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-allocates-17-9-lakh-covishield-doses-to-haryana-101617911332075.html
09-04-2021||Other||8 seized vehicles used by ex-Mumbai cop are worth ₹1.5 crore in market||The eight vehicles that have been seized by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in their probe into the Antilia explosives scare and the Mansukh Hiran death case are said to be collectively worth over ₹1.5 crore in the second-hand vehicles’ market. The vehicles were allegedly used by Sachin Vaze – the police officer suspended and arrested for his alleged role in the Antilia case.During investigation, NIA discovered that though Vaze used all the eight high-end vehicles, only an Outlander seized was registered on his name. He had sold the Outlander to his former colleague, assistant inspector Prakash Howal, who was then attached to the crime intelligence unit.The first vehicle seized in the case, a Scorpio, was registered in the name of a Navi Mumbai resident, but was in Hiran’s possession since the past three years.Hiran’s body was found near Retibunder in Mumbra creek on March 5. The anti-terrorism squad, which was earlier probing the case, was informed by Hiran’s wife Vimla that Vaze was using the Scorpio since last November till February 5.After taking over the probe, NIA on March 9 seized an Innova (MH01-ZA- 403) from the motor transport department at Nagpada. The car belongs to Mumbai Police and was given to CIU, which Vaze headed, for official purposes. This is the same Innova which was found trailing the explosive-laden Scorpio near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home Antilia in south Mumbai. The police had claimed that after parking the Scorpio, Vaze boarded the Innova and left the spot.NIA believes that Hiran was likely killed in the car and his body later dumped near Retibunder. The agency also discovered that Vaze was using several high-end cars and would bring them to his office in the police commissionerate premises.On March 16, NIA seized the third vehicle – a black Mercedes Benz with registration number (MH 18 BR 9095) from a parking area near Mumbai Police commissioner’s office. The agency found an invoice of ₹28 lakh of the car’s purchase. While conducting a search of Vaze’s office at CIU, the car’s key was also recovered. The vehicle is registered on a Dhule-based tour operator’s name. He had said he had nothing to do with Vaze and had sold the vehicle in February to a car-trading site.Two days after seizing the Mercedes Benz, a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado (MH02-CC-0101) was seized from outside Vaze’s Saket building in Thane.The same day, a Mercedes Benz ML 250 CDI (MH43- AR -8697), owned by a construction firm in Vashi, Navi Mumbai, was also seized. The vehicle was bought on February 18, 2015. However, its link to Sachin Vaze is as yet to be ascertained.On March 23, the ATS seized a Volvo XC90, registered on the name of a Navi Mumbai developer. The car was sold to a Thane resident who was allegedly Vaze’s business partner.A week later, NIA seized the seventh high-end car, a Mitsubishi Outlander (MH01 AX 2627) which had been parked on a road at Kamothe in Navi Mumbai for a month. It is registered in Vaze’s name. Preliminary investigation has revealed that it was being used by a crime branch officer, assistant police inspector Howal, who is said to have purchased the car from Vaze at ₹1.50 lakh. The vehicle was bought in June 2011.On April 6, NIA seized a bike, Benelli DSK TNT 600GT, which is registered in the name of a Thane woman, who was seen in the CCTV grab with Vaze at a five-star hotel, with a cash-counting machine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-seized-vehicles-used-by-ex-mumbai-cop-are-worth-1-5-crore-in-market-101617911209772.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||BJP claims majority in Dharamshala as Independent joins its ranks||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed majority in the Dharamshala municipal corporation after one of the independent councillors joined the party on Thursday.The BJP had won eight of 17 wards in the MC polls held on April 7 and was one short of the majority mark. The Congress, which had 15 members in the previous corporation, had bagged five seats while independent candidates had won four seats. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania ,who was in-charge of the Dharamshala civic body polls, said the BJP will form the new corporation with 12 councillors against Congress’ five.“Independent councillor Sarv Chand has extended support to the party and also attended its meeting. Two more independent councillors intend to come aboard,” he said.Pathania admitted that party had erred in allotting tickets in some wards, which had led to the party candidates’ loss.“We have absolute majority in the house and will form the new corporation,” said Pathania. He, however, did not disclose the party’s faces for the post of mayor and deputy mayor, saying the decision will be taken by the party high command.However, party sources said the BJP may offer one of the two posts to Chand, who has returned to the party’s fold. He had contested as an Independent after being denied a ticket by the BJP and was subsequently expelled.Thanking voters, Pathania said they will expedite development work in the town.“The smart city project is the Modi government’s gift to the people of Dharamshala and directions will be issued to carry out the project on war footing. Projects worth ₹ 334 crore are being implemented to develop Dharamshala as a smart city. Additional plans will be prepared for projects worth ₹ 296 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-claims-majority-in-dharamshala-as-independent-joins-its-ranks-101617911208569.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Child rights panel summons MC officials over kids working at Dadumajra landfill||Taking note of children working as ragpickers at the Dadumajra dumping ground, the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) has summoned officials of the municipal corporation.The medical officer of health (MOH) has also been asked to submit a report at Snehalaya in Maloya on Friday.A team consisting of officials of Child Helpline, Special Juvenile Police Unit (SJPU), District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) and CCPCR had visited the landfill on Wednesday and found nearly 50 children working there with their families.“There is no measure in place to check entry at the dumping ground. The children were picking garbage without any safety measures, which can lead to multiple health issues. Interaction with the children revealed they mostly hailed from Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Bihar, and only some were from Chandigarh,” said Harjinder Kaur, chairperson, CCPCR. “Children are often found working at the landfill, even though they shouldn’t even be allowed inside as per MC rules. We had previously written about this to the authorities,” said Dyal Krishan president of the Dadumajra Dumping Site Joint Action Committee.Krishan, who lives near the site, said he had spoken to several children visiting the landfill and learnt they didn’t go to school. On MC’s part, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said he will discuss the matter with the officials concerned. “Child labour cannot be allowed, and if something like this is going on, we will take immediate action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/child-rights-panel-summons-mc-officials-over-kids-working-at-dadumajra-landfill-101617911148618.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Narco-terror case: NIA files supplementary chargesheet against three KLF operatives||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a supplementary chargesheet in a Mohali special court against three accused in Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) in narco-terror case. According to the chargesheet, Rajender Singh, alias Ganja, of Amritsar, Parminder Pal Singh, alias Bobby, and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, resident of New Delhi but currently living in Dubai, have been charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. In the statement, the NIA said the investigation revealed that Rajender was instrumental in selling smuggled heroin, while Parminder played an important role in channelising the proceeds through hawala from India to Dubai. It also said that Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, a Dubai-based international drugs smuggler and money launderer, used to transfer the funds to entities based in Pakistan, who used the money to support the activities of banned terrorist organisation KLF. Hakimzada along with Harmeet Singh, a Pakistan-based self-styled chief of the KLF have been instrumental in running a narco-terror network. The investigation also established that a network of narco-traffickers, terrorists and hawala operatives based in Punjab, Delhi and Dubai was operating at the behest of Hakimzada and was indulging in subversive activities against India,” the NIA said in the chargesheet. An FIR was registered by Punjab Police in Amritsar in May 2020 under NDPS Act. “It pertains to the seizure of 500gm of heroin and ₹1.2 lakh drug money on May 31, 2020 from accused Jajbir Singh Samra and two others. Later, the NIA took over the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/narcoterror-case-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet-against-three-klf-operatives-101617911033968.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC launches new e-office application||In another digital push, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday launched a new e-office application. The new digital gateway will help cut internal office procedures which were so far based on manual handling of files and paper movement.Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma launched the e-office application here at the command and control centre of MCC building, Sector 17, Chandigarh, in the presence of senior officers and MC officials concerned.The new e-office model developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) will not just help the civic body streamline internal operations, but also enhance the ease of tracking project files. It aims to improve governance by automating the internal processes of handling files and taking decisions within the MCC.All the wings of civic body are likely to use the new application making MCC one of the largest government departments in Chandigarh to automate its internal office procedures. The e-office application’s main module — eFile — enables online file related work, from receiving and marking dak, operating a file, preparing a draft letter, its approval/signature to dispatch of the signed letter.The mayor said that the new technology will bring more transparency, accountability, while speeding up the decision making process. In the present context, the new system will also help in avoiding situation arising due to Covid-19 as it is based on a contactless model thereby preventing any possible transmission of virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-launches-new-e-office-application-101617911032886.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Admissions at Chandigarh’s govt schools to begin on April 9||The process for admissions to Classes 1 to 10 at the city’s 114 government schools will begin on Friday.The city has eight government primary schools, 13 middle schools, 53 high schools and 40 senior secondary schools. In accordance with the Right to Education (RTE) norms, the admissions will be done as per the neighbourhood concept (school within 5km from the residence).In case applications are more than the number of seats, the schools may hold a draw of lots. A standard admission form will be used by all schools. Class-wise schedule will be prepared at the school level and displayed on their notice boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admissions-at-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-to-begin-on-april-9-101617910968636.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaze-Deshmukh controversy: United in Maharashtra govt, divided during crisis||The past five weeks have been the most challenging in the 16-month rule of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Amid allegations of corruption, malpractices and deteriorating law and order situation, the rift between the ruling parties – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – and their lack of coordination has come to the fore. Insiders in the MVA believe lack of strategy and ability to take quick decision has led a series of embarrassments for the Thackeray government. It started with the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis cornering the MVA government on the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent death of the trader in whose car the explosives were found, Hiran Mansukh, in the first week of March. First, the probe was transferred to the National Investigation Agency, followed by allegations by a former Mumbai police commissioner against the home minister leading to a Central Bureau of Investigation probe. There has been no end to setbacks since then. By dismissing the petition of state and former home minister Anil Deshmukh against the Bombay high court’s ruling of handing over the probe to the CBI, the apex court has given another shock to the Thackeray government. A day ago, a leaked letter by Vaze left the Shiv Sena, and in turn the MVA government, red-faced as it had named leaders for demanding extortion.“The MVA did not have a clear strategy as a coalition. Each party is defending itself as and when it is at the receiving end. In the Deshmukh controversy, the Shiv Sena or Congress did not come defend the home minister vehemently. There should have put up a joint defence,” said a senior NCP minister.He also said no steps were taken to give a clear message to the administration that those who sympathise with the previous regime should not work against the interest of the current regime. “This time, not the opposition, but our own officers challenged those in power. Besides Singh and Vaze, Rashmi Shukla’s leaked report on ‘money for police transfers’ resulted in great embarrassment. The government failed to take stern action against the two officers for insubordination, false allegations and misguiding the government. In case of allegations by former top cop Param Bir Singh, the committee under the retired judge should have been constituted much earlier, as it would have helped stop the central agency from taking over the probe,” the minister said.He said the damage control exercise, under which two ministers – Nawab Malik and Jitendra Awhad – speak about the allegations of police transfers, came too late. The leader added that the allegations of corruption caused more damage compared to the women-related instances against Dhananjay Munde and Sanjay Rathod. “Forget these cases, even in Sushant Singh Rajput and Kangana Ranaut cases, the response of the state government was too slow. The government could survive the attacks because the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak and they were in their early months,” a senior IAS officer said.Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “The Bharatiya Janata Party has, it seems, decided to attack the state tooth and nail. They have been targeting Uddhav Thackeray and key leaders around him to destabilise the government, but at the same time the MVA government is lagging in the strategy to combat it. The three-party government is lacking in proper coordination, which could have helped them.”According to a Congress leader, the party chose to remain a mute spectator, as it would have led to tainting their image. Fadnavis alleged on Thursday that the shortage of vaccination is being deliberately politicised to divert the attention from the beating the government has received in scams and judicial rulings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vazedeshmukh-controversy-united-in-maharashtra-govt-divided-during-crisis-101617910848985.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||In first week of April, half of Kashmir’s Covid cases in Srinagar||The coronavirus cases in Srinagar are surging fast as around half of Kashmir’s total infections in the first week of April have been reported in district.The health department’s data shows that 3,867 people were infected by the virus in the first week of April in Jammu and Kashmir. Kashmir saw 2,755 cases of which, 1,347 were reported in Srinagar.“In densely populated areas like Srinagar, the virus is spreading rapidly. It is a crowded place and people are taking fewer precautions,” said Kashmir Doctors’ Association president and influenza expert Dr Nisar ul Hassan.“The virus especially spreads through gatherings in closed spaces and we have been witnessing many indoor functions and social functions here,” he said.As against the steady increase of Covid cases in March, the surge has become steep in April. From 461 daily cases in the UT on April 1, the count has reached a six-month high of 812 cases on April 7.“The tourist influx is mostly concentrated in Srinagar. They stay in Srinagar hotels, go to different places and then come back to Srinagar to stay in hotels and homes. That can be a reason for escalation of cases,” he said.Srinagar was declared an orange zone on March 30 but people were allowed to gather at public parks and garden. People have been criticising the government for organising Tulip Festival from April 3 which saw heavy rush of people most of whom did not follow the SOPs.Till April 7, Srinagar health authorities have administered around 81,500 vaccines, including first and second dose, to healthcare and frontline workers and citizens over 45 years of age as against 2.26 lakh doses in Jammu.“We need to ramp up vaccinationas even the young population is now getting affected. Of the total J&K population, we have vaccinated just 1.72 lakh people with both the doses,” Dr Hassan said.Overall, Srinagar has recorded 28,115 cases and 477 deaths of total 1,27,774 cases and 2,018 deaths in the UT.The J&K administration closed schools from Monday due to surging cases of Covid-19. While primary classes up to Class 9 will remain closed for two weeks; Class 10 to 12 will be shut down for a week till April 11.The Valley’s largest tertiary care hospital in Srinagar Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) on Wednesday decided to stop all non-emergency surgeries and admissions to cater to increasing rush of Covid patients.Srinagar DC Aijaz Asad reviewed Covid containment measures and established special Covid vaccination sites at Kashmir University, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, and the J&K Bank headquarters at Tourist Reception Centre.Asad said that from now on, all incoming travellers will undergo testing at Lower Munda in Kulgam. “This will help in containing spread of the virus in Kashmir,” he said.The DC said that mass vaccination of hotel staff, drivers, houseboat staff and others concerned with the tourism sector will be started across all tourist destinations.JAMMU DM CANCELS FAIR, EXHIBITION PERMITSAmid spike in Covid cases, Jammu district magistrate Anshul Garg on Thursday cancelled permissions for fairs and exhibitions in district.Garg, under Section 144 of the CrPC r/w relevant provisions under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 cancelled all permissions for fairs and exhibitions in district.“In view of the current situation, there is sufficient ground for proceeding under Section 144 of the CrPC for immediate prevention or speedy remedy to prevent danger to human health and safety,” an order issued by the DM stated.Organisers of the exhibitions will wind up their operations within 24 hours and sub-divisional magistrates concerned will submit compliance report to the DM office.As per the orders, any violation will invite punitive action under Section 188 of the IPC and under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.835 COVID CASES IN J&KJ&K recorded 835 new Covid cases on Thursday taking the UT’s case tally to 1,35,662, health officials said.The UT also recorded another fresh fatality in Kashmir taking the death toll to 2,019.Of the new cases, 555 are from Kashmir while 280 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 163 are travellers.Officials said with 349 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new cases, followed by 148 in Jammu, 74 in Baramulla, 47 in Reasi and 35 in Udhampur. Nine of 20 districts reported single-digit cases.On Thursday, 246 patients were discharged, including 224 from Kashmir and 22 from Jammu. As many as 1,28,020 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 94.36%. Over 6.37 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the UT so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-first-week-of-april-half-of-kashmir-s-covid-cases-in-srinagar-101617910789067.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Pocso rules: Bombay HC asks cops, courts to inform survivors, kin about cases||The Bombay high court (HC) while laying down guidelines to be followed in cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, has made it mandatory for investigating officers and lower courts to inform the family of the survivor about the court case so that they are present for the hearing/trial. The guidelines were issued after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an activist who claimed that the families of many survivors were not aware of the trials against the accused, as a result of which the accused managed to get bail without the survivor getting a chance to express her opposition. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the PIL by Arjun Malge was informed that as per the Pocso Act and Rules and the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), it is the duty of the special juvenile police unit (SPJU) to provide a child assistance of a legal counsel of his/her choice. The unit is also expected to inform the survivor’s parent or guardian about the developments, including arrest of the accused, applications filed by the accused and other court proceedings. Malge’s petition submitted that as the police were not doing their duty, in many instances the accused were able to secure bail. As the survivor and their families were not aware of the same, they could not exercise their right to appeal against the conviction, seek cancellation of bail or be heard in case the accused approached the court to quash criminal proceedings. Malge also cited examples of accused getting bail from lower courts in the absence of the survivor or their families. In light of these submissions, he sought framing of guidelines to ensure that the concerned authorities complied with the provisions under the Pocso Act and its rules. The bench issued guidelines for effective participation of survivor at various stages of judicial process for cases under Pocso Act and put additional duties on SPJU to inform the survivor’s family. The court also directed lower courts to ensure that the survivor, his/her family or counsel are informed about court proceedings, and to make such reasoned order as it deems fit to secure the ends of justice, taking into account any emergent circumstances that warrant dealing with the application in the absence of the child’s family or guardian or legal counsel. The bench then directed the order to be widely circulated with sessions courts in the state, director general of police, superintendent of police, and director of prosecution state of Maharashtra and state legal services authorities. It also granted liberty to presiding officers to frame such stipulations and requirements as they deem necessary to operationalise and administer the provisions of the Act and comply with the HC order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-rules-bombay-hc-asks-cops-courts-to-inform-survivors-kin-about-cases-101617910730500.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old boy found hanging at Ambala house||Almost two weeks before his Class-10 board exams, a 16-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Ambala on Thursday.The only child of working parents, the boy was found hanging on the first floor of his house by his friend who had come to pick him up for a coaching in the noon.The boy was taken to civil hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, police said.The family had shifted here in September last year from Yamunanagar.His father, a specially abled labourer at a local factory, said that he and his wife were out for work and his son was supposed to go for his coaching.“He didn’t have any dispute with anyone and was preparing hard for the final board exams beginning April 22,” he said. Naresh Kumar, investigating officer from police post number 4, said the parents did not raise suspicion on anyone and no suicide note was recovered from the house.“The body has been kept at the mortuary and an autopsy will be conducted on Friday. An investigating has been initiated,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yearold-boy-found-hanging-at-ambala-house-101617910729368.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage: War of words continues between Maharashtra, Centre||Even as the state struggles with shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses, antiviral drug Remdesvir and oxygen supply, the war of words between Maharashtra and the Central government continued for a second day. A day after state health minister Rajesh Tope said there is a shortage of doses, many centres were shut in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Panvel, Satara, Sangli and various other parts of Maharashtra. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the drive may have to be halted in Mumbai after Friday, if doses are not sent. Tope, while talking to reporters on Thursday, questioned the “discrimination” being faced by Maharashtra in allotment of doses, when compared to other states. He said Maharashtra will require 4 million (40 lakh) doses per week to meet its target and reiterated the demand to open vaccination for all those above 18 years of age, like the US. He also said the state may run out of oxygen supply if cases continue to rise at the current rate of almost 60,000 infections per day. However, Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Prakash Javadekar said it is the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) poor planning that has led to this situation. “According to the latest release order of vaccines from the Centre, Maharashtra has been given 7.5 lakh vaccine doses only. While Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana have been given more than 30-40 lakh doses,” Tope said. He further said, “Why are we facing this discrimination when we have a population of 12 crore, the highest active cases and a positivity rate of 20-25%?”Tope said the state has close to 900,000 doses, which will last for a day-and-a-half. Maharashtra has been vaccinating 400,000 to 450,000 people daily. For the city, once the vaccine doses are collected from the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune, they are transported to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s cold storage facility in Parel. From there, the doses are distributed to the 118 vaccination centres in the city. The distribution load is considered on the basis of population of the area and response pattern of citizens. In case of private hospitals, 100 to 500 doses are distributed daily, considering private hospitals vaccinate only on the basis of appointments. In case of government centres, the allocation is done on the basis of population of the area, followed by anticipation of walk-in entries. Each centre gets 2,000 to 3000 doses every day. For the state, the quantity of doses supplied to districts is decided based on the remaining stock. The stock is supplied to the districts based on the vaccination rate over the past few days and the stock required for the next few days. Expected number of beneficiaries after citizens above 45 years were deemed eligible has been ascertained in every district on the basis of population. The plan is chalked out for the supply in the proportion of the stock the state gets from the Centre. Each district is given stock for an average of three days. On the shortage of dose, Tope said the Centre has assured corrections will be made soon. “The Centre is going to supply 17 lakh doses after April 15. But this will also be less. We need 40 lakh doses every week because our target is to vaccinate 6 lakh people per day. Today, we have close to 9 lakh doses, which will last 1.5 days. Vaccination in many districts has already been shut,” Tope said. He said that even though Gujarat’s population is half of Maharashtra and has 17,000 active cases, both states were given equal doses. Several states had said they will run out of doses within days and requested the Centre for replenishments, resulting in a strong rebuttal from Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday. He accused three states, particularly Maharashtra, of politicising the issue. In his statement, the minister blamed the state government for misgovernance and “utter casual approach” in its battle against the virus. “I do not want to get into any debates. I am requesting the union health minister to provide the requisite doses. As for the comments on Maharashtra’s performance, the state has been following all the protocols as provided by the Centre,” Tope said. On Thursday, Javadekar said, “Maharashtra has 23 lakh doses, which is sufficient for five days. Doses for another three days are also in the pipeline. In fact, every state has stock for 3-4 days. Once the doses are sent to the state, it is the state’s responsibility to send it to districts. Maharashtra has wasted 5 lakh doses of vaccine because of its poor planning,” Javadekar said in a press conference in Delhi. On Thursday evening, union health minister Harsh Varshan tweeted, “Hue & cry by certain States about partisanship by the Union Govt is just a farce, an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are 2 of the top 3 States based on allocation of #COVID19Vaccine doses. Both are non-BJP governed States.” He shared a slide stated that Maharashtra has received 1,06,19,190 doses, followed by Gujarat and Rajasthan that have also received more than a crore doses. Tope said that the Central government must ask neighbouring states of Maharashtra to provide oxygen supply to the state. “As of now, we have sufficient supply but if the cases continue to rise, there will be shortage in the next 10 days. Centre must ask neighbouring states to provide supply to Maharashtra,” Tope said. The Centre and state had also locked horns over the issue of oxygen supply. The Centre’s Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade had objected to Maharashtra government’s decision to reserve 80% oxygen supply for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. On Thursday, Tope said the state has stock of oxygen, but would need more if the spike in cases continues. “If the current speed of about 60,000 daily new cases continues, we would need oxygen so we are requesting Centre to provide the same from other states,” he said.Tope also said that the state will also ask the Central government to increase the supply of Remdesivir medicine and cap the prices. “Various local bodies are calling me stating that there is a shortage of Remdesvir. The Central government should also look into the black-marketing of Remdesvir. Unfortunately, the medicine is not produced in Maharashtra. We need to procure adequate stock from the companies. We will address this issue in a meeting with the prime minister today,” he said. He also said that cost of the medicine needs to be reduced from ₹4,000 to ₹1,200 to make it affordable for the common man. On Thursday, there were queues outside chemist shops in several parts of the state owing to the shortage of the medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-war-of-words-continues-between-maharashtra-centre-101617910728055.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat starts arriving in south Punjab mandis||Farmers started reaching mandis or purchase centres with harvested wheat in south Punjab on Thursday amid uncertainty over procurement and mode of payment. Officials said no purchase was made on Thursday as procurement, which was delayed by 10 days due to Covid-19, will commence from Saturday across the state. Officials are in a quandary as there is no clarity on the role of arhtiyas for staggered procurement.“According to official instructions, wheat will be allowed to enter mandis after special permits are issued to farmers through arhtiyas. As commission agents have announced to boycott the procurement if authorities agree to mandatory direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode of payment to farmers, we have no clue how the purchase will begin,” said an official.Farmers are a worried lot as the harvesting of the rabi crop will pick up pace from the next week.Darshan Singh of Burj Hari village in Mansa district said that he started harvesting wheat on Wednesday on 40 acres of land, half of which was on lease, but there were no takers in the mandi. “The arhtiya at the local mandi told me that stocks of wheat will be bought after coupons are issued to farmers. It will burden me with extra labour cost as I will have to take wheat back home and then visit the mandi again after Saturday,” he said.Mansa district mandi officer Ranjnish Goel said 336 passes were issued on Thursday and priority will be given to the farmers who have started reaching mandis with harvested wheat.“Like the previous season, a farmer will be entitled to come to mandi with only 50 quintals. The coupons were issued to arhtiyas to invite farmers from Saturday,” he said.Bathinda mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said an estimated 200 coupons will be issued to arhtiyas on Friday.“Wheat arrived at five mandis on Thursday and farmers have been told come with a specified moisture level of grains. All preparations are in place for smooth purchase,” said Brar.Bathinda Arhtiya Association president Satish Kumar Babbu said commission agents are firm on their resolution to boycott rabi procurement if DBT and uploading of land records is made mandatory.“If our demands are not met, arhtiyas across the state will not become part of coupon distribution exercise for procurement. The state leaders will take a final decision on Friday,” said Babbu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-starts-arriving-in-south-punjab-mandis-101617910671266.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Younger people in Chandigarh account for 50% Covid cases in recent surge||Currently ineligible for the vaccination drive, those aged below 40 years accounted for 50% of the cumulative Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh in February and March, official data reveals.As many as 4,203 cases were reported in the city between February 1 and March 26, of which 2,052 patients were aged between 11 and 40.The health department figures show that the proportion of Covid patients, aged above 60, had also increased in the present wave.In the first surge before February 1, 13% of the cases were from this age group, which increased to 17% by the end of March.However, among the younger population, the trend remained similar as before February 1, when the 11 to 40 age group comprised 53% of cases.In all, the virus claimed the lives of 37 people in this age group till March 26 – constituting to 10% of the 377 fatalities till then. Experts said more age groups needed to be included in the vaccination drive, even though the infection’s severity was lesser in the younger population.“Doses can be provided to comorbid people below the age of 45 as well. The government should also adopt the strategy of allowing more people from regions that are witnessing widespread infection,” said Dr Yogesh Chawla, former director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.Echoing his views, Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine department and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said the vaccination criteria should be expanded. Arun Gupta, health secretary, UT, said vaccination eligibility was based on age groups where the severity of the infection was higher.Recently, the central government had pointed out that the Covid situation in Chandigarh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, among some other states, was concerning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/younger-people-in-chandigarh-account-for-50-covid-cases-in-recent-surge-101617910669196.html
09-04-2021||Other||HC stays probe against SGPC chief Jagir Kaur||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday stayed a January 8 order of Punjab Lokpal ordering probe against Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president and former Bholath MLA, Bibi Jagir Kaur, in alleged encroachment of 20 acre.The high court acted on the plea of Kaur who had challenged Punjab Lokpal’s order of a probe under Section 13 of the Punjab Lokpal Act, 1996.The 2011 complaint is about nagar panchayat land in possession of a school, which was set up on a common land and as to how such a land changed hands and came in possession of the society, which is running the school. Kaur has remained president of the society on different occasions. The land, according to the complaint, belongs to Begowal nagar panchayat and is worth ₹100 crore. The complainant is one George Subh, who has alleged that the beneficiary had even raised illegal construction on the land that should be razed and restored to the nagar panchayat.Kaur had argued in high court that under Section 10 of the Act, the Lokpal has power to inquire into allegations of misconduct against a public figure within five years from the date of occurrence of that misconduct. However, in the present case, the issue would not fall within the scope and ambit of Section 10 of the Act for an inquiry to be directed, her lawyer, R Kartikeya had argued.The lokpal was told that school was set up in 1995 and was being managed by a society, and she had remained president of the society at different points of time. These objections, even though noticed in the order passed by Lokpal has not been dealt with, she had told court adding that Under section 12 (3) of the Act any order passed by the Lokpal affecting rights of a person complained against has to be a speaking order.However, the impugned order passed cannot be construed as a speaking one, as much as the objections specifically raised by her have not been dealt with, it was argued. The high court has sought response from the state government by August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-stays-probe-against-sgpc-chief-jagir-kaur-101617910609835.html
09-04-2021||Other||Encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma quizzed by NIA for 9 hours in Mumbai||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing the Antilia explosives scare and the murder case of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, questioned former police officer and encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma for the second consecutive day at its south Mumbai office. Sharma was interrogated for over nine hours and left NIA office at 10.30pm. On Wednesday, he was questioned for around seven hours.NIA has recorded the statements of around 45 people, including former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and two deputy commissioners as well as a dozen cops from the crime intelligence unit, in connection with the Antilia case. Singh’s statement was recorded for around three hours on Wednesday. NIA recorded his statement as the main accused in the case, Sachin Vaze, who was then in-charge of the crime intelligence unit (CIU), was allegedly directly reporting to Singh. Soon after the explosives-laden Scorpio was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, the case was transferred to CIU, and Vaze was made an investigating officer.Singh has been appointed as the director general of home guards after he was shunted out from the post of police chief on March 17, after NIA claimed that Vaze was the mastermind behind planting the SUV and seized an Innova of Mumbai Police, which was allegedly trailing the Scorpio on February 25.During an investigation, NIA found that Sharma had visited the Mumbai Police commissioner’s office on March 2 and had allegedly met Vaze in CIU office. NIA has been questioning him to find out if he was a part of the conversation with Vaze and Hiran, when the suspended cop had reportedly asked the trader to take responsibility of planting the explosives in his Scorpio.Hiran, who was allegedly not ready to accept the responsibility, went missing on the evening of March 4, after he left his house to meet an officer near Ghodbunder Road in Thane. A day later, his body was found near Retibunder in Mumbra.The probe agency is now conducting an investigation to find out if Vaze was involved in Hiran’s murder and whether he took the help of others to execute his plan to frame or eliminate Hiran. Apart from Vaze, former police constable Vinayak Shinde and bookie Naresh Gor are also in NIA’s custody for allegedly providing logistic support in Hiran’s murder. Meanwhile, NIA took Vaze to the state-run Sir J J Hospital for a routine check up on Thursday morning. Before being reinstated in the police force in last June, Vaze had a heart blockage, which he had not got treated. However, sources close to the investigation said that during his check-up, Vaze did not have any problem while breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/encounter-specialist-pradeep-sharma-quizzed-by-nia-for-9-hours-in-mumbai-101617910549728.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||CBI arrests two in ₹10 lakh bribe case in Chandigarh||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested two men for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹10 lakh to help dispose of a complaint against a company at the Zirakpur DSP’s office.The accused have been identified as Anil Mor and Dilbagh Singh, residents of Jind and Kaithal in Haryana, respectively. The complainant, Mohit Sharma, had approached the CBI alleging that Mor had sought ₹50 lakh from him to help quash a complaint against his firm. A trap was laid and Mor was caught accepting ₹10 lakh from the complainant as part payment. As Mor handed over the cash to Singh, they both were arrested red-handed. Sharma alleged he had already paid ₹12.5 lakh to the accused. “Searches were conducted at three premises of the accused in Zirakpur, Jind and Kaithal. The accused were produced before a court and sent to two-day police custody,” a CBI spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-arrests-two-in-10-lakh-bribe-case-in-chandigarh-101617910548597.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MSCERT releases guidelines for promoting Class 1 to 8 students||The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) came up with a set of guidelines for promoting students of Classes 1 to 8 in state board schools on Thursday.In cases where assessments of students have taken place throughout the year, the scores in such assessments need to be calculated out of 100 marks and a grade has to be determined on the basis of the score, according to the guidelines. Students who have not been able to complete their assessments due to any reason should also be promoted with a remark “promoted under section 16 of the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009”.Students who secure lower grades after the overall evaluation should undergo a training process for the skills in that particular class at the beginning of the new academic year. Similarly, schools should not conduct any assessments or exams to assess the performance of students of Classes 1 to 8 this year due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Schools need to prepare report cards of students for the current academic year and distribute them to parents within a stipulated period. MSCERT is also going to come up with a comprehensive programme to address the loss of learning caused during the pandemic and closure of schools.Meanwhile, the state education department is considering all possible options for the conduct of board exams that are scheduled to be held from the end of this month. “Some online service providers also met with the education minister, but it was clear that an exam of this volume cannot be conducted online so soon and the preparations required for a system like that can take a couple of years. While exams will be conducted offline, all sort of contingency plans are being prepared and looked at,” said an official from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mscert-releases-guidelines-for-promoting-class-1-to-8-students-101617910487924.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||56 deaths, 3,119 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 56 coronavirus-related deaths on Thursday as 3,119 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection count to 2,63,090, according to a medical bulletin.Hoshiarpur district has witnessed the highest case fatality rate in Punjab in the past few days and since April 1, the district has witnessed 59 deaths of total 552 . Hoshiarpur’s contribution in the state’s total deceased is 15% which is said to be the highest.So far, the infection has killed 7,334 in the state. The number of active cases also rose from 25,855 to 26,389. Mohali on Thursday recorded the maximum 456 cases, followed by 425 in Ludhiana, 419 in Jalandhar, 354 in Patiala and 317 in Amritsar. Among the fresh deaths, 12 were reported from Hoshiarpur, eight in Jalandhar, seven in Amritsar and six in Patiala, according to the bulletin.A total of 2,480 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,29,367, the bulletin said.There are 24 critical patients who are on ventilator while 386 are on oxygen support. A total of 62,35,386 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/56-deaths-3-119-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101617910429242.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 113,591 Covid-19 cases detected in past 16 days, 650,000 samples tested||Ever since the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) intensified testing in the city since March 23, it has tested over 650,000 samples for Covid-19 and has detected around 113,591 cases, according to data from the state health department. During the same period, 252 deaths were reported in the city.Of the 650,000 samples tested, around 49% were tested using rapid antigen kits while the remaining 51% were tested using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits, according to the data. In the first week, the ratio of rapid antigen kits was more than RT-PCR, which is considered to be the golden standard of Covid testing. However, later more samples were tested using RT-PCR. Since the usage of rapid antigen kits started in July 2020, BMC has maintained a varying ratio of 70:30 which later went on to 50:50.On Thursday, the city reported 8,938 cases and 25 deaths, taking case tally to 491,980 and toll to 11,881. Meanwhile, 395,378 patients recovered and were discharged with a recovery rate of 80.36%. The case fatality rate stands at 2.41% and there are 83,693 active cases in the city.In the past 16 days, daily case load in Mumbai went up from around 5,000 to around 11,000 cases. The areas that have the highest number of active cases include Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Jogeshwari, Andheri, Mulund, Ghatkopar and Bhandup.Further, Mulund has a highest of 2,164 sealed floors of the total 9,785 sealed floors across the city followed by Andheri which has the highest number of sealed buildings (283 out of a total of 789 such buildings). Meanwhile, Andheri (East) has the highest number of 16 containment zones that covers slums and chawls. As per BMC protocol, a floor is sealed when a building reports less than five cases, and a building is sealed when a building reports more than five cases.According to civic officials, daily cases being reported in the city are stabilising and a downward trend is expected to start post April 20. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal earlier this week told HT, “If we look at the current scenario in the city of a second wave, daily cases reported in the city have almost stabilised between 8,000 and 11,000. If this trend continues, cases will start to go down post April 20, but only if citizens continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.”Meanwhile, Dharavi — the city’s largest slum cluster and a former Covid-19 hot spot — reported a spike with 99 cases reported on Thursday, up from the daily range of 40 to 70 cases since the past few weeks. Dharavi has reported a total 5,474 cases in the past one year of which 4,243 have recovered and 913 are active. The vaccination centre at Dharavi saw 500 citizens getting vaccinated on Thursday — the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-113-591-covid-19-cases-detected-in-past-16-days-650-000-samples-tested-101617910369819.html
09-04-2021||Other||Covid claims 4 more lives in Ludhiana, toll reaches 1, 190||Four patients died while 425 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, health department officials said on Thursday. MLA (Ludhiana North) Rakesh Pandey, his son Dushyant Pandey and wife were among those who tested positive.Apart from this, a cop and two teachers of BCM Arya School, Shastri Nagar, were also found infected.The fresh cases have taken the cumulative count in the district to 37, 614, out of which 1, 190 patients have succumbed while 33, 277 have recovered so far. The district currently has 3, 147 active cases. MLA Rakesh Pandey is admitted at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital for treatment. As per information, he was admitted in the emergency ward on Wednesday.The four patients who died in the last 24 hours include an 80-year-old male from Kot Mangal Singh area, a 77-year-old male from BRS Nagar, a 52-year-old female from Barwala village and a 79-year-old female from Vishal Nagar.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “Residents need to take all Covid-appropriate precautions and avoid gatherings. People should support the administration and step forward for vaccination. On Thursday, 3, 561 samples were sent for testing.”10, 807 residents inoculated on ThursdayAs many as 10, 807 people got the Covid-19 vaccine administered on Thursday. These include 5, 968 people between the age of 45 and 60, and 3, 933 people above 60 years who got their first dose. Nine health care workers got the first dose of the vaccine and 109 got the second dose. Similarly, 37 frontline workers got the first dose and 264 got their second dose on Thursday. As many as 132 people aged between 45 to 60 and 355 senior citizens (above 60 years) got the second dose of the vaccine. In all, 2, 83, 410 eligible residents have been vaccinated in the city so far.Two-member central team takes stock of situationDeputed by the Union Health Ministry to support the district administration in managing the fresh surge of Covid infections, a two-member central team conducted a meeting with the district administration on Thursday and took stock of the situation. Later, the team consisting of deputy director, National Centre for Disease Control, Dr Anubhav Srivastava and Dr Kavita Chaudhary from Dr RML Hospital inspected the vaccination drives at the Civil Hospital and United Cycle Parts and Manufacturers Association (UCPMA). They also inspected a micro-containment zone in Model Gram area to assess the arrangements for restricting residents’ movement. The team also discussed various issues regarding the Covid cases and inoculation drive with deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, additional deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-claims-4-more-lives-in-ludhiana-toll-reaches-1-190-101617910368504.html
09-04-2021||Other||CBI records statements of former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has recorded the statements of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjay Patil and suspended officer Sachin Vaze on Thursday in connection with the corruption allegation made by the ex-top cop against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal was also summoned by the central agency on Thursday and CBI was recording his statements till the time of going to print. In his statement, Singh submitted the printout of Patil’s chat with him, in which the ACP mentioned meeting Deshmukh, said a CBI official.“Singh has also handed over some other documents as evidence. As of now, we have recorded statements of Jaishri Patil, Singh, Patil and Vaze, and are investigating further,” the official said.CBI had also summoned advocate Jaishri Patil on Thursday to record her further statement, but she informed the agency in the morning that she had to attend the hearing of the appeal filed by Maharashtra government and Deshmukh, challenging the Bombay high court (HC) order which directed the central agency to conduct preliminary inquiry into the corruption allegations.Jaishri Patil, whose statements were recorded on Wednesday too, said she will be visiting the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house in Santacruz (East) on Friday to give CBI her further statement. HC directed CBI to submit a report on preliminary inquiry in 15 days based on her petition.Based on HC’s order, a team of 10 officers – including a superintendent of police – from Delhi visited Mumbai to investigate the matter and filed a preliminary inquiry on Tuesday.On Wednesday, CBI had approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, seeking permission to record the statement of Vaze, who is in NIA custody for allegedly planting an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25. Vaze’s statement was recorded following the NIA court’s permission. Singh had also named Vaze in his eight-page letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in which he had alleged that Deshmukh had asked the suspended officer and two other officers to collect ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in the city. While directing CBI to conduct a preliminary probe on Monday in a 52-page judgment, HC had observed that the Malabar Hill police had failed to take action on Jaishri Patil’s complaint, which had pointed to a cognisable offence being committed by Deshmukh. HC noted that it could not remain a “mute spectator” to the complaints received against high-level officers and ruled, “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of state machinery, which would stare at face when confronted with the expectations of law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials. This court cannot be a mute spectator in these circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-records-statements-of-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-and-sachin-vaze-101617910310072.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage: 25 centres in Mumbai shut; stock only till Friday||Amid shortage of Covid vaccines, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation shut 25 vaccination centres on Thursday, even as Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar warned that the vaccination might come to a halt after Friday, if the civic body does not receive fresh stock of vaccine. In a statement issued on Thursday, the BMC said, “Vaccination is currently underway at the remaining centres (except the 25) and there is enough stock left till Friday. The municipal administration is continuously following up to make the vaccine available.” There are 118 vaccination centres in the city, and on an average of 40,000 to 50,000 people are vaccinated across these centres every day. The statement added, “A total of 1,709,550 vaccine doses were made available to the BMC till April 7, 2021, of which 1,561,420 vaccines have been used. As of Wednesday, 148,130 vaccines were in stock, of which 44,810 doses have been kept in reserve for second dosage and remaining 103,320 were available on Thursday, of which around 50,000 were used on Thursday. Considering the pending stock, the city has enough vaccine doses till Friday.” Pednekar said: “If asked to return, it is very difficult to get those citizens back. We have been constantly requesting the central government to give us doses.” On Thursday, the civic-run Mahim vaccination centre ran out of stock around noon, however, later 50 vials were made available at the centre. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “The Mahim vaccination centre was shut as there was a shortage of vials. Later, we arranged 50 vials for the centre where we vaccinate around 700 citizens daily.” As of Thursday, 1,580,727 citizens have been vaccinated in the city of which 529,912 are health care and frontline workers, 403,395 are between the age group of 45 to 59 and 647,420 are senior citizens above the age of 60. On Thursday alone, 56,909 citizens were vaccinated.Several citizens also took to social media on Thursday expressing their displeasure over the shortage. Devika Fernanades, a Twitter user, wrote: “My neighbour had an appointment today for his first dose of vax in H ward of Mumbai. He returned as vaccine was unavailable. Hope politicians of all hues will not play with people’s life. Election crowds will spread infection to unbelievable levels. The vax may help us through.” Another Mumbai resident, Rekha Gada, took to Twitter saying, “Hospital in Mumbai has run out of vaccine. Can’t take my aunt tomorrow for her scheduled COVID vaccine, though we registered weeks earlier for this appointment BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “We are facing shortage of vaccines, and are constantly in touch with the Central government for additional doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-25-centres-in-mumbai-shut-stock-only-till-friday-101617910189929.html
09-04-2021||Other||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases shoot past 1,000 mark||The Chandigarh tricity area on Thursday crossed the grim milestone of 1,000+ Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak in March last year.With 239 fresh infections, Panchkula also touched its all-time high since the beginning of the pandemic.Of the 1,009 cases on Thursday, Mohali reported 456, a slight dip from Wednesday’s 481, while Chandigarh’s cases also dropped from 399 to 314.Eight days into April, Chandigarh has recorded around 3,400 cases and 10 deaths, including that of a 70-year-old man from Sector 37 on Thursday.The city has repeatedly figured in Union health ministry’s list of places of concern amid the recent surge in infections.Its cumulative cases stand at 29,521, of which 3,115 (10.5%) patients are still infected – just 56 short of the peak in September. As many as 26,017 (88%) patients have recovered against the national average of 91.6%, while 389 patients have died.Panchkula’s tally has reached 14,292. The district has 1,167 (8%) active cases, while 12,969 (90.7%) persons have been discharged and 156 have succumbed to the virus. Among these, April accounts for two deaths and 1,263 cases.Mohali’s active cases soar to 4,464The fresh cases in Mohali took the total to 29,974, of which 4,464 (14.9%) cases are active – the highest since the pandemic broke out. Also, after seven deaths on Wednesday, the district witnessed two more casualties on Thursday, pushing its toll to 467, the highest in the tricity.Amid the recent surge, the district has recorded 3,281 cases and 34 deaths so far in April, while in March, 6,315 cases and 48 deaths were reported. As many as 218 of Thursday’s cases were reported from Mohali’s urban areas, followed by 107 in Dhakoli, 39 each in Dera Bassi and Kharar, 28 in Gharuan, 11 in Boothgarh, seven in Lalru, four in Kurali and three in Banur. Meanwhile, with 267 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries reached 25,043 (83.5%). ‘Threat of infection very real’Making an earnest appeal to the community not to lower the guard and join the vaccination drive, Dr Surinder S Pandav, chairman, Covid-19 Vaccination Committee, PGIMER, said, “With the cases again surging again at a much faster pace, there is absolutely no room for complacency. Covid-19 has not gone away as was generally presumed and the threat of getting infected is very much real. Those above 45 should prioritise getting vaccinated. But, one must ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour even after getting the shot, as it takes time to develop antibodies against the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-shoot-past-1-000-mark-101617910188816.html
09-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt seeks review of vaccine strategy, calls for flexibility for states||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to give flexibility to states to devise their local strategies for Covid vaccination, within the broad parameters, while seeking a review of the strategy to allow all adults in high-risk areas to be immunised, along with patients with liver and kidney disease below the age of 45. Amarinder made these suggestions in a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, immediately after the latter’s VC meeting with chief ministers of all states to review the Covid and vaccination situation. During the meeting, he apprised the Prime Minister of the situation in the state, and also the steps taken by his government to control and manage the disease. The CM also assured the Centre of all-out efforts by his government to contain and manage Covid. He said the UK variant, which is dominating the second wave in the state, is reported by experts to be more virulent and affecting the youth disproportionately. In his subsequent letter, the CM said his suggestions, some of which had been earlier submitted on March 17 to the PM, the Union home minister and the Union health minister, were based on the state government’s interaction with independent experts. Amid reports of some states facing vaccine shortages, Amarinder also requested the Union ministry of health and family welfare to share the schedule for supply of vaccines with the states over the next quarter, based on their confirmed supply orders. Given that over 80% positive cases found in Punjab are of the UK variant, as per early reports from central laboratories, he also sought strengthening of viral sequencing in the state, which has been reporting around 3,000 cases per day since the last 15 days, with around 8% positivity. The state currently has around 26,000 active cases with recovery rate of 87.3%, with death a matter of concern at 50-60 deaths a day and around 2% Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in the second surge, which struck the state in the latter half of February this year. The Chief Minister also reiterated his earlier request for covering all teachers and staff in all educational institutions for vaccination to enable resumption of physical classes once the surge abates. He also urged the Prime Minister to direct central institutions like IISER, IMTech, AIIMS Bathinda and PGIMER, Chandigarh to increase the RT-PCR testing from Punjab. Further, PGIMER, Chandigarh should be asked to earmark at least 50 Covid ICU beds for patients being referred by the State, he added. “Currently, 55% Health Care Workers and around 90% Front Line Workers have got the 1st dose of vaccine,” the chief minister earlier told the Prime Minister during the virtual meeting, while disclosing that more than 8.9 lakh persons aged above 45+ have taken first dose of vaccination. He said daily vaccinations have increased from 20,000 per day in mid-March to around 85-90,000 per day, with maximum of 1.32 lakh vaccinations on April 3. Giving a sense of the reasons for the surge, the Chief Minister apprised the meeting that the primary driver of the spread appeared to be fatigue/ laxity in following Covid appropriate behaviour, large political, social and religious gatherings, and efforts at normalisation such as opening of schools and Colleges. High positivity was being seen in younger population, he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-seeks-review-of-vaccine-strategy-calls-for-flexibility-for-states-101617910068429.html
09-04-2021||Other||CBI moves special NIA court seeking access to Antilia case papers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the corruption allegations made against former home minister Anil Deshmukh, moved the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, seeking direction to NIA to share the records related to the investigation into the Antilia explosives case. The court will hear the plea on Friday. In its application before the special court, CBI claimed that it needs to look at the records of investigation for probing the allegations made by former commissioner of Mumbai Police Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. The agency sought an urgent relief, as prime accused Sachin Vaze’s custody with NIA ends on Friday. The court, however, said that if required, CBI could question Vaze while he is in prison during judicial custody. Meanwhile, the court has also asked NIA to submit its reply on CBI’s plea. Vaze was arrested on March 13 after in connection with an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in south Mumbai on February 25 and the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who is linked to the SUV. During the probe, Singh was transferred to a low-key post in the home guard department. Subsequently, he made several allegations in a letter addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 against Deshmukh. Upon the allegations made by Singh, the Bombay high court (HC), which was seized of multiple public interest litigations and a writ petition seeking a CBI probe into the accusations, had directed the central agency to conclude a preliminary inquiry in the case within 15 days. On HC’s order, CBI initiated an inquiry on Tuesday. The agency also obtained permission to question Vaze while he is in NIA custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-moves-special-nia-court-seeking-access-to-antilia-case-papers-101617909949577.html
09-04-2021||Other||Lockdown brought shutters down on 40% of Ludhiana’s pre-schools||Unable to meet their fixed monthly expenditure amid the lockdown, at least 40% of the pre-schools and day-care centres in Ludhiana shut down over the last one year. The schools had remained closed for almost 11 months due to the lockdown and had reopened in February this year, but the state government had to order another closure on March 13 in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Before the lockdown in March 2020, the city had around 150 pre-schools. A large number of these pre-schools were situated in Dugri, Civil Lines and South City, and had to bring their shutters down as they were unable to meet the fixed monthly expenses. Many owners said that the exorbitant rent was the main impediment. As per preschool owners, admissions usually begin in March or April but with the state government ordering another closure, parents are unwilling to pay fee for just online classes. The owners say that amid low enrolment, they are finding it difficult to pay the electricity and maintenance charges of the building or even the salaries of their staff. Ludhiana Pre-school Association president Amanpreet Singh Arora, said, “We were hoping that the government would allow us to re-open the schools on April 11, but they announced another closure till April 30. This move will severely affect the admission process in preschools. The owners have to pay salaries to teachers and maintain the school building. If schools remain closed for another month, it will become difficult for them to remain in business and the teachers and maids working here will be rendered jobless.” Ishneet Sharma, director of Childhood Kindergarten Playway School, Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “Last year, before lockdown, I had 70 children enrolled in my school but this year, we have only 18 students. I reopened the school on February 1 as per the state government’s orders and employed three teachers and three maids to take care of the children. But with another closure till April 30, it will be difficult to pay salaries to the staff. People who are running the pre-schools on rented properties are finding it difficult to meet the expenses as their income has been reduced to almost zero with parents refusing to pay for just online classes.” Working parents suffer The closure of day-care centres and pre-schools has added to the woes of families where both parents are working. Most of them are not comfortable leaving their children with helps at home and want to enroll their kids in pre-schools. “But we have been turning them away as we are unable to keep the centres open amid such low enrolment,” said Sharma. Sunil Kumar, a banker, said, “I have two kids and both have been staying in daycare centres. But with the centres closing down, we have no place to leave our kids. My wife and I have been working from home for the last few days to take care of the children.” Teachers switch to other professions Many of the teachers who lost their jobs have switched to other professions to earn a living. Owners of preschools say it will now be difficult to get good teachers to take classes. Anju Kohli, a preschool teacher, said, “I had been working in a preschool for five years and was teaching pre-nursery classes. Due to the pandemic, our pre-school situated in Dugri closed down last month. Since I was left without a job, I started to teach dance online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-brought-shutters-down-on-40-of-ludhiana-s-preschools-101617909948578.html
09-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 56,286 new Covid-19 cases, 376 deaths||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases and 376 deaths, taking the tally to 3,229,547 and toll to 57,028. Active cases in the state have touched 521,317 while cumulative case fatality rate stands at 1.76%. On Wednesday, Maharashtra conducted a total of 236,815 tests, with a positivity rate of 23% for the day.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is likely to cross the 1,100,000 mark by April 30, if adequate measures, such as imposing restrictions on movement or business, are not imposed to control the spread of the virus, according to the state health department. This is being considered as the second wave in the state which began around February 11.On Wednesday, Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the state health department said, “Now, we are recording more cases than we predicted. The state has already recorded 50% more active cases during this wave, in comparison to its previous wave in September 2020. If cases increase in this proportion, by April 17 we will have around 568,000 active cases.”To streamline availability of beds for needy Covid-19 patients, health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday directed all district collectors and municipal commissioners to adopt Mumbai’s model of centralised bed allotment. In the state, 80.51% Covid-19 beds, 32.77% oxygen beds, and 60.95% ICU beds are occupied.While there is a shortage of vaccine vials, Tope on Wednesday said that the state has requested the Centre to allow vaccination of all citizens in the age group of 18 to 45 years, as maximum cases in this wave are being recorded from this age group. This is also the working population which steps out of their homes daily despite recent lockdown-like restrictions in the state.So far, a total of 8,081,358 beneficiaries have received the first dose of vaccine shots across Maharashtra and 874,560 have received their second shot.Mumbai on Thursday reported 8,938 Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 491,980 and toll to 11,881.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state Covid task force, on Wednesday said, “The second wave has a significant number of cases of the new strain of the virus which is also affecting more children and young people. The state needs to take all precautions to break the chain of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-56-286-new-covid-19-cases-376-deaths-101617909888619.html
09-04-2021||Other||Declare tourism industry workers as Covid-19 warriors: Tourism body to govt||The Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (Faith) – the policy federation of all the national associations representing the complete tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India – has requested the government to declare its industry members as frontline Covid-19 warriors so that they can be vaccinated, irrespective of their age. To get into a state of readiness, Faith has requested the government to implement a policy to vaccinate its members at all sites of tourism, travel and hospitality companies. According to Faith, this will send out a strong message that the Indian tourism sector is getting ready to receive visitors in a safe and responsible manner. Subash Goyal, secretary general of Faith, said, “The second wave ofCovid-19 is spreading faster and has started impacting travel business. It could discourage more people from taking their planned trip. This makes it important to break the chain so that travel can be encouraged more.” This can also be the cornerstone of Indian tourism’s tactical communication strategy and will be a big competitive advantage and a key selling point for revival for all segments, a Faith spokesperson said. “Indian tourism is entering the peak holiday season for domestic travel in India, which is historically estimated to generate more than 60% tourism business. In a few months, we will also be entering the October-March season, which is the peak season for inbound travel, accounting for conventionally more than an estimated 70% of the tourism business,” the spokesperson said. According to VFS Global, world’s leading visa services organisation, the last quarter has witnessed intermittent activity for the international travel community, with borders opening up sporadically in step with vaccination drives at various regions. At present, the visa application process (in various categories) for over 40 governments has resumed at select visa application centres across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/declare-tourism-industry-workers-as-covid-19-warriors-tourism-body-to-govt-101617909528945.html
09-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana man kills wife in cold blood, then informs police||A 60-year-old truck driver allegedly murdered his wife with a knife in Kailash Nagar of Basti Jodhewal on Thursday afternoon and then informed her relatives and police on his own.Cops arrested the accused from the spot and also recovered the murder weapon. The accused had allegedly bought the knife just a day before the crime. The accused has been identified as Ramesh Kumar, 60, of Kailash Nagar. According to the police, the accused is an acute drinker and used to frequently thrash his wife Jaswinder Kaur, 55, in an inebriated condition.The victim’s nephew, Sanjiv Kumar, said the accused rang him up around 3pm and told him that he had killed Jaswinder and also informed the police. “I, along with my family members, rushed to the spot and saw my aunt’s body lying in a pool of blood and her husband sitting near it. Within a few minutes, police also reached the spot and arrested him,” said the nephew.“Ramesh Kumar was a truck driver but had stopped working some time ago. My aunt earned a meager living by working as a domestic help, and sometimes at hosiery factories, but Ramesh used to beat her up for money to buy liquor,” he added. Cold-blooded murderPolice said that blood was smeared all around the crime spot, which suggested that the victim had struggled for life after the attack. The accused had slit her throat and hit her on the face, stomach and chest. Four fingers of her left hand were also chopped off, the police added. The couple has three children –two sons and a daughter. While the daughter is married, one of the sons is working in Qatar. The other son is a carpenter. As per information, the second son had left to live at a rented accommodation about a month ago as he was fed up with his father’s behaviour.Basti Jodhewal station house officer (SHO), inspector Goldy Virdi said the accused has been arrested under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The victim’s body has been sent to the civil hospital for post-mortem, he added. Woman had suspected accused might kill herThe victim had reportedly called up her brother a day before the gruesome incident and told him that her husband had bought a big knife and she feared he may kill her with it. “We had pacified her and told her that he won’t harm her. My father had also promised my aunt that we would talk to Ramesh. But before we could visit him, he killed her,” said the victim’s nephew. He added that though Ramesh used to frequently beat up Jaswinder, he had turned more violent in the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-kills-wife-in-cold-blood-then-informs-police-101617909468590.html
09-04-2021||Other||IIM Ahmedabad to study Ludhiana’s vax-at-doorstep initiative||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad, will be conducting a case study on the ‘vaccination-at-doorstep’ initiative started by the Ludhiana administration. The study will be carried out in association with the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). On Thursday, a team of experts from IIM-Ahmedabad interacted with councillor Mamta Ashu, who is the brain behind the initiative. Speaking to the experts through videoconferencing, Mamta Ashu said the first such camp was held at a park in Partap Nagar locality of the city on March 26 wherein more than 100 people were administered the Covid vaccine. “After the success of this camp, we decided to organise more such camps in different parts of the district on April 3-4. On April 3, as many as 26, 483 people were vaccinated while the next day, 22, 812 people received the jab. These camps helped create a momentum and now more than 11, 000 people are getting vaccinated every day in the district,” said Mamta Ashu.She added that at present, the administration is organising mega camps twice a week- on Tuesdays and Fridays. She added that the district administration led deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma is also working with the different NGOs, trade/industrial and religious organisations to expand the vaccination drive.IIM-A research assistant Miti Shah said the case study is being undertaken to look into the issues being faced by local elected representatives in urban governance. “Presently, we are conducting a case study to document the contribution of councillors in the Covid-19 vaccination drive by detailing the good practices initiated by the councillors. At the same time, we seek to understand their way of working and the challenges faced by them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iim-ahmedabad-to-study-ludhiana-s-vaccination-at-doorstep-initiative-101617909228412.html
09-04-2021||Other||Night curfew in Bengaluru, 6 other districts from April 10||BenglauruIn the wake of growing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Karnataka, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday enforced night curfew in some districts of the state from April 10 to 20. “Night corona curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be imposed in Bengaluru, Mysore, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumkur and Udupi-Manipal districts from 10th April to 20th April. Essential services will be allowed,” Yediyurappa said on Thursday. The decision came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with Covid-19 impacted states in the wake of a surge of infections across the country. The night curfew will be enforced in the urban areas or district centres, Yediyurappa said. The state government on Thursday also said it will conduct a door-to-door survey in Bengaluru with an aim to test at least 1 lakh people every day and raise awareness to help contain the growing surge of Covid-19 cases.“There are 8,500 booths in BBMP limits and a team will be formed in each booth to conduct a door-to-door survey. Their mandate will include testing, spreading awareness on isolation guidelines, necessary assistance to Covid infected persons, treatment for home isolated people, stamping, health check-up, ensuring oxygen service for the infected persons etc,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said on Thursday.“Though this programme was unveiled last year, it could not be implemented. But now we will ensure this happens. Every ward will have one ambulance, 250 ambulances are available,” Sudhakar added.The statements come at a time when Bengaluru has seen a rapid surge in cases since the beginning of March, touching nearly 5,000 new cases on Wednesday.Bengaluru, which is among the top 10 worst Covid-19 impacted districts in the country, has 38,946 active cases and the rate of the spread is reported to be faster when compared to the outbreak last year, experts said. The city reported 4,422 new cases on Thursday while the number was 6,570 for the state, taking its active case load to 53,395. A total of 36 patients succumbed to Covid-19 in state, including 22 in Bengaluru.“More number of Covid-19 positive cases is reported in Bengaluru and 6 other districts. Though there is surge in number of cases, the fatality rate remains low. The case fatality rate was 0.50% in the state yesterday,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a statement on Thursday. “We prohibited gatherings for fairs and festivals and other religious and social gatherings and ensuring the same is complied with. Action has been initiated to impose penalties on those who do not wear mask and maintain distancing in public places,” the statement added. The positivity rate in Karnataka is hovering around 6%. The higher number of cases is adding to the challenges of arranging increasing demand for hospital beds. In Bengaluru, the occupancy is around 85% in the 1,500 beds available in 11 hospitals. The CMO said he state has ramped up the number of general beds, oxygenated beds and ICUs. “We have more than 42,000 general beds, 30,000 oxygenated beds, 3,000 ICUs and 2,900 beds with ventilators in general hospitals,” the statement added. Yediyurappa said the prime minister has advised states to focus on micro-containment zones.Meanwhile, the state government is hoping to contain the surge with higher vaccination coverage. The state has around 25-30 lakh doses of vaccines and is expecting another 25 lakh doses, according to the state government. “We have taken up vaccination at a large scale. About 6,000 vaccination centres are working daily. Of these, 5,400 are in government facilities and 600 in private facilities. So far, we have vaccinated more than 53 lakh people. We have vaccinated 22.31% of the target population above 45 years of age as compared to the National Average of 13.94% as on 5.4.2021,” the CMO said in a statement. “We have 25-30 lakh doses available in the state (and the) centre has assured to provide 25 lakh additional doses. There is no shortage of vaccines,” Sudhakar said on Thursday.The city administration and state government have targeted apartment complexes, cinema halls, pubs and restaurants to impose restrictions like curtailing capacities and even shutting down establishments that do not enforce Covid appropriate behaviour.However, it appears to have taken a soft stand on political events as parties continue to take out campaign rallies for the three bypolls at Basavakalyan, Belagavi and Maski in the state.Sudhakar said political events should also be organised in accordance with the guidelines or “we all may have to take moral responsibility for the surge”.“In India, SC intervention is for wearing a mask in a car, but zero interference for political rallies & religious congregations which are becoming (a) source of super spreaders. Govt turning a blind eye to this will cost us heavily,” Priyank Kharge, former Karnataka minister and Congress legislator posted on Twitter.Meanwhile, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) at various apartment complexes in the city have also come out with Covid-19 specific guidelines.At Embassy Pristine, an upscale apartment at Bellandur in Bengaluru, the RWA has put in place a number of measures including suspending amenities not mandated by the government.“All sports facilities, including but not limited to open courts, football, and Kids play area would be closed till 20th April and reviewed thereon,” according to a message by the RWA to the residents of the complex.“Coaches and coaching classes would be suspended till 20th April,” the message added.“We have been asked not to move around too much even within the apartment complex,” said a resident of the complex, requesting anonymity.The RWAs in several apartment complexes in Bengaluru have resorted to formulating their own set of rules as a measure to insulate these spaces from the rising number of Covid-19 cases. This particular apartment block has 19 cases so far and the RWA has asked residents to minimise travel, not entertain guests and even postpone non-essential work among other restrictions.“We are in touch with the BBMP to ensure necessary compliance and request all your help to ensure we do not slip into a containment zone classification,” according to the message by the RWA to its residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-in-bengaluru-6-other-districts-from-april-10-101617908567788.html
09-04-2021||Lucknow||Jal nigam executive engg held taking bribe||UP police vigilance wing on Thursday arrested Jal Nigam executive engineer Vikram Singh in Ghaziabad when he was accepting bribe of ₹13 lakh from a contractor to give clearance for work worth ₹3.5 crore, said senior vigilance officials. The officials said the engineer was arrested red handed in a sting operation by the team of Meerut sector of the vigilance wing. Director general (DG), vigilance PV Ramasastry said this was perhaps the biggest sting operation conducted by the vigilance wing in past many years in which ₹13 lakh were recovered. He said the accused engineer was posted in Ghaziabad unit of Jal Nigam and was causing obstructions in giving clearance to the work of digging water pipeline worth ₹3.5 crore which was allotted to the complainant. He said the complainant then decided to approach the vigilance officers after he failed to persuade the engineer to give clearance for the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jal-nigam-executive-engg-held-taking-bribe-101617907547698.html
09-04-2021||Lucknow||Illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted in Firozabad||An illicit liquor manufacturing unit that was being run from the basement of an inter college was busted in Firozabad on Thursday. Police claimed the illicit liquor that was being manufactured here was to be distributed during the panchayat polls. This is among the series of seizures of illicit liquor being made ahead of panchayat polls in the state.However, it was not clear that illicit liquor was being manufactured in the knowledge of college authorities, police said.Three accused, including the alleged kingpin Ranjeet Yadav were arrested and with them the police also claimed to have busted an inter-state gang that was into illicit liquor manufacturing. Nearly, 375 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), 70 sacks of urea, nearly 10 litres of chemicals to give colour to the liquor, nearly 2000 caps, as many quarter bottles, fake rapper and QR codes, a car and a motorcycle used to transfer the illicit liquor, several fake stamps and various equipment used in the manufacture were seized from the spot. “Special teams have been set up to act on the basis of the information extracted from the three accused,” police said. While this is one of the biggest seizures of illicit liquor in recent times, excise department too has launched a drive to arrest those behind its manufacture. The excise department has also decided to take the help of village chowkidars (guards) and lekhpals to alert them about the liquor mafia’s network. The excise department has also launched a 24x7 toll free number 18001805331 and a WhatsApp number 9454466019 to enable people to inform about movement, manufacture or sale of illicit or smuggled liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-firozabad-101617907427565.html
09-04-2021||Other||Ganga Aarti sans public participation from today as Covid curbs kick in||Night curfew started in Varanasi district from Thursday night. Restriction on movement will remain during curfew period from 9 pm to 6 am daily till April 15, officials said. The famous Ganga Aarti will be done on the ghats by priests only. There will be no public participation in it, said district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma. He added that all these steps were to ensure effective control of Covid-19 in the district. The DM said that certain restrictions have been imposed in Varanasi district from April 8. These restrictions would remain effective for a week and were aimed at guarding against the spread of Covid 19 infections in the district. The restrictions will be imposed under the Epidemic Act. The DM said that all the hotels, restaurants, departments had been instructed to set up Covid help desk equipped with thermal scanners and sanitisers. Activities like moving out of house, and business activities will remain suspended during the curfew hours starting 9pm daily. Morning milk supply, vegetable markets and medical shops will be free from this restriction, said DM. Gathering of more than five people at a place for campaigning of panchayat election has also been restricted, he added. All government, non-government or private schools, colleges, educational institutions and coaching institutes will be closed except medical, nursing and para medical institutions, officials said. All the parks, stadium will be open in the morning and evening only for a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-aarti-sans-public-participation-from-today-as-covid-curbs-kick-in-101617907247595.html
09-04-2021||Other||Temperature rises by two degrees in Noida, likely to go up||Noida: The city saw a slight relief from the heat on Thursday as the day-time temperature fell by two degrees, with weather analysts stating that the day time mercury will soar in the next two days. According to weather analysts, the region has started facing good winds, with northerly cool winds, that have shown its impact on mercury as well as the air quality. On Thursday, India Meteorological department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 35.3 degrees Celsius and 23.1 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 37.9 degrees Celsius and 22.6 degrees Celsius a day earlier. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the national Capital region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 35.2 degrees Celsius and 19.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. “For next two days, temperatures will remain around 35 degrees Celsius due to comparatively cold winds. However, a western disturbance is expected after two days that would change the wind direction and drop the wind speed, thus the mercury will rise and may reach 39 degrees Celsius. The air quality will also drop after two days,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Thursday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 143 against 270 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 210 against 274 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 175 on Thursday against 275 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), winds will keep the air quality within moderate category. “Surface winds are high and of a south-westerly direction. A marginal improvement in air quality is expected for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to stay in the ‘moderate’ category for the next three days,” said a SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/temperature-rises-by-two-degrees-in-noida-likely-to-go-up-101617906887540.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Noida MBBS admission scam: Another student lodges complaint||Noida: A student has filed a fresh complaint, at the Sector 58 police station, in connection to the MBBS admission fraud case in which at least six people, allegedly operating from an office in Noida’s Sector 62, cheated her of ₹20 lakh on the pretext of facilitating her admission in a medical college. Vaishali Joshi, a resident of Shanti Kunj in Lucknow, said her father had received a phone call from a woman who claimed to facilitate her admission in a medical college. “The woman gave the number of one Sachin Singh to my father. Sachin called my father to an office in Sector 62 and introduced him to others. They promised to facilitate my admission in a government medical college in Prayagraj for ₹25 lakh,” she said.Joshi alleged the suspects conducted a fake test and counselling session and took ₹20 lakh. They also handed over a seat allotment letter on January 21 and asked her to report to the college in February. Upon visiting, she was informed that no such letter had been issued by the college.When she questioned the suspects, they allegedly claimed there was some technical issue and her admission was cancelled. Eventually, the suspects changed their mobile numbers and stopped communication. Vaishali named six suspects in the complaint -- Adarsh, Pankaj Khateek, Raj Vikram Singh, Sunil Singh, among others. Out of the suspects, Pankaj Khateek surrendered in Mohoba and Adarsh surrendered in Kanpur for their alleged involvement in February. Police arrested Sunil Singh and Raj Vikram Singh from Mahoba district on March 26. Another person, identified as Sachin, is on the run, said the police. Anil Kumar, station house officer at Sector 58 police station, said a case has been registered against the suspects under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “We are investigating the matter and the suspects on the run will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-mbbs-admission-scam-another-student-lodges-complaint-101617906827571.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Wife of GST assistant commissioner dies by suicide in Noida flat||Noida: A 26-year-old woman allegedly ended her life by consuming poison at her flat in Noida Sector 99 on Wednesday night. The woman’s husband and his parents were arrested on Thursday after her family members alleged harassment and dowry demands, police said.The woman’s husband is an assistant commissioner in the GST department posted in Delhi, said a senior police official. HT could not independently verify the husband’s employment status. According to police, the woman was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 41 where she died while undergoing treatment. The woman, a native of Sunam in Punjab, had an arranged marriage in October last year. After the marriage, she lived with her husband, a native of Patiala, and in-laws in the Noida high-rise, police said, adding that the woman was pursuing an LLB programme from Punjab University.The victim’s maternal uncle alleged that since the marriage, her husband had been harassing her. “He would always humiliate her and say she was not a suitable match. He had changed her mobile phone and SIM card, and stopped her from talking to her friends,” he said.The uncle said that on April 6 the victim had called her mother and said she was unable to bear the harassment. “Her parents and her mother’s sister had reached Noida in the evening of April 6 to resolve the matter. Next day, they had decided to take her back to Sunam. But her husband again picked up a fight after which she consumed some poisonous substance,” he said.Police said that the woman’s family members admitted her to the private hospital. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the Sector 39 police received information about the suicide attempt and reached the spot. “Initially, she responded to the medical treatment but her condition deteriorated later. The hospital was planning to refer her to another hospital when she died,” he said.Singh said that police have registered a case against the woman’s husband and his parents under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304-B (dowry death) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and also under sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. “We have arrested the three persons in connection with the case and investigating the matter,” the additional DCP said.The woman’s husband neither responded to calls nor replied to a text message for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/wife-of-gst-assistant-commissioner-dies-by-suicide-in-noida-flat-101617906707524.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Film City project: Yeida to float global tender to select developer||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has started the process to hire a developer for the Film City project in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway. Officials said that Yeida has prepared a bid document and sent it to the state government for approval. Once approved, the authority will float a global tender to select a developer for the ₹10,500-crore project, which will be developed in three phases, the officials said, adding that the tender is likely to be issued by May this year.“We will soon float a global tender to select a developer. In phase 1, the authority wants to develop Film City on 376 acres of land. The phase 1 will be completed by 2024,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The officials said that public-private partnership model will be followed to develop the first phase of the project. The entire project requires 1,000 acres and is likely to be complete by 2029, they said.Under phase 1, film institutes, an amusement park, a 600-room five star hotel and studios, among others, will be built. The detailed project report (DPR) of the Film City project has suggested mixed land use -- residential, commercial, institutional and recreational -- that will attract investment from international investors, the officials said.On September 18 last year, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced the development of the Film City project. Subsequently, Yeida offered land located only six km from the upcoming Jewar airport and 12 km from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The upcoming Film City is expected to provide the platform to encompass all aspects of filmmaking -- related with script, music, writing, editing and production -- under a single roof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/film-city-project-yeida-to-float-global-tender-to-select-developer-101617906648095.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Yeida to explore possibility of different Metro modes to Noida airport||Greater Noida: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has decided to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) on the unconventional modes of metro connectivity that will link the upcoming Jewar international airport with the rest of Delhi-NCR.Officials aware of the development said the government was considering three modes of metro connectivity -- Metro Lite, Metro Neo and Express Line, each differing from the other in terms of speed, budget, ease of construction methodology, among other parameters. At present, most of the Delhi Metro and the lone line of Aqua Metro follow the conventional mode.Yeida has already roped in the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to prepare the DPR for the three modes. “We got the DMRC to prepare a DPR of a metro line connecting Noida airport to Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park-II, which is a distance of approximately 35.6 km. We forwarded the DPR to the state government for necessary assessment and approval. The state government gave its observation and asked us to prepare a DPR of the three modes of connectivity. The DMRC will soon start preparing the DPR of the three models,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of the Yeida. As per the DPR of the metro line, 25 metro stations have been proposed on the 35.6km route which will require a corpus of ₹7,000 crore. Yeida officials said they are aiming to finish the connectivity project by 2024, when the airport at Jewar is also scheduled to be completed. The UP government is of the view that faster connectivity is a necessity because of the low speed on normal metro link. The speed limit for small vehicles on the Yamuna expressway, where Jewar is located, is 100 kmph and 60 kmph for heavy vehicles. With an average speed of 30-35kmph on the normal metro link, passengers travelling from Greater Noida to Jewar airport will prefer travelling in car to save time.“The state government wants to explore the fastest mode of conveyance from Greater Noida to Noida airport. We have not fixed a deadline to ready the DPR of the three modes. The DMRC will be asked to finish and submit the report at the earliest so that we can finalise on the fastest mode of conveyance and start work without delay. We need to develop the connectivity before the airport becomes functional,” said Singh.“The state government wants a dedicated Airport Express Line or something that will run at a speed of 90 to 110 kmph,” said Singh.Metro Lite, which is light rail urban transit system, and Metro Neo-- a mass rapid transit system, are cheaper alternatives to the conventional metros that smaller cities are opting for to augment public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-to-explore-possibility-of-different-metro-modes-to-noida-airport-101617906647583.html
09-04-2021||Noida||Private centres in Ghaziabad say out of Covid-19 vaccine; Admin claims otherwise||Several private hospitals that have been designated as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) in Ghaziabad have put up notices saying they have run out of vaccine stocks, forcing beneficiaries to return without getting the jab, even as the administration denied any scarcity.“We had only a few doses of the vaccine available on Monday and we administered them. We don’t have any vaccine stock available with us. The beneficiaries have to return, and we have also put up a notice informing people. We have already made payments for fresh vaccine stock,” said Dr Shakeel Ahmad, administrative officer from LYF Hospital in Indirapuram.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said there was no shortage vaccine and pointed out “management issues” at the private CVCs.“We have no shortage of vaccine. There are some managerial issues with private CVCs which have led to this situation. We will hold meetings with them and resolve the issues. It was directed that preference will be given at private CVCs to pre-registered beneficiaries. But private CVCs also allowed walk-ins,” the district magistrate said.“We have made payments, but health department officials say it will take another two or three days to send the stock. Low stocks have been affecting the vaccination drive since Monday, so we have now put up a notice,” said Poonam Singh from administration department of Chandra Laxmi Hospital in Vaishali.Anamika Sharma, officer from the administration and HR department of Amicare Hospital in Indirapuram, said, “There is short supply, and we get limited stock. We administer shots whenever we get vaccine stock. We are not able to buy doses everyday due to availability issues. On Thursday, we had stock to administer doses to only 70-80 beneficiaries. So, other beneficiaries had to return. This is why we put up a notice.”Officials on Thursday said the health department had a stock of 12,290 doses of Covishield and 5,100 doses of Covaxin, and added that more will be procured from the store in Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-centres-in-ghaziabad-say-out-of-covid-19-vaccine-admin-claims-otherwise-101617906587482.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||17-year-old boy detained for cyber stalking woman||A 17-year-old class 11 male student was apprehended for allegedly stalking and blackmailing a woman on social media and via emails that contained abusive and obscene messages with threats to morph her images if she did not extend to him sexual favours, police said on Thursday.Police said that he used a VPN and email spoofing to discreetly go about the abuses and threats, but a cyber team in Shahdara district was able to crack the code and apprehend him.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said on Wednesday, a woman filed a complaint and alleged that she was being stalked and sexually harassed on social media by an unknown person, who was also seeking sexual favours from her if she wanted the harassment to stop.The complainant is pursuing a cabin crew course and she alleged that she was being “extremely harassed” for the past three to four days by the cyber stalker. A case was registered on her complaint and investigation was taken up, said a police officer, who did not want to be named.“When we analysed the email ID, it was found that the culprit was using a VPN (Virtual Private Network) for accessing the email account. After examining the collected information with the help of technical surveillance and cyber forensic tools, the identity of the alleged user was identified and subsequently he was apprehended from east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar,” the officer said.A mobile phone, used for operating the email ID and a social media account, was recovered from him, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17yearold-boy-detained-for-cyber-stalking-woman-101617905509413.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Ordinance to revive air quality commission in a week: Centre tells SC||The central government on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it will issue an ordinance in a week to revive the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas.The commission was shut down within five months of its constitution after the ordinance issued to constitute it lapsed last month.Ordinances must be approved by Parliament within six weeks of the House convening or they cease to operate. They will also cease to operate in case resolutions disapproving the ordinance are passed by both the Houses. The ordinance on the air quality management was not introduced in Parliament within six weeks of its convention in October last year.On Thursday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought ten days from a bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde to place the ordinance on record. Accepting the request, the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, adjourned the matter to April 19.Nudged by the top court, the Union environment ministry had promulgated The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance on October 28 last year to implement a consolidated approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi NCR and adjoining areas.Complaining against disbanding of the commission, teenager Aditya Dubey, had filed an application in the top court which was taken up on Thursday when the government assured the bench about issuing the ordinance in a week.In his public interest litigation (PIL), Dubey alleged that authorities have failed to protect his fundamental right to clean air and health by not controlling air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ordinance-to-revive-air-quality-commission-in-a-week-centre-tells-sc-101617905510061.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court slams sanitation staff for 'hooliganism'||The Delhi high court on Thursday said even though the sanitation workers of the municipal corporations and their unions have a right to protest on the non-payment of salaries, they would not be allowed to create a nuisance or resort to hooliganism by throwing garbage on streets and obstructing other employees from going to work.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said such conduct would not be tolerated and penal action would be taken against the union leaders and members.It disposed of a plea by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) seeking direction to the city police and the Delhi government to ensure that there is no obstruction in the performance of duties by its officials and employees, including safai karamcharis who are willing to work.During the hearing, advocate Prakash Kumar, representing the president and secretary of the MCD Swachhata Karamchari Union leaders, who gave the strike call, appeared before the court and assured it that they will not resort to any such conduct or call for strike in the future.To this, the high court said, “If there is a grievance, you have a right to raise it and nobody is taking away your right. But you cannot create a nuisance and ‘gundagardi (hooliganism)’. We will not allow this and will come down heavily with an iron hand.”The bench further said, “We will not permit anyone to take law into their hands. ‘Gundagardi’ will not be allowed. Spilling of garbage on streets is not allowed and you cannot restrain others from doing their duties.”The court said since the president and secretary of the union have appeared before it, it does not wish to pursue the bailable warrants issued earlier against them.“We have impressed upon the president and secretary of the union that though they are entitled to exercise their rights as provided by the law to raise their grievances, they do not have a right to create nuisance and take law into their hands by spilling garbage on roads and restraining others from performing their duties,” the bench said.EDMC had earlier said several safai karamcharis unions had called for a strike in March and that they shall be restrained from throwing garbage on streets or hampering the functioning of the corporation.The EDMC, in its plea, had also sought direction to the authorities to provide necessary assistance so that day-to-day operations of the corporation can be run smoothly and no inconvenience is caused to the members of the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/have-right-to-protest-but-not-to-create-nuisance-throw-garbage-on-road-hc-tells-sanitation-union-101617905508749.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt orders private hospitals to increase beds for Covid-19 patients||With the city reporting over 7,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the Delhi government directed private hospitals to increase beds earmarked for the treatment of coronavirus patients, for the third time in a week. Two state government hospitals, Lok Nayak and Guru Teg Bahadur, were also asked to scale up Covid-19 infrastructure.According to an signed by Dr RN Das, medical superintendent of Delhi’s nursing home cell, 115 hospitals with over 50 beds across the city have been asked to reserve 50% of their total ICU and ward beds for Covid-19, or 1.25 times the occupancy on Thursday, whichever is higher.This will add 491 ICU beds and 2,430 ward beds in the private hospitals over Monday’s escalated total, according to the order. The government had ordered 33 private hospitals to reserve 25% of their ward and ICU capacity last Saturday, then again ordered 54 private hospitals – which includes the 33 from the previous list – to reserve 30% of their ward and ICU capacity on Monday. The hospitals are still in the process of increasing the number of beds.“The occupancy of the Covid ICU beds has surged and reached more than 85% in 20 of the 54 private hospitals. Similarly, the occupancy of Covid ward beds has also increased and reached more than 75% in 22 of the 54 private hospitals,” read the order. The private hospitals have been allowed to increase their total beds strength by 25% and use the increased capacity only for Covid-19 treatment.The government also ordered Lok Nayak hospital to increase the total Covid-19 beds from 1,000 as per Monday’s order to 1,500, of which 300 will be ICU beds. And, Guru Teg Nahadur hospital has been asked to increase the number of beds from 500 to 1,000, of which 200 will be in the ICU.Lok Nayak hospital has curtailed outpatient clinics and halved routine surgeries to ensure staff availability for Covid-19 beds. On Thursday, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences also suspended all routine surgeries Saturday onwards.In two other separate orders, the Delhi government asked all its hospitals to re-create holding or triage areas where patients can receive oxygen therapy while completing admission process. “It may be ensured that no patient is kept waiting for more than 10 minutes,” the order read.The Delhi government hospitals have also been directed to utilise dental and AYUSH practitioners for Covid duty.Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, said: “The number of Covid-19 cases has increased sharply and there is a need to increase the number of beds. However, the problem this time around is that the non-Covid services have resumed; they are at 70% to 80% of the pre-Covid capacity,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-orders-private-hospitals-to-increase-beds-for-covid-patients-101617905507404.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Woman misleads cops to save sister in Dwarka accident case||Four days after a 79-year-old doctor and his 62-year-old wife were killed after being run over by a car in Sector 11, Dwarka, in south-west Delhi, the police on Thursday said the errant driver was not the woman they had arrested earlier but her sister, a 28-year-old probationary officer of Canara Bank.Both sisters have now been arrested – bank employee Nupur Choudhary on charges of rash and negligent driving that resulted in the death of the elderly couple, and 30-year-old Deepakshi Choudhary on charges of misleading the police and getting herself arrested to save her sister’s job, said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.“We have arrested Nupur for rash and negligent driving causing death, while appropriate charges are being added in the case against Deepakshi, who misled us and our probe. Deepakshi and her family members said she owned up to the offence in an attempt to save Nupur’s job. We are investigating the case further to ascertain if there are any other reasons behind the subterfuge,” said DCP Meena, adding that the car is registered in the name of Deepakshi, who has obtained bail in the accident case.On Sunday around 6.30pm, the elderly couple Shanti Swaroop Arora and his wife Anjula Arora were out on a stroll when a grey Baleno car hit them from the front and ran over them on the Masjid Wali Road. The accident was captured by a CCTV camera installed at a mosque across the road.In the six-minute-long video clip recorded by the CCTV camera, the couple is seen walking on the left side of the road; when suddenly, a grey car moving at a slow speed in the middle of the road starts moving towards them and hits them. The man and his wife fall on the road, and the car is seen running them over.The footage also shows a woman driver stopping, taking out her cellphone from the car, and calling someone frantically. Some passersby rescued the elderly couple and rushed them to a nearby hospital, where they died.DCP Meena said that when the police reached the hospital and enquired about the errant driver, a man told them that the accident was caused by his elder daughter. A woman came forward, identified herself as the car’s owner Deepakshi Choudhary and confessed to hitting the couple while driving. She told the police that she was distracted while driving, leading to her losing control of the vehicle.The fresh developments in the case emerged only after family members of the dead couple raised doubts about the arrest and said the woman arrested by the police was not the one driving the car at the time of the accident. The family members told the police that the car was driven by the arrested woman’s sister, the Delhi Police had said in a statement on Wednesday night.HT tried to contact the couple’s family for comment, but the cellphone number available for them was switched off.The police are now probing if the actual driver had a valid driving licence and, if not, whether that was the reason why the sisters had chose to mislead the police. The DCP did not comment on the driving licence angle when asked about it.The colour of the clothes worn by the errant driver and her physique was captured by a CCTV camera at the mosque. The police said the sisters had not exchanged their clothes, but the investigating team had not matched the colour of the sisters’ clothes with the video footage at the time of Deepakshi’s arrest. The DCP insisted that were no lapses on part of the investigation team.“We arrested the woman based on her confession and her father’s statement. But when the dead couple’s family members raised doubts, we verified their allegations that the car was being driven by Deepakshi’s sister and found it true. Accordingly, both the sisters have been arrested,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elderly-couple-run-over-police-say-errant-driver-was-sister-of-woman-they-arrested-both-now-in-custody-101617905448768.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||10-5 job: Cops focus on crowded areas at night||Delhi Police personnel and district officials are focussing on busy markets, congested neighbourhoods and slums while enforcing the night curfew in the national capital, officials aware of the matter said. They added that the police and district officials were also carrying out awareness drives, and asking people not to venture out between 10pm and 5am until they have the requisite curfew pass or in the event of an emergency.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday ordered a night curfew until April 30 to limit the spread of the coronavirus disease. Government officials, essential workers, those travelling to airports, railway stations, interstate bus terminals, Covid-19 vaccination centres or hospitals are exempt from the seven-hour curfew. Travel during curfew some of these categories will require e-passes. The order implies that all restaurants, markets, wedding halls, pubs and commercial establishments also have to shut by 10pm.Police and district officials across the city were spotted in markets such as Lajpat Nagar, Connaught Place, Khan Market and Janpath well before 10pm, requesting people to shut shops on time to prevent gatherings. In many congested neighbourhoods and slum clusters, police used loudspeakers mounted on e-rickshaws to inform people about the importance of social distancing.On Wednesday night, Delhi Police filed 489 FIRs across the city, temporarily detained 843 people and issued 731 fines for flouting social distancing norms. In comparison, the police on Tuesday registered 220 cases, temporarily detained 534 people and issued 842 fines.HT spoke to several police officers on the ground who said that unlike the nationwide lockdown last year, the enforcement teams are not stopping every vehicle on the road during the curfew, but were focussed on curbing gatherings.A senior revenue official said that their focus in the first few days was to spread awareness, and not just penalise violators. “Police have been asked to spread awareness and counsel those who are resisting government orders. The idea is to get all places where people gather, such as shops, markets and restaurants, shut by 10pm. We aim to stop people from loitering around. Of course, emergencies and other genuine cases are always considered without any question,” said the official.Police and administration officials are conducting flag marches every day between 8pm and 10pm in New Delhi district, which has some of the city’s most popular markets.“We faced resistance from some store owners in Connaught Place. In Khan Market, there was almost 100% compliance, with shops shutting before 10pm. In Sarojini Nagar and RK Puram markets, we had trouble with street vendors. So today [Thursday], we held a meeting with the street vendors’ association to convince them to wrap up their outlets by 10pm,” said Dr Nitin Shakya, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of New Delhi district.In the past two days, the New Delhi district administration has issued at least 20 notices to shops, restaurants and pubs for defying DDMA orders. Such establishments were also warned that if they do not shut by 10pm from Thursday night, the outlet will be sealed with immediate effect and a penalty will be imposed, as per relevant sections of the DDMA Act and the Indian Penal Code, Shakya said.Delhi Police have roped in auto-rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers to make public announcements in congested neighbourhoods such as Sangam Vihar and Ambedkar Nagar to make people aware of the rules and the importance of social distancing.Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Suvashis Choudhary, said, “Our intention is not to penalise but to work with citizens and stop the spread of the disease. In narrow by-lanes of places such as Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar or the slum areas, police teams on e -rickshaws are alerting people during the day on the need to avoid gathering. We register FIRs only in cases, where citizens are adamant and refuse to abide by the rules. Much before 10pm, we request people to shut establishments. Using the public address system, we remind them before the deadline. The compliance is good.”Choudhary said police teams on the road at night are also helping citizens who have genuine reasons to be out during curfew hours.On Wednesday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the curfew was imposed in the Capital because people were found to be organising parties and other events where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, were often ignored.“The night curfew has been imposed because there were reports about parties, which cause unnecessary gatherings and put people in close contact. Hence the night curfew is aimed to avoid this situation because if even one is positive among the 50 people, all 50 would test positive,” he told reporters.A police constable, who was on duty outside the Delhi Golf Club on Wednesday night, said, “The difference between lockdown and night curfew is that we are easy on people returning home from work late at night. But if there is more than one person in a car or a group returning late at night after a party, we take action against them for violating the curfew rules.”Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said by Wednesday night, the police have issued 84 fines and registered 1 case against those defying the curfew orders.Officials in the South district administration said they have tied up with market associations and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to focus making people aware and ensure that they adhere to the rules.When contacted, the management of the Select Citywalk, a mall in south Delhi, said the shopping centre has reduced its operations by at least 2.5 hours.“The shopping centre is now open from 10:30 am to 9pm, compared to the usual timings of 10am to 11pm. But, we have allowed food delivery from restaurants, groceries and pharmacies. Information is being shared across our website and social media handles. Regular announcements are also being made,” the mall said in an e-mail response to HT.In central Delhi, which includes parts of old Delhi like Chandni Chowk, Daryaganj, Jama Masjid and Chandni Mahal, where eateries used to stay open even after midnight, police have roped in heads of mosques, temples and other religious places to spread the word about the curfew.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said, “The nightlife in the Walled City is different from other parts of Delhi. We contacted the RWAs, heads of mosques, temples and roped them to inform citizens on the importance of not gathering during the curfew hours. Through their cooperation, we were able to ensure that the shops, which opened till late night are now shut before 10pm. Even during the day, police teams patrol the Walled City area making announcements about the curfew.”On Wednesday night, police in central Delhi issued 25 fines and registered two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/105-job-cops-focus-on-crowded-areas-at-night-101617905448189.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||BJP protests, wants Delhi govt to buy wheat at 'promised rate'||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday staged a protest against the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence for allegedly misleading farmers and not fulfilling its promise of buying wheat at ₹2,612 per quintal in the city.The protest comes a day after senior AAP leader Gopal Rai, who is in charge of the state agriculture department, alleged that the Food Corporation of India has not yet opened counters for procurement of wheat at Delhi’s grain markets at the minimum support price (MSP).The FCI and its Delhi region office on Wednesday had taken to Twitter calling the AAP-led Delhi government’s claims “baseless”. “Allegations made by government of Delhi is completely baseless. FCI Delhi is fully prepared to procure wheat from farmers of Delhi at FSD Narela, Mayapuri & APMC Najafgarh mandi, which have been operational since April 1 & FCI has already procured 158 Qt wheat as on April 7,” tweeted FCI Delhi region, along with photographs of FSD Narela.On Thursday, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta hit out at the AAP and said that the Delhi government was anti-farmers. “Kejriwal had promised free power and said it will purchase farm produce at a price that is one-and-a-half times more than MSP . He had said that his government will buy wheat at ₹2,612 per quintal. But the government has not even opened a single centre for it. They are also not cooperating with FCI, which is now buying wheat in Delhi on its own,” said Gupta.Gupta demanded that the government either immediately honour the promises made or AAP leader Gopal Rai apologise to farmers.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly, added that if needed he, along with other party workers, will protest outside Rai’s residence as well to support farmers’ issues.Bidhuri said, “We are standing in complete solidarity with the farmers. The Delhi government has not opened any centres so far to buy wheat. The government does not want any buying to take place at MSP. The Central government agency, which has opened its centres here, is buying wheat at the rate of ₹1,975 per quintal. If the Kejriwal government wants, it can pay the remaining ₹800 per quintal to farmers.”Delhi government spokespersons refused to comment on the issue despite repeated requests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-protests-outside-kejriwal-s-residence-says-aap-should-buy-wheat-at-prices-promised-to-farmers-101617905387381.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Arrange travel for Covid-19 jabs during night curfew , MCDs urge Delhi govt||The three municipal corporations of the city have appealed the Delhi government to make transport arrangements for those choosing to get vaccinated during night curfew timings.North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said due to the night curfew, there is no public transport available after 10pm. So during the hours of the curfew, he requested that the government makes alternative travel arrangements for those wanting to take the jab at the 24-hour vaccination centres in the city and also for those working in these vaccination centres.“Not everyone is able to get an e-pass permitting them to move around during the curfew hours and even if people do get the pass, how they will be able to get a public transport after 10pm? So I have written to the chief minister urging him to find a solution to the problem of commute of health-care staff and the general public to and from 24-hour vaccination centres during night curfew timings,” Prakash said.He said he will conduct a night patrol on Thursday to understand the issues people are facing, especially related to vaccination, during the night curfew.The north corporation on Wednesday made its Mrs Girdhar Lal Maternity Hospital a 24-hour vaccination centre. It is the first MCD hospital to be converted into a round-the-clock vaccination facility. There are nearly 75 vaccination centres being managed by the three municipalities across the city where till Wednesday, nearly 1.6 lakh people had taken the jab. Apart from these, there are 33 more government hospitals offering similar facilities.“If people are unable to reach the 24-hour vaccination centres during the night curfew hours, either due to the lack of an e-pass or due to the lack of public transport, then keeping these centres open round the clock will be a futile exercise as people will not be getting vaccinated in adequate numbers. So the government should address these issues,” Prakash further said.Narendra Chawla, leader of the house in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said the night curfew might be a required step but the government should also ensure that people are able to reach the 24-hour vaccination centres at their given time slots. “Some arrangement should be made to ensure that people (whose vaccination slot is during curfew timings) do not face problem in reaching the centre,” Chawla said.Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), also echoed similar views and said the government should take these issues into consideration and work out a solution. “We (representatives of the three municipalities) are planning to meet the lieutenant-governor in the coming days to discuss all these issues,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-urge-govt-to-make-travel-arrangements-for-those-planning-to-take-the-jab-during-night-curfew-101617905267320.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||No new admissions to primary classes in Schools of Excellence: Delhi govt||The Delhi government has decided to discontinue admissions in primary classes in its Schools of Excellence from this year onwards and instead, focus on converting the schools into specialised branches for a particular discipline —like Science, Arts or Skill Education — officials familiar with the development said.There was no immediate clarity about admissions to senior classes in such schools.Nirupama Abhyankar, deputy director of education (Schools of Excellence), said, “Admissions for junior classes to these schools will not be conducted this year. We are thinking of converting these schools into specialised branches of excellence for higher classes.” The Delhi cabinet on March 22 had approved setting up 100 Schools of Specialised Excellence across the city for students of classes 9 to 12.In 2018, the Delhi government started six Schools of Excellence across the city which are supposed to be model, resource-rich English-medium schools. Before the pandemic struck, the schools conducted admissions to classes 9 and 11 through entrance tests and conducted regular admissions for Nursery to Class 2. However, last year due to the pandemic, the schools did not conduct any admissions to primary classes and only admitted students in senior classes on the basis of merit.Some parents, who were aspiring to get their children admitted to these schools this year, said they were disappointed by the education department’s decision.Shweta Yadav, 26, a resident of Patparganj who wanted to get her three-year-old daughter admitted to the School of Excellence in Khichripur, said, “We got to know that these schools provide learning facilities on the lines of private schools at little to no fees. It seemed like a good option, especially because the perception of government schools in Delhi has changed over the past few years. If admissions to Schools of Excellence don’t happen this year, I will get her admitted to a private school.”M Shariq, principal of School of Excellence, Kalkaji, also said, “We have been receiving queries from parents on the admission process that usually begins in March. We haven’t received any official order yet regarding the admissions.”Confirming that no new admissions will take place in primary classes, a senior education department official said, “The students already studying in these schools will continue and no new admissions will take place. English-medium was not the exclusive quality of these schools and there were various things like pupil-teacher ratio and providing other facilities to students. The bar of these facilities have been raised in other government schools and parents can opt for those schools as well."The principal of another School of Excellence, requesting anonymity, said, “We did not conduct admissions for primary classes last year either, as there was a plan to convert these into specialised schools in particular areas like Science, Arts and Skill Education.”Mamata Dhingra, who teaches Mathematics at School of Excellence, Dwarka, said, “Our school is likely to have a Science specialisation. Work has already started on the laboratories and we too have been consulting on the other necessary resources that will be provided to the school in the days to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-new-admissions-to-primary-classes-in-schools-of-excellence-govt-101617905147396.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||CBSE increases examination centres by 50% to ensure social distancing||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has added 2,500 more examination centres this year, in India and abroad, in order to ensure social distancing during the Class 10 and 12 board exams scheduled to be held from May 4, officials said, even as the board reiterated that it is not considering any change in the exam schedule, amid demands to cancel the exams in view of the second Covid-19 wave across the country.Around 340,000 students are likely to take the board exams this year.Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE controller examinations, on Thursday said the board has decided to set up around 7,500 examination centres in India and abroad this year, in comparison to last year’s 5,000-odd centres.“The increase in centres will help officials to implement other Covid-19 precautionary measures effectively. Besides, we will follow all Covid-19 guidelines as issued by the Union government at the examination centres,” he said.The board on April 1 announced that if a student is unable to appear for the ongoing practical exams because they, or a family member, have tested positive for Covid-19, schools will conduct re-tests for them by June. CBSE last month also allowed the students to submit their requests to change centres for the practical and written examinations.Principals of several schools welcomed the board’s decision to increase the number of examination centres.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “We have received details about our examination centre in INA, and it appears that students from only one or two schools will be allotted a centre this time. Earlier, students from three or four schools would share one examination centre. We are relieved to know that the board has increased the number of examination centres. It may have been difficult for schools earmarked as examination centres to adjust since only 10 students are allowed in a room this time.”Also Read | Centre says 43 million Covid vaccine doses in stock after shortage alarmJyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, which is earmarked as a CBSE examination centre every year, said, “The only way to ensure the safety of students during exams is to increase the number of centres. The safety of children is our top priority, and CBSE’s decision to increase centres is commendable.”Earlier in February, the board had announced that the Class 12 exams will be taken in two shifts — 10.30 am-12.30/1.30 pm and 2.30 pm- 4.30/5.30pm — to reduce the number of days exams are conducted, in view of the pandemic.Meanwhile, by Thursday evening, 79,000 students signed an online petition demanding that the CBSE exams be cancelled in view of the country’s spiralling Covid-19 scenario.“The situation in India is getting worse day by the day. When there were only a few cases in the country, they cancelled the remaining board exams, and now when the cases are at a peak they are planning to open schools. We urge the education minister to look into this matter and cancel all examinations to be held this year as students are already under a lot of stress,” the petition read.Bhardwaj, however, said the exams will be conducted as per the schedule. “The board is not considering anything in this regard. Exams will be conducted as per the schedule with all precautions in place,” he said.Last year, the board had to postpone exams in March when the nationwide lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of the infection. The exams were cancelled later, and the results were announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-increases-examination-centres-by-50-to-ensure-social-distancing-101617905147999.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal reviews slum rehabilitation project||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday directed officials to expedite the construction of flats under the state government’s ‘Jahan Jhuggi, Wahin Makan’ in situ [on site] slum rehabilitation project.Kejriwal reviewed the progress of the project at a meeting with senior government officials.“Chief minister Kejriwal added that any problems in the implementation of the scheme should be brought to his notice so that they can be effectively removed and families can be shifted to their new homes and can lead a life of dignity,” read a government press statement issued after the review meeting.The project is being spearheaded by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (Dusib) and Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC). Over 90,300 flats will be constructed across Delhi over 237 acres in multi-storey buildings and each flat is expected to cost the government ₹8 lakh, according to senior government officials.In the first phase, over 52,300 flats will be allotted, 18,000 in the second phase and 20,000 in the third phase.The deadline for the first phase is April 2022, and the entire project by 2025.The statement further read, “DUSIB officials informed the CM that construction of 18,084 flats was underway. These flats are almost ready. Officials in the meeting informed that 34,260 flats are being built by DSIIDC. Of this, 17,660 flats are ready, while 16,600 flats are under construction. Apart from this, the officials informed that 4,833 flats have been allotted to the homeless families living in slums, while the process of allocation of 7031 flats is underway and will be completed soon.”In previous meetings on the project, Kejriwal instructed the officials to ensure the allotment of the flats within 5 kms of where their slums were located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-reviews-slum-rehabilitation-project-101617905087970.html
09-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Amid 4th Covid wave, districts intensify micro containment zone strategy||Dharamveer Singh, a 44-year-old labour worker, was isolated in his residence in Hanuman Mandir Gully — one of the many cramped lanes in west Delhi’s Palam neighbourhood — after he tested positive for Covid-19 last Thursday.Two days later, his younger brother, Akash, who lives next door, also tested positive. With that, the two houses were clubbed and turned into one of the 4,200-odd “micro” containment zones in the city.Containment zones are sealed premises or areas that are essentially under a hard lockdown for a certain period, and are placed under increased surveillance by district teams. Essential goods are delivered to doorsteps, and these areas can be de-notified only if no new cases are added for 14 days.With each Covid-19 wave, the Delhi government has intensified its micro containment strategy. Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said the efforts to create such zones in the city have yielded positive results, adding that even though Delhi is witnessing a fresh spike in cases, there have been no mass clusters or hot spots in the city so far.“In Delhi, we have been following the micro containment zone policy for several months now. The current containment zones are smaller than most of the red zones that were demarcated and notified a few months ago. The policy has allowed the government to cover a large section of active cases, causing the least inconvenience to unaffected people. Due to the effective implementation of the micro containment policy, a higher proportion of people in home isolation are currently in containment zones — hence, much higher surveillance. It has been an effective strategy to ensure Delhi does not see mass clusters and hot spots,” he said.In a meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged chief ministers to focus on imposing micro containment zones to tackle rising cases.As on Thursday, Delhi had 23,181 active Covid-19 cases, of which 13,988 were inside containment zones, government records said. This means that these zones cover around 60% of the total active cases — up from 33%-35% in mid-November, when the third wave was its peak in the Capital, showed data.The micro containment strategy was implemented in Delhi during the second wave in September.In November, each containment zone in Delhi on average had three active cases. Currently, each on average has 2.3 active cases, showed government data.The demarcation process is, however, extremely complex, several senior district administration officials said.For instance, Dharamveer lives with his wife, two children and mother. In the house to the right, lives Akash, his wife and their daughter. In the house to his left lives his sister Rama, her husband Kumar, and their two children. While these houses are separate units from the outside, from the inside, they are connected through corridors, shared terraces, and other links.“In this case, it was a challenge to club two houses and leave out the third, the occupants of which — Dharamveer’s sister and her family — were not affected by the disease. Secondly, their house was connected to more relatives’ houses. It did not make sense to put everyone inside a containment zone,” said a senior official.“So, we sealed all access points and shared spaces that connect Dharamveer and Akash’s houses to the residences of other relatives in the same stretch, and clubbed the two into one containment zone. The unit has two active cases (the brothers) and six other residents (their wives, children and mother). All members of the family are under surveillance.”In the initial months of the pandemic, Delhi used to have much larger containment zones — often entire lanes and blocks, which government officials said led to several complaints from people who were not infected, but had to bear the brunt of restrictions.“The old policy was difficult to implement and adhere to. A lot of people started providing incorrect addresses while getting tested for Covid-19, fearing that if they tested positive, their locality would be turned a containment zone. The micro containment strategy has largely resolved these problems,” said a second senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-4th-wave-of-covid-infections-districts-intensify-micro-containment-zone-strategy-101617905027339.html
09-04-2021||Pune||PMC increases bed count for Covid patients||Pune: After non-availability of beds in the city for Covid patients, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday acquired six private hospitals. As per officials, more private hospitals will be acquired if needed. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said during a press meet on Thursday that in the last 15 days itself, PMC has reserved over 7,500 beds for Covid patients. “Oxygen beds have also been increased from 2,200 to 2,800 and ventilator beds have increased from 290 to 550. In addition to this, 200 more beds will be made available for Covid patients,” said Kumar. He said that to resolve the matter of bed availability for Covid patients, Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital in Bibwewadi and Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS), Pune will give beds for Covid patients. “200 more beds will be added through these two hospitals. There are 70 oxygen beds and 20 ICU beds at Bibwewadi and 20 ventilator beds and 20 oxygen beds at AICTS Pune. AICTS Pune will give 20 more beds each in the next few days,” said Kumar. He said that private hospitals have added 20 more beds with ventilators in the last three days. “In the next five days, 60 more beds will be added to manage the issue. Many citizens call the helpline number to check bed availability. So, we have more lines available now to help the beneficiaries,” said Kumar. He added that Pune city now has 612 ventilator beds. “Earlier the number was 551. We will get more beds if needed for Covid patients,” said Kumar. As per the district administration, 423 beds have been increased in the district from Thursday. There are 34 beds with ventilator, 231 beds with oxygen and 158 non-oxygen beds available in the city as the city sees a rise in the number of Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-increases-bed-count-for-covid-patients-101617895246266.html
09-04-2021||Pune||Shortage affects vaccination drive in Pune, parts of western Maharashtra||Many inoculation centres in Pune district operated partially on Thursday due to the unavailability of vaccines even as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials denied that there was shortage in the city. Of the 427 centres across the district, 54,059 got their vaccine dose, while in the city, 130 centres inoculated 18,480 people on Thursday. In view of shortage of vaccines, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation announced that there will be no inoculation drive on Friday in the industrial town. PMC, however, will continue the vaccination as it has 25,000 vaccine doses left. “We are trying to procure doses. Once they are available, vaccination will resume,” said Pavan Salve, additional health officer, PCMC. Hadapsar resident Sayali Wagh, 56, had to return without getting her jab as planned since the vaccination centre in Hadapsar was shut. “A notice board was placed outside the centre stating vaccination will not be done today. Officials at the centre said that they are awaiting the doses and asked me to come tomorrow,” said Wagh. PMC officials said that they do not have vaccination stock. “We are procuring excess doses from hospitals today to supply vaccines to hospitals which have zero doses. By Thursday evening, new doses are expected,” said a civic official on condition of anonymity. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said at a press meet that Pune city has received over 577,000 doses of vaccines. “There are at present 125 vaccination sites that are actively inoculating beneficiaries. We had 45,000 doses. And there are 25,000 doses remaining with us so far. Some hospitals in the city may not have the doses, but there was enough stock with PMC to continue smooth inoculation,” said Kumar. The vaccine shortage was seen at western Maharashtra also. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that due to shortage of vaccine doses, the process was paused in Sangli and Satara and centres were reduced at many places. “We are hoping to get more supply of vaccines from the Centre. Once the vaccines are supplied, inoculation can restart smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-affects-vaccination-drive-in-pune-parts-of-western-maharashtra-101617894286151.html
09-04-2021||Pune||Pune witnesses shortage of Remdesivir drug||Pune: The panic and crisis over shortage of Remdesivir injection continued on Thursday. Long queue of residents were seen at the headquarters of the Chemists Association of Pune on Bajirao road to get the life-saving drug for their families and friends down with Covid. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials have blamed doctors for overprescribing the drug.Ashish Avhad, who was searching for the injection at various stores in the city, said that he is unable to get it for the last three days.“My friend’s father is critical and this drug has been unavailable for the last three days. I have been standing outside the Chemists Association of Pune’s office since 9 am and it is 3:30 pm and I haven’t received the drug. I have visited all major hospitals, but it is unavailable,” said Avhad.Supriya Kajale, relative of a patient, said that she has been waiting for the drug for the past two days.“They are charging ₹5,000 for the drug because of short supply. I need the injection for my 62-year-old father who is tested positive for Covid,” Kajale said.Dinesh Khivasara, assistant commissioner, FDA said that the drug has been overprescribed by doctors. “This drug is important for critical patients. However, every doctor is prescribing it for patients who are with mild symptoms as well. That is why there is a shortage of the drug. The drug needs at least 15 days to manufacture as it has to follow various norms,” Khivasara said.He said that other pharma companies will be manufacturing the drug soon and it will hit the market.“To check hoarding of drugs, we have ensured that all dealers go through us before supplying the drug outside the city,” said Khivasara.Vikram Kumar, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner said that the authorities are in discussion with FDA.“There are about 2,000 doses of Remdesivir that will be made available with PMC on Thursday. And another batch of 2,000 doses are likely by April 9,” Kumar said.In view of tackling the shortage of Remdesivir, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday chaired a meeting with seven manufacturers of the life-saving drug. Tope asked manufacturers to double the production for the state. Food and Drug Administration minister Rajendra Shingane and officials of the health and FDA department attended the meet.Earlier in the day, before the meeting, Shingane said, “We are going to ask manufacturers to increase the supply of Remdesivir and reduce its price.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-witnesses-shortage-of-remdesivir-drug-101617892786016.html
09-04-2021||Pune||PMC, PCMC offer full support to industries willing to run vaccine camps on campus||The administrations of the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will provide full-fledged support to industries willing to conduct vaccination camps on the company premises.After a circular from the central government, on allowing industries to start vaccinations from April 11, the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), took the initiative to discuss proceedings regarding vaccination with civic commissioners Vikram Kumar of the PMC and Rajesh Patil of the PCMC.“We have created two email IDs on which companies willing to conduct vaccination camps can share the names. There should be at least 100 people for vaccination,” said Vikram Kumar.“We expect a list of candidates along with their Aadhar cards to be ready when our team visits the campus for vaccination. We will need one waiting room, one for vaccination, one room where vaccinated employees can rest and one room for data entry, “ added Kumar.The PMC and PCMC will tie up with hospitals and have appointed nodal officers to look after the process.Kumar added, “If one company does not have 100 employees above the age 45, then another company can join them, as 100 is the minimum number to conduct a camp,” added Kumar.PCMC’s Rajesh Patil said, “We have already conducted vaccination drives in companies like Telco and Thermax. We have created 15 teams which will conduct camps in companies which fall within PCMC limits.”The companies which fall in rural areas will be taken care of by the Zilla Parishad CEO and district collector.Industries from the Chakan belt have requested the lowering of the age limit for vaccination, as many employees fall between the ages of 18 and 45 years.“Most of the industries in Chakan have employees below 45, and we are willing to get them vaccinated. We request the government to think it over it as it will be an important decision,” said Dileep Batwal, secretary, Federation of Chakan industries.Nodal officers for vaccination at the work place:For PMC Ashish Agarwal: 09764006478Email: Vaccination.campus@gmail.com; punevaccination.campus@gmail.comFor PCMCNilkanth Poman: 99225 01908Email : n.poman@pcmcindia.gov.inVijay Vaware: 7057766222||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-pcmc-offer-full-support-to-industries-willing-to-run-vaccine-camps-on-campus-101617886605265.html
