12-04-2021||Noida||For the first time, Khoda residents get permanent house numbers||Ghaziabad: Bolly Khari, a resident of Subhash Bazar in Khoda, was overjoyed when he received his permanent house number for the first time since the Khoda locality came into existence in the 1980s. Officials of the Khoda Nagar Palika said all 45,064 houses in the area will be getting their house numbers for the first time.Khari, along with several others, received his permanent house number during an event held on Sunday at the Nagar Palika.He said it will help him shun his previous temporary house number, which was based on his ration card. “Residents of Khoda have been facing issues due to this for the past several decades, as the houses were generally identified on the basis of ration card numbers. So, the word ‘RC’ was prefixed with the temporary house number, which was difficult to find out. Many times, the postman would return, unable to locate recipients. Residents faced problems while opening bank accounts as well, which require permanent house numbers,” Khari said.“In many cases, the cheque books issued from banks would get returned as the delivery man could not locate the house numbers based on ration cards. Even our voter ID cards had the old ration card-based house number. Many a time, anyone not familiar with the area, coming as a guest or for some other work, would also return. People often locate houses by asking locals by way names of residents,” Khari further.Khoda is a densely populated area adjacent to National Highway 9 under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad district. Most residents are employed in service works, odd-jobs and daily wage earners, a majority of whom are migrants. It is ticked between Ghaziabad, Noida and Delhi.Housing in the area is unplanned, and several constructions do not adhere to building by-laws. Most of the walkways in the city are in the form of congested lanes and by-lanes, while some are so narrow that two persons cannot pass through at once, side by side.KK Bhadana, the executive-officer of the Khoda Nagar Palika, said that the local body came into existence on March 10, 2016. Khoda was formerly an old village, the development of which into a colony took place from the 1980s onwards.“Now, we have started the process and an agency will be serially numbering the houses from 1 to 45,064 in the next three months. This will immensely help local residents. Number plates for the house will also be distributed to residents. Before this, it was difficult to locate houses across the 34 residential wards,” he added. The first house number was allotted to Nagar Palika chairperson, Reena Bhati, and to the 34 elected councillors and four nominated councillors, after which allotment to other residents began. Khari was among the first non-elected residents to get the house number.“The Khoda locality has 73 Mohallas in 34 residential wards and is a small city in itself. The process of allotment of numbers will be done serially and not in groups. When more houses come into existence, they will be issued numbers serially,” Bhadana added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/for-the-first-time-khoda-residents-get-permanent-house-numbers-101618251817820.html
12-04-2021||Noida||10.8K people vaccinated on second day of ‘tika utsav’ in GB Nagar||NOIDA: The second day of tika utsav (vaccination festival) witnessed a better turnout in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday as a total of 10,787 eligible people got their shots against Covid-19 at different inoculation centres in the district, officials said. On Sunday, 6,553 beneficiaries had been inoculated in the district under the drive. District magistrate Suhas LY said that the district witnessed a very good response from the people for vaccination drive. “Apart from the vaccination drive, we are trying to check the further spread of the viral infection. For that, we are trying to keep a track on infected people and their primary and secondary contacts. Based on the number of active cases, we have declared 193 places, including apartments and societies, as containment zones,” he said. The DM further said that considering the need of isolation and ICU beds, the district administration has given permission to private hospitals to run separate wards for Covid patients at the stipulated rates. “The private hospitals have been divided into two different categories -- National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH)-accredited and non-NABH accredited. And the patients have been categorised in three groups – moderate, severe and very severe. The rates for NABH-accredited hospitals vary from ₹10,000 to ₹18,000 per day, including the cost of PPE kits. For the non-NABH category, the rates vary from ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 per day, including the cost of PPE kits,” he said. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the package rates will include bed, food, amenities, doctors’ consultation, nursing charges, and all other treatments. “The package will include medical management of underlying co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular illness and chronic pulmonary/kidney/hepatic diseases. This will include emergency management procedure such as acute haemodialysis if needed,” he said. Ohri said that caps have also been put on Covid-19 related pathological tests. “For the RT-PCR test, the maximum rate has been fixed as ₹700, while for the TrueNat and CB-Nat test – it will be not more than ₹2,000,” he said. Giving the details of Monday’s vaccination, additional chief medical officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is in-charge of vaccination in the district, said that on the second day of this four-day drive, as many as 3,537 senior citizens took their jabs, out of which 1,260 were the second dose recipients. “Besides, 6,945 people aged between 45 and 59 years were vaccinated. The number of left out health care workers and frontline workers, who got their shots today, was 305,” he said. Meanwhile, the district recorded 239 new cases on Monday, which is the highest single day spike this year. According to the state health bulletin, the Covid-19 tally in the district has now mounted to 27,724. The death toll remained at 93 as no fresh fatality due to the infection was reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/108k-people-vaccinated-on-second-day-of-tika-utsav-in-gb-nagar-101618251757807.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Containment zones not demarcated, Ghaziabad admin says all guidelines being followed||Ghaziabad: With the latest guidelines from the state government on the creation of containment zones in place, administration officials in Ghaziabad said that they have geared up to clearly demarcate such areas. However, the ground level situation depicts a different picture with official figures indicating that the district had 169 containment zones till April 11 with 519 Covid-19 cases.The areas having positive cases are defined as containment zones where there is a restriction on movement of people, except in case of essential services and emergency situations. The containment zones are created to restrict the spread of infection. However, when asked about the restriction on movement of people in and out of containment zones, the district officials said that the “guidelines are being followed”, but declined to clarify further. “We are creating and clearly demarcating the boundaries of containment zones as per guidelines issued by the government. Testing, surveillance and other activities are also being taken up as per protocol in order to check the spread of infection,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. On Monday, an HT team visited the Carte residential segment having 83 Covid-19 cases (on April 8) and found that some of the houses on the official list of containment zones in Shastri Nagar and Chiranjeev Vihar localities had no demarcation and even no posters were put up at the houses indicating that they have a Covid patient. Notably, on April 8, the district had a total of 532 active cases, as per the data from the Ghaziabad health department. “There is no demarcation in containment zones and there is also no restriction on movement of people. In some cases, health department teams come and put up a red mark at such houses. There are people in my ward who have contracted infection and they often call us to get sanitization done. Also, there is hardly any restriction on movement of patients,” said Rajendra Tyagi, a councillor from Raj Nagar ward 84 and a resident of Chiranjeev Vihar. Till last year, the administration was securing the containment zones by placing at entry/exit points wooden poles or tapes, and the deployment of police and home guards was also ensured. Councillor Ajay Sharma from ward 67 of Sanjay Nagar said that the perimeter of the containment zones is not secured or demarcated in his ward. “My ward has a few Covid-19 cases, but I have not seen any demarcation of the containment zone that is usually done by putting up wooden poles or tapes,” Sharma said. When asked, Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city), said that in some cases when tapes are put up to define perimeter of containment zones, people often damage them. “We are putting up stickers at houses having Covid cases and regular sanitisation is also taken up. Other guidelines are also getting followed,” said Singh, who is also the nodal officer for containment zones. Experts said that the basic idea of creating a containment zone is to restrict movement. “If there is no restriction in and out of a containment zone, the spread of infection cannot be checked. So, it has to be fully demarcated and movement restricted. But such instances are generally not visible this year,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).On April 3, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari issued an order for surveillance in which areas having one positive case was to be created as a containment zone in a radius of 25 metres (comprising about 20 houses), while areas having more than one case will be in form of a cluster and having a radius of 50 metres (comprising about 60 houses). For the high-rises, the directions said that in case of emergence of one Covid case, the entire floor will be contained while in case of multiple cases, the entire tower will be contained.In another order on April 11, the UP chief secretary had directed that the supply of essential commodities should be ensured in all containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/containment-zones-not-demarcated-ghaziabad-admin-says-all-guidelines-being-followed-101618251638248.html
12-04-2021||Other||Gauhati HC upholds NIA court order granting bail to Akhil Gogoi||Unlawful acts including arson and violence aimed at creating civil disturbance and law and order problems can’t be termed as a terrorist act under the purview of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Gauhati High Court held in a recent order. The court was delivering its verdict on an appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging bail granted to peasant activist Akhil Gogoi by an NIA court in October last year. “The dominant intention of the wrongdoer must be to commit a ‘terrorist act’ coming within the ambit of Section 15(1) of the Act,” the court order, delivered on April 9, read. In its order, the HC bench comprising Justice Suman Shyam and Justice Mir Alfaz Ali pointed that subsection (1) (a) of Section 15 of UAPA can be attracted only if an alleged act is in the nature of “terrorist act” and involves the use of bombs, explosive substances and other lethal weapons. “Unlawful act of any other nature, including acts arson and violence aimed at creating civil disturbance and law and order problems, which may be punishable under ordinary law, would not come under the purview of section (1) of the Act unless it is committed with the requisite intention,” it added. The court held that alleged “commissions and omissions” on the part of Gogoi as revealed by materials cannot be prima facie said to be a terrorist act done with the intention of threatening the unity, integrity and sovereignty of India or a terrorist act done with the intention of striking terror among people. The HC held the NIA court was right to grant bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. Gogoi, who now heads Raijor Dal, a new political party that contested the recently concluded assembly polls in Assam, has been under arrest since December 2019 for allegedly inciting violence during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests. The case against Gogoi was initially lodged in Chabua police station in Dibrugarh district in December 2019 under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, rioting etc. Subsequently, sections 15(1) (a)/16 of UAPA were added to it. The trial in the case is yet to commence. The case was later transferred to the NIA the same month and a charge sheet was filed in June last year which alleged that Gogoi led the anti-CAA movement which turned violent and led to arson and attacks on police personnel. It alleged that the peasant leader hatched a conspiracy to target a particular community to disturb the unity and integrity of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gauhati-hc-upholds-nia-court-order-granting-bail-to-akhil-gogoi-101618251458350.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad institute roped in to audit accident-prone spots, recommend measures||The Institute of Road Traffic Education (IRTE) from Faridabad has been roped in by the traffic police to audit accident-prone spots in the city and submit a report by May, following which the police will increase enforcement measures and deployment, senior officials said. Sanjeev Balhara, the assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said that the number of accidents reduced in the first quarter of this year, in comparison to the two years preceding it. This year, 63 accidents were reported in January, 61 in February, and 81 in March, while the respective numbers were 86, 87 and 73 last year, and 122, 95 and 101 in 2019. “IRTE will conduct a detailed road safety audit across the city, majorly at spots from where the maximum number of accidents were reported in the last three years, for making it safe,” he said.The police shared a list of identified black spots and reasons for the accidents, as ascertained in multiple surveys and collaborative analysis with other agencies in the city.An intersection or a road is termed as a black spot if more than five deaths are recorded in a 500-metre stretch over a three-year period.The police officials said that the initiative was taken to bring down the number of accidents and fatalities on roads across the city as well as on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway.The IRTE will submit a detailed action plan for road engineering-related improvements, recommend speed limits and suggest the installation of road marking and signage, coupled with a plan for focused accident prevention through better enforcement and awareness among all categories of road users.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that as part of their plan to reduce accidents, they have done away with traffic signals at many spots and instead, diverted traffic for smoother flow. “There are a lot of construction works underway across the city. Many flyovers and underpasses are in the making, which will provide a smooth passage (in the future). By applying speed limits, we are hoping to reduce accidents,” he said.The police said that pedestrian bridges or subways will be constructed at spots where there is a high footfall of pedestrians and cyclists, especially on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and the Southern Peripheral Road. The initiatives will be started at a few locations within a month and subsequently, be extended to multiple points across the city.Balhara said that besides gauging the safety of commuters, the audit will also record commuter behaviours, faulty spaces for overtaking, scientific approaches not being followed, identification of potential black spots and intensifying the enforcement measures to hold road contractors, consultants or concessionaires accountable for faulty road design under Section 198 A of the MV (Amendment) Act. “We have deployed teams on the stretches known to be dangerous spots and have made several changes, including the construction of speed breakers and roundabouts, installation of traffic lights and road markings,” he said.In January and February, police teams visited 12 black spots and found that six did not have functional streetlights. Lack of proper lighting is a major problem on Dwarka Expressway, at Farrukhnagar crossing, Pataudi crossing, Hero Honda Chowk, Sidhrawali crossing and on major stretches in Manesar. Motorists and pedestrians are the worst affected, as most of these stretches where black spots are present don’t have a footpath. Last week, over 25 accidents were reported from six of the identified black spots, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-institute-roped-in-to-audit-accident-prone-spots-recommend-measures-101618251157651.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Mobile vaccination centre flagged off||The district health department on Monday flagged off a mobile Covid-19 vaccination centre, set up in a van, to increase vaccination coverage in slum areas.Dr Amandeep, nodal officer for vaccination (urban areas), Gurugram, said, “In slum areas, we were facing problems in vaccinating people as health centres are not always in close proximity to the localities and reaching out to people was also a little difficult. This mobile van will focus on slum areas and beneficiaries can register on the spot. No fixed time limit has been decided for particular areas, but it will depend on the number of registrations.”The van was flagged off by the chief medical officer from Bhim Colony in Sector 39. On Monday, the van visited Bhim Colony, and the urban primary health centres in Rajendra Park and Nathupur. On Tuesday, it will be available in Subhash Nagar and Tikri village, said officials.However, data on the number of people vaccinated at the mobile session site was not immediately available.The van is equipped with space for a doctor, vaccinator and an attendant. It has facilities of a mini clinic, including a bed, refrigerator to store vaccines and other facilities to deal with any adverse event following vaccination. The van can store up to 100 vials of vaccine, which, can vaccinate up to 600 people, said officials.Dr Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer, said, “Through this van, we are targeting to vaccinate at least 100 people per day. The van has been launched with the aim of increasing the pace of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign in the district so that the maximum number of people can be covered.”On Monday, 20,060 beneficiaries above the age of 45 were vaccinated at 220 session sites, comprising 160 government sites and 60 private sites. So far, over 349,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Gurugram, according to officials records of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mobile-vaccination-centre-flagged-off-101618251042167.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP razes two illegal colonies in demolition drive in Manesar||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) razed two colonies developed over 10 acres of land in Bhangrola village during a demolition drive in Manesar on Monday, said the officials.According to the DTCP officials, the two colonies were developed without any permission from the authorities, and the department will take action against the developers and the property dealers in the matter.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the enforcement team demolished two warehouses, 10 plinths and boundary walls constructed illegally. “The action was taken after we received complaints regarding illegal development of the colonies. We have repeatedly asked the people not to buy such plots as those are liable to be demolished... There is an apprehension that the property dealers will take advantage of the Covid-19 crisis and try to develop colonies illegally as the authorities are busy in managing the pandemic. We will not allow this to happen,” according to Bhath.Meanwhile, the DTCP is conducting a survey in the outskirts of the city once again, to identify illegal constructions and developments, said the officials. According to Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, the enforcement team also demolished an illegal shop in Sector 82, and an illegal gate installed on 24 metres road, following complaints by the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-razes-two-illegal-colonies-in-demolition-drive-in-manesar-101618251041455.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Ahead of monsoon, drains to be cleaned in Manesar for the first time||In a first, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) has launched a survey to identify points prone to waterlogging, to prepare the town for the monsoon season. The MCM officials will interact with gram panchayats to prepare a strategy for the same.Without any reference or recorded history, the officials of the MCM — which was formed in December 2020 — said that they will rely on gram panchayats for mapping the vulnerable waterlogging points and allocate resources to clean the points on a priority basis.Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCM, said, “Last week, a meeting was held with the representatives of various government bodies in Manesar, to take stock of the monsoon preparedness measures. Gram panchayats have in-depth knowledge about the vulnerable waterlogging points in the city, and using their inputs, we want to create a database and map all such areas where desilting and cleaning of drains can be initiated on a priority basis.”Two executive engineers will visit all the 19 gram panchayats in Manesar and conduct a survey to identify the points prone to waterlogging, Attri added.Prior to the formation of the MCM, villages in Manesar were largely looked after by the gram panchayats, and the urban areas by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC). A few sectors, which share a border with Gurugram, also came under the supervision of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).According to the MCM officials, they will have a learning experience this year, and will use the findings to ensure that the city is better prepared to deal with the monsoon in 2022.“One of the main reasons behind the formation of the MCM was to provide a civic body to Manesar, which can upgrade public facilities such as the drainage system in the city. We will use the findings of this monsoon season to identify all the points across the city that are worst-affected by waterlogging and will initiate remedial action before next year’s monsoon to ensure that the minimal amount of rainwater is accumulated,” said Attri.The MCM officials said that tenders will be floated once the survey is completed, to finalise contractors for desilting, using drainage cleanliness machines such as super suction machines, jetting machines, bucket type sewer cleaning machines, and placing tractor-mounted pumps at the vulnerable waterlogging points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahead-of-monsoon-drains-to-be-cleaned-in-manesar-for-the-first-time-101618251040745.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||2 notorious robbers arrested in Bareilly||Police arrested two members of a gang in Bareilly on Sunday for allegedly taking security guards hostage, and robbing copper and aluminum from several factories in Sector 10, Manesar, and Kherki Daula. The suspects have been targeting over 50 factories and robbing raw material worth crores of rupees over the past few years, police said, adding that they had announced a cash reward of ₹5,000 for information leading to their arrest.The district court on August 4, 2020, had declared both the suspects — identified as Mumtaz alias Nanuka, and Babloo, a native of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh — as proclaimed offenders. They lived in a rented accommodation in Sector 10, according to the police.We received a tip-off from Bareilly on Saturday, following which the crime unit, Sector 40, formed a team to nab them, said the police.The suspects were arrested from Bareilly, where they had gone to meet their families.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspects and four other members of the gang robbed raw material and wires worth crores from the industrial area over the years. “They robbed two factories in March 2013 and left the city. Several raids were conducted, but we couldn’t find them. Four other members of the gang were arrested from different areas of Uttar Pradesh, but these two, who were arrested on Sunday, were on the run,” Sangwan said, adding that the suspects had been targeting industrial areas and took security guards hostage.“They used to target factories at isolated stretches and entered the area late in the night. They loaded the robbed raw material in a tempo, and later sold it to a Delhi resident who is yet to be identified,” he said.According to the police, the suspects have robbery and dacoity cases registered against them at several police stations. The suspects used to escape the city following each crime and used to return to their village after a few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-notorious-robbers-arrested-in-bareilly-101618251040106.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Wrong-side driving, illegal parking lead to accidents, say police||Wrong-side driving and illegal parking, which account for almost 40% of the traffic offences in the city, led to accidents at black spots, the traffic police said on Monday.As per the police data, 12,508 people were penalised until March 31 for wrong-side driving, an increase from 10,834 reported in the same period last year, while 16,683 offences were recorded in 2019. With regard to unauthorised parking, 12,110 people were penalised this year till March 31, while 20,798 and 39,561 in 2020 and 2019, respectively.The police attributed the reduction in the number of offences over the last two years to the reduction in traffic due to the pandemic. However, the contribution of these two offences rose sharply from 2019. Sanjeev Balhara, the assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Wrong-side driving and illegal parking are major causes of accidents. Of all the challans, 40% are for wrong-side driving and illegal parking over the last two years. The number of fines imposed for these two offences was 66,876 in 2019, of a total of 342,058. The total amount collected in penalties from commuters this year was around ₹2.73 crore, whereas it was ₹2.5 crore last year and ₹6.9 crore in 2019 (for the first three months).” Balhara said that the major problem along the expressway and across the city roads is that people do not believe in lane driving and parking. There is ample parking (space), but still, people prefer to park on roads and most of the times, in the unauthorised parking slots or on the main carriageway, resulting in vehicles being towed. “Traffic congestions have been reported from Galleria Market, South City 1 and 2, Sector 14, Palam Vihar and Sector 31 due to illegal parking. People try to avoid parking charges and end up paying large fines after their vehicles have been towed away,” he said. Although jumping red lights and use of mobile phone while driving could also lead to accidents, these are not major for the traffic police as the number of offences was low. As many as 83 people were penalised for using a mobile phone while driving and 252 for jumping red lights this year. According to the data, 230 motorists were penalised for speeding, of which 173 offences were recorded in March, with 4 and 16 in February and January, respectively. The traffic police, in collaboration with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), has been using cranes to tow away illegally parked vehicles since October 2019. They are also using a mobile application to keep the track of the towed vehicles, said police. Among other major traffic offences this year, according to the police data, 6,338 fines were issued to motorists riding two-wheelers without a helmet, while 5,707 were issued to pillion riders not wearing a helmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wrongside-driving-illegal-parking-lead-to-accidents-say-police-101618251038300.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||19-year-old held for trying to extort money from shop owners||The police on Sunday arrested a 19-year-old man, identified as Sagar, the brother of convicted gangster Akku, from Sadhrana village near Sector 10 for allegedly trying to extort money from owners of sweet shops and firing at their establishments, the police said. The police said that Sagar planned to help his brother run the gang, as he was behind bars, and used to target shop owners after consulting his brother and his associates, who are at large but remain in touch with him.The police said they recovered from his possession the smartphone that was used to make extortion calls. He threatened owners of several sweets shops, with the latest incident on April 4, when he tried to extort the owner of a popular establishment in Chandu village.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Sagar often visited the sweets shop to buy snacks, but the owner denied him discounts, following which he planned to extort money from him. “His brother Akku has been lodged in Bhondsi jail and is behind several murders, attempt to murder cases, robberies, abductions and extortions. Sagar lives in the village with his parents and helps his father in farming,” he said. The police said that Sagar, when questioned by the Sector 17 crime team, revealed the details of people he had targeted. “He identified his gang members, their role in murders, abductions and extortion cases registered in Haryana, as well as their hideouts. We are keeping a close watch on the gang members involved in extortion cases. We are tracking their mobile numbers and conducting raids at suspected locations to arrest them,” said Sangwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/19yearold-held-for-trying-to-extort-money-from-shop-owners-101618251037686.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Night curfew starts at short notice, essential services allowed||The Haryana government on Monday evening imposed a night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, prohibiting the movement of people not involved in essential services. The curfew was notified less than two hours before it came into effect, even as Gurugram recorded more than 1,000 new Covid-19 infections for a second consecutive day.An order released on Monday evening by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority stated, “… there shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9 pm to 5 am in the state of Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours. The night curfew will remain in force till further orders.”Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “This trend of increasing cases will continue in the coming days, but we cannot say for sure till when. We have increased testing at all possible fronts, at private and government facilities as well as cluster-based testing for surveillance. Further, night curfew has also been imposed by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19.”During a spot check of the situation, the police were seen shutting bars and pubs in hubs such as MG Road, Sector 29 and also ensuring closure of liquor vends and tobacco stores across the city.However, exemptions have been given to those responsible for maintaining law and order, people in emergencies and those involved in municipal services and duties, including executive magistrates, police personnel, military and Central Armed Police Force (CAPF). Also, staff involved in essential services, such as health, electricity, fire department, and media persons will be exempt from the restrictions, on the production of an identity card. Those having night curfew pass will also be exempt, said officials.As per the order, hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will be allowed to remain open through the night, while pregnant women and patients going for medical services have also been exempted. The order stated that there will no curbs on interstate and intrastate movements of essential and non-essential goods. Also, passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway stations or interstate bus terminals will be exempt from the night curfew. Those violating orders were warned of action under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Gurugram, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, recorded as many as 1132 new cases on Monday, breaching the 1000-mark for the second consecutive day. Residents and traders were dismayed as the order came into effect on Monday, saying it affected their plans, even as the chief minister assured three days ago that such restrictions will not be enforced in the city.Last Friday, the CM said that district administrations across the state have been told to ensure safeguards, such as wearing masks, social distancing, check on public and social gatherings and sanitisation of public spaces is done on priority and continuously. “Vaccinations and testing are also going on smoothly and it will be further expanded,” he said on Friday.Ramesh Chand, a shopkeeper on Sohna Road, said that the night curfew will impact him adversely in financial terms. He said the order was too sudden and he had home deliveries lined up after 9 pm, as people return from their offices around that time. “We will again have to face a financial crunch as they have announced night curfew from 9 pm and this may be in advance of a complete lockdown. People will again start planning to return to their home towns and we have already stocked up groceries for the next few months and paid advances, which is a major concern,” he said. Lalit Ahlawat, director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, said that such as order was expected as Delhi and other states have already imposed the curfew. However, he said that less than two hours of notice was insufficient. “We will abide by the government orders, but we should have been given a day’s notice at least to plan our operations. The cases are rising and even we are concerned for the health of our staff,” he said. The order will also impact restaurant owners, who might have to apply for special passes for their staff. Raghav Baweja, owner of Big Wong at Cross Point Mall in DLF-4, said that they will close their operations for dine-in at 9 pm, but will continue food deliveries. “Now, we might have to take passes for our staff who will be returning home after 9 pm. Also, delivery persons would need passes, as allowed in Delhi and Noida,” he said. The police officials said that all possible measures will be taken to ensure enforcement of the night curfew. Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said, “Teams from all the police stations have been deployed and asked to keep a check in their areas. Travel of essential goods will not be affected but commercial establishments will not be allowed to run their operations. We are yet to take a call on passes and emergency movement will be allowed.” With increasing Covid-19 cases across the Delhi-NCR region, night curfew was imposed till April 30 in the national capital on April 7. Following Delhi, night curfew was also imposed a day later in Noida and Ghaziabad, till April 17. With the latest spike in daily infections, the number of active cases in the Gurugram district reached 6,177 on Monday. However, no Covid-related deaths were reported on Monday, while 504 patients recovered on the day, taking the total recoveries to 64,727.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/night-curfew-starts-at-short-notice-essential-services-allowed-101618250977778.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 1,000 cases recorded for second day in a row||The district recorded 1,132 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 71,273 in the district, according to the health department data. This is the second consecutive day that Gurugram recorded over 1,000 cases, with as many as 1,084 cases reported on Sunday.Officials of the health department said that they are monitoring the situation and taking steps to reduce the positivity rate, which was at 10% on Monday, over double the 5% limit stated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) that indicates that the spread is under control. Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram district, said, “The positivity rate on Monday was 10% and we are continuously working to reduce this rate with increased testing. For better surveillance, the number of containment zones has also been increased in the district. Our focus is to keep the positivity rate lower than 5% and more tests are being carried out to isolate the infected persons.” On Monday, over 45 micro-containment zones were added in areas under the jurisdiction of 22 urban primary and primary health centres in the district. With the latest spike in daily infections, the number of active cases in the district reached 6,177. However, no Covid-related deaths were reported on Monday, while 504 patients recovered on the day, taking the total recoveries to 64,727. Till Monday, 369 people died due to the Covid-19 infection in the district. Officials further said that of the 6,177 active cases, 5,889 patients were in home isolation and 10 patients were in district Covid care centres. In the past 24 hours, the health department collected 8,545 samples for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-1-000-cases-recorded-for-second-day-in-a-row-101618250978321.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid cases fall but shortage of ambulances, Remdesivir worry residents||Pune reported a slight dip in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday as the district recorded 9621 infections, data showed. Pune recorded a dip of 2756 cases after the district reported 12,377 cases on Sunday. The Covid-19 tally in the district reached 658,014 with the additional new cases on Monday. The district currently has 99,806 active cases of Covid-19.Pune is among the worst-affected by Covid-19 in the state and was accounting for 12% of the total cases reported nationwide towards the beginning of April. Pune is also one of the worst-affected urban areas in the world and has the highest number of active cases in the country.Pune, which is among the 10 districts contributing to India’s daily rise in Covid-19 cases, recorded 8151 recoveries taking the number of recovered to 547,851. The death toll in Pune reached 10,796 after 86 fresh fatalities were reported in the district. The positivity rate in Pune on Sunday was at 28.39% compared to 41% reported on April 4.The drop in the number of Covid-19 cases in Pune can be attributed to the imposition of strict curbs implemented on April 3.However, the medical infrastructure in the district is struggling to cope with the rising Covid-19 cases. The high-level public health team deployed by the Centre in Pune flagged the lack of ambulances as well as highlighted issues with medical oxygen supply. Pune currently has only 65 ambulances. The district is also reeling under a shortage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir. Though the city received over 6,000 doses of Remdesivir in the evening, several people protested outside medicine shops demanding the anti-viral drug for the relatives and friends who have contracted Covid-19.“We have distributed 6,000 doses of Remdesivir received on Monday. Each district in Maharashtra gets its share from the state according to hospitalised patients. Pune gets about 13-14% of the injections which the state gets,” Dinesh Khivasara, assistant commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) told HT.Despite this, several small hospitals did not receive Remdesivir stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-cases-fall-but-shortage-of-ambulances-remdesivir-worry-residents-101618249990021.html
12-04-2021||Other||Odisha seals inter-state borders amid Covid-19 surge; govt writes to centre for vaccine||Several Odisha districts bordering neighbouring states on Monday sealed the inter-state entry points to stop the possible entry of Covid-19 infected people. This comes as the state reported 1,741 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases in the state to close to 10,000.With the total positivity rate surging to 5.78 per cent from less than 1 per cent in a month, the state government said the government and private Covid facilities which were functional during the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic would be activated in a phased manner with an increment of 50 beds at a time when needed.“The number of ICU beds would be 20 per cent of general beds and availability of ventilators at least 50 per cent of all lCUs. All private hospitals with 30 beds or more must have at least 10 per cent of available beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. They have to increase the facility up to 80 per cent of available general beds and ICUs in a phased manner as per the rise in the incidence of Covid-19 patients,” said Pradipta Mohapatra, additional chief secretary, health.The state government also imposed restrictions on patients and attendants in hospitals to decongest unnecessary crowd. As per the guidelines issued by the directorate of health services under the health and family welfare department, there will be no central registration and the non-essential admission of patients at hospitals will be avoided. All elective surgeries would be stopped and emergency surgeries need to be taken up with universal precautions. One attendant is to be allowed for every serious patient in indoor wards while in case of the OPD, the medical officer would avoid advising frequent re-visit of the patients. People are being encouraged to utilize existing telemedicine services for their ailments.Meanwhile, the district administrations of Sundargarh, Ganjam, Gajapati and Koraput sealed their borders with Jharkhand, Chhatisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. Sundargarh district has so far reported the highest number, 268, new cases. Sundargarh district collector Nikhil Pawan Kalyan said surveillance has been mounted at the border check posts on highways and railway stations. The RTO officials have been directed to allow entry to only those people with negative RT-PCR reports or final vaccination certificates.Both Ganjam and Sundargarh district administration have stopped the entry of outsiders to government offices from April 12.From Monday, the state government also made it mandatory for anyone arriving at its railway stations and airports to come with negative RT-PCR test reports or vaccination certificate. The negative test report must not be older than 72 hours.“Those travelling without RT-PCR negative report will now have to furnish their details and undergo seven-day mandatory quarantine,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary. On-the-spot testing will be conducted for people showing symptoms of the flu at the airport, he added.Workers in several industrial establishments in the state have also tested positive for Covid-19. The Balasore administration on Monday declared a colony of Emami Paper Mills Ltd in the district as a micro-containment zone after 103 employees tested positive for Covid-19. In the Rourkela Steel Plant, run by SAIL, as many as 28 employees tested positive for Covid-19.Amid the steep rise in Covid-19 infection in the state, as many as 700 centres were shut on Monday due to lack of vaccine even as 2.71 lakh doses of Covishield arrived in the state.State health minister Naba Das, in a letter to union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday, said Odisha has so far has received 46.08 lakh doses of vaccines of which 42.71 lakh are of Covishield and the rest Covaxin.“Presently, there are 1.59 lakh doses of Covishield and 71,010 doses of Covaxin available in the state. The balance stock of Covishield will last for a day only. On April 3, Odisha held 1,476 vaccination sessions and vaccinated 2,71,480 beneficiaries in a single day. However, since then due to shortage and uncertain supply of vaccine we have been forced to close about half of our vaccination centres. With such low and uncertain supplies of vaccines, it is impossible for us to schedule sessions in advance or mobilize people with confidence. Hence, our daily utilisation has come down to 1 lakh though we have the capacity for 3 lakh vaccinations daily. In such a situation of short supply of Covishield vaccines, we are unable to observe the Tika Utsav properly,” wrote Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-seals-inter-state-borders-amid-covid-19-surge-govt-writes-to-centre-for-vaccine-101618249838178.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 9,821 cases and six deaths||Pune: Pune district on Monday reported 9,821 cases, taking the overall tally so far to 661,407. At the same time, six people succumbed to the virus, taking total death toll in Pune district to 8,612, according to the state health department. While the cases reported were relatively low, the testing stood at 40,351, taking the positivity rate to 23.48 %, a major relief to city’s health infrastructure which is currently under stress due to higher massive spike in the number of cases in the last few days. Positivity rate is the total number of cases tested positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done. In the district, Pune city reported 5,034 cases and two deaths while Pimpri-Chinchwad saw 2,228 cases and single death and rural parts reported 2,559 cases and three deaths. Vaccination drivePune’s vaccination saw a surge on the second day of “tika utsav”, a vaccination festival announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Of the 57,311 beneficiaries who got the vaccine, 26,145 people got the vaccine in Pune rural, areas under PMC saw 20,671 vaccinations while PCMC reported 4,557 persons vaccinated. The vaccination drive in the district was conducted in 444 sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-9-821-cases-and-six-deaths-101618249357604.html
12-04-2021||Pune||PMC to build cancer treatment facility with help of private players||PUNE: The standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday gave nod to erect a cancer treatment facility with the help of private players in the city.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC would contribute Rs14 crore in this project and private players would raise Rs21 crore through corporate social responsibility. Even the facility would be operated by a private player on the rates equal to central government health scheme (CGHS) facility.”Rasne said, “Cancer patients are increasing in the city and there are very few facilities. Only a few private hospitals have treatment facilities which cannot be afforded by common people. Hence, PMC with the help of private players has decided to build a cancer treatment facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-build-cancer-treatment-facility-with-help-of-private-players-101618249177586.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Delhi Meerut Expressway: Three unfinished underpasses leading to jaywalking at Vijay Nagar||Ghaziabad: Though the Vijay Nagar portion of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) has provision of no less than three underpasses, jaywalking over the expressway to cross to the other side is a common feature, said residents.The three underpasses, constructed over a stretch of three-kilometre by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), are meant for pedestrians and two-wheelers to cross from one side to the other. A number of densely-populated residential localities are situated on either side of the DME. Most of these colonies are in low lying areas, with the expressway built at an elevation.According to residents, infrastructure to connect the underpasses to localities is still not complete, even though the edifices of the underpasses are ready. “The authority has constructed drains before the entry/exit points of the underpasses, which are about four-five feet wide and not covered with slabs. So, residents cannot approach the underpasses. Further, the underpasses have no lights and garbage is strewn around. In some instances, residents have to climb several feet to reach the drains, and women and senior citizens find it difficult to do so,” said Lalit Kumar, councillor of ward number 27, Ghaziabad.The underpasses are located at Dundahera, Bhim Nagar and Sain Vihar. “The approach is so cluttered that people find it difficult to walk to the entry/exit points. So, they cross the DME afoot, risking their lives. This is a common occurrence here. People don’t do this willingly. They are forced to do so due to unfinished underpasses,” said Shiv Prakash, a local resident.HT visited the three underpasses and found that the approach to the one at Dundahera is unfinished and people have to walk on small slabs put over the drains. At Sain Vihar, the approach road remained stocked with loose soil and underpass cluttered with construction material. A similar situation was witnessed at the Bhim Nagar underpass.The speed limit at those portions of the DME which fall under the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh is 100km per hour (kmph), while for heavier vehicles it is 60kmph.HT had reported on this issue when the NHAI had officially opened the DME on April 1. Back then, officials said that they have a proposal to put up an additional fence, about five feet high, over a distance of one-and-a-half km on each side of the DME to discourage people from jaywalking.When approached about the issue, NHAI officials said work will be expedited.“We will level the uneven areas near the underpasses, and will also construct steps so that people don’t have any difficulty to approach the underpass’ entry/exit. Extra footpaths can also be given for a better approach to the expressway. We installed lights but some of these were taken away by thieves and others were damaged. We will expedite the work,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhi-meerut-expressway-three-unfinished-underpasses-leading-to-jaywalking-at-vijay-nagar-101618249117598.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Three vehicle thieves nabbed, 30 two wheelers recovered||Noida: Three vehicle thieves were arrested on Monday for allegedly stealing two wheelers from various markets in Delhi-NCR. Police said they also arrested an alleged drug dealer who would buy vehicles from the thieves and recovered 30 vehicles from the suspects.The suspects were identified as Jaichand, Ragul, Aman and buyer Atul Gupta, all are natives of Delhi. They were nabbed from near sector 57-58 following a tip-off, said police. “They specifically would target two wheelers parked near markets or other public places. These vehicles were sold to random passersby and sometimes to scrap dealers,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. Police recovered 23 motorcycles and seven scooters from the suspects, of which 14 have been traced. Tools and master keys used to steal the vehicles were also seized, police said.“Jaichand has cases going back to 2011, but the gang became active after 2014. All of them have extensive criminal history and have also gone to jail on previous occasions in Delhi. There are more members in the gang and we are on the lookout for them,” said the DCP.Police officials said that more scrap dealers to whom the stolen vehicles were sold have been identified. Some of the identified scrap dealers are in Meerut and they will be arrested soon, the officials said. Police said that the gang was active in Delhi, Noida, Bulandshahr, and Ghaziabad, among other NCR cities. According to police, during questioning, the suspects revealed that the number plates of the stolen vehicles were sometimes changed for easy transportation. They also confessed that some stolen vehicles were also used for narcotics peddling in Delhi, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-vehicle-thieves-nabbed-30-two-wheelers-recovered-101618249118170.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Birder’s SUV stolen from outside Okhla sanctuary||Noida: A Gurugram-based birder has alleged that his SUV was stolen from outside the Okhla Bird Sanctuary on Sunday morning. Padmanav Kundu, the complainant, had come to Noida in his Toyota Fortuner SUV to visit the sanctuary. Police said that on the basis of his complaint, a case was registered at Sector 39 police station.Kundu said that he had parked his vehicle around 7.30am near gate number 1 of the sanctuary. “I came to know that there had been a sighting of a lesser fish eagle in the area on Saturday. I was hoping to see one myself and that is why I had come to Okhla sanctuary in the morning,” he said.“When I came out around 11.20am, my SUV was not there. There had been other vehicles parked around my SUV and they were all there except my vehicle. There was a piece of broken glass lying near the place where I had parked my vehicle, suggesting that the thieves had broken into my SUV,” said Kundu.Police said that they have launched an investigation in the case. “There were security guards at the gate who said that they didn’t see or hear anything. The CCTV camera installed at the gate turned out to be defunct. We spotted the vehicle at 7.16am near the Okhla barrage in one of our police post cameras, but there is no footage of the vehicle afterwards,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/birders-suv-stolen-from-outside-okhla-sanctuary-101618249057581.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Cop suspended for misbehaviour, illegal detention||Noida: The in-charge of a police post in Sector 19 was suspended on Monday for allegedly misbehaving with and illegally detaining a businessman.The action against the police post in-charge, a sub-inspector, was taken after a partial clip of a purported video of the sub-inspector started circulating on social media on Sunday in which the officer is seen smoking a cigarette in his vehicle and abusing the businessman while also threatening to lock him up. The Sector 19 area comes under the Sector 20 police jurisdiction. “Two women had recently approached police alleging that they had been duped of ₹1 lakh by a vendor in Sector 16. During questioning, it came to light that the businessman had illegally sublet the space to the vendor in question. The sub-inspector was investigating the case and had wanted to bring the businessman in for questioning but he resisted and later agreed,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the sub-inspector had taken the man’s phone unaware of the fact that a video recording was on and was venting in his vehicle and smoking. “The man was questioned and later let go. But the video started circulating and the SI was suspended for his misbehaviour,” said Singh.In a separate incident, a retired army major took to social media alleging that he was misbehaved with by a policeman at a Covid-19 vaccination centre in Noida’s Raipur after he asked him to wear a mask.“We are aware of the incident and working on verifying the claims. Due action will be taken accordingly,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cop-suspended-for-misbehaviour-illegal-detention-101618248757609.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Noida: Good Samaritans come forward to help Bahlolpur fire survivors||NOIDA: After a major fire gutted over 150-odd shanties at Bahlolpur village in Sector 63, residents from across Noida have come forward to help the survivors. Those who were living in the slum have lost most of their belongings in the blaze, in which two children were killed. As per officials, as many as 166 families have been affected by the fire. Many have lost their means of livelihood as well.Residents said they have come together and with the help of local NGOs and have made donations for the survivors.Nisha Rai, secretary of Sector 7x Zone, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (NOFAA) said that residents were mobilised through WhatsApp to come forward and help the survivors.“Keeping in mind the pandemic, we did not go to the spot ourselves but reached out to a resident of the village, who coordinated with us to get the donations delivered to those affected by the fire,” said Rai.It was Sonu Yadav, a resident of Bahlolpur village, who acted as coordinator.“I have been receiving numerous calls from residents all across the city, who want to help. I have been travelling from residential apartments back to the fire site to collect donations and then distribute them among the survivors,” he said.Apart from clothes and ration, the survivors say they have also lost all their documents in the fire.“Most of us have lost our Ration Cards and Aadhaar Cards in the fire. I had recently got them made and had to forgo one day’s salary for the work. I mentioned this to one of the people who were distributing utensils to us and they have offered to help us arrange for new copies of the documents,” said Miltu, a survivor. He informed that some survivors are now staying at the Hanuman temple in Chijjarsi.Sector 52 resident Ashok Srivastava said he and other residents of Noida that he knows will help the slum dwellers. “They have informed us about the issue of documents being lost. We have spoken to administrative authorities to help them retrieve their documents such as Aadhaar and Ration cards,” said Srivastava, who runs a congregation of local NGOs in Noida called Active NGOs. Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate (DM) Suhas LY said that many have lost their passbooks in the fire, for which a camp has been set up by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to get their bank accounts opened. “All 166 families are being surveyed to identify who needs a new bank account, which will be done by Wednesday. Apart from this, the compensation amount of ₹4 lakh each for the two children, who died in the fire, will also be sanctioned by late Tuesday,” said Suhas.Sector 50 resident Narendra Chopra, along with a group of five others from Noida, distributed ration, clothes and cooked food among the survivors.“Our volunteer group called Jan Shakti Seva comprises over 200 residents of the city who are all eager to make donations and help for a social cause. We have received donations from residents including from Sectors like 31, 37, 131, 119 and more,” said Chopra.Meanwhile, some residents are planning to continue collecting donations through the week. “We have put up boxes in our society club to collect donations and circulated a message in the residents’ WhatsApp group, asking them to donate whatever they can for those affected by the fire in Bahlolpur village,” said Amit Kumar, president of Prateek Wisteria AOA in Sector 77.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-good-samaritans-come-forward-to-help-bahlolpur-fire-survivors-101618248697579.html
12-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka deputy CM says number of Covid-19 tests in Bengaluru to be increased||Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Monday directed the civic officials here to increase the number of Covid-19 tests to 10,000 per day in view of the surge in the contagion.At present, 6,000 people are being tested everyday and this will be enhanced to 8,000 with immediate effect.Measures have also been taken to further increase them to 10,000 tests," Narayan said in a statement after a meeting with the officials of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.The Deputy Chief Minister underlined the need to trace at least 20 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons and conduct the tests on them.Ruling out the possibility of lockdown, he said there was no such proposal."The stance of the government is that both life and livelihood are important and strict measures have been taken accordingly," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-deputy-cm-says-number-of-covid-19-tests-in-bengaluru-to-be-increased-101618246751686.html
12-04-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi suffers due to shortage of beds; samples pile up||Prashant Kumar, a 30-year-old veterinary student, ran from one hospital to another in Ranchi for more than five hours on Sunday night for a bed to admit his coronavirus infected sexagenarian uncle but all his efforts were in vein.Finally, Kumar took his uncle, a retired veterinary doctor, to Jamshedpur, around 125km from the capital city, where he was admitted to a private hospital. “My uncle is Covid-19 positive and his condition was serious. I booked an oxygen supported ambulance after facing lots of trouble and started searching for a bed from 8.30pm. I ran from one hospital to another till 1.30am. I visited at least 10 hospitals but nobody was ready to admit him.”He said, “The oxygen of the ambulance was getting dry. Then, we visited RIMS around 1am. The hospital authority said they can take admission but can’t provide oxygen support. Finally, I took my uncle to Jamshedpur.”The ambulance which they booked in Ranchi charged ₹17,000, Kumar said, adding that the ambulance to Jamshedpur charged ₹7,000 and ₹300 per hour for oxygen.”Like Kumar, hordes of people were forced to run from pillar to post to get beds in hospitals amid rising cases of Covid-19. Ranchi on Sunday recorded its highest 1,076 cases and 14 deaths. The city registered 6,917 cases between April 1 and 11, and 50 people died during the period.Even though the district administration claims to have arranged adequate beds, hospitals were facing acute shortage of oxygen supported and ICU (intensive care unit) beds.All ICU beds in government hospitals of Ranchi were fully occupied, while merely 24 ICU beds were available at 22 private hospitals, according to a report provided by Ranchi administration on Sunday evening.The district was also facing acute shortage of oxygen supported beds. Of total 784 such beds, 695 were occupied as on Sunday evening. As far as ventilators were concerned, 194 ventilators were available in the district, of which 121 were occupied.Jharkhand chapter president of Association of Healthcare Provider India (AHPI), Jogesh Gambhi admitted that the city was reeling under acute shortage of beds at private hospitals. “Covid-19 cases have risen suddenly in Ranchi. Besides, huge numbers of infected patients are also coming from outside Ranchi, thereby increasing load of private hospitals.”He said, “The private hospitals are increasing the beds as directed by the administration. But, it will take some time, as they have to handle non-Covid patients also.”Despite repeated efforts, Ranchi deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan could not be contacted.However, officials in the district administration claimed that they arranged a total of 2,383 beds for Covid-19 patients and 1,203 beds were occupied till Sunday evening. However, most of the vacant beds were normal beds without oxygen support.One Gokul Bhai lost his 54-year-old younger brother due to Covid-19. His brother died at Ranchi’s Seva Sadan around 6am on Monday. “Due to shortage of government ambulances, I booked a private ambulance to take the body to cremation ground at Ghagra. The ambulance charged me ₹6,000 for a five km,” he said.Atul Gera, a volunteer at NGO Life Savers, said, “The district administration has no control over private ambulances, who are charging arbitrarily during the pandemic. We have repeatedly been informing the administration in this regard but it has turned a blind eye.”Not only Ranchi but also the state was currently reeling under huge backlog of untested samples. Till April 11, as many as 21,411 samples were yet to be tested for Covid-19, according to the daily Covid-19 bulletin of state health department.Besides, private laboratories were also overburdened with a huge pendency of samples. It was also found that few test laboratories in Ranchi stopped sample collection in order to clear the backlog.Earlier on Sunday last, the state sent 5,901 untested samples, piled up in different laboratories, to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Bhubaneswar for RT-PCR test.Health minister Banna Gupta on Monday held a meeting with officials concerned, directing them to increase beds for Covid-19 patients. He directed all private hospitals to reserve 50% of the total beds for Covid-19 patients. The minister also ordered to convert residential centres of Skill India Mission into Covid Care Centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-suffers-due-to-shortage-of-beds-samples-pile-up-101618246897543.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration says can't rule out lockdown if Covid-19 cases rise||Authorities in Chandigarh on Monday warned that if coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases continue to rise in the city then they will have to consider imposing a lockdown. Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida said that sealing of borders is not an option as people from Delhi, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh enter the city daily. Parida said that lockdown impacts livelihoods and decisions on imposing lockdowns can only be taken after discussing with experts.“A lockdown cripples the economy as it impacts livelihoods of people. Decisions on lockdown are taken in war rooms only after conducting discussions with experts. We are keeping an eye on neighbouring states too. If cases continue to rise then the option of lockdown cannot be ruled out,” Parida was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The administration in the Union Territory has already enforced a night curfew from 10pm to 5am from April 7 in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city.Parida said that curbs can certainly be helpful coupled with people strictly adhering to Covid-19 preventive measures. “Night curfew along with restrictions on public functions and gatherings does help in some aspects. Borders cannot be sealed as people come to the city from Delhi, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. People have to follow Covid-19 protocols and get vaccinated,” Parida further added.Despite the administration asking people to stay indoors and adhere to Covid-19 norms, residents were seen crowding at popular tourist site Sukhna Lake and flouting Covid-19 protocol.Chandigarh recorded 424 Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 31,167. One person succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the joint capital of Haryana and Punjab on Monday, which pushed the death toll to 400. The number of active cases in Chandigarh stood at 3355, the highest since the onset of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-says-can-t-rule-out-lockdown-if-covid-19-cases-rise-101618246189577.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Munger firing: 17 police officers shifted after HC order||Following a recent directive from the Patna high court in the case relating to alleged police firing in Munger during the immersion of Durga idol on October 26 last year that left an 18-year-boy dead, 17 police officials, including three inspectors, were transferred out of the district on Monday.Earlier this month, the HC had ordered to shift eight police officers of Munger district, including superintendent of police M S Dhillon, within three days and asked the state government to pay ₹10 lakh to the father of the boy, identified as Anurag Poddar.The court also directed that the additional director general of CID shall decide on the constitution of an SIT of senior officers above the rank of DSP to interrogate the police personnel who are likely to be investigated.Dhillon said 17 separate cases had then been registered in connection with the shoot-out and those who have been transferred were the investigating officers in the cases.The HC is scheduled to hear the case again on May 6, by when the criminal investigation department (CID) would have to submit a detailed investigation report and action taken.It wasn’t immediately clear if Dhillon too would be shifted, as the HC had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/munger-firing-17-police-officers-shifted-after-hcorder-101618246837562.html
12-04-2021||Other||SHO killing: Cop say announcement to attack police party made from local mosque||The police on Monday arrested the main accused in the case of lynching of a Kishanganj police inspector in a West Bengal village and claimed a the public address system in a mosque was used to incite the mob to attack the police team which was in the village pursuing a motorcycle theft case. “The announcement was made from a local mosque at the village to attack the police team. Both the main accused, Firoz Alam and Md Israel, were in the mosque at the time and had asked the Maulvi to make an announcement through mike installed in the mosque. Soon after the announcement, about 500 people attacked the police team in which the police inspector died,” said Javed Ansari, Kishanganj’s subdivisional police officer (SDPO).Early Saturday morning, Ashwani Kumar (50), posted as the station house officer (SHO) at Kishanganj police station, was beaten to death in Pantapara village of West Bengal, located near the border of the two states, where he was leading a police team for raids to recover the motorcycle stolen from Kishanganj.The same day, eight policemen, who were accompanying Kumar during the raid but allegedly fled when the mob attacked them, were suspended for dereliction of duty.On Sunday, when Kumar’s body arrived at his home in Purnia, his mother also died, reportedly of shock. Both were cremated in the evening.So far, eight accused, including prime accused Md Israel, have been arrested in connection with the lynching incident. The stolen bike was also recovered from the house of Firoz Alam, also an accused. Meanwhile, Nancy, daughter of the slain SHO, has demanded a CBI probe into the incident, blaming the eight policemen for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-killing-cop-say-announcement-to-attack-police-party-made-from-local-mosque-101618246777482.html
12-04-2021||Other||Bihar: Pollution watchdog seeks check on air pollution amid Covid-19 surge||With the air quality index (AQI) in Patna and other cities remaining in the range between poor and hazardous, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) has reiterated the need for government agencies to help curb toxic emissions and release of particles suspended in the air.Amid surging coronavirus cases, said to worsen and spread rapidly when the air quality is poor, BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh has sent letters to departments concerned such as road construction, building construction and urban development, seeking strict adherence to clean air action plan to check contamination of air. Nearly 3,500-4,000 Covid-19 cases are being reported everyday in Bihar after the resurgence of the disease in the past few days.Citing the recent study on factors for ambient air pollution, Ghosh said neighbourhood or outside boundary sources were the major contributors for deterioration in AQI in Patna. “Domestic pollution, which is mainly caused due to biomass burning, is another major issue that the government should step in to address the same,” the chairman said.He said department of transport and industries were no longer contributing to the worsening AQI. “The Board has embarked up on a major drive to install state of the art air quality monitoring stations across the state to know the source of pollutants and take corrective steps to check them at the source,” said Ghosh.Chief executive officer of the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) Ramapati Kumar said the prevailing scenario necessitated framing of city-based micro level planning to ensure smooth implementation of the clean air action plan. “The district level officers should be sensitised about strategy and implementation process of the plan. Apart from this, the government shall act on achieving low-hanging fruits such as replacing solid fuel with cleaner sources,” said Kumar.After strengthening the network to monitor AQI in Patna, the BSPCB has initiated steps to install air quality monitoring stations in 24 districts, besides Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali, this year. The board earlier proposed to set up air quality monitoring stations in all 38 districts, but availability of fund from both the Centre and the state government, restricted the plan to 24 districts of Valmikinagar, Siwan, Chapra, Buxar, Ara, Sasaram, Motihari, Bettiah, Muzaffapur, Aurangabad, Gaya, Rajgir, Begusarai, Bihar Sharif, Samastipur, Darbhanga, Muger, Saharsa, Bhagalpur, Katihar, Purnia, Araria and Kishanganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-pollution-watchdog-seeks-check-on-air-pollution-amid-covid-19-surge-101618246778060.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Mistaken identity: Day on, axed PMCH health manager cries foul||A day after a health manager was terminated for her alleged laxity in establishing the identity of a deceased Covid-19 patient before handing over the body to the relatives of another patient, she said on Monday that she had been made a scapegoat while the guilty has been allowed to go scot-free. In a representation to the superintendent of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Monday, health manager Anjali Kumari claimed that establishing the identity of a deceased was not the mandate of a health manager, but that of nurses and duty doctors. Kumari, who joined the PMCH in 2014, requested that she be reinstated immediately. “Identifying the deceased is not the health manager’s responsibility, but that of nurses and doctors who are inside the Covid-19 ward and do the documentation before issuing the body carrying certificate,” said Kumari. “As health managers, we do not go inside Covid-19 wards. The health manager’s role is limited to communication and management. I am supposed to communicate with the relatives of the patient or the deceased and facilitate transportation of the body,” she said. “I have been made a scapegoat because of being on contractual service, I was the weakest link. The authorities have not taken any action against either doctors or nurses because they hold immense clout,” she said. PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur, however, said “The responsibility of establishing the identity of a deceased, infected with Covid-19, lies with the health manager, as per the hospital standard operating procedure (SOP) for Covid-19, drafted during the tenure of my predecessor Dr Bimal Karak. The health managers did not protest then.”“I will recommend action even against the doctors or healthcare worker, whosoever is found guilty,” added Dr Thakur. The PMCH, he said, had on Monday set up a three-member inquiry committee, comprising heads of the departments of paediatrics Dr AK Jaiswal, medicine Dr Kaushal Kishore and anaesthesiology Dr BK Kashyap to identify the guilty. The committee has been asked to submit its report within three days, said Dr Thakur. The PMCH also communicated to the Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh about the action taken against the health manager and constitution of a fact-finding committee. The DM had on Sunday sought a report within 24 hours from the principal of the medical college and hospital superintendent on the issue. The PMCH had on Sunday issued a death certificate of Chunnu Kumar, 40, a resident of Barh, who is recuperating from a fracture and has contracted coronavirus. Kumar, who was in the IJ ward, an ICU for Covid-19 patients, was shifted to the adjacent AB ward to make way for a critical Covid-19 patient, Raj Kumar Bhagat, 45, from Purnia, admitted to the hospital in the wee hours of Sunday. Though the patients were swapped in the midnight, the authorities, however, forgot to make the necessary changes in their medical records. So, when Bhagat died Sunday morning, the hospital authorities took him for Kumar and called the latter’s relatives and handed over Bhagat’s body to them. The trolley man, who handed over the body to Sadanand Sudhakar, Kumar’s cousin, claimed that the former had identified the body from a distance before it was taken to the crematorium where the relatives realised that it was a case of mistaken identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mistaken-identity-day-on-axed-pmch-health-manager-cries-foul-101618246717561.html
12-04-2021||Patna||It is a never ending wait for RT-PCR reports in Bihar||The wait for RT-PCR test report gets longer in Bihar as cases peak. Sample these: Anju Verma, 51, a government schoolteacher in Buxar, gave her sample for RT-PCR test (registration No. 34017) at the Loknayak Jaya Prakash Narayan (LJPN) hospital in Patna on April 3, after she developed fever on March 31. Hospital authorities assured to give her the report in three days. Nine days on, she is yet to get her report. She has not received any intimation on her registered mobile number either. Piqued by the delay, she got herself tested on the rapid antigen kit at the same hospital and got a Covid-positive report on April 7. She is now under home isolation. Samridhi Shreya, 23, gave her sample for RT-PCR test (registration No. 34018) at the LJPN hospital, Patna, on April 3. Though she has still not got the report, Shreya got an automated call on her mobile number from the state health department’s Covid call centre , sharing information about quarantine protocol and seeking to know about her symptoms. Interestingly, this reporter had apprised about the two cases to a senior functionary in the health department on April 7, but to no avail. Unnat Shikhar, 31 and his cousin Sagar Sanjay, 21, gave their samples for RT-PCR test at the New Gardiner Road hospital on April 8. Four days on, they are yet to receive their reports. They continue to roam freely. As test reports get delayed, many carriers of the SARS-CoV-2 virus continue to roam freely and act as super spreaders. Of the total 80,018 tests done in the state on April 11, RT-PCR accounted for 38,601, TrueNat 2,492 and rapid antigen 38,925. Bihar had conducted 1,93,030 tests per million since the SARS-CoV-2 virus was first detected in the state on March 22, last year. Bihar reported 3,756 new infections on Sunday, taking the cumulative cases to 2,83,229. Of these Patna accounted for 1,382 new cases. The state’s total active cases had climbed from 350 last month to 14,695 on Sunday. Hospital beds were almost full at Patna’s three government medical colleges — the AIIMS at Phulwarisharif, the Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Patna City, and the Patna Medical College Hospital on Ashok Rajpath — reporting 90% occupancy. Bihar has a capacity of 21,203 at its dedicated Covid care centres. Of the available 15,883 beds, 14,974 were vacant and remaining 909 occupied as on Monday, as per health department data.On Monday, 2,999 positive cases were reported in Bihar taking the number of active cases to 17,052. Out of the 2999 positive cases, 1,197 cases were reported from Patna district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/it-is-a-never-ending-wait-for-rt-pcr-reports-in-bihar-101618246597519.html
12-04-2021||Other||Two set ablaze, die in Bhojpur, villages on edge||Two persons, one of them 80 years old, died after being set ablaze at a village in Bhojpur district on Monday in a case that appeared to be one of old enmity, the police said. According to sources, Digri Choudhary (80), a resident of Bakri village under Udwant Nagar police station, was mercilessly thrashed, strangulated and allegedly set ablaze by one Mutur Yadav alias Lulha, who is said to be mentally unsound. Police said the incident took place when Choudhary, guarding an orchard near a brick kiln, had a verbal duel with Yadav over water. Soon, villagers and labourers of the brick kiln caught hold of Yadav and beat him with sticks and bricks before setting him ablaze. Yadav was from neighbouring Yanchak village. Following the incident, tension gripped the two villages and a police contingent was deployed to keep the situation under control. Police said two separate cases had been registeredBhojpur’s superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Dubey said Yadav had earlier killed his wife. “There was an old enmity between Choudhary and Yadav, which is said to be the reason behind the incident,” he said, adding that they were trying to identify the culprits.In a related video that has gone viral on social media, more than 50 people, including minors, are seen thrashing a man and putting dry leaves on his body before setting him on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-set-ablaze-in-bhojpur-village-101618246417535.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Procession, rally banned in Pune on Gudi Padwa, Ambedkar birth anniversary||Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday issued guidelines banning procession or bike rally during Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar birth anniversary and Gudi Padwa because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Kumar said, “As the Covid-19 pandemic second surge is at peak and daily hundreds of patients are getting positive, we need to celebrate all festivals in low-key by following Covid safety norms. Both the festivals should be celebrated between 7 am and 6 pm.”As per the guidelines, no public meetings are allowed on these festivals. Instead, organisers should make the online facility available for citizens.Large number of people visit Ambedkar statue on the occasion of Ambedkar birth anniversary. This year, the administration has appealed that gathering should be limited to only five people at a time to visit the statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/procession-rally-banned-in-pune-on-gudi-padwa-ambedkar-birth-anniversary-101618244257424.html
12-04-2021||Pune||50-year-old Covid patient dies at home after not getting a bed in Pune||Pune: A 50-year-old slum resident living in Aundh area breathed his last due to Covid on Sunday due to unavailability of bed. The patient suffered from severe symptoms for days and relatives continued to stay in his house for more than three days. The relatives took him to a nearby hospital which could not admit the patient because of lack of availability of beds. The patient breathed his last on Monday at 2 am in his house. The patient named Santosh Thosar with comorbidities had tested positive a few days ago and prior to that was suffering from flu-like symptoms. The patient was a resident of Ambedkar vasahat in Aundh. Ramesh Thosar, the neighbour and distant cousin of the patient said, “He did not get bed for the entire day on Sunday. I even contacted the local ward officer and he provided me with the PMC helpline number. We tried calling the number, but did not get any response. We took him to a nearby hospital, but they did not have any bed available and so we brought him back home. Early Monday morning he breathed his last. He was suffering from the symptoms since the past few days and had got him tested too. When the symptoms became severe, we took him to the hospital.” As the surge continues in the city, there is a growing demand for hospital beds. As of Monday evening, the Covid dashboard maintained by the district administration shows only 33 vacant ventilators, 221 ICU beds without ventilators and 7,373 oxygen beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/50yearold-covid-patient-dies-at-home-after-not-getting-a-bed-in-pune-101618243598007.html
12-04-2021||Other||Automobile showrooms closed on Gudi Padwa, cars to be home delivered||PUNE With fresh restrictions in place in Maharashtra, automobile showrooms will keep their doors shut on Gudhi Padwa, however, those who booked their four-wheeler in advance will receive home delivery of their car on Tuesday. Since non-essential businesses have been closed by the administration, dealers have been accepting online and phone bookings. Dealers of two-wheelers say that it won’t be possible for them to provide home delivery since the quantity is higher than cars. “Many want to bring home a new car on Gudhi Padwa. We will be delivering almost 50-60 cars at the doorstep on Gudhi Padwa. We had kept the phone booking option open and in the last week got the formalities from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) completed. Many four-wheeler dealers are going to do the same thing,” said Vinod Kale, vice-president (sales) Wonder Cars. Gudhi Padwa is considered an auspicious day to buy new things. So usually, the sale of automobiles goes up during this period. Dealers of two-wheelers say that though they have been accepting the bookings on phone, closed showrooms are still an issue. Akshay Shelar, a dealer of two-wheelers said, “Booking and payment can be done online but other formalities take time. We had accepted the bookings but passing of those vehicles from the RTO office could not be done. Also, if the showroom is going to be closed on Padwa, then how does the customer take it home?” “We can’t do home delivery of two-wheelers as it is not feasible for us. In comparison, four-wheelers have selective customers. So those dealers can do that but we don’t have any other option but to keep our showroom closed,” said an official from Pashankar auto. Last year on Gudhi Padwa, all the showrooms were closed due to the lockdown. “Overall purchase of vehicles has dropped last year. This year prior to Gudhi Padwa, there were only 50-60 percent bookings in comparison to the pre Covid years. Gudhi Padwa is the main day, now we are hoping that things will ease out by Akshay Tritiya,” said Shelar “The number of booking have reduced. We had still adopted the policy of facilitating the passing of those vehicles that were already purchased. RTO office has been currently functioning with 25 per cent capacity,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/automobile-showrooms-closed-on-gudi-padwa-cars-to-be-home-delivered-101618243597270.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Pune has only 65 dedicated ambulances for Covid treatment||Pune: The central team during its visit to the most affected districts in Maharashtra found that Pune has only 65 dedicated Covid-19 ambulances. Pune has over one lakh active cases as the progressive count continues to go beyond 6.51 lakh and 8,658 deaths due to the infection. The district is reporting about 12,000 cases and with only 65 dedicated ambulances in place the situation looks dire. The administration has acquired more private ambulances too, however, the demand remains higher than the supply. The central team in its report found that Pune has fewer ambulances than Nagpur with 137, Satara with over 100 ambulances, Latur with 117 ambulances, Buldhana with 70, Beed with 72 and Jalgaon with 161 ambulances. Pune has the highest number of active cases in the country and is possibly one of the worst affected urban areas in the world and so ambulances provide crucial services in the pandemic. Since Covid is primarily a respiratory infection, the ambulance has to be equipped with oxygen supply and qualified staff to provide valuable intervention during the “golden hour”. Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer of BVG group, 108 said, “Under 108, Pune district has 82 ambulances of which the city has 42 ambulances. Of the total 82, we have 39 for Covid management with necessary medical aid. However, the local administration has also acquired many ambulances under various programmes. After the first wave, the Pune zilla parishad acquired 52 ambulances which were integrated under 108. We have multiple ambulances which are also used to transfer Covid positives from home to Covid care centre or from Covid care centre to a higher medical facility. Also, these newly acquired ambulances are not counted under 108, but are used for control room mechanism and we provide coordination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-has-only-65-dedicated-ambulances-for-covid-treatment-101618243057324.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Poor medical facility hits patients of Pune rural areas||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic situation in rural areas is worse than urban parts due to lack of medical infrastructure and testing facilities.Tushar Barhate, who is living near Chakan, said, “Five members of my family have been showing symptoms of the virus since last three days. We are awaiting test reports for the past three days as there is a huge rush. Doctors said the treatment can begin only after seeing the test report. One of the doctors has given basic medicines.”Dr Rahul Joshi, rural health officer at Ghodegaon in Pune district, said, “The Covid situation is almost the same like Mumbai and Pune. In Ambegaon taluka, the situation is better as there is enough health facility and Covid centres, unlike neighbouring talukas.”One of the medical officers from Khed said on condition of anonymity, “The situation is getting bad in rural areas. The patients are coming forward for testing on doctors’ suggestion. When patients’ symptoms get worse, they are doing tests and it is taking too much time. Even beds are unavailable in government facilities and private hospitals are overcrowded.”A medical officer from Junnar said, “There is not enough testing facility. Patients are coming to doctors when their condition has become serious. They are running to neighbouring towns to get treatment.”Dr Sachin Pawar, who is practicing at Satana in Nashik district said, “The situation is bad. Earlier, people took the Covid threat lightly and now there are cases in every village. Medical facilities are not enough. Many hospitals are not getting adequate oxygen supply facility.”Dr Pawar said, “The population of Satana, Malegaon taluka is more than 7-8 lakh and it has only two CT scan machines. Patients are going 40-50 km to do high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) test. Positive patients are staying in line for more than 6-8 hours for the test.”Rupesh Sawant of Junnar said, “One of my relatives need Remdesivir injection. We are trying to get it from Nashik around 100 km far. With urban areas facing shortage of the injection, one can assess the situation in rural areas.”One of the doctors from Junnar taluka said, “If this situation persists, more people can become victims of the deadly virus for lack of treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/poor-medical-facility-hits-patients-of-pune-rural-areas-101618242637376.html
12-04-2021||Other||PMC to float tender to rid Mula-Mutha of hyacinth||PUNE After deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s instructions to clear the hyacinth from the Mula-Mutha river, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to float a tender for clearing the hyacinth. In February and April, residents along the Mula-Muth river side face the problem of hyacinth every year. The PMC makes a provision of ₹54 lakh to remove the hyacinth from water bodies across the city, by outsourcing the job; of this, ₹1.26 crore is for removal of hyacinth from the Mula-Muth river. Recently, Ajit Pawar, who is also guardian minister for Pune district, highlighted the problem at a canal committee meeting. Sandesh Patil, a resident of Bopodi, said, “In our area, we are suffering from mosquitoes and bad smell due to hyacinth. Every year, when we register complaints, PMC starts the work. It is a long-pending problem.” Rajesh Sawant, a resident of Aundh, said, “Our area is under smart city, but, we are facing a problem of mosquitoes and bad smell as PMC failed to remove hyacinth. Is this a smart city which cannot tackle a hyacinth problem?” Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The corporation drainage department has started work to remove hyacinth with spiders and JCB machines. At least 40 people are removing hyacinth manually in various part of the city, like Aundh, Bopodi, Katraj lake, and Pashan lake.” “We have also instructed the drainage department to float a tender to remove hyacinth. We are monitoring the work on a daily basis,” he added. Jagdish Khanore, superintendent engineer of the drainage department said, “At the departmental level, we are taking the help of staff of the health department. At present, we cleared the hyacinth from the Mundhwa jackwell and in Aundh, with the help of spider machines. Based on the budgetary provision, we will float a tender if necessary.” Of 15 ward offices, the Mula-Mutha river passes through seven ward offices. Since 2013, the PMC has been using spider machines, mounted on a truck, that revolve 360 degrees. It picks up the hyacinth from the water surface and cleans the surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-float-tender-to-rid-mula-mutha-of-hyacinth-101618242577337.html
12-04-2021||Other||Maids in a pickle over cost of Covid tests; employers begin to cover charges||PUNE Housemaids, caregivers and domestic help are in a dilemma for fear of losing their monthly income in case there is a lockdown. Maids have been asked to get the antigen rapid test done before they can go to work in various societies in the city. Sampada Chattre works in Navi peth, and is going for her vaccination in this week. “It is better than taking the test, at least I will be assured that I can keep on working instead of being told to stay at home,” said Chattre. Medha Thatte, general secretary of the Pune Sahar Molkarin Sanghatana, says, “The maids often ask me, if I do the test, what guarantee do I have that I won’t get corona? Some feel it is too expensive.” Surekha Sathe has been working in Sopanbaug area since 2012 as a housemaid and feels herself lucky that the owners are willing to spend for her test. “We don’t earn more than ₹5,000. It is not possible to test every 15 days,” says Sathe. “In Sopanbaug, most of the societies are contemplating getting their maids RTPCR done, but we are not able to arrange lab technicians to collect the samples,” said Sachin Khandelwal a resident of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maids-in-a-pickle-over-cost-of-covid-tests-employers-begin-to-cover-charges-101618242517262.html
12-04-2021||Other||Divisional commissioner to hold online hearings for 23 villages to be merged within PMC limits||PUNE Amidst increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has issued an order to conduct online hearings for suggestions and objections to the proposed 23 villages to be merged within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Earlier, it was decided to conduct an in-person hearing on April 19-20. As per the earlier order, applicants would have to be present in the respective gram panchayat offices. However, now, divisional commissioner Rao has decided to hold online hearings. As per state government notification, to register suggestions and objections on the merger of the villages, the process began on December 22, 2020, and ended on January 22, 2021. The Pune divisional office has received a total of 491 suggestions and objections. The villages of Sus, Kopre, Narhe, Vadachi wadi, Nadoshi, Kirkirwadi, Holkarwadi, Manjari Budruk, Kolewadi, Wagholi, and Nanded, will have their hearing on April 19. Pisoli villagers will have to register their opinions on April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/divisional-commissioner-to-hold-online-hearings-for-23-villages-to-be-merged-within-pmc-limits-101618242337246.html
12-04-2021||Other||Veggie prices begin to rise as wholesalers blame retailers, customers for stockpiling||PUNE The rates of essential items, including vegetables and fruits, have seen a spike despite ample supply. The spike in rates is being attributed to panic buying by customers fearing a lockdown. “The increase in prices in the wholesale market is only five per cent, but retailers have increased prices and are selling vegetables with a 15 to 20 per cent increase,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents. In Pune, larges crowd of vendors and citizens were seen across the city on Monday morning, as markets opened after three days. “The effect of the two-day closure was seen on Monday, as every day 800 goods’ carriers of vegetables come to Market Yard. This increased to 1,500, so there was a rush. Market Yard will continue to remain closed over the weekends and will remain functional on other days till 6 pm, till April 30. Once further orders come, we will set up a new schedule,” said Madhukar Garad, APMC administrator. “Prices will increase in a couple of days. Now it has increased by just ₹five. Retailers are taking advantage as they tend to increase rates by 25 per cent and in every locality you will find different rates of vegetables. The fluctuation of prices will be more in green vegetables,” said Kapil Rege, who runs a retail shop selling potatoes and onions. Bhujbal added, “Most of people purchased extra stocks of vegetables as they were behaving as if lockdown is from tomorrow. Due to fear and panic more people visited Market Yard.” Pranita Wagh, a housewife from Kothrud, said, “I visited Market Yard as retailers are selling vegetables at very high rates. People are left with no option, but to pay higher prices as all cannot visit Market Yard.” Bashir Shaikh, a grape vendor, said, “Grapes which were ₹80/kg are now at Rs100/kg. Prices may increase even more.” Wholesale rates of veggies At Market Yard on Monday Potato: ₹16 per kg Methi: From ₹18/bunch to ₹25 Spinach: From ₹20/bunch to ₹25 Onion: ₹22 per kg Cucumber: ₹16-20 per kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/veggie-prices-begin-to-rise-as-wholesalers-blame-retailers-customers-for-stockpiling-101618242157285.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 51,751 new Covid-19 cases, tally moves close to 3.5 million||Maharashtra on Monday reported a significant drop in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease with 51,751 Covid-19 infections and 258 related fatalities. With this, the state’s tally rose to 3,458,996 and the death toll climbed to 58,245, the health department data showed. Active cases of Covid-19 in the state declined by 841 cases and currently stands at 564,746 from the 565,587 reported on Sunday.The state reported its highest single-day spike of 63,294 infections on Sunday. A decline of 11,543 cases from Sunday's tally has been observed alongside a significant drop in the number of samples tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 208,021 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease on the day, which is much lesser than the 263,137 tests conducted on the previous day.Meanwhile, as many as 52,312 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, taking the recoveries to 2,834,473 so far and the recovery rate to almost 82 per cent, according to the latest data.Also read | With fewer tests, Mumbai registers sharp drop in number of Covid-19 casesMaharashtra, the worst affected state in the country, has been reporting a high number of daily new Covid-19 cases since the second wave of the pandemic started in India. Previously, the state had reported 55,411 cases on Saturday and 58,993 infections on Friday. Also, the number of daily new cases have remained above 40,000 every day since the beginning of April.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday flagged Maharashtra as one of the 10 states that accounted for 83 per cent of the overall new infections detected on the day. Maharashtra alone accounted for almost 37.5 per cent of these new cases, data from the ministry showed. Also, the state 349 fatalities to the 904 deaths reported, the ministry noted.In terms of active cases, Maharashtra contributes 47.22 per cent to the overall active cases in the country, the ministry said. Other top contributors include Chhattisgarh with 7.52 per cent, Uttar Pradesh with 5.93 per cent, Karnataka with 5.77 per cent and Kerala with 3.72 per cent. India’s active caseload currently stands at 1,201,009, which is 8.88 per cent of the overall confirmed cases in the country, according to the last update by the ministry.Also read | Maharashtra defers Class 10 and 12 state board exams due to surge in Covid casesAmong the districts, Pune with 110,000 active cases, Mumbai with 89,125, Thane with 75,683, Nagpur with 59,756 and Nashik with 37,760 are the top five highest contributors in Maharashtra, according to a bulletin from the state government on Monday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met with the state’s Covid-19 task force on Sunday, during which a state-wide lockdown to control the transmission of the disease was discussed. “In today's meeting with the state Covid-19 task force, everyone was of the view to impose lockdown in the state. SOPs and guidelines for it will be discussed in the next meeting,” news agency ANI quoted state minister Aslam Sheikh as saying on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-51-751-new-covid-19-cases-tally-moves-close-to-3-5-million-101618241688763.html
12-04-2021||Other||Experts believe students may suffer academically with SSC, HSC exams postponed||PUNE As Covid cases across Maharashtra see a consistent spike, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, on Monday, said that board exams for Class 10 and Class 12 are postponed to June and May, respectively. Experts believe students may suffer academically as the exams are delayed. The decision for Classes 1 to 9 and Class 11 was taken earlier this month. All students will be promoted without exams. However, students of Class 10 and Class 12 will be undergoing their final examinations offline, as per the education minister. The revised dates of the same will be declared soon, said Gaikwad. Speaking on the academic loss of students, Dinesh Gupta, a teacher, said the planning of many students have been disturbed now. “If the exams happened, the students could start focusing on competitive exams. Now they will be revising again the same syllabus. However, this is a good opportunity for students who could not clarify their doubts due to online teaching. Students will be under pressure. They will miss out their vacation time of May and June,” said Gupta. He added that due to the delay in exams, the next academic year will be shorter. “First year of graduation, or Class 11, for many will be short. There is a chance that students suffer through academic losses in this time,” said Gupta. Anubha Sahai, president of the India-wide Parents Association (IWPA), said that the government should go for an internal assessment, as the situation is unpredictable. “Postponement of the final board exams will not help students and parents, as they are under a lot of stress. Let there be internally assessed grades like other countries are doing. Central government should also intervene and come up with a uniform decision for all students,” said Sahai. Manoj Tangadpalliwar, a city-based parent, said that postponing the exam will affect morale. “My child has given two attempts at the JEE exams, but I will not risk the life of the kid by sending him for a JEE attempt again. The same is for Class 12 offline exams. With the increase in cases of Covid, we were discussing that my child should take a break this year and attempt the Class 12 exam next year. Offline exams this time are not feasible at all. The exams should be online exams or be cancelled entirely,” said Tangadpalliwar. Sampada Waghmare, a student of Class 12, said that it is a good decision to postpone the exams, but they may clash with other competitive examinations. “As the regular exams are now postponed, I can focus on competitive exams for a while. However, I hope the exams are conducted in May as per the schedule. Otherwise they may clash with other exams and cause more confusion,” said Waghmare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-believe-students-may-suffer-academically-with-ssc-hsc-exams-postponed-101618241977246.html
12-04-2021||Other||Concrete boundaries around trees uprooting city’s green cover: experts||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s construction of concrete boundaries around trees are weakening the roots and eventually killing trees, according to experts and environmental lovers. Pune which was once known for its dense green cover is losing it rapidly. In 2019 around Dussehra, a grand old peepal tree collapsed on Tilak road causing a roadblock for hours. According to Gurudas Nulkar, a member of the Pune ecological society the tree which had weathered many storms fell because of the sheer negligence of the authorities. “In their attempt to beautify, they had built a cement bridge around the tree’s roots. This tree fell because when the authorities built a cement bridge around this tree, the girth of the tree was less, over time it grew in circumference, the hole in the cement remained the same. The roots are spread as far apart as the branches of a tree. Even large trees can withstand storms if the roots are protected. But if this area becomes weak, the tree is in danger. Cement bridge did not allow the roots of the tree to grow causing it to fall,” Nulkar said. He also added that excessive pruning of a branch can cause the plant to lose its balance and increase the load on the roots. Tilak road is still asphalt, but cement roads do not leave room for roots to spread. Had it not been for the cement, the peepal would have survived. If bricks or mortar are used instead of cement, root growth is not stunted and their risk to the plant is reduced. Another advantage of Murbad surface is that rainwater can seep into the soil. Nulkar stressed upon the importance of large trees, for no matter how old a tree is, it has the ability to digest carbon which is very important today. Lokesh Bapat, another tree lover said, “The authorities are spending a lot of money on paver blocks, and cement footpaths, but they need to understand that the trees require at least one metre of open ground around its roots. If it is completely cemented how will it get oxygen and water? Instead of retaining the trees, they are weakening them and could be in danger for others.” Ashok Ghorpade, superintendent of gardens, PMC, “We have given in writing to the tree authorities that areas around the trees should be left alone and that paver blocks and concrete boundaries limit the oxygen supply to the roots of the trees thus making them weak. We have been writing and making this point time and again to all the assistant commissioners who are also the tree authority officers for each ward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/concrete-boundaries-around-trees-uprooting-city-s-green-cover-experts-101618241797357.html
12-04-2021||Other||Alarm after CCTV camera spots movement in Assam’s EVM strong room. It was just a spider||An unwanted movement inside the strong room in Cachar district of Assam, where the polled EVMs were being kept under CCTV surveillance, led to chaos on Monday morning. The monitoring camera’s sensor suddenly showed a human-like figure and issued an alert suggesting a movement inside the strong room of Sonai constituency. “In the footage, a cobweb strand is visible moving from one side of the frame to the other. It is possible that the sensors sensed that movement and flashed an alert on the monitor,” said Additional Deputy Commissioner, Cachar, Sumit Sattavan, after inspection. He confirmed that it was a spider. The incident took place at around 10.25 am but led to day-long chaos.The alert caused tension among the contesting candidates. Some of them, along with their agents, rushed to the spot and started protesting outside the NETRiP centre where the EVMs of 7 constituencies of Cachar district were kept. Except for the BJP, almost all the political parties have appointed their members in front of the strong rooms where monitors show 24-hour recordings of the rooms. A Congress agent suddenly noticed a human-like symbol popping up in one of the recordings and immediately informed his party leaders. Finally, a group of officials from the district administration visited the place and they showed the recordings to all the candidates and agents present. It was found that a spider was moving near the sensor of the camera which caused the alert.Congress candidates Mukesh Pandey and Kamakhya Prasad Mala, along with AK Azad Laskar - election agent of AIUDF candidate Karim Uddin Barbhuiya - and some members of the Congress were present when the footage was shown. As per the request, the footage was extracted and played on large screens at the centre. “We are concerned about the safety of the EVMs after few incidents took place post-election in Barak Valley. But the administration cooperated with our request and gave us a chance to review the footage. We saw the footage and whatever we could gather, it did not look like a human movement. However, we are yet to get the full footage and will be assured only after a thorough inspection,” Laskar said.Congress and AIUDF members gathered in front of the election monitoring centre after the incident took place while some of them started protesting. Though the NATRiP and nearby area is heavily guarded by central paramilitary forces and have a strong presence of Assam Police, a team of Cachar police led by Additional Superintendent of Police, Jagadish Das, rushed to the spot. They managed to convince the people and requested them to go back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alarm-after-cctv-camera-spots-movement-in-assam-s-evm-strong-room-it-was-just-a-spider-101618241677949.html
12-04-2021||Other||Societies take the lead with strict Covid protocol and restricted movement||PUNE The rise in home quarantine patients in Pune has forced several societies to sanitise their premises on their own or with the help of a local corporator, some have also begun strict enforcement of Covid norms and are not letting outsiders within their premises. “We’ve had 15 cases in this wave, and have eight active cases as of now, sanitization was never done by the PMC. The PMC has declared our society as a micro-containment zone. We are not allowing anyone from outside to enter the premises until they have done the test, though there is a lot of confusion about the rules, we have made it mandatory,” said Manish Mishra, Felicita society on Baner-Pashan Link road. In Paritosh society, residents have been doing the sanitization process on their own following the standard Covid protocol. “We decided to sanitize on our own instead of waiting for someone from PMC to come. When a Covid positive patient is detected, the affected floors are fully sanitized - including the doors, door handles, bell switches of all flats on that floor, railings, lift buttons, dust bins, passages. The insides of all lifts are sanitized every hour, as well as the staircases. Every visitor to the society is screened at the security gate. From April 11, we are not allowing any outside visitor unless it is an emergency,” said Ashish Kotamkar, chairman, Paritosh society. While townships like Megapolis in Maan, Hinjewadi have gone hi-tech whereupon instead of pasting yellow slip of paper they maintain a tracker in the maintenance office. “Additionally, we provide a separate WhatsApp group for such flats, where society manager, security supervisor, the secretary is added with a member of the flat; so that we can provide them any assistance that is needed. Each flat has an individual WhatsApp group so that we don’t reveal any identity,” said Anshul Gupta, resident of Megapolis. Sopanbaug societies have sprung into action by sealing off their premises for everyone, including caretakers and domestic workers. “In certain societies, only particular buildings are made as containment zones and in those buildings, movement is totally restricted. No flat owner can go out and no maids or servants are allowed in that building, until notified by the PMC,” said Sachin Khandelwal, Sopanbaug residents’ association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/societies-take-the-lead-with-strict-covid-protocol-and-restricted-movement-101618241617272.html
12-04-2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan promotes students of Classes 6 and 7 without exams||Rajasthan on Monday decided to promote students of Classes 6 and 7 without conducting any examinations due to the current spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Education minister Govind Singh Dotasra said that the decision has been taken keeping in mind the interest of students. “Taking a major decision in the interest of the students, the Education Department has decided to promote the students of Classes 6 and 7,” Dotasra said in a tweet.छात्र हित में शिक्षा विभाग ने बड़ा फैसला लेते हुए कक्षा 6 और 7 के विद्यार्थियों को प्रमोट करने का निर्णय लिया है। @rajeduofficial pic.twitter.com/uqY8HIMU1WRajasthan on Sunday reported 5,105 Covid-19 cases, which pushed the disease tally in the state to 363,793. The death toll reached 2926 with 10 related fatalities. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that the state will be forced to impose stricter measures if people do not adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. He also said that rural areas of Rajasthan have seen a spike in cases. The Union health ministry on Monday said that Rajasthan is among 10 states along with Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat which have reported a steep rise in their daily caseload and accounting for 83.02% of the fresh Covid-19 cases being recorded.Rajasthan joins Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry who promoted students without examination due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra on April 3 announced that it will promote students from Class 1 to Class 8 without any examination. The state’s education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday also said that the board exams for Classes 10 and 12 have been postponed. The board exams for Class 10 will now be held by the end of June while those of Class 12 will be held by the end of May.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on February 25 had announced that students of Classes 9, 10, and 11 will be promoted to the next classes without any examination due to the pandemic. The Assam government on March 3 announced that it will promote students of Classes 1 to 9, news agency ANI reported.The Odisha state education board on March 17 promoted all the students from standard 1 to 8 to the next class without exams. Chhattisgarh on March 21 promoted students of all classes barring Class X and XII due to the Covid-19 situation in the state.Puducherry governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on March 11 approved the proposal of promoting students of Classes 1 to 9 in the Union Territory. Students of Classes 10 and 11 in Puducherry and Karaikal regions which follow the Tamil Nadu State Board of Education pattern of the curriculum were also promoted along with students of classes 10 and 11 in Mahe and Yanam regions who follow the guidelines of the Boards of Education in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh respectively, news agency PTI reported.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid19-rajasthan-promotes-students-of-classes-6-and-7-without-exams-101618238818135.html
12-04-2021||Other||Give Rs5K to each construction worker from state fund, Credai tells CM||PUNE The real estate developers’ body, Credai, has urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to distribute Rs5,000 to each construction worker from a fund collected by government, called the Building and Construction Workers Welfare (BOCW) fund. The government, according to Credai, has collected ₹10,225 crore in the fund in the last six years, 8% of which has been used for the welfare of workers.“We request the chief minister to look into these cases and provide at least Rs5,000 from the Building and Construction Workers Welfare account to the construction workers,” said Sunil Furde, president, Credai, Maharashtra.According to Furde, a second wave of Covid has once again prompted the reverse migration of workers in large numbers. It will have a negative impact on the construction industry that is totally dependent on them for meeting deadlines, be it Rera, banks or customers.“Without a proper labour force, developers will have to stop construction activities, resulting in accumulated losses and interests. Also, multiple legal cases in Rera cannot be ruled out,” said Furde.“Last year, during the pandemic, construction was halted for about 2.5 months and after restarting, it took us more than six months to get a proper labour force in place. Rera extended the deadline by only six months, whereas developers lost more than eight months. This year again if there is attrition and reverse migration of labour, the construction industry will see its worst times. We developers from Credai Maharashtra are already doing our best by providing free vaccinations, proper sanitising of labour camps, toilets, and taking care of their health and hygiene requirements. We urge the government to extend its full support to the workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/give-rs5k-to-each-construction-worker-from-state-fund-credai-tells-cm-101618240657140.html
12-04-2021||Jaipur||Udaipur emerges as Covid-19 hotspot in Rajasthan, positivity rate at 30%||The number of Covid-19 cases in Udaipur has exceeded that of Jaipur and Jodhpur which were the hotspots in Rajasthan till now. The state recorded 5,105 positive cases on Sunday of which the maximum number of cases (864) was reported from Udaipur district, according to the state health department data. Additional district magistrate, Udaipur City, Ashok Kumar said, “106 containment zones have been formed since April 2 in the district, which has the maximum positive cases.” According to the health department data, Udaipur witnessed over 1700% increase in cases in the last 20 days. On March 22, the district reported 47 cases, which increased to 864 on April 11, the highest in the state. In the same period, Jaipur witnessed an increase in cases by 338%, Kota by 700% and Jodhpur by 1157%. Officials said the highest number of Covid-19 tests are being done in Udaipur. With every third person found infected, the positivity rate in the district has reached 30%, and patients have occupied 66% ICU and oxygen beds in hospitals. Following the spike in cases, the state government imposed a 12-hour night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am from Saturday.On Monday morning, the state crossed 10 million vaccination figure and became the second state after Maharashtra in inoculations, the officials said. State health minister Raghu Sharma said the vaccination drive started in the state for all people above 45 years from April 1 across 3,380 government and 188 private health centres.“An average of 470,000 people have been vaccinated daily in the last four days. 544,000 people were vaccinated on April 5; 484,000 on April 6; 581,000 on April 7; 465,000 on April 8; 421000 on April 9; 296,000 on April 10; and 111,000 on April 11.On the morning of April 12, the figure crossed 10 million. A total of 1,11,40,860 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been received from the Centre till April 11,” Sharma said.Facing vaccine crunch, the state health department has asked the Union health ministry to provide doses in inadequate number else the momentum of the inoculation drive will be affected.“The Centre sent 400,000 doses on Sunday, but this doesn’t serve the purpose as our daily requirement is over 500,000 doses,” a senior official said on condition anonymity.“Rajasthan is a geographically big state; supply of vaccines to health centres in rural areas takes time. We have apprised the issues to the Union health ministry and are now hoping to get a positive reply,” he said. Meanwhile, on directions of the state government, district collectors are holding meetings with religious leaders to convince them to shut religious places to curb the spread of the virus. In Bikaner, Karni Mata temple will be closed till April 21. Devotees can visit the temple online and LED screens will be put up outside the temple. In Nagaur, the district administration has banned organising any fair or gathering during Navratra. A similar decision has been taken for Jaipur rural areas – no procession or fair will be organised on the occasion of Ramnavmi, Chetichand and Gangaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/udaipur-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-in-rajasthan-positivity-rate-at-30-101618239878333.html
12-04-2021||Other||“Lock-shahi” in state, instead of “lokshahi”, says Fadnavis in critique of MVA govt||Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, on Monday, alleged the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is not serious about providing any financial aid to the vulnerable sections.Fadnavis took a dig at the state government amid talks that an extended lockdown is imminent in Maharashtra in view of a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, saying that there is a “lockshahi” in the state now, instead of “lokshahi” (democracy).Senior BJP leaders while addressing a rally for the upcoming bypolls in the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency in Solapur district also said changing government in Maharashtra is up to Fadnavis.NCP’s Bhagirath Bhalke, son of former MLA Bharat Bhalke, is contesting against BJP’s Samadhan Autade. The bypolls scheduled on April 17 were necessitated for the Pandharpur-Mangalvedha seat after the demise of three-term NCP legislator Bharat Bhelke, in the last week of November.“When this government came into power, it was called Maha Vikas Aghadi, but now it has become a “Maha Vasooli (extortion) Aghadi”. The way they have started the vasooli from police, farmers and the common man, it shows that all thethree ruling parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress), have only one agenda and that is to collect money from wherever it is possible,” Fadnavis alleged.Fadnavis was referring to allegations ofcorruption raised by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, against then home minister Anil Deshmukh, an NCP stalwart.The former chief minister also said the highest number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities are being reported from Maharashtra.“In the last 10 days, 50 to 55 per cent of the total deaths in the country were reported from Maharashtra. Similarly, 60 per cent of the total cases in the country were also reported from Maharashtra,” he said, adding, “I can understand locking and unlocking (to contain the spread of coronavirus) is important, but when a lockdown is imposed, people lose their jobs. Unfortunately,the state government is not at all conscious about providing financial help to the (vulnerable) people”.He said governments in Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have helped the common man and farmers.“It is the responsibility of the state government to help people in distress, but this (MVA) government, instead of helping people, is recovering power bills from them like the “jizya” tax that used to be imposed during the Mughal era,” Fadnavis said. He said the state government has stopped disconnecting power connections of people (who have failed to clear their dues) due to this by-election.“But you will see that the government will resume snapping power connections after the bypoll is conducted on April 17,” he claimed.Fadnavis said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the communists and the Congress will receive a big jolt on May 2 when results of the assembly polls held in five states are out.Speaking at another campaign rally, Fadanvis said, “People may think what difference a bypoll will make to change the state government. Leave it to me when to change this government. We will change that, but for now, this bypoll is important as the people of this constituency have got the opportunity to show the government its place”.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockshahi-in-state-instead-of-lokshahi-says-fadnavis-in-critique-of-mva-govt-101618237357068.html
12-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports over 9,500 Covid-19 infections, active cases close to 80,000 mark||A day after reporting its highest single-day infections this year, Karnataka on Monday logged 9,579 new Covid-19 cases and 52 deaths, according to a bulletin from the state government. This took the state’s tally to 1,074,869 cases and 12,941 patients have succumbed to the coronavirus disease so far in the state. Also, 2767 patients have recovered in the day taking the overall recoveries to 985,924 so far, data from the bulletin showed.Karnataka registered 10,250 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest daily toll this year. The number of daily infections has remained high since the beginning of the Covid-19 second wave in India. Daily new cases breached the 4,000-mark on April 1 (4,234 cases), 5,000-mark on April 5 (5,279 cases) and the 6,000-mark on April 6 (6,150 cases).Also read | Why is India seeing Covid-19 second wave? AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria explainsActive caseload too has increased by 6,760 cases and currently stands at 75,985 from the 69,225 on the previous day. It has witnessed a multifold increase from the 8,114 cases a month ago, on March 12. Karnataka contributed 5.77 per cent to India’s active caseload and is one among five states that account for 70 per cent of the country’s active cases, the Union health ministry noted earlier in the day.Bengaluru Urban, the worst affected district in the state in terms of total confirmed cases as well as active cases, contributed 6,387 new Covid-19 cases, which is over 66.5 per cent of the 9,579 reported on the day. The district so far has reported 488,369 cases and its active caseload stands at 56,545–74.4 per cent of overall active cases in Karnataka. Among other districts, Bidar and Kalaburagi with 2,082 active cases each, followed by Tumakuru with 1,984 cases, Mysuru with 1,960 cases and Bengaluru Rural with 1,075 cases contribute the maximum to the overall active cases in the state.Also read | Worry mounts for 16 states as daily Covid-19 cases tick upwardThe state government tested 116165 samples for the coronavirus disease on the day, comprising 6,313 Rapid Antigen Detection Tests and 109,852 RT PCR and other methods. So far, the state has tested 22,806,423 samples, according to the bulletin.As many as 5,988,095 beneficiaries, including essential workers and the general public over 45 years of age, have been vaccinated in the state, according to data from the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-over-9-500-covid-19-infections-active-cases-close-to-80-000-mark-101618236524355.html
12-04-2021||Pune||62 test positive after Bagad yatra||Pune: Days after villagers from Satara district held the annual “Bagad” yatra festival, a pilgrimage, 62 new Covid cases were reported from a Bavdhan village, according to officials. Large number of people had gathered at Bavdhan village in Wai tehsil of Satara district on April 2 during the Bagad (chariot of god) festival, celebrated to seek blessings of a local deity, in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. Later, the district administration had registered a case against more than 100 people, the officials said on Monday. “From February 1 till date, Bavdhan has reported a total of 109 cases. Of these, 47 patients have recovered. Currently, there are 62 active cases, all reported after the Bagad yatra,” said a district health official. “So, we can say the case load increased after the festival,” he said. The neighbouring Vaghjaiwadi village, whose residents also took part in the festival, currently has 15 active cases, all reported after the event, he said. On April 9, Bavdhan village reported 17 Covid cases, its highest number so far, the official said, adding that the village reported 12 new cases on April 10. Following the festival which saw violations of norms, Wai police had filed an FIR and arrested 83 persons, who were released by local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/62-test-positive-after-bagad-yatra-101618236157693.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 6,905 new Covid-19 cases, down from nearly 10,000 infections a day before||Mumbai reported 6,905 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the tally in the city to 527,119, according to data shared by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The death toll in the financial hub also rose to 12,060 with 43 fresh fatalities. Mumbai witnessed a sharp drop of 3,084 cases but the fall in the number of cases can also be attributed to the drop in numbers of tests conducted in the last 24 hours.Mumbai conducted 39,398 tests over the period of last 24 hours while it had conducted 52,159 tests between April 10 to April 11 - thus registering a sharp drop of 12,761 tests. The doubling rate of the disease has increased to 36 days. The recovery rate in the city rose to 80% as 9,037 people recovered from the disease taking the tally of recoveries to 423,678.Mumbai currently has 90,267 active cases of Covid-19, registering a slight drop. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 in the city has dropped is currently at 1.89%.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar while speaking to HT on Sunday expressed concern over the death toll in the city. "Alarm bells are ringing since the city recorded 50 deaths on Saturday. The number of Covid-19 cases has increased dramatically in April. We are making necessary arrangements but citizens should not waste time unnecessarily and take up the bed wherever they get one," Pednekar said.The city has announced new measures to tackle with rising cases and hospitalizations. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday said that the Maharashtra government will set up three jumbo field hospitals in Mumbai within the next 30-45 days, news agency PTI reported. Chahal said that each of these beds will have 2,000 beds, including 200 ICU beds.The Maharashtra government is planning to impose a lockdown to arrest the current surge in cases. The decision on duration is likely to be announced post April 14, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar highlighted that the economic condition of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is not strong and everyone should prepare for any eventualities rather than indulging in politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-6-095-new-covid-19-cases-down-from-nearly-10-000-infections-a-day-b-101618235687684.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Cong stage protest in front of Pune civic chief over mishandling of Covid situation||PUNE: The Congress leaders on Monday gheraoed Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar over the mishandling of Covid-19 situation in the city. The political leaders staged an agitation before the civic chief present at the standing committee meeting. Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe, Aba Bagul, Arvind Shinde, Sanjay Balgude and Datta Bahirat led the protest. Bagwe said, “The Congress had alerted the municipal commissioner about the Covid second surge and even held a meeting with him on March 30 seeking various steps to check the virus spread. Now, there is acute shortage of beds and Remdesivir injections.” Bagul said that due to shortage of staff at the Naidu hospital, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is allowing relatives inside the ward to take care of patients. Shinde alleged that Covid helplines are not working. He said that it’s PMC’s responsibility to provide injections and medicines at civic-body run shops. The municipal commissioner assured that the administration would take adequate steps to address the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cong-stage-protest-in-front-of-pune-civic-chief-over-mishandling-of-covid-situation-101618235616952.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh summoned by CBI for questioning on April 14: Officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for questioning on April 14 in connection with its probe into the allegations of corruption levelled against him by senior police officer Param Bir Singh, officials aware of developments said on Monday.Also Read | CBI registers preliminary enquiry against Anil Deshmukh on Bombay high court orderCBI registered a preliminary enquiry against Deshmukh on April 6, a day after Bombay High Court directed the agency to probe allegations against the then-Maharashtra home minister levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh resigned from his position on April 5 just hours after the high court order, in which the bench observed that an independent probe against him was not possible as the state police reported to him.Also Read | Bombay HC directs CBI to conduct preliminary probe against Anil DeshmukhOn April 8, terming the allegations against the NCP leader as “serious,” the Supreme Court dismissed Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government’s plea challenging the high court order.Also Read | 'Serious' allegations against Anil Deshmukh require CBI probe, rules Supreme CourtIn a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh accused Deshmukh of tasking officials of the Mumbai Police to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars, restaurants, hotels in the city. The development took place three days after the senior officer was shunted by the Deshmukh-led home ministry from his position as the police chief of Mumbai to a “low-key” post of commandant general of the Home Guards, for “mishandling” the probe into the explosive-laden vehicle found outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani on February 25.Singh then moved the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe against the NCP leader but was asked to approach the high court first, which passed its orders on a separate plea filed by Dr Jaishri Patil.Dilip Walse Patil, also from the NCP, has since assumed charge as the home minister of Maharashtra. The state government has also set up a one-member panel, comprising former Bombay HC judge Kailash Chandiwal, to probe the allegations against Anil Deshmukh, and submit a report in six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-summoned-by-cbi-for-questioning-on-april-14-officials-101618233411168.html
12-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 13,685 new Covid-19 cases, 72 more deaths||The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh rose to 7,05,619 on Monday with 13,685 fresh cases, while 72 more fatalities, highest single-day toll this month, pushed the death toll in the state to 9,224, an official said.At present, there are 81,576 active cases in the state, while 6,14,819 patients have recovered from the infection so far."In the past 24 hours, 13,685 fresh cases were reported while 3,197 patients were discharged. The state has reported a total of 9,224 deaths till now," Additional Chief Secretary of Health Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here.Of the fresh cases, a maximum of 3,892 infections were reported from Lucknow, 1,417 from Varanasi, 1,295 from Allahabad and 716 from Kanpur, among others.The state capital reported 21 deaths, Allahabad 15, Kanpur five and Gorakhpur three, among others.Prasad said 44,196 patients are in home isolation. On Sunday, more than 1.92 lakh samples were tested for COVID-19 and the total samples tested rose to over 3.69 crore.So far, over 75 lakh beneficiaries have been administered anti-coronavirus vaccine, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-13-685-new-covid-19-cases-72-more-deaths-101618234019746.html
12-04-2021||Bangalore||Tushar Vashisht: I feel happier when I am singing or playing music as it is my release||Tushar Vashisht has been learning and singing music since he was six and has trained in Hindustani Classical for years. Later, when he went abroad for further studies, he was part of a band and created original songs. Vashisht says, “One of my first originals was called Pehchaan, which made it to America’s Best of College A Capella in 2008. It’s the only Hindi song to ever make it to the list. Since then, I have been busy with work and business.” He started his career as an investment banker, later joined Aadhar and finally, went on to create the app, HealthifyMe. In the last 10 years, the singer didn’t have time to focus on music yet managed to create a few songs. It was a-year-and-half ago, that he “fortunately” met Raghu Ramasubramanian at a concert and later jammed with him on a few songs. One of the songs is his latest release, Kahaani. Talking about the new song, Vashisht says, “It is about losing and finding someone, about love and how feeble it is. I am sure all of us can relate to the songs as everyone has loved and lost at some point. I was in a particularly down mood one day and had called Raghu, who told me to write the feelings into a song. An artist needs a muse and sometimes, heartache and in my life I have had both (laughs).”Now, he plans to keep the momentum going and has worked on an EP, with three songs. Last year, during the pandemic, the duo found time to work on music and created a social bubble. “We hung out and we were all bit free on nights and weekends. In fact, the four songs took 18 months to make. I never feel happier when I am singing or playing music. And music is my release. I remember, when I opened for Lucky Ali’s concert in Bangalore and sang Kahaani, people responded well. In fact, they were singing along which usually doesn’t happen for independent songs,” says the singer, who created Pop, Rock and Sufi songs and is now experimenting with Jazz and Blues too. Recalling the Ali concert, which was in an open air venue, Vashist admits that with the pandemic, concerts have taken a beating. “Things are bad and tough for music and musicians. But things will change and it has to. Once things settle down and we move on, it will all come back. While concerts and public gatherings have been curbed, on the other hand, people like me have time now to create more. Simultaneously, some really great music has been coming out, which wasn’t the case earlier. Yes, there have been some bad parts but there have also been some silver lining as non mainstream musicians have got the chance to put things out there,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tushar-vashisht-i-feel-happier-when-i-am-singing-or-playing-music-as-it-is-my-release-101618234177781.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown leads to loss of jobs, says BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis||Stating that people lose their jobs when a lockdown is imposed, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday alleged the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is not serious about providing any financial aid to the vulnerable sections.Taking a dig at the state government amid talks that an extended lockdown is imminent in Maharashtra in view of a steep rise in Covid-19 cases, Fadnavis said there is a "lockshahi" in the state now instead of 'lokshahi' (democracy).The Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly was addressing a rally for the upcoming bypoll to Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency in Solapur district.The BJP has fielded Samadhan Autade against Bhagirath Bhalke, son of late MLA Bharat Bhalke, of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for the April 17 contest."When this government came into power, it was called as Maha Vikas Aghadi but now it has become a 'Maha Vasooli (extortion) Aghadi'. The way they have started the vasooli from police, farmers and the common man, it shows that all the three ruling parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) have only one agenda and that is to collect money from wherever itis possible," he alleged.Fadnavis was referring to the allegations of corruption raised by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against then home minister Anil Deshmukh, an NCP stalwart.The former chief minister also said the highest number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities are being reported from Maharashtra."In the last ten days, 50 to 55 per cent of the total deaths in the country were reported from Maharashtra. Similarly, 60 per cent of the total cases in the country were also reported from Maharashtra," he said.Fadnavis said, "I can understand locking and unlocking (to contain the spread of coronavirus) is important but when a lockdown is imposed, people lose their jobs. Unfortunately, the state government is not at all conscious about providing financial help to the (vulnerable) people".He said governments in Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have helped the common man and farmers."It is the responsibility of the state government to help the people in distress but this (MVA) government, instead of helping people, is recovering power bills from them like the 'Jizya' tax that used to be imposed in the Mughals era," Fadnavis said.He said the state government has stopped disconnecting power connections of people (who have failed to clear their dues) due to this byelection."But you will see that the government will resume snapping power connections after the bypoll is conducted on April 17," he claimed.Fadnavis said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the communists and the Congress will receive a big jolt on May 2 when results of the assembly polls held in five states will be out.Speaking at another campaign rally, Fadanvis said, "People may think what difference a bypoll will make to change the state government. Leave it to me when to change this government. We will change that, but for now, this bypoll is important as the people of this constituency have got the opportunity to show the government its place".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-lockdown-leads-to-loss-of-jobs-says-bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-101618231603871.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Patna municipality uses two-pronged strategy to contain Covid-19||Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stepped up its sanitisation drive and awareness campaign on the importance of Covid-19 vaccination amid a rise in infections in the state, said municipality officials.“The vaccination centres are getting high footfalls as PMC staff members are creating awareness in different parts of the city,” said municipality commissioner Himanshu Sharma. He added that the door-to-door garbage pick-up vans will play catchy jingles prepared by the health department to motivate those above 45 years of age to get the vaccine shot. The initiative comes during the four-day long Tika Utsav- a special Covid-19 vaccination drive launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.PMC is running vaccination centres in all the six circle offices in the state capital, covering the entire city population including the slums and has laid out a plan to intensify the campaign to mobilise people for vaccination in the coming week. For the last one week, 700 to 800 vaccine doses have been administered on an average at the six centres at Azimabad, New Capital, Patliputra, Kankarbagh, Nutan and Bankipore circle. Bihar reported 2697 fresh infections on Sunday to take the number of active cases in the state to 14,696. Patna is the worst-affected city in the state with 1,382 cases detected on Sunday, taking the capital’s Covid tally to 60,875, as per the government data.On the front of implementation of Covid-19 norms, the district administration has sealed 17 shops and seized 92 vehicles, collecting a sum of ₹3.21 lakh in penalty for flouting Covid-19 guidelines between March 16 and April 10, said a district official.The PMC says it is using all 20 jetting machines and 300 small, hand-held spraying machines for sanitisation of public places, restaurants, containment zones, slums and residential areas.In Patliputra circle, the sanitisation drive was carried out at Bans Ghat, Kotwali police station, Rajbanshi Nagar and government residences. In Nutan circle, Patna Junction, Dak Bungalow, Bailey Road and Boring Road localities were sanitised.“Our prime focus is to sanitise the crowded places. We are also spraying disinfecting solutions on those establishments and houses which have been marked as Covid-19 infected zones by the district administration to protect the locals from getting infected,” said Harshita, PMC public relation officer.Another senior PMC official said that the intensified disinfection drive had increased workload on sanitisation staff.“We can’t halt the routine work. We have divided the cleaning team in groups for sanitisation, door-to-door garbage collection. Another team has been dedicated to unclogging sewage and manholes before April 30 as a part of pre-monsoon preparations,” said the official on condition of anonymity.Pankaj Singh, a resident near SK Puri colony, however, rued, “Despite regular public use, ATMs are not being sanitised. Garbage collection has become infrequent and untimely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-municipality-uses-two-pronged-strategy-to-contain-covid19-101618228117301.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh jatha in Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi||A Sikh jatha (batch of pilgrims) left for Pakistan on Monday to celebrate Khalsa Foundation Day at Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hasan Abdal, on the occasion of Baisakhi. Members of the jatha left Golden Temple in the morning and crossed the border after undergoing immigration and Customs checks at the integrated check post (ICP) in Attari. All of them underwent the Covid-19 test before the departure. Buses organised by the Pakistan government took them further to Gurdwara Panja Sahib. Most of the pilgrims were sent by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and led by SGPC member Harpal Singh Jallah. SGPC member Gurmeet Singh Booh is the sub-leader of the group, which includes other members such as Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur, Balwinder Singh Vein Puin and Bibi Joginder Kaur. 437 pilgrims got visa for Pakistan SGPC executive committee member Baba Charanjit Singh Jassowal, secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli, and SGPC officials flagged off the jatha after honouring members with siropas (robes of honour). Speaking on the occasion, Jallah said, “There are many historic gurdwaras in Pakistan and every Sikh prays for their darshan (glimpse). The pilgrims are fortunate to have got this opportunity.” Ahli said, “The SGPC sent 793 passports to the central government and the Pakistan embassy for the jatha being sent to celebrate Khalsa Sajna Diwas. Of them, 437 pilgrims got the visa. On SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur’s direction, scriptures of the Gurbani, kakaars (five symbols of the Sikh faith) for Amrit Sanchar, besides cholas (traditional Sikh attire), khandas, harmonium sets, turbans and shawls have been sent.” Pilgrims will visit Nankana Sahib, too The pilgrims will go from Gurdwara Panja Sahib to Nankana Sahib on April 14 and pay obeisance at local gurdwaras at Nankana Sahib on April 15. The jatha will go to Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, Sheikhupura, on April 16, Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, from April 17-18, Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on April 19, where it will stay for the night. The jatha will then visit Gurdwara Rori Sahib on April 20 and stop at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore, on April 21, from where it will return to India on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-jatha-in-pakistan-to-celebrate-baisakhi-101618227817111.html
12-04-2021||Other||Ramadan 2021: J&K Waqf Board to fine Covid-19 norms violators in mosques||As the holy month of Ramadan starts this week, the Jammu and Kashmir Waqf Board has been directed to impose a fine against those violating the Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in mosques, official documents stated. The month of Ramadan holds great significance among the Muslim community. “Waqf shall ensure that all Covid-19 SOP’s are followed in the masjids controlled by the Waqf board. Besides, secretary Red Cross shall issue receipt books to the Waqf Board for the imposition of a fine to those who violate Covid-19 norms in the masjids,” read the minutes of the meeting.Ramadan will be observed in Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday.The decision came during a meeting chaired by Kashmir Divisional Commissioner, K Pole, last week to finalize the arrangement for Ramadan and also regarding the celebration of Navratra.During the meeting, instructions were passed to the Waqf Board about the measures required to be taken during the month of Ramadan.The government has also instructed the board to ensure the availability of masks for those coming to mosques for prayers. The Waqf has been directed to deploy concerned medical officers for the implementation of Covid-19 protocols.Also read: Ramadan 2021 - Saudi Arabia, India, other countries that begin fasts from TuesdayFor the last many days, Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing a substantial surge in its daily Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, its daily Covid-19 crossed the 1,000-mark with five new deaths.Saturday crossed another high when it recorded 1,005 fresh Covid-19 infections, a record daily count after October 2. With this, the Union territory’s case tally jumps to 1,37,475, health officials said.For the past four days, the UT has recorded above 800 cases, the highest daily count in six months. It also recorded six fresh fatalities – one in Kashmir and five in the Jammu division – taking the total death toll to 2,029.J&K reported an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020. On October 2, the UT recorded 1,090 infections.The J&K health department has also been asked to impart necessary instructions to people during the month of Ramadan while adhering to Covid-19 safety norms.Deputy commissioners and health officials in the Union territory have been holding meetings with clerics seeking help from them to proper adherence of SoPs during Ramadan as well as vaccination drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ramadan-2021-j-k-waqf-board-to-fine-covid-19-norms-violators-in-mosques-101618227697400.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: When the state-controlled sale of a drug is a good thing||PUNE On Sunday afternoon, when the entire city was locked-in and roads were deserted as part of the weekend shut down, a video went viral. The video was of a woman crying inconsolably when she failed to get Remdesivir for her family member, despite standing in a long queue for hours, from 5 am, at the medical association’s office in Shukrawar peth, the heart of Pune. The woman was not the only one to have made desperate attempts to procure the antiviral drug for their near and dear ones in the last few days. For the past one week, Pune has witnessed a terrible shortage of this expensive, and much- hyped drug, which is being prescribed on a large scale by doctors, leading to its scarcity. This in effect has led to black marketing and overcharging. Those with money and connections could easily procure it, while others, sans both, are left to scramble. In the absence of any other specific medicine that can cure Covid-19, Remdesivir was first touted as an efficient antiviral against the Coronavirus in the United States. In India, it was made part of the treatment protocol for Covid–19 under emergency use authorisation since July 2020. In November 2020, interim results from trials conducted by the World Health Organisation revealed four of the commonly used drugs - Remdesivir, malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-HIV combination of lopinavir and ritonavir, and the immunomodulatory, Interferon - provide little or no benefit in reducing fatalities in hospitalised patients. The interim results showed “there is currently no evidence that Remdesivir improves survival and other outcomes in these patients”. Yet doctors in Pune and the rest of the state have been prescribing it, while the Maharashtra government too has sought an additional supply of antiviral drug from six companies that produce it. On April 8, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope chaired a meeting with manufacturers of Remdesivir. During the meeting Tope asked manufacturers to double the production for the state, which is getting around 50,000 doses each day. According to Tope, the state will start getting around 75,000 doses from April 15. At the same time Indian government has banned export of Remdesivir and Remdesivir active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) till the Covid-19 situation in the country improves, as per an order issued on Sunday. In fact, the March 23, 2021, guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government retained Remdesivir for severe cases battling Covid-19. The protocol prescribes Remdesivir 200 mg on day 1 followed by four doses of 100 mg for the next four days. While the medical world may have been divided on the use of Remdesivir, it’s the patients who are now seeking the drug, which they consider life-saving, even when their kin are not in critical situations. Many believe the drug can save patients from the killer Coronavirus and go in for panic buying. Even as study published in The Lancet journal in November 2020, said, “For patients with mild or moderately severe Covid-19 and no need for respiratory support, Remdesivir does not offer significant benefit at day 28 and its use is not recommended. For individuals at high risk of hyperinflammation, who are diagnosed early during illness (≤10 days) and require supplemental oxygen, Remdesivir shortens the time to recovery and reduces the risk of progression. This clinically important endpoint is cost-effective in some health-care settings. Under these circumstances, Pune district administration has taken the commendable decision that will counter the black-marketing of drug and prevent its sale above the MRP. On Saturday, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued an order preventing over-the-counter sale of Remdesivir. The order allows hospitals to provide the injection to patients and not ask family or relatives to buy the drug. The hospitals, according to the order, can place an order of Remdesivir with a supplier keeping in mind the requirement for patients undergoing treatment. Suppliers will have to provide a daily sale report of the drug, including hospital name, associated chemist’s name, bills, and total sale to the Pune Food and Drug Administration (FDA). For a change, the controlled sale of the drug can stop people standing in long queues and yet returning empty handed without the drugs. It can also prevent the indiscriminate use of drug, currently being prescribed to anyone and everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-when-the-state-controlled-sale-of-a-drug-is-a-good-thing-101618227397971.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police suspends Vaze’s former colleague, API Riyazuddin Kazi||Mumbai Police on Monday suspended assistant police inspector (API) Riyazuddin Kazi, a former colleague of suspended API Sachin Vaze. Kazi was arrested by National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday in connection with the Ambani security scare case and Mansukh Hiran murder case.Till recently, Kazi, who was posted in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch, along with tainted officer Vaze, the alleged mastermind in both cases, was allegedly aware of Vaze’s plans, and “actively” took part in the destruction of evidence after the crimes.He was shifted out of the CIU last month after NIA arrested Vaze on March 13 for allegedly devising the entire plan to regain his lost glory in the Mumbai Police. He was transferred to Tardeo Local Arms Division, considered as side branch. Also Read | CBI quizzes staff of Anil Deshmukh and former Mumbai cop Sachin VazeVirendra Mishra, additional commissioner of police, armed police, on Monday issued Kazi’s suspension order pending departmental inquiry. The order stated that during the suspension period, Kazi cannot take a private employment and also cannot do any private business. When he is out of the judicial custody, he would have to mark daily attendance at the office of the assistant commissioner of police, armed police, and may not be able to go out of the Mumbai without prior permission, the order stated.On Sunday, Kazi was remanded to NIA custody till April 16 by a special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-suspends-vaze-s-former-colleague-api-riyazuddin-kazi-101618224938263.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Impact of curbs? Pune district’s positivity rate drops||From 41% on April 4 the Pune district’s positivity rate dropped to 23% as on April 10, a week after stricter curbs were imposed in Pune to contain the spread of virus. On Sunday, the positivity rate stood at 28.39%, with the district reporting 12,377 cases and the total samples tested were at 43,593.Since mid-February, Covid cases have been on the rise with the positivity rate also going up. However, since the past few days the positivity rate has seen coming down in the district. This could also be a result of the mini-lockdown announced in Pune on April 3, forcing people to stay indoors after 6 pm, while shutting down most shops expect those engaged in essential services. The state government has now almost made up its mind to impose a complete lockdown to break the chain of the virus across Maharashtra, including Pune, which has been the worst affected. Experts, however, believe that to find any glimmer of hope the positivity rate has to go further below and maintain a plateau. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid-19 advisor to the Maharashtra government said, “It is difficult to conclude based on this. These are just numbers as of now as we have had the positivity rate fall down to below 10%. Right now the priority is to manage beds, drugs and oxygen for Covid-19 patients. The curve needs to become a plateau. Whether or not the curfew has been effective is too premature to say now.” Nationally, Pune’s share of daily caseload has also dropped with the district reporting less than 10,000 positive cases for the past two days. India on Saturday reported 1,52,879 cases. Earlier this month, Pune district was accounting around 12 per cent of the cases registered nationally. Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister said, “This wave is stronger than the first wave. Pune’s positivity rate is also going down which is now about 25-30%. Earlier while Akola and Amravati also reported the highest positivity rate which was about 50% during the peak, it has now gone down to 7%. We hope to see the decline in Pune too.”As cases continued to rise the number of tests to detect Covid also went up from within a week’s time from 28,000 on April 5 to 41,000 as of April 10. As the number of tests increased the positivity rate also dipped this week. In the week between March 25 and 31, the positivity rate for the district was 26.7% and for the week between April 1-7, it went further up to 31.4%. Positivity rate is the total number of cases tested positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done. However the following week, between April 5 and April 10, the positivity rate saw a fall to 23.79%. The highest positivity rate was 41.2% which was on April 4. Positivity rate reflects the spread of the infection and the number of positives reported for every 100 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/impact-of-curbs-pune-district-s-positivity-rate-drops-101618224937074.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Pune traders demand complete lockdown for all in city||Several trader associations were locked in heated discussions with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar late on Sunday night. At the time of going to press, no decision was reached in terms of what the associations had been demanding – to allow all non-essential stores and shops to remain open in Pune. However, the traders did request a uniform lockdown for everyone in the city, citing that a partial lockdown was of no use. The traders, prior to the start of the meeting, had remained firm on the opening of non-essential shops in Pune on Monday on April 12.Earlier on April 8, 50 trader associations across Pune protested against the state government’s strict restrictions on closing of non-essential shops. “We decided to wait till Monday to open up the shops. All non-essential shops in Pune will be opened from 10.30 am across Pune,” Fatechand Ranka, president of Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said before the meeting on Sunday. Pune police lodged a FIR against 35 traders, including Ranka, for violating Covid norms during the protest. Talking about the issue state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said, “It is true that there is anger among traders and many other elements in the society but the Covid situation in the state is in bad shape. Usually, it is my experience that if the facts get put they agree to the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-traders-demand-complete-lockdown-for-all-in-city-101618224457190.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||MBBS students allowed internship in non-parent medical colleges||Thousands of undergraduate medical students in Maharashtra will benefit from the National Medical Commission’s (NMC) decision to let MBBS students across the country complete their internship training at nearby medical colleges, that too without a fee. The Undergraduate Medical Education Board of the NMC took the decision following several representations by the students citing the Covid-19 pandemic crisisThe decision brings relief to many students, who have been studying virtually from their home towns due to the Covid-19 situation, making it difficult for a large number to return to their institutes to complete the mandatory internship.“Considering the representations and the existing regulatory provisions, (while) it is mandatory that internship should be completed in the teaching hospital affiliated to the medical institute the student is enrolled in. However, in the event of any difficulty due to the current pandemic situation, this internship can be completed at another NMC approved medical college hospital,” said a statement by the education board.There are approximately 35,000 students across four years enrolled in 56 undergraduate medical colleges in Maharashtra and the decision will impact roughly 6,000 students eligible for internship in the state. Medical colleges in the state have been conducting offline classes for undergraduate students since March 2020 after the outbreak of the disease. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with 5,67,097 active coronavirus cases, the highest in the country by far. It also reported 63,294 cases - the highest daily cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 3,407,245 cases and 57,987 fatalities.The NMC board statement also highlights that this relaxation is subject to the approval of the college authorities and the university concerned, where the student is enrolled for MBBS training. The board also clarified that this provision, referred to as externship, usually chargeable by the institute, will be without any charges this time round.The medical colleges have not reacted to the decision so far, however, parents are supporting the move.“Every year, hundreds of students wish to come back to their hometowns to complete their internship but are instead burdened with overhead fees in order to be accepted by a hospital of their choice. This year, due to the pandemic, several students are already far from their teaching hospital so it’s only fair to allow them to continue internships without levying fees,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of a medical student.Over the last year, several MBBS students, including from the final year batch, have been working as part of the Covid-19 task force in several government hospitals across the state. Some of them are also demanding that it be considered a part of the internship. “The government as well as NMC should also consider the time students spent working as frontline Covid warriors as part of their internship and allow concession to the actual internship period,” said Anubhav Jain, a third year MBBS student from a Solapur-based medical institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mbbs-students-allowed-internship-in-non-parent-medical-colleges-101618222837799.html
12-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 2,296 new Covid-19 cases, death toll crosses 1,200||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,39,384 on Monday as 2,296 more people tested positive for the infection, while 21 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,213, a health official said.Ranchi reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases at 1,076, followed by East Singhbhum (362) and Dumka (128), he said.The capital city also recorded the highest number of fatalities at 14, followed by four in East Singhbhum and one each in Dhanbad, Godda and Pakur districts, the official said.The state now has 13,933 active cases, while 1,24,238 people have recovered from the disease to date.The administration has tested 36,855 samples in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-2-296-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-crosses-1200-101618222287894.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Four-time Cong councillor Surinder Kumar Chhinda is Hoshiarpur mayor||Four-time Congress councillor Surinder Kumar Chhinda was on Monday elected as the new mayor of Hoshiarpur. Congress candidates Parveen Saini and Ranjit Chaudhary were elected senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, respectively. The Congress enjoys majority in the House, having won 41 of the 50 seats. This time, the post of mayor was reserved for a Scheduled Caste candidate, while other posts were open. Another Congress councillor, Balwinder Kumar Bindi, was also in the mayoral race but the party unanimously decided in favour of Chhinda. Bindi was compensated with the post of chairman of the finance and contract committee (F&CC). The election was overseen by food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who along with industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora, met the elected representatives in a hotel to ensure their consent. In the formal meeting at the corporation office, all members, including those of the opposition, raised hands in favour of Chhinda and other office-bearers. Arora, who is also the local MLA, said it was a big day for the Congress as the party was heading the local body for the first time in nearly 35 years. Interestingly, the newly elected senior deputy mayor, deputy mayor and F&CC chairman have been councillors of the BJP. Parveen Saini is the senior most of them, having won five times in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fourtime-cong-councillor-surinder-kumar-chhinda-is-hoshiarpur-mayor-101618221456758.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra defers Class 10 and 12 state board exams due to surge in Covid cases||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday announced the postponement of Class 10 and 12 state board examinations due to a rapid rise in the western state’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Imp. Announcement: Given the current Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, we’ve postponed state board exams for class 10th and 12th. The present circumstances are not conducive for holding exams. Your health is our priority,” Gaikwad tweeted on Monday afternoon.📢 Imp Announcement: Given the current #COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra, we’ve postponed state board exams for class 10th & 12th. The present circumstances are not conducive for holding exams. Your health is our priority. #PariskhaPeCharcha #HSC #SSC #exams (1/5) pic.twitter.com/cjeRZAT7uxClass 12 exams, the minister said, will take place by the end of May, while those for class 10 will be conducted in June, adding that the state government is closely monitoring the health situation. “The decision is the outcome of consultations with various stakeholders, including students, teachers, parents, elected representatives from across parties, academicians and tech giants, in the wake of rising coronavirus cases,” she posted in a subsequent tweet.The decision is the outcome of consultations with various stakeholders-students, teachers, parents, elected representatives from across parties, academicians & tech giants- in the wake of rising coronavirus cases. I also thank @cmomaharashtra for his guidance & approval (3/5)“During the consultations, various alternative assessment options were evaluated keeping the health, well-being and the future of our students in mind. Postponing exams seemed to be the most pragmatic solution,” Gaikwad added. The Congress leader also said that the state government would write to the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Cambridge board as well, requesting them to reconsider their respective exam dates.We'll also be writing to the CBSE, ICSE, IB, Cambridge boards, requesting them to reconsider their exams dates. (5/5)Maharashtra is the worst Covid-19 affected state in the country, as it has the highest infection tally as well as the highest caseload of active cases. As of April 11, its Covid-19 tally stood at 3,407,245 and 57,987 people have succumbed to the viral disease. On Sunday, 63,294 fresh infections were detected in Maharashtra, the state’s highest single-day rise in cases since the beginning of the pandemic.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a decision on a state-wide lockdown in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-defers-class-10-and-12-state-board-exams-due-to-surge-in-covid-cases-101618220790905.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Mixed land use rules changed Delhi; now, residents want them reviewed||For residents of New Rajinder Nagar in central Delhi, walking on the stretch between H-block and the blind school for girls in the residential colony is a nightmare. With the opening of new commercial establishments in the past few years, the colony road has become one of the most congested stretches in the area.“With vehicles parked haphazardly on both sides on the roads, there is no space for pedestrians to walk. It wasn’t always like this. Since 2006, when commercial activity was allowed on the road under mixed land use, the situation has worsened,” said Neeraj Gupta, president of H-Block RWA.While commercial establishments have mushroomed on residential plots on the road, Gupta said, the shopping complex developed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), located just a few metres away from the road, is lying unused for years. “There are over 100 shops in the complex of which a majority are lying closed for years. What’s the point of allowing commercial activity in a residential colony when there is a planned commercial space available nearby?” said Gupta.This is the situation in a large number of residential neighbourhoods in the national Capital. Resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city say that the Mixed land use (MLU) provisions—MLU in residential areas was one of the crucial developments in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021—have “ruined the residential character” of the neighbourhoods.With the DDA working on the new master plan (MPD-2041), RWAs want the land-owning agency to review and rework the MLU provisions.Rajiv Kakria, convener, Save Our City campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-I, said, “It (MLU) has destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods. Today, safety and security has become our utmost concern due to rampant commercialisation of residential areas. We don’t know who is entering our areas. It has destroyed the social fabric.”This was one of the main concerns cited by various RWAs during the public consultation held by the DDA last year for the preparation of the MPD-2041, which will be soon put in the public domain.Mixed land use regulationsIn the aftermath of largescale sealing and demolition of commercial establishments operating from residential areas in 2006, mixed land use was allowed by the Centre and regulations were introduced in the MPD-2021 that was notified on February 7, 2007.As per provisions, commercial activities were allowed in residential areas based on the category of the colony (A to H), right of way (ROW) available and the extent of commercialisation.The colony roads were declared as commercial, mixed land use and pedestrian streets based on the above-mentioned criteria. Till date, the city’s three municipal corporations have declared close to 3,000 streets as commercial, mixed land use and pedestrian streets in the city. Commercial activity is allowed on all floors of a residential plot located on a commercial street, while commercial activity is restricted to the ground floor only in case of a mixed land use road.Shamsher Singh, former chief town planner with erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi, said, “All activities of a local shopping complex were allowed in residential areas where streets were notified as commercial, mixed land use and pedestrian streets. It was not a planning input, but was introduced to mitigate the hardships faced by commercial establishments due to sealing and demolition.”One of the governing principles for mixed use development as per MPD-2021 was to “mitigate the associated adverse impact related to congestion, increased traffic and increased pressure on civic amenities”.Singh said that commercial establishments operating from residential areas had to pay conversion and parking charges and the civic agencies were to provide for parking and other civic amenities. “But the consequences were not well thought of. Today, it is one of the main reasons for the parking mess in residential areas,” said Singh.While municipal corporations have constructed multilevel parking lots in various parts of the city, Singh said, area specific requirements have to be met.A good concept, but poorly executed Globally, mixed land use is hailed as a good planning concept for a sustainable development of a city. Cities such as Toronto, London, Hong Kong, Portland etc., have mixed use development. The recent Transit Oriented Development policy, which will soon be notified in Delhi, is also aimed at mixed land use development.Urban planners say that MLU is a good concept, but it wasn’t implemented properly in Delhi.AK Jain, former planning commissioner with DDA, who was involved in the preparation of MPD-2021, said, “It is a good concept and important for sustainable development of the city. When this concept was introduced in the MPD-2021, there were many provisions kept for its successful implementation. But unfortunately, those were not implemented due to which it has been haphazard.”He added, “In MLU roads, the owners of commercial establishments were to surrender the front setback free of cost. But this has not happened. Even if they have surrendered the front setback, they have their own guards managing the parking facility. Another important provision was regarding parking facilities. The civic agencies despite collecting conversion and parking charges have failed to provide adequate parking.”Chaudhury Hukum Chand Marg in south Delhi’s Green Park Extension is a case in point. Neha Puri, general secretary of Green Park Extension RWA, said that ever since the road was declared mixed land use, diagnostic labs, nursing homes and other commercial activities have come up due to which there is congestion and parking problems.Puri, whose house is located on the road, said, “The traffic in the area has increased due to opening of these diagnostic centres and other commercial units. There is no proper parking provision and vehicles are parked on roads resulting in congestion. It is impossible for residents to walk. The civic infrastructure, which was designed for a residential colony, is strained due to rampant commercialisation of residential areas.”Sanjukkta Bhaduri, professor of urban planning and dean research at the School of Planning and Architecture, said that the problems arising out of MLU implementations were bound to happen. “In western countries, mixed use is part of their planning from the start. But when you superimpose something over an existing area, conflict is bound to happen. Mixed use development has to be allowed based on the typology of the area,” said Bhaduri.Planned commercial spacesOne of main reasons for rampant commercialisation in residential areas, Bhaduri said, is growing demand for commercial spaces at affordable prices in the city. DDA, which is responsible for planned development of the city, has developed close to 600 district, community and local shopping centres in the city. “But these are not enough to cater to the city’s growing population. Development of planned commercial spaces has not kept pace with the demand for it. Not many commercial centres have been developed by the DDA since the MPD-2021 was notified in 2007. This is one of the reasons why commercial units have opened in residential areas,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT).And those who bought shops and plots in DDA-developed commercial centres say that these centres have failed to pick up due to MLU provisions. While the permissible Floor Area Ratio (FAR) in planned commercial centres is 125, commercial establishments operating in residential areas get up to 350 FAR, depending on plot size, said Som Prakash Rehil, owner of a property in DDA-developed community shopping centre in Pitampura.Spread over four acres of prime land near Road No. 44 in Pitampura, the three to four storeyed DDA Commercial Complex, has been under-utilised for nearly two decades. The centre, which was developed by private developers on land auctioned by the DDA in the late 1990s, is surrounded by markets which are operating in residential areas.“We bought the properties at commercial rates. But today, we are struggling to revive the complex. There is no demand for our properties, as commercial space with higher Floor Area Ratio (FAR) is available on the main roads. Even banks are not ready to come here. The complex is lying in a state of neglect,” said Rehil, president of Commercial Complex road no. 44 Pitampura association.The situation is the same in most DDA markets. The DDA Market Joint Action Committee, an association of close to 200 DDA local and community shopping centres in Delhi, has written to the DDA demanding FAR at par with commercial complexes that have come up in mixed land use areas in the new MPD.Yashpal, executive member of the DDA Market Joint Action Committee, said, “This anomaly in the master plan should be addressed. Commercial activity in planned areas should be encouraged and for this higher FAR which is currently being given to commercial properties in mixed land use areas.”Another reason for low demand for commercial spaces in DDA markets is the cost of cost factor, said urban planners.Jain said, “DDA needs to reduce the cost of its commercial properties and bring it at par with market rates. Why will anyone buy a shop in DDA markets where the FAR is less when they can get higher FAR at cheaper rates in residential areas?”The way forwardUrban planners say that mixed land use is not a new concept in India. Hitesh Vaidya, director, National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), said, “Indian cities have historically been planned on a mix use philosophy. Not only old heritage cities such as Shahjahanabad (Walled City) or Varanasi, but also planned cities like Jaipur were based on a mixed use concept. This helped to integrate lower floors of houses into the commercial and cultural landscape of the surrounding fabric, thereby creating vibrant, safe and socially cohesive neighbourhoods.”NIUA, a research and advisory body to the Ministry of housing and urban affairs, has been roped in by the DDA to prepare the MPD-2041. While experts say that MLU is a good concept and much needed in today’s time, they say there is a need for more detailed planning and impact assessment while allowing if.R Srinivas, town and country planner, Town and Country Planning Organisation, said, “Before allowing mixed land use, it is important to do impact assessment as to check whether the area will be able to take the load due to increase in footfall and vehicular movement etc. Impact assessment should be done not just of the road where commercial activity is being allowed but of neighbouring areas as well.”Parking is one of the biggest challenges in the implementation of mixed land use. Srinivas said, “There should be restriction on parking in mixed land use areas and pedestrian movement should be encouraged.”For this, local area plans and layout plans of colonies should be prepared. Bhaduri said, “New commercial spaces are coming up in residential colonies as there is demand for it. This also provides security, as there are no eyes on the streets. But to strike a balance, there is a need to have local area plans.”Singh added, “There is a need to prepare the layout of residential colonies before approving mixed land use. MLU should be discouraged in areas around planned commercial spaces. Also, sites for parking provisions should be earmarked.”Mixed use remains relevant in today’s times when mono functional land use planning has resulted in unsustainable urban sprawl, long trip distances and unnecessary motorised trips, unsafe neighbourhoods with no eyes on the street, etc, said Vaidya.“Pandemics such as the Covid 19 reinforce the urgent need to reintroduce this planning paradigm so that smaller self-sustaining and multi-use neighbourhoods can be created that can easily be converted into isolation zones when required….We can make mixed land use relevant for our cities today through careful neighbourhood planning so that congestion is avoided, as well as planning of city level mixed use hubs and clusters closer to transit systems that can act as future economic and cultural hubs of the city,” said Vaidya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mixed-land-use-rules-changed-delhi-now-residents-want-them-reviewed-101618220676919.html
12-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt offers space to private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment||The Madhya Pradesh government has offered to provide space to private hospitals to set up their medical facilities in a bid to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday.Talking to reporters here, Chouhan also said the supply of Remdevisir injections would be normalised within the next two or three days as the government has started procuring the key anti-viral drug.The demand for the drug has gone up in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases.The CM said the viral infection can be controlled if people adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour."I believe that instead of a lockdown in cities, people should lock their faces with masks and lock themselves in their homes tocontrol the spread of the viral infection," Chouhan said.He said the state has also placed an order for 2,000 oxygen concentrators (a medical device that filters surrounding air and delivers purified medical grade oxygen) for adequate supply of the oxygen to the Covid-19 patients."We have made an offer to private hospitals that we will provide them space and they should start their own medical set up there," Chouhan said.Some people have given a positive response and discussions are going on with them, he informed."We want to increase the number of beds at any cost," Chouhan said after planting a sapling at the Smart City Garden in Bhopal.To tackle the Covid-19 situation, the state government has placed an order for 2,000 oxygen concentrators, he said."The concentrator will also be used along with the oxygen cylinder. The government is trying to ensured that there is no shortage of necessary equipmentand medicines," Chouhan said.Asked about the board exams of Classes 10 and 12, Chouhan said the dates for exams conducted by the MP Board of Secondary Education have not yet been announced.A decision will be taken after assessing the Covid-19 situation, he said, adding that the government will not let the students be affected.On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 5,939 fresh coronavirus cases, the biggest single-day spike since the pandemic began, which pushed the infection count to 3,38,145, officials said.The fatality count rose to 4,184 with 24 more deaths reported on Sunday.This month, the state has so far recorded 42,634 new cases of the viral infection and 198 fatalities, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-offers-space-to-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-treatment-101618219520464.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC appoints nodal officers to ensure Covid patients get beds promptly in Mumbai||To ensure patients with Covid-19 are allotted hospital beds promptly, especially at night, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is appointing nodal officers in 24 ward war roomsin Mumbai, said municipal commissioner IS Chahal on Monday. These officers will work in two shifts, 3pm to 11pm and 11pm to 7am, to expedite bed allocation to patients. Covid-19 patients who call up the ward war room during the second shift will be allotted beds mostly at jumbo Covid facilities and the nodal officers, who will be in touch with the seven jumbo facilities in Mumbai, will fast-track the process. After a bed at a jumbo facility is reserved for a patient, they will be provided with one only after their medical condition and requirement are assessed. Also Read | All patients calling up the ward war rooms between 11pm and 7am shall also be entitled to a bed, even if their test or report is pending. Such patients will be allotted beds in the “suspected” category, stabilised with oxygen (if needed), and then administered the Covid-19 test.Mumbai will also get three more jumbo Covid hospitals within the next six weeks, adding 2,000 Covid-19 beds, including 200 intensive care unit beds, BMC announced. About 1,400 of these beds will have oxygen facilities. With the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, BMC has decided to requisition some 4- and 5-star hotels to create Covid quarantine facilities (CCC2) for patients to be run by professionals from major private hospitals. With this, BMC plans to make a large number of beds available to patients by shifting substantially recovered patients to these CCC2 facilities. BMC will also add 1,100 additional hospital beds, including 125 ICU beds, within the next week. As of now, BMC has added 325 ICU beds in various Mumbai hospitals, raising the number of ICU beds to 2,466. Now, Mumbai has a total of 19,151 Covid beds across 141 hospitals in the city, of which 3,777 are vacant. Meanwhile, all laboratories have been instructed to ensure Covid-19 test results are ready within 24 hours. The labs have been instructed to prioritise swabs of symptomatic patients while processing the Covid-19 tests collected at homes.Moreover, labs have been asked to submit reports of patients who were tested the previous day by 6am everyday (within 24 hours of their swab collection), to ensure such patients get beds by 8am the same day. Presently, positive reports of patients who are tested in the first half of the day are submitted to BMC by midnight the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-appoints-nodal-officers-to-ensure-covid-patients-get-beds-promptly-in-mumbai-101618220196934.html
12-04-2021||Jaipur||Drunken youths mow down 4 in Udaipur, 4 others injured||Rajasthan police arrested four youths after their car mowed down four people and left four others injured late Sunday night at Udaipur’s Bhinder Kannod road, said the police.Udaipur superintendent of police (SP) Rajeev Pachar said all the youths including the driver were aged between 20 and 25 years and found in a drunken state. They lost control of their Wagon-R car near Bortalai turn near Bhinder village while heading towards Kannod and rammed into a group of bystanders, watching the installation of a tube well at a nearby farm.The accused, residents of Dor Kua village in Bhinder area of the district, are identified as Gajraj Singh, Chotu Singh, Hemant Singh and Lalit Singh. Gajraj Singh, a state government employee, was driving the car. The accident spot is around 40 kms from the village of the accused. All four were detained and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the senior police officer said.The car crashed into eight villagers, who were among the group watching the laying of a tube well at a nearby farm, said the SP. After the crash, the villagers informed the police, who nabbed the accused a few kilometers away from the spot around 1.30 am. Pachar later visited the crash site and a forensic team was also called-in later to take samples.Puran Ahir, the tube well manager, Narendra Singh Rajput, Bhagwati Lal and Mahendra Singh were killed on the spot. The injured were first rushed to a local hospital at Bhinder before being taken to MB Government Hospital at Udaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/drunken-youths-mow-down-4-in-udaipur-4-others-injured-101618219897207.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to battle rising Covid-19 cases with jumbo hospitals, care centres in 5-star hotels||Authorities in Mumbai will set up three jumbo field hospitals in the next five-six weeks and convert four-star and five-star hotels as Covid Care Centres to handle the massive spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday. The city’s city civic body chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said these medical facilities will be set up at three different locations in the city and will have a capacity of 2,000 beds, including 200 ICU beds and 70 per cent oxygen beds, according to news agency PTI.The BMC commissioner said the steps have been taken to make more beds available for the needy patients by shifting those who have recovered substantially to the Covid Care Centre 2 or CCC2 facilities, which will be managed by doctors. Chahal said authorities have also requested some four-star and four-star hotels to create CCC2 facilities, which will be "dovetailed and run by professionals from major private hospitals”, according to PTI.Also read | ‘Maharashtra Covid-19 task force in favour of lockdown’: Cabinet ministerChahal said that the civic body has also decided to appoint nodal officers for an accurate and more proactive functioning of the 24 ward war rooms and the jumbo field hospitals. "The nodal officers shall function in two shifts—from 3pm to 11pm and 11pm to 7am—both at the ward war rooms and jumbo field hospitals," he was quoted as saying PTI.According to BMC, these nodal officers will be constantly in touch with each other to facilitate allotment of beds to patients requiring beds and calling up Ward War Rooms, especially between 1pm and 7am.Also read | Maharashtra reports over 63,000 Covid cases in biggest single-day surgeChahal also said that all laboratories conducting tests to detect Covid-19 have been instructed to prioritise swabs of symptomatic patients collected from homes and follow the new time schedules given to them. He said the number of ICU beds in the city has been increased to 2466, with 325 new beds added in various hospitals.Also read | 62 private hospitals to restart Covid vaccination drive in Mumbai todayBMC’s online bed allotment dashboard shows there are 19,151 beds in 141 hospitals in the city. Chahal said out of the 19,151 beds, 3777 in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals are currently vacant. The BMC will operationalise 1100 additional beds, including 125 ICU beds, in these medical facilities in the next seven days, he said.Mumbai reported 9986 cases of the coronavirus disease and 79 related fatalities on Sunday, which took its caseload to 520,498 and death toll to 12,023. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Mumbai is among the 10 districts along with Pune, Thane, Nagpur, Bengaluru Urban, Nashik, Delhi, Raipur, Durg and Aurangabad which account for 45.65 per cent of the total active cases in the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jumbo-hospitals-covid-centres-in-5-star-hotels-mumbai-to-battle-rising-cases-101618217898355.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 containment work in Maharashtra districts 'sub-optimal': Central teams||The Central teams deputed to Maharashtra to coordinate the response to the coronavirus pandemic have observed that containment operations were sub- optimal in Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, says a report sent by the Centre to the state government.The teams found "less than satisfactory perimeter control and lack of active surveillance" in Covid-19 cases, the report sent by the Union Health Ministry said."Efforts at surveillance and contact tracing were found to be sub-optimal in Buldhana, Satara, Aurangabad and Nanded, mostly due to limited manpower engaged in this task. The team from Bhandara has reported that most cases are being reported from outside of containment zones," the report said.The report addressed to Maharashtra's Principal Secretary (Health) Pradeep Vyas, said the ministry has been actively engaging with the state government in coordinating and collaborating efforts towards preparedness and response to the pandemic.The Centre has sent Central teams to the 30 most affected districts in Maharashtra and these teams are working with the district administration to understand the spread of Covid-19, provide support and supervision and suggest workable solutions to curb the spread, the report said.The teams have been tasked to work with the district authorities on preparedness and response with a focus on testing, contact tracing and containment operations, Covid- appropriate behaviour and its enforcement, hospital infrastructure and availability of logistic and vaccination progress, the report said."The testing capacity in Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravati, Jalna and Latur districts is already overwhelmed, resulting in a delay in reporting of test results," the report said."The Central teams from Nanded and Buldhana have reported a very skewed RT-PCR/RAT ratio. Community resistance to Covid-19 testing has also been reported from the Bhandara district. ln Bhandara and Satara a large percentage of Covid- 19 patients are under home isolation, which requires rigorous follow up to minimize mortality. Such a follow up is not happening presently," it said.It was also observed that delayed reporting by patients to definitive treatment centres in Satara district is leading to a large number of deaths within the first few hours of hospital admission, the report said."Occupancy rates of available hospital bed capacity are very high in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar districts. The team to Aurangabad reported dependency of the district on neighbouring districts for management of critical patients and critical care infrastructure up-gradation thereon," the report said."Medical oxygen supply was found to be an issue in Bhandara, Palqhar, Osmanabad and Pune. Malfunctioning ventilators have been reported by teams from Satara and Latur districts. Hospital level and district level oxygen planning must start without any delay, as per guidance issued by the ministry," it said.The Central teams also found an "acute shortage of healthcare workforce" in Aurangabad, Nandurabar, Yawatmal, Satara, Palghar, Jalgaon and Jalna districts.It has suggested that rostering of health care workers and hiring of contractual health workers need to be expedited.Data management in Satara and Ahmednagar districts is faced with issues due to the shortage of manpower, the report said.Adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was found to be lacking in almost all the districts which the Central teams visited, the report said.Maharashtra recorded 63,294 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, its highest single-day rise since the pandemic began, taking the caseload to 34,07,245, the state health department said. The death of 349 coronavirus patients on Sunday took the state's toll to 57,987, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-containment-work-in-maharashtra-districts-sub-optimal-central-teams-101618217909349.html
12-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal reports 4,398 new Covid-19 cases, 10 fresh fatalities||West Bengal's COVID-19 tally rose to 6,14,896 on Sunday as 4,398 more people tested positive for the infection, while 10 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 10,400, a health bulletin said.Kolkata reported the highest number of new cases at 1,109 followed by 1,047 in North 24 Parganas district, it said.North 24 Parganas district reported the highest number of fresh fatalities at five, followed by three in the metropolis and one each in South 24 Parganas and Birbhum districts, the bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state has reported 27,981 new coronavirus cases and 71 fatalities since April 1.As many as 1,773 more people have been cured of the disease in the last 24 hours, while the recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state slipped to 94.41 per cent.The state now has 23,981 active cases, while 5,80,515 people have recovered from the disease so far.West Bengal has so far tested over 95.10 lakh samples for COVID-19, including 40,372 in the last 24 hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-reports-4-398-new-covid-19-cases-10-fresh-fatalities-101618214627745.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh gets his second Covid vaccine shot||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh got his second Covid-19 vaccine shot in Chandigarh on Monday. “CM @capt_amarinder gets his 2nd #COVID19 vaccine shot. Appeals again to all eligible to come forward to get themselves vaccinated for their own protection and that of their families and society,” his media adviser, Raveen Thukral, tweeted. Also read: Centre flags worsening Covid situation in 8 Punjab districtsCapt Amarinder took the second dose of Covishield a day after nominating actor Sonu Sood as the brand ambassador for Punjab’s anti-coronavirus vaccination programme. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year, the actor had helped migrants reach their home states. Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for feeding thousands of underprivileged people amid the pandemic. The actor had called on the CM at his residence over the weekend. “Happy to share that actor & philanthropist @SonuSood will be the brand ambassador of our #Covid19 vaccination drive. I thank him for supporting our campaign to reach out to, and protect, every Punjabi, and appeal to all to get vaccinated at the earliest,” the chief minister had tweeted on Sunday. He said there is no one more ideally suited to inspire and influence people to take the vaccine. “There is a lot of hesitancy among people here in Punjab. Sonu’s popularity among them, and his exemplary role in helping tens of thousands of migrants reach safely home since the pandemic broke out last year, will help counter their reservations,” he said in an official statement. “When people hear this Punjab da puttar (son) talk about the benefits of the vaccine, and how safe and essential it is, they will believe him. Because they trust him,” he added. Sood said he was happy and honoured to be appointed the brand ambassador for the vaccination programme. “I feel blessed to be playing any part in this huge campaign of the Punjab government to protect the lives of the people of my home state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-gets-his-second-covid-vaccine-shot-101618213416611.html
12-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown in Karnataka possible if need arises: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the state government could impose lockdown if the necessity arises."People need to respond for their own good. If they don't heed then we may have to take stringent measures. If required and if necessity arises, we will impose lockdown," Yediyurappa told reporters in Bidar.Reacting to queries on the growing coronavirus cases in the state, which saw the numbers breaching 10,000 on Sunday, he said the Prime Minister had also spoken to him about the measures taken by his government."(I told him) we have imposed night curfew in the districts where the coronavirus cases are rising," Yediyurappa said.He insisted that people should wear face masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing."People need to respond for their own good. If they don't cooperate then we will initiate stringent measures, which people should not give scope for. I want people to cooperate with us," Yediyurappa said.To a question if the Technical Advisory Committee had recommended a lockdown, Yediyurappa reiterated that people have to understand and cooperate.Meanwhile in Bengaluru, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar told reporters that the government was not inclined for a lockdown and wanted people to cooperate."Neither me nor the Chief Minister is saying that we will do it (lockdown). All we are saying is don't compel us to push to that extreme. Our government is not at all willing to impose lockdown," he clarified.He also said that if people cooperate the second wave of coronavirus can be defeated.The talk of lockdown came following reports that the Technical Advisory Committee has recommended lockdown for a brief period to contain the coronavirus.Sudhakar had on Sunday said that the cases may touch around 25,000 to 30,000 by the month-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-lockdown-in-karnataka-possible-if-need-arises-yediyurappa-101618212727780.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal holds Covid-19 review meeting, tweets 3 requests||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday held a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Taking to Twitter, he urged the people of Delhi to cooperate with the government in checking the spread of the infection, posting three requests."Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate. 1. Pl pl follow covid protocols 2. Don’t rush to hospital unless necessary 3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligible," Kejriwal tweeted.Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate.1. Pl pl follow covid protocols2. Don’t rush to hospital unless necessary3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligibleOn Sunday, the daily coronavirus cases in Delhi crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time since the pandemic began. The chief minister termed the situation "very serious" and appealed to people not to step out of houses unless it was urgent.Also Read: Delhi to begin sixth round of sero-survey todayAmid the unprecedented surge in coronavirus disease cases in the national capital, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday that the city government has written to the Centre to again scale up beds meant for Covid-19 patients in its hospitals."We are ramping up medical infrastructure post the surge in cases and 5,000 beds have been added in last one week," Jain told reporters."We have also written to the Centre to again scale up Covid beds in its hospitals in Delhi in view of the massive surge. As of now, about 1,090 beds are there in their hospitals, which was above 4,000 during last surge. So, our request is to scale up back to that level," the minister said.Also Read: On ‘Tika Utsav’, Delhi inoculates over 100kDelhi recorded 10,774 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, according to data shared by the Health Department. As per the Sunday's bulletin, 48 new fatalities were also recorded, pushing the death toll to 11,283.India, meanwhile, reported over 1.60 lakh new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry, which took the total number of cases to 1,35,27,717.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-holds-covid-19-review-meeting-tweets-3-requests-101618212192082.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Patna University may postpone exams after VC, professors, test Covid-19 positive||Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary and three professors, including two from Magadh Mahila College and one from Patna Science College, tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday, casting a shadow over third-year examinations scheduled from April 27 and also the safety of students living on the campus.“We are considering postponing the final exam of third-year students by a week or 10 days. However, the decision has not been finalised yet,” said PU’s registrar, Colonel (retd) Manoj Mishra.Taking precautions in the view of the rapidly rising number of Covid-19 cases, including among the staff, the varsity has asked students to fill examination forms online instead of visiting college campuses to deposit hard copies.The call for postponement of the exam was given by the students’ union. “We demand Covid-19 test of all such students and staff, who were in close contact with the VC in the past three days, ..else they will spread the virus. Besides, we also demand exam postponement considering the health safety of students,” said Nishant Kumar, vice president of Patna University Students’ Union.PU officials said they were taking all Covid-19 preventative measures. “We have asked staff with mild symptoms to go for Covid-19 test. We are coordinating with the district administration for testing all staff. We have thoroughly sanitised the university campus. Security personnel are vigilant to ensure all entrants wear face masks and maintain social distancing,” said the registrar.“As part of Covid-19 protocol, we have already restricted entry of general visitors. Working hours for professors and staff will be curtailed,” he added.Recently, 22 students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) also tested Covid-19 positive. Patliputra University and Nalanda Open University have also restricted entry of students and guardians for routine work till April 18 in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.According to the Central health ministry data, Bihar has added 2697 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours to take active cases to 14,696. The state also witnessed six infection related deaths to take the toll to 1610 since the outbreak of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-university-may-postpone-exams-after-vc-professors-test-covid-19-positive-101618211676611.html
12-04-2021||Patna||7 Bihar cops suspended for laxity in SHO lynching case, 7 accused held||Seven police personnel in Bihar, including a circle inspector, were suspended for alleged dereliction of duty resulting in the lynching of Kishanganj station house officer (SHO) in-charge Ashwani Kumar (51), during a raid in neighbouring West Bengal early Saturday to arrest members of a bike-snatching gang. Seven persons, including the main accused in the lynching case, have been arrested so far, said officials.Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said, “The police team accompanying the SHO during the raid in Bengal, escaped, leaving the SHO alone,” adding, “This action on their part has discredited the police and hence stringent action will be taken against the erring cops.”The SHO, who was leading the raiding party, was beaten, strangled to death and his body left at Pantapara village under Goalpokhar police station area in West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district early on Saturday, said a police official. He was declared brought dead at the Islampur hospital in the district.Raju Sahni, Akhileshwar Tiwari, Pramod Kumar Paswan, Ujjawal Paswan, Sunil Choudhary, Sushil Kumar and circle inspector Manish Kumar were suspended by Purnia range inspector general of police (IGP) Suresh Choudhary on Saturday for allegedly abandoning Kumar, who was surrounded by the mob.“We recommended for their (seven cops including circle inspector) suspension and the IG has placed them under suspension and departmental action will be initiated against them,” said Kishanganj superintendent of police (SP) Kumar Ashish.Bengal police has registered a case under Sections 147, 148, 149, (All three related to rioting and mob lynching), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Golpokhar police station. Kishanganj police have also lodged a case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt while committing robbery) of the IPC.SP Choudhary said main accused Firoz Alam was among the seven arrested in the SHO lynching case and raids were still being carried out to nab the remaining accused.The failed Saturday raid was carried out on Choudhary’s instructions to all police stations in Kishanganj to arrest the bike-snatching gang. During the last six months, over a dozen incidents of bike snatching were reported from Kishanganj. Bihar Police team decided to carry out the operation in West Bengal after learning that the gang members were hiding there, taking advantage of the jurisdictional restrictions. The village where the lynching took place is about 8 kms from Kishanganj.The SP alleged that the Bengal police didn’t cooperate in the operation initially. “Bengal police were duly informed before conducting the raid but unfortunately no Bengal police personnel reached at the site despite frequent phone calls made by the police team,” the SP said.Superintendent of Islampur police district earlier said they had requested Bihar Police team to wait and reschedule the raid. “The team had come to us around 2:30 am on Saturday . As elections were going on in the state and our men were already deployed, we requested them to reschedule the raid. We never knew that they went ahead with the raid. We have already arrested a few accused. It is a very unfortunate and tragic incident,” said Sachin Makkar, SP, Islampur.The slain SHO was a resident of Jankinagar in Purnia and is survived by his wife Meenu Sneh Lata and three children. His mother died on Sunday morning after hearing of his son’s death. Last rites of both mother and son were performed in their native village at Panchu Mandal Tola in the presence of senior police and administrative officers and hundreds of people late Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/7-bihar-cops-suspended-for-laxity-in-sho-lynching-case-7-accused-held-101618210956673.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Bihar SHO, lynched in Bengal, cremated with mother, daughter seeks CBI probe||Last rites of the Bihar police officer, lynched on Saturday in West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district, were conducted along with his mother, a heart patient, who died a day later after hearing the news of his son’s death, at their native place in Purnia on Sunday amid the presence of hundreds of relatives and villagers, who shouted slogans hailing them.“Our police killed my father,” said Nancy, the SHO’s 15-year old daughter, referring to the suspension of seven cops for allegedly abandoning Kumar in the middle of danger during the raid, which resulted in his lynching. Nancy also demanded a CBI probe into the incident.“We want a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into this matter as they all (seven Bihar police personnel) including the circle inspector, Manish Kumar, left my father alone to die” Nancy said, adding that all the accused involved in the lynching should be given capital punishment. 50-year-old Ashwani Kumar, in-charge station house officer (SHO) of Kishanganj police station in Kishanganj district was brutally beaten and throttled to death by a mob at Pantapara village under Goalpokhar police station of North Dinajpur district in neighbouring West Bengal early on Saturday, said inspector general of police (IGP) Purnia range Suresh Choudhary. The SHO was leading a raid party to arrest the kingpin of a motorcycle lifting gang active in Bihar’s Seemanchal region, comprising four districts of Purnia, Katihar, Araria besides Kishanganj. The attack on the SHO was triggered by the kingpin of the gang, Firoz Alam, who incited around 500-strong mob. Kumar died on the spot. “We have lost a brave and upright police officer,” said the IG.His 70-year-old mother Urmila Devi couldn’t bear the loss and died on Sunday morning. Slain police officer’s 6-year-old son Ansh lit his father’s funeral pyre, while his 15-year-old daughter Nancy stood beside her brother. Praveen Kumar, younger brother of the slain SHO, lit the funeral pyre of Urmila Devi at Panchu Tola under Jankinagar police station, about 45 kms from Purnia district headquarters.Kumar was survived by wife Minu Snehlata, 45, and three children including two daughters and a son. The family lived in a rented house at Hanuman Nagar, Kankarbagh, Patna.Earlier, divisional commissioner of Purnia Rahul Ranjan Mahiwal read out the condolence message from the Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and assured the bereaved family of justice and all possible assistance from the state government. Mahiwal said Bihar director general of police (DGP) K S Singhal had spoken to his Bengal counterpart P Nirajnayan for stringent action. So far seven accused in the lynching case have been arrested by Bengal police.IG Choudhary added that Bihar and Bengal police were carrying out joint operations to nab the accused. He added that all police personnel in the Purnia division will give a-day’s salary, collectively amounting to ₹50 lakh, to Kumar’s family. Officials at the state headquarters said his kith will get ex-gratia payment, services benefits and a government job (for one family member).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-sho-lynched-in-bengal-cremated-with-mother-daughter-seeks-cbi-probe-101618210356343.html
12-04-2021||Indore||Indore: 22 Covid-19 containment zones set up, death toll crosses 1,000||The numbers of Covid-19 containment zones have increased to 22 in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district on Monday. With 923 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 79,434, while the death toll has been mounted to 1,005 as of Sunday.The Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr BS Setya told ANI, "If we look at the percentage of the last one week, then about 18 per cent of the tested samples are coming Covid-19 positive."Dr Setya said the numbers of beds are being increased in hospitals, about six thousand beds are available out of which about 80 per cent are full. He said the occupancy of hospital beds has been increased.Talking about the quarantine centres in the city, the CMO said, "A Covid Care Center at Dattatreya Hospital has been converted into quarantine centre which is able to accommodate up to 50 people. However, efforts are being done to increase its capacity to 100.""There are many areas in the city where the number of patients is high, several areas have been converted into micro-containment zones to stop unnecessary movement," the official added.The CMO said that contact tracing will be done in the containment zones and the medical team will be looking after the people when necessary.He urged people to followed Covid-19 protocols and appealed to eligible candidates to be vaccinated.A day after the extension of the 60-hour lockdown in Indore till April 19, the district administration on Sunday announced to impose a five-day-long corona-curfew in the municipal limits of Indore district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-22-covid-19-containment-zones-set-up-death-toll-crosses-1000-101618207593086.html
12-04-2021||Bangalore||Employees performing duty to receive March salaries today: KSRTC||As the ongoing strike by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) entered its fifth day on Sunday, the corporation stated that the employees who are performing their duties despite being instigated and threatened by their co-workers to go on strike, will receive their March salaries today.A notice issued by the KSRTC on Sunday said, "Our dedicated employees performed duty even though there is a lot of instigation and threat for their life by the co workers, those employee's March salary will be released tomorrow."It further said that the student passes and monthly passes shall be provided till the period of the strike.The KSRTC in the notice also stated that it will not consider requests for inter corporation transfers of employees who are instigating, threatening colleagues for the strike and are hindering bus services, thereby causing inconvenience to the public."The miscreant employees who are already working in the division with request transfers will be resend it to their original depot/division," the notice said.It further informed that the total number of first information reports (FIRs) registered in different police stations since April 7, 201, till Sunday was 22 in connection with the misconduct of 14 employees, adding that two employees were also arrested.A total of 14 buses were damaged till Sunday in incidents during the strike, including stone-pelting on two buses in Mangaluru, said the KSRTC in the notice.It stated that as of Sunday, a total of 2663 buses operated (including night out buses) from all the four corporations.552 KRTC buses operated to Tamil Nadu (Chennai, Ooty, Pudukottai, Madurai, Kumbakonam, Chidambaram, Tanjavoor, Salem), 342 buses to Andhra Pradesh (Tirupati, Vijayawada, Srikalahasthi, Nellore, Rayadurga, Manthralaya), 39 to Telangana (Hyderabad, Secunderabad) and 32 to Kerala (Ernakulam, Cannanoor, Kozhikode, Kasargod, Thrissur) on Sunday, it added.With the stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the state, over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, the majority of workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off-road, affecting commuters.The Corporation has been warning employees about continuing with the strike and has started taking actions against trainee employees and issuing notice for absence from work.The KSRTC on Saturday ordered transfers of 73 drivers and conductors, four traffic supervisory staff and 11 mechanical staff for allegedly instigating other employees to go on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/employees-performing-duty-to-receive-march-salaries-today-ksrtc-101618207335641.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||No such thing as too many flats!||The pandemic changed the way we define style and fashion. The limited gatherings during festivals also affected the way people dress-up. Comfort became priority, and a growing number of women swapped their killer heels for stylish yet sensible footwear. The sales of high heels had gone down by 70% in 2020. Beth Goldstein, an analyst of footwear and fashion trends for New York’s NPD Group said, ‘Uncomfortable footwear was losing popularity before the pandemic.’ The trend continues in 2021 with comfort and ease still being the priority for people. Recently, author Anuja Chauhan called out long heels in one of her Facebook posts, “Ladies, you want to assert your power and regain your agency? STOP teetering about in pointy heeled ‘sexy’ shoes. They’re impractical and they slow you down and in the long run they mess up your spine. Sure, they make you look taller, but frankly, they also make you look stupider, as you’re clearly trading in comfort and health and speed just for 2-3 (or 4!) inches of faux height. Work on your fitness and your posture and do your homework well before you enter any meeting, and you’ll tower over everybody else present just with sheer personality.” Flats were also seen in various fashion shows across the world. Brands such as Valentino, Dior, Celine, Lanvin and Simone Rocha teamed their Spring Summer 2021 collections with the most fabulous looking flats. “The core idea is that even when you look down, and see your feet, you feel happy. People have begun choosing footwear that is comfortable and easy to wear without compromising on style,” says Laksheeta Govil of Fizzy Goblet. It’s truly a personal choice when it comes to heel height but choosing a pair with less dip/incline is always a better choice, says experts. “Despite confinement, consumers are still interested in fashion. Our sales in the post lockdown months showed that customers were seeking a balanced combination of comfort and style. Immediately after the first easing of restrictions in July/August last year, we saw an increase in the orders for flat styles which showed a noticeable shift of preference from more stylish to more comfortable designs,” says Aprajita Toor who makes handicraft footwear. Some of the brands had even reworked on the comfort level during the pandemic. “We ensure every design is able to give maximum support and cushion and reworked on them. Since the lockdown has gotten over and people are now stepping out for work, the priority has again come back to wearing something that is comfortable but elegant at the same time,” says Shweta Nimkar, Founder of PAIO Shoes. And flats are not just for daily wear. Fashion lovers are opting for flats even for special occasion, as there’s no dearth of great looking, party-worthy options to choose from. Fashion designer, Rina Dhaka, says she has always been in love with flats. “The new breed of flats have made me get over my love affair with some of the world’s best heels in my closet, which I duly collected over the years as investment pieces. Sneakers, espadrilles and slip-ons are my favourites. I like the fact that the sneaker trend stayed, because nothing like a pair of sneakers tucked under the brides lehenga.” Designer Payal Pratap who is showcasing handmade two-tone leather flats in her Spring Summer 2021 collection, says, “I’m a flats person and always have been. I relish them with everything I wear. Get the right design and colour and you can make them work with every look. Open sandals are so comfortable and trendy, too. For formals, you could try chic pointed toe flats.” Model-actor Soundarya Sharma agrees that with so many alluring options available, there is no way the look can go wrong with flats. “Fashion to me is more about being myself rather than following a stereotype. That’s why I love flats. A long skirt with a slit looks great with flat with high boots, one can wear a tight fitted long formal skirt with loafers and sneakers for a fun look, or short skirts with ballerinas or lace-up flats while kurti and juttis are an evergreen combo,” says Sharma. You can wear flats with even lehengas, if you choose the right design. “Lehengas holds a heavy ken-ken and wearing flats can ease out the burden. One can find a variety of flats, right from the bejeweled to the embroidered ones to team with lehengas,” says fashion designer Gautam Gupta. And what better occasion than Holi to bring out your pretty flats? “Holi is one such festival when the fun element gets a notch higher and you seek comfort, too, which is the new cool. I love wearing pom-pom slippers and colourful kohlapuri with white churidaar suit. A vibrant dupatta adds to the beauty of the look,” says model-actor Sone Kanwar. Tips to ace the look 1. Pointed toe fancy flats can be paired with glamarous vintage inspired gowns. For a party look, you can also go for a sparkly pair of flats that look chic and classy. Even metallics are great for evening wear or red carpet look.2. For a fun, desi twist to your look, team your kurtis with jeans and wear a vibrant jutti or a kolhapuri. It’s an evergreen look that won’t let you down. 3. Sneakers are the best form of flats gifted to us. Fearlessly pair a stylish sneaker with any of your outfits including a pant suit or even a sari. And you can always wear your favourite pair of flat ankle boots with your short, cute dresses.(Inputs by stylist Aakanksha Kapoor) Author tweets@ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-such-thing-as-too-many-flats-101618205558462.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Uttarakhand cuisine: food fit for gods||The land of captivating hills, glistening rivers and clear sky offers a smorgasbord of delightful flavours. The exquisite pahadi food from the regions of Kumaun and Garhwal in Uttarakhand has drawn inspiration from myriad culture and cuisines. “The state border is connected with Tibet, Nepal, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. From the Sikhs to the British, it was home to many and every community left an impact on the state’s cuisine,” says Pawan Bisht, corporate chef, One8 Commune, who recently did an Uttarakhand food pop up.The produce in the lush green hills of Uttarakhand are free from adulteration. Food is made with ingredients either grown locally or found in the wild ,and freshness makes the food nutritious. “The region with its clean air and unexploited farm land, irrigated with clean unpolluted water produce plenty of millets, herbs, organic lentils and vegetables that are beautifully incorporated in the cuisine,” says Sidharth Sharma, corporate chef, Moonshine Food Ventures.The abundance of herbs, therapeutic spices, wild fruits and vegetables makes Uttarakhand food one of the healthiest cuisines. “Organic consumption directly from the kitchen gardens makes the food rich in antioxidants that help in reducing oxidative stress. The green vegetable punarnava popularly eaten in the state (which literally means ‘something that replenishes the body’) is believed to cure insomnia and many other diseases,” says Bisht who belongs to Chhoi, a village in Nainital district.There is limited use of spices in pahadi cuisine. Hence the natural flavours of the food are retained. “The unique grains and lentils and the simple rustic peasant like approach towards the cuisine sets it apart. Ingredients such as amaranth (cholai) along with sorghum are used with young ginger and molasses,” says Shanti Prasad, chef in JW Marriott, New Delhi.The cooking techniques are also simple, focusing on retaining the natural juices and flavours of food. Food is braised and boiled rather than fried. “Choru (Angelica glauca) is used to make a stew-like mutton dish with crushed red chili, turmeric and seasoning, where the pot is put on fire in the morning and left to cook slowly,” says Sharma.Earlier, people used desi chulha, khadd cooking (pit roast), bhatti, and gobar gas to cook vegetarian and non vegetarian food. “Traditionally, Bhaddu (a vessel made of alloy with a narrow neck and heavy bottom) was used to cook lentils or meats which has now been replaced by pressure cookers. Using the old methods brings out the most delightful flavours,” says Sharma.Mountains provide different ingredients in different seasons, giving vivid flavours to the inhabitants. “Winter is famous for dried products especially for dishes made of dried bitter gourd, Kulth ki dal, Gainthi ki sabzi, kakri ki badi and dried meat ‘Suksa’. Spring brings plenty of fresh vegetables and summer is all about linguda-a type of fern, leafy vegetables like rai saag and palak (spinach),” says Sharma.Phaanu is another popular dish. It’s made of soaked and grounded black bean tempered with faran leaves. Locals have it with rice or roti. Another interesting dish is Rus. It’s different kind of lentils grown together to save time and effort. It includes bhatt (black soya bean), gahat/kulath and chana. Kafuli is yet another traditional dish, a kind of kadhi made with grounded barnyard millet, curd and radish leaves. Chainsoo curry, made of soaked split black dal, tempered with ghee and jakhya seeds, thickened with whole wheat flour is also a popular dish.The meals are paired with tangy chutneys. Bhang is grown in abundance in this region and the hemp seeds are used to make the traditional chutney. “Til ki chutney made from roasted sesame seeds and green chilies is also very popular,” says Bhagwad Singh, chef in JW Marriott. Makoy ( berries) ki chutney, Bhatt (black soya bean) ki chutney and Galgal (Hill lemon) chutney are also flavourful accompaniments to the meal.Recipe CHAUNKIYA MATAR AUR AKHROT KE SIDDUINGREDIENTSWhole wheat flour: 500 gmsDry yeast: ½ tspSalt: To tasteSugar: 5 gmsFresh green peas: 100 gmsWalnuts: 100 gmsJeera: 1 tspHaldi: ½ tspDesi ghee: 100 gmsGinger: 20 gmsFresh coriander: 1 tbspGreen chili: 2 no.sMETHOD1. Add salt to flour and sieve it.2. In a bowl mix dry yeast and sugar with little water. Add this to the flour and prepare a dough byadding more water, as desired. Knead well and keep aside for proving.3. In a pan, temper the green peas in the ghee and spices. Add crushed walnuts and season.4. Create small balls of the dough and fill with the pea and walnut stuffing. Allow these stuffeddough balls to rest for 15 minutes.5. Grease the base of steamer and place stuffed balls carefully. Ensure that there is enough spacein between each ball.6. Steam for about 20 minutes. Once ready pour desi ghee on top and serve with your favouritechutney.7. You can customise with your favourite stuffing.By Atul Upadhyay, Executive Sous Chef, Taj Palace, New DelhiAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uttarakhand-cuisine-food-fit-for-gods-101618205440203.html
12-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 12,377 new Covid-19 cases, 87 deaths||Pune district in Maharashtra reported 12,377 new coronavirus positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the Covid-19 tally to 6,48,393, while 87 fatalities pushed the toll to 10,710, a health official said."Of the 12,377 cases, 6,679 were reported from the limits of Pune Municipal Corporation, which now has 3,29,661 patients. 2,409 fresh cases were reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad area, taking the tally to 1,67,776. The total number of infections in rural, civil hospital and Pune cantonment board area rose to 1,50,956," he said.A total of 4,628 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-12-377-new-covid-19-cases-87-deaths-101618202734687.html
12-04-2021||Jaipur||3 men fined for triple riding on motorcycle, die in accident an hour later||Three men died in a road accident in Rajasthan’s Barmer district late on Sunday night when the motorcycle they were riding, skid, police said.The station house officer (SHO) at Sadar police station in Barmer, Ramniwas Bishnoi, said the three labourers, residents of Bachdau village, were returning home from Balotra riding a single motorcycle when the accident took place near Khet Singh Ki Pyau village, about 12 kilometers from Barmer city. The locals called an ambulance using 108 emergency services and sent the three to a government hospital, where the doctors declared them brought dead, the SHO added.“They were riding the motorcycle at high speed during which they lost balance and crashed into the road,” said Bishnoi.Police identified the deceased as Motaram Meghwal, Hadmanram Meghwal and Jabara Ram, all residents of Bachdau village, about 40 kilometers from Barmer.Police claimed that the trio were fined about an hour before the accident when passing through Barmer city for violation of traffic rules, against three persons riding one motorcycle. The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem. The report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/3-rajasthan-men-riding-one-motorcycle-killed-in-road-accident-in-barmer-101618201537044.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Amid rising Covid cases, Delhi begins sixth round of sero-survey today||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi government will begin collecting blood samples for the sixth round of serological surveillance from today to determine the change in the population-level prevalence of antibodies against Sar-CoV-2 between January and April. The last round of surveillance, for which samples were collected between January 11 and 21, found just over 56% of Delhi residents had been exposed to the virus.The prevalence of antibodies had more than doubled from 25.5% during the October round of survey to January, largely owing to the huge third wave of cases seen in November when 8,593 cases had been reported in a single day at the peak.The current wave has crossed the previous record, with 10,774 cases being reported in a day on April 11. The current round of sero survey will see just over 100 samples being collected from each of 272 municipal wards in Delhi, totalling 28,000. The researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College will also take history of vaccination from all the participants.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 13.52 million with 168,912 fresh infectionsThe current serological survey uses qualitative tests that can tell whether a person has detectable antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 or not. It does not, however, detect the levels of the antibodies or the neutralising effect of it.A recent study by scientists from Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology found that over 17% of those who had detectable antibodies lost the ability to effectively neutralise the virus at six months. Another 4.6% lost the antibodies all together after six months.In June-end, when the first sero surveillance was conducted, 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This shot to 29.1% of the 15,000 people sampled in August, and then dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 people sampled in September (due to a change in methodology and dropping antibody levels in the population, the researchers said). In October, it went up to 25.5% in a sample size of 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-rising-covid-cases-delhi-begins-sixth-round-of-sero-survey-today-101618200876181.html
12-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow civic body prepares crematoriums to cope with rise in Covid fatalities||Amid a spurt in the daily Covid-19 death count, the city municipal corporation has decided to procure more electric crematoriums to make sure families of Covid-19 victims do not face problems in conducting the last rites of their loved ones.Lucknow reported 4,444 new Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state health department on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, Lucknow Municipal Commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, "There has been a surge in Covid death cases in Lucknow. For that reason, there have been issues in cremating the dead bodies.""There is a manpower issue. Many of the labourers are reluctant to do their job due to fear of Covid-19 spread. We have deputed 100 people for cremation work. Further, we have improved the cleaning facility and drinking water facilities have been provided," he said.The officer informed that five electric crematoriums will be procured within 15-20 days, adding that tenders will be issued in this regard."Once these crematoriums are established, the waiting time to cremate bodies will be less than one hour," he added.With 15,353 new Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-civic-body-prepares-crematoriums-to-cope-with-rise-in-covid-fatalities-101618199519347.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Monday due to farmers who are demanding the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws for last four months. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially as vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad was allowed on the stretch near UP Gate. The rest of the border remained closed and diversions were put in place. A traffic police officer said, “Only national highway NH-24 towards Ghaziabad from Delhi at the UP Gate Ghazipur border is open. The other carriageways are shut due to the kisan andolan. Nainital highway number 9 and NH-24 are closed . Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides.” The traffic police also advised motorists to avoid Khajuri Chowk stretch due to jam. “Obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Khajoori chowk towards Gokalpuri near Mazar due to breakdown of a truck . Kindly avoid the stretch,” Delhi traffic police said on Twitter. Also Read | Farmers ready to talk if govt invites, no change in demands, says Rakesh TikaitThe Delhi traffic police have diverted vehicles that may possibly lead to traffic congestions in parts of the city during the peak hours. According to Delhi traffic police officials, vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see traffic congestion. Other borders, namely Singhu and Tikri, are closed. “The following borders are closed for traffic movement -Ghazipur Border(Ghaziabad towards Delhi), Singhu Border, Mungeshpur, Harewali Border and Tikri Border,” said a traffic police officer. Traffic police officers advised commuters to take alternative routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101618197815705.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky predicted in Delhi today, air quality may deteriorate slightly||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to remain 18 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 16 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and maximum temperature was 38.8 degrees Celsius -- three degrees above normal. Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 215. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 186, which is in the higher-end of the moderate category. Also Read | India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the Moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and Westerly. Air quality is expected to marginally deteriorate and stay in Moderate to Poor category for the next three days. The PM10 (coarse dust particles) continues to remain as the prominent lead pollutant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-predicted-in-delhi-today-air-quality-may-deteriorate-slightly-101618197095734.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||62 private hospitals to restart Covid vaccination drive in Mumbai today||Covid-19 vaccination figures are expected to go up in Mumbai as 62 private hospitals restart their vaccination drive beginning Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), over the weekend, received 235,000 vaccine doses. The civic body has, on Sunday, given its approval to 62 private hospitals to restart the vaccination drive. These were among the 71 private hospitals where the drive was suspended over vaccine shortage.According to BMC officials, the remaining nine private hospitals will also purchase the vaccine today following which, they will be permitted to restart vaccination drive starting Tuesday.In the city, more than 1.6 million citizens have been vaccinated that includes healthcare, and frontline workers. In the city, daily around 50,000 citizens are vaccinated but the number dropped recently because of the shortage of vaccine doses last week.Also Read | Sharad Pawar to undergo gallbladder surgery todayMeanwhile, the BMC on Sunday said it will now allow private hospitals to set up Covid-19 vaccination camps at private offices too. Speaking on the tie-up with private offices, Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department said, “We will give permissions to private hospitals to tie up with offices having over 100 employees to set up vaccination camps there. This will help us cover maximum citizens in the permitted age group.” This is in line with Central government’s guidelines, civic officials said. Dr Gomare added, “There will be a set of protocols to be followed by private hospitals, like having doctors and an emergency vehicle present in case of an adverse effect. The whole process will be carried out as per government guidelines.” Last Thursday, 25 private vaccination centres were shut owing to the shortage and the number reached over 50 by Friday. On Friday, several government facilities also ran out of vaccine doses due to which, over 50% vaccination centres were shut in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/62-private-hospitals-to-restart-covid-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-today-101618196495567.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 63,000 Covid cases in biggest single-day surge||Maharashtra, on Sunday, recorded its highest one-day spike with 63,294 new Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 349 fatalities the sameday.In less than half of April 2021, Maharashtra has already recorded over 500,000 cases, with 594,179 cases recorded between April 1 and 11. This is close to the caseload recorded in March when the state saw 657,910 new Covid-19 cases. Since April 1, the state has been recording upwards of 40,000 cases and more than 200 deaths (except April 5) every day.Between April 1 and 10, the state recorded 2,710 deaths. The state’s tally is 3,407,245 cases and 57,987 fatalities.Also Read | Thackeray to hold meeting on Covid-19 today, lockdown SOPs may be discussedMaharashtra entered 2021 with a huge drop in cases compared to the previous three months. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the state had recorded 487,519 infections.On Sunday, Mumbai also recorded 9,986 cases and 79 fatalities. The city, which has been a major contributor to the increasing number of cases recorded daily, and has recorded 520,498 cases and 12,023 deaths in total so far. The state has 565,587 active cases, to which Pune has contributed more than 100,000 active cases, followed by Mumbai, which contributed 91,100 active cases. The state has a recovery rate of 81.65%; 34,008 recoveries were also recorded on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-63-000-covid-cases-in-biggest-single-day-surge-101618196195656.html
12-04-2021||Patna||Patna hospital wrongly declares man as dead; kin shocked to discover mistake at crematorium||In a major goof-up, a man who was admitted apparently with a brain haemorrhage was declared dead authorities by Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) authorities who also handed over a "death certificate" to his family.PMCH issued the death certificate of Chunnu Kumar, 40, who was admitted here on April 3 and his relatives were informed that he had passed away on Sunday due to Covid-19.At the crematorium, relatives insisted on viewing the face of Kumar for one last time and were shocked to discover that the body handed to them was that of somebody else.Upon enquiry, it was found that Kumar was still in hospital and they had been handed over the body of another patient."Stern action will be taken against those found guilty," PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur told ANI.Meanwhile, relatives of Kumar are furious about the medical negligence."My whole family has tested negative for coronavirus. My husband has been nursing a broken leg for several days, he cannot move an inch how could he test positive for the virus?. Hospital is neglecting their patients, otherwise, how could they be so mistaken?" said Kavita, the wife of Kumar who was mistaken to be dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hospital-wrongly-declares-man-as-dead-kin-shocked-to-discover-mistake-at-crematorium-101618195208884.html
12-04-2021||Kolkata||TMC demands ban on Dilip Ghosh's campaign over his statement on Cooch Behar||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday demanded a ban on Bharatiya Janata Party chief Dilip Ghosh's political campaign in the state for the ongoing assembly elections over his comment on the four people who were shot dead by security personnel after the violent incident in Cooch Behar district.In a complaint lodged with the Election Commission, TMC said that Ghosh justified such 'murder' and threatened Bengal and its people of more such 'murders' in the following words: 'ar jodi barabakri kore Sitalkuchi dekheche ki hoche, jaegae jaegae Sitalkuchi hobe (people have seen what happened at Sitalkuchi, if anyone steps its boundary, the incident of Sitalkuchi will be repeated again and again).Click here for full election updates"Instead of condemning the acts of violence of CRPF in the brutal cold-blooded killing of the four innocent people, Dilip Ghosh has actively seen condoning the acts and in fact encouraging similar spell of violence in the ongoing elections in West Bengal," the complaint said."In the circumstances, we call upon you, to forthwith: First, initiate appropriate strict legal action, including criminal proceedings, against Dilip Ghosh for his inflammatory and inciting statement and openly threatening the electorate. Secondly, restrain Dilip Ghosh for campaigning for remaining phases," it said.Violence erupted at a polling booth in Cooch Behar during the fourth round of polling. The ruling TMC alleged that Central forces opened fire twice at polling booths in Cooch Behar where people are casting their votes, killing four party workers.Official sources in Cooch Behar confirmed the death of four people in the district.Following the incident, the EC ordered the adjourning of the poll in PS 126 of Sitalkurchi AC, Cooch Behar based on an interim report from Special Observers. The EC will seek a detailed report from them and the Chief Election Officer by 5 pm on Saturday.Since the incident, the Election Commission has barred the entry of any political leader in the Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours.Polling for the first four phases has been concluded in West Bengal. The fifth and sixth phases of the ongoing elections will take place on April 17 and April 22. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-demands-ban-on-dilip-ghosh-s-campaign-over-his-statement-on-cooch-behar-101618190163371.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Fire in GK-2 residential building, 5 rescued||Firefighters rescued five people from a fire in a two-storey residential building in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash 2, early on Sunday. There were no casualties in the blaze, which broke out on the first floor of the building, while all the five rescued were trapped on the second.The incident was reported to the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) around 4am, after which four tenders were rushed to the spot.Director DFS, Atul Garg said, “It looked like the fire started in one of the five air-conditioners on the first floor. Since there was a lot of smoke on the staircase, it was difficult for the occupants of the building to escape. Our personnel entered the building wearing hazmat suits and rescued five persons one by one, safely. None of them were injured,” Garg said.The five rescued persons were all examined and were out of danger, he said.The fire was also doused after an hour. “Since it was a residential area, our focus was to not let the blaze spread to adjoining buildings,” Garg said.In another incident on Sunday morning, 200 furniture shops were gutted after a fire at Shastri Park furniture market. While no casualties were reported, hundreds of pieces of furniture were lost in the fire.The fire broke out around 12.45am.Garg said they sent 27 fire tenders and more than 1,000 firefighters to contain the fire. “It took us more than three hours to douse the fire. Cooling operations continued for even longer. No casualties were reported in the incident because the market was vacant when the fire spread across the market. But because a lot of wooden material was stashed in these shops, it was difficult for our personnel to stop the fire from spreading,” Garg said.He said they are still ascertaining the cause of the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-in-gk-2-residential-building-5-rescued-101618172609637.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||After crime branch, Mumbai Police's EOW officials to face 'clean up'||After the crime branch, the Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police could be the next department to face a 'clean up' drive initiated by the new Mumbai commissioner of police Hemant Nagrale, said people privy to the development.Nagrale, who has taken up the uphill task of cleaning up the city police force and shunted out over 65 crime branch officers (who served in the crime branch for over five years), has now decided to give a similar treatment to the EOW.Generally, a police officer is supposed to serve at a post for three years and then transferred to another posting, however, people aware of the developments in the EOW said some officers have been in the department for over six years merely by switching their postings within the department during transfers. Now, all these officers would be moved out to other police departments, which could be local police stations or side branches.“Once such officers are transferred, about 45-50% posts of EOW officers would go vacant. These posts would be filled up with the new officers,” said an EOW officer, requesting anonymity.Read more: Mumbai Police officer Riyaz Kazi arrested by NIA, agency says he helped Sachin Vaze in Antilia bomb scare conspiracyThe EOW officers expecting transfers are now busy winding up old cases which are with them for years, HT has learnt.Unlike the sudden order for the crime branch and its immediate implementation, the transfers in the EOW would be effected during regular general transfers in June. “Immediate remedial measures with the crime branch were need of the hour to send a strong message across a particular department, but same was not the case with the EOW,” said a police officer from the headquarters.Joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik, who is known for his upright approach in decision making, recently issued an order to all EOW unit heads, hinting at the possible transfers. Kaushik's order (a copy of which is with HT) stated, "Possible transfers of those officers who are completing four years in EOW as of May 31, 2021, cannot be ruled out in upcoming general transfers (which occurs every year in June). Hence all unit heads are hereby directed that henceforth not to give such officers the investigation of new cases."After controversies surrounding the crime branch’s tainted officer Sachin Vaze and former police commissioner Param Bir Singh's transfer, the Maharashtra government in mid-March entrusted DGP Hemant Nagrale with the responsibility of bringing back the lost glory of Mumbai Police.Read more: Central Railway files complaint against fake video of overcrowding at Mumbai stationsAfter taking charge on March 17, Nagrale started by taking on those cops who might have had developed proximity with unwarranted elements by enjoying long tenure in the same department. Within six days of joining, he shunted out 65 crime branch officers.Explaining these transfers Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (Administration) said, “The transfers of policemen are governed by the Police Act where the prescribed service tenure is defined. Since crime branch officers require special skills which are acquired out of experience in the field, they were kept in the branch for a long time for administrative convenience. But of late, it is observed that some of the officers developed vested interests. Hence, objective criteria was applied and all the officers who completed five years in the branch at a stretch or have over 10 years of service with some break in between, have been transferred out.”By inducting new officers in the branch, the department feels some fresh perspective can be brought in, which will help strengthen the crime branch and infuse zeal and enthusiasm.Read more: Anil Deshmukh's staff questioned by CBI in probe over Param Bir Singh’s allegationsAnother senior IPS officer said, “The commissioner's clean up drive aims to uproot the nexus or connivance of policemen with the wrong elements that ultimately encourage corruption in the police department. Such nexus or connivance makes policemen overconfident and makes them indulge in unethical practices which eventually could lead to another API Sachin Vaze-like episode that has brought tremendous embarrassment, shame and disrepute to Mumbai Police, once considered a highly reputed police force in the country."Citing Vaze's example, a senior IPS officer said that he was given a completely free hand by former commissioner Singh and was so patronised by his godfather that he had become super arrogant. “He would come to the police headquarters in high-end private cars, issue orders to officers in any department, not respecting colleagues and not even saluting the senior police officers. Such arrogance makes a policeman more vulnerable in breaching the discipline,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity.Those policemen who have been serving at the police stations of Mumbai for over five years will also be transferred and would be posted at side branches soon. “If a policeman serves at a post for a longer period then he forms groups around him and is bound to indulge in unethical practices, therefore transfers are necessary, another senior IPS officer said. The process has already been started with the constabulary at several police stations,” the officer added.HT has learnt that not just the crime branch and the EOW but many other important departments at the headquarters would also be covered under the move. “Police personnel posted at various departments that look after the licensing and permissions for dance bars, permit rooms, hotels and other establishments would also be transferred if serving at the same office for long period,” said an officer."Transferring policemen doesn't mean that all those who have been transferred are corrupt. Many of them served the force exceptionally well and earned respect, name and fame. The practice (of transfers) is aimed at sending out a message that it is the system that has made them big and achieve expertise in a field, and not vice versa. No one is above the system. Others should also get the opportunity to hone their skills and serve society. Overstaying at one post make policemen vulnerable to wrongful and unethical practices, who then willingly or unwillingly become part of the system designed to benefit wrong people," said another IPS officer.When asked about other measures he plans to take to bring back the lost pride of Mumbai Police and retain people's faith in the force, Nagrale said, “You'll (soon) know when it's done.”He refused to elaborate further on the transfer’s strategy in the EOW and other departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-crime-branch-mumbai-police-s-eow-officials-to-face-clean-up-101618170338815.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civic bodies, PWD make drains monsoon-ready||To prevent waterlogging during monsoon this year, civic bodies and Public Works Department (PWD) have started cleaning drains alongside roads. Officials of north and south civic bodies said that work has already begun in their areas while it was yet to pick up pace in areas under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).While the three civic bodies collectively manage over 400km of small and medium drains along its roads and in residential neighbourhoods, the major drains are mostly managed by the PWD.Last year, the desilting of drains by municipal bodies and PWD was delayed by over 1.5 months — starting only towards the end of May — due to the coronavirus lockdown and the subsequent shortage of labour. The delay had led to massive waterlogging in many parts of the city during monsoon. In July 2020, a 56-year-old man drowned after his mini-truck submerged under the Minto bridge in central Delhi.This year, the north and south corporations called meetings on the issue well ahead of the work schedule and officials were told to finish work on getting the drains monsoon ready by the end of May.“Unlike last year, we have started the process of desilting drains from last week of March. Small drains are being cleaned currently and after this, bigger ones will be taken up. We have set a deadline of May-end to complete the work. Necessary instructions have also been issued to officials in a meeting last week. Our priority is to clean drains before the onset of the monsoon...,” said Jai Prakash, mayor of North MCD.A senior official of the north corporation said that the civic body manages nearly 192 drains, measuring about 200km, in its jurisdiction. “Desilting of drains was started in March last week. Till Thursday, 13% work has been completed. We are hoping to finish it by May 31 or latest in June first week,” said the official, who wished not to be named.Normally, monsoon in Delhi sets in by the last week of June.Officials said that it takes over two months to clean small, medium and large drains which makes it important to start the process in March.According to SDMC officials, the municipality manages 269 drains measuring 183.75 km in its jurisdiction. “We have already started cleaning of 138 small and medium drains and work on remaining drains will start soon. Till last week, we had completed 20% desilting process and removed 74.25 metric tonnes of silt from drains. Desilting of nullahs, which are deeper than four feet, have also been started. The process will be completed by May 31,” said a senior SDMC official, requesting anonymity.However, cleaning of drains under EDMC is yet to begin properly.EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said, “From next week, we will focus more on desilting work. Small drains are being cleaned but due to coronavirus vaccination and other works, major desilting drive will start from the coming week.”Officials said that there are over 100km drains spread across roads under EDMC jurisdiction.Apart from the three MCDs, PWD and some other agencies manage drains alongside roads in their jurisdiction. PWD officials said it manages 2,050 km of drains along 1,260 km of road across 17 divisions in the city.The officials said that the desilting work had begun earlier this month. “The desilting of drains was started towards the first week of April. It is still in the early stages... We are dedicated to complete the process latest by June 15, before the arrival of monsoon,” a PWD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-civic-bodies-pwd-make-drains-monsoonready-101618172364587.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police revamps training unit, launch new courses||The Delhi Police have introduced courses such as perception-building, public outreach, investigation in cases of missing children and sexual offences and prevention and detection of crime in the refresher and promotional courses for both trainee and serving officers, officials aware of the matter said.Senior officers said that for the first time, posting of officials in the training branch has been incentivised and only those willing to serve will be selected through a committee. The committee will review the performance of the staff, after every six months and non-performers will be transferred out, they said.They said on completion of a three-year tenure in training unit, officers will be given a choice in posting.While 115 courses have already been conducted by the training branch of Delhi Police and 6,520 officers have attended the basic, promotional and refresher training courses, 14 courses are underway for 3,350 personnel.Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava said emphasis was being laid on upgrading training modules. “This year, new subjects have been introduced such as courses on functioning of various technological applications, perception building and public outreach, courses on investigation in cases involving missing children and sexual offences, and even short courses for station house officers (SHOs) like redressal of grievances, satisfaction of visitors to police stations and overall improvement in the working of a police station,” he said.Explaining the need for incentivising posting in the training branch, Shrivastava said, “In training unit, there is nothing quantifiable to show and it is not a very glamorous posting. Usually, it is perceived that posting to the training branch is a punishment. In order to change this perception, we are incentivising posting to the branch and to bring in better talent only suitable officers will be selected for the job,” he said.Shrivastava said surveillance, prevention and detection of crime and beat system of patrolling is another newly introduced focus area in training.Other courses include cyber crime investigation, use of stun and taser guns, effective crowd management, usage of force, etc.Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said the officers selected for the training branch will have a tenure of three years, which will be extendable by two years.“The extension will be done after considering the officer’s overall performance in training unit. After successful completion of the tenure, officers will be given a choice in posting. Officers will also be allowed to specialise in a training area of their choice both in India and abroad in collaboration with Bureau of Police Research and Development,” Biswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-revamps-training-unit-launch-new-courses-101618172460327.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Police crack 35-year-old’s murder, with help from a non-existent NASA satellite||Delhi Police arrested a house painter and a sales agent for allegedly bludgeoning their 35-year-old friend to death in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri.While there were no eyewitnesses to prove their involvement, police said they managed to elicit a confession from the accused -- Mangolpuri residents Pradeep, 32, who works as a sales agent for a private company, and Raju, 35, a daily wage painter -- after convincing them that their alleged crime was captured on a non-existent NASA surveillance satellite. Seeing no way out, police said the accused allegedly admitted that they killed the accused during a fight over regularly using foul language.The murder came to light on April 5, when a call was received at Mangolpuri police station regarding a man lying injured in a park near Outer Ring Road. A police team that reached the spot found that the man had been bludgeoned to death. His body was moved to a mortuary for post mortem examination and a case of murder was registered.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said the victim was identified as Chandarbhan, a 35-year-old resident of Mongolpuri. “During preliminary investigation, it was revealed that he was last seen with two men on a motorcycle. Several people were questioned and CCTV footages were checked and finally our teams managed to identify the duo as Pradeep and Raju, both residents of the same area. But when they were detained for questioning along with other suspects, they refused any involvement,” said Singh.The DCP said the team was headed towards a dead-end as there were no eye witness to the crime. “Our teams rechecked the inputs and sequence of crime and when it was established that these two were definitely involved in the crime, they were told that the area in which Chandrabhan was killed is under continuous surveillance of NASA’s satellite cameras and that their entire act has been recorded,” said Singh.Thinking their act has been caught, the two allegedly confessed to having committed the murder. “It seems Chandrabhan used to often abuse them whenever he consumed alcohol. To teach him a lesson, on April 4, they took Chandrabhan to the park on the pretext of consuming alcohol. Once he was inebriated, they warned him to never abuse them again. This led to a fight during which the duo used stones and bludgeoned him to death,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-crack-35-year-old-s-murder-with-help-from-a-non-existent-nasasatellite-101618172528254.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||In a first, seven group housing plots for sale||Two years after it approved a policy allowing private players to develop housing projects to meet the growing housing needs of the city, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) put on sale seven group housing plots for the first time on Sunday. The seven plots — in areas such as Rohini, Dwarka and Narela, among others — each measure over 5,000sqm.Till now, these plots were allotted only to registered Cooperative Group Housing Societies (CGHS), said a DDA official.“A private developer or a registered society can bid for these plots. One of the important conditions in this is that the developer entity will have to provide for 15% housing for the economically weaker section,” said a senior DDA official.Apart from CGHS plots, DDA has also put on sale 76 institutional plots, 27 industrial plots, 36 residential plots, 125 shops in its district/community/local shopping centres, six restaurant units and 33 commercial plots.In January 2020, the DDA had put these plots up for auction but had to withdraw it as it required a change in its Act. The amendment was cleared this year.Mudassir Zaidi, executive director, Knight Frank, welcomed the move and said there is demand for affordable housing in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-seven-group-housing-plots-for-sale-101618172667307.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||On ‘Tika Utsav’, Delhi inoculates over 100k||In a first, Delhi vaccinated more than 100,000 people on Sunday as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) set up temporary vaccine camps across the city to mark the beginning of ‘Tika Utsav’, said a senior official in Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal’s office.Tika Utsav is a four-day drive, to be held from April 11 to 14 endorsed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi aimed at vaccinating maximum beneficiaries against Covid-19 amid a surge in cases of the viral infection.Read more: Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says KejriwalTemporary vaccine camps were set up at the administrative building of a central university, a bus depot and a five-star hotel on Sunday, said the senior official.“After implementing the necessary regulations and related enforcement measures, and ramping up the supporting medical infrastructure, in consultation with the CM, under the aegis of DDMA, the lieutenant governor has been keenly overseeing the observance and implementation of the Tika Utsav that will be held in the Capital till April 14,” said the senior official at Baijal’s office.While Baijal is the chairperson of DDMA, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.Read more: Despite Covid-19 surge in Delhi, caution not in the pictureThe official also said, “An all-out mobilisation was the main thrust of Tika Utsav and accordingly, officials put special focus on making the campaign a success, which eventually helped Delhi cross one lakh vaccinations per day for the first time. Vaccination at several workplaces in the city also started today (Sunday) as part of the Tika Utsav.”Apart from the temporary vaccine camps, jabs were also administered to eligible beneficiaries in the 739 vaccine centres across the city. The drive is currently open for all people aged 45 years and above. Government records show that so far, Delhi has vaccinated around 1.7 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-tika-utsav-delhi-inoculates-over-100k-101618167467229.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA Raghav Chadha asks PM Modi to open up Covid-19 shots||Pushing for a strict “India-first” rule for Covid-19 vaccination, AAP MLA and party spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Sunday said he has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking priority for citizens’ needs over exports to other countries. The Delhi BJP, however, accused the AAP of trying to mislead the people.In his letter, Chadha, stressing on the need for “vaccine nationalism”, said the Centre has chosen to export over 64 million doses to 84 countries “while Indian citizens are desperately looking for a vaccination centre that is still open”.“I wish to ask the government of India as to whether its priority is the people of Delhi or of Dominican Republic? The people of Maharashtra or of Mauritius? The people of Bengal or Bangladesh? Gujarat or Guyana? Odisha or Oman? Uttar Pradesh or the United Kingdom? Kerala or Kenya,” Chadha asked.He urged the government to prioritise vaccinating the population of India before “earning trivial international laurels”.“Don’t let vaccination centres shut while doses are being flown out of the country…,” he said.“Vaccines should have a strict India-first rule, with Indian citizens’ needs being given priority over exports to other countries,” Chadha said.The letter comes amid reports of vaccine shortage by several states in the country, claims which the Centre have repeatedly rejected.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had written to Modi, urging him to open the vaccination drive for everyone in light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases across the country.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Chadha’s letter is neither motivated by any form of nationalism nor any concern for the youth of the country. AAP is simply trying to mislead people on the issue. The government of India is seriously committed to speedy vaccination of all. The government has organised the biggest vaccine drive in the country from April 11 to 14.”The Prime Minister’s Office did not immediately comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mla-raghav-chadha-asks-pm-to-open-up-shots-101618167520237.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Despite Covid-19 surge in Delhi, caution not in the picture||On Sunday, when the national capital reported 10,774 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 9.43%, some popular hangout places and tourist spots were teeming with crowds, with physical distancing norms going for a toss. While the footfall at some of the places has reduced compared to last month, distancing and poor mask discipline continued be a concern.HT visited India Gate, Humayun’s Tomb, Delhi zoo and the Central Park at Connaught Place on Sunday and saw poor compliance with social distancing protocols at some places and poor mask hygiene at all the spots.Read more: Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says KejriwalDelhi zooOutside the Delhi zoo, people were seen sitting together in groups either without wearing a mask or wearing them below the nose or on the chin. Shabnam, a visitor, said she had stepped out after nearly a year to visit the zoo along with relatives. She said that while the crowd wasn’t much, people were not wearing the mask properly. “Many people are not wearing the mask or wearing it on their chins. We tried to maintain a distance from such people but the government should also keep an eye out and make announcements.”Ramesh Kumar Pandey, director, Delhi zoo, said they were ensuring compliance with Covid-19 protocols. “The footfall is less, due to which distancing concerns are addressed. Our staff keep reminding people to wear a mask,” said Pandey.Central Park, CPThe Central Park at Connaught Place was packed with people, who openly flouted distancing norms. Many there were seen without a mask as they hung around the fountain at the park.Atul Bhargava, president of the New Delhi Traders’ Association, said the government was enforcing the rules properly. He said while the association had put up posters, it was difficult to monitor hawkers and other visitors at Central Park. “The government should shut the park for one month. People go there in large numbers and don’t wear masks. Unfortunately, there is no enforcement and support from either the central or the Delhi government,” alleged Bhargav.Read more: Fear of 2020 rerun grips Delhi's migrants amid Covid-19 infection spikeHumayun’s TombAt ASI-protected Humayun’s Tomb, lack of social distancing was spotted near the manual ticket counter. Inside the monument, mask hygiene was poor with people giving up on masks all together as they got busy clicking pictures.An ASI officer, who didn’t wish to be identified, said: “The security staff has been instructed to ensure that people do not crowd and follow Covid-19 protocols at all times. We have instructed them to sensitise people about the rules in places. However, we can’t chase them, if they do not wear a mask,” said the official.India GateAmong all the places that HT visited on Sunday, enforcement of rules was the harshest at India Gate. While some people were seen not wearing masks, civil defence volunteers kept a close eye on violators.Read more: Sweeping curbs announced in Delhi as Covid-19 cases shootRamesh Kumar, a street food vendor, alleged that police and volunteers were arbitrarily penalising people. “The crowd is less since last Tuesday. Most people are wearing masks but volunteers still keep shouting at us. Our earnings have exhausted due to so many curbs,” said Kumar, who hails from Badayun in Uttar Pradesh.Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said police teams are imposing fines on people who are caught not wearing masks, spitting in public, or not following social distancing at all public places across Delhi daily. “In crowded areas like monuments, tourist places, and parks, people tend to not observe social distancing strictly when they are wearing masks. Our teams intervene and make sure all government guidelines are followed,” the officer said.Biswal said regular announcements are also made to make people aware of the norms. “In market areas, CCTV cameras are being used and wherever it is seen social distancing is not being followed, our teams are rushed to intervene,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-covid-19-surge-in-delhi-caution-not-in-the-picture-101618167593888.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases breach 10,000 mark||Delhi on Sunday reported 10,774 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day tally of infections in the national capital since the pandemic began raging across countries last year, as the outbreak expanded its footprint in the fourth wave at rates not seen during the previous three peaks in the city.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the situation in Delhi was “very serious”, issuing a warning to people to not step out of their homes unless it was urgent.Sunday’s tally eclipsed the previous record of 8,593 new infections in a day recorded on November 11. The Capital also added 48 deaths of the infection on Sunday, the most fatalities in a day since December 14, when the city logged 60 deaths. The spike was also the highest jump in two consecutive daily tallies, with Delhi adding 2,877 more new cases compared to Saturday, when the Capital recorded 7,897 new infections.Read more: Lockdown no option, step out of home only if necessary: Kejriwal“Cases have escalated in a big way in the last 10-15 days… The situation is very serious,” Kejriwal said in a digital news briefing.For the week ending April 11, Delhi added an average of 6,963 fresh infections every day. Just a week ago, the seven-day average of cases was 2,671. This means that daily infections have leapt 161% in a week. As HT reported on April 9, this is a week-on-week rate of increase not seen at any point in the Capital even during the third wave of infections.Delhi’s fourth wave of infections comes amid a second nationwide surge, which has surpassed the previous peaks recorded at the national level as well as in individual states, HT’s Covid-19 dashboard shows. Experts have attributed the rise in infections in the Capital to poor adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as masking and social distancing, and to potential impacts of the mutant variants of the coronavirus.Read more: Delhi imposes new Covid-19 curbs. What allowed, what's notDr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said, “Mutant variants are definitely one of the main factors behind the current surge across India. We need more recent state-wise data on genome sequencing results to understand the role of mutant variants and thorough analysis. India anyway started focusing very late on mutant strains. We should not waste more time.”The surge has forced the Delhi government to reintroduce curbs on schools, transport and gatherings, even as the Capital put in place a night curfew between 10pm and 5am to control the spread of the infection.On Saturday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought back sweeping restrictions on activities to curb the alarming spread of Covid-19, banning large public gatherings, curtailing crowds in wedding and funerals, and capping maximum capacity for restaurants, cinema halls and public buses among other things.Read more: Fear of 2020 rerun grips Delhi's migrants amid Covid-19 infection spikeKejriwal expressed concern at the ongoing current surge. While he ruled out a lockdown in the Capital, he warned that if the city’s health care infrastructure was overwhelmed, it may force the state government’s hand.“I believe that lockdown is no solution to the pandemic. We have seen that once. It is only for times when a state’s health system collapses. If we have your support and the health care management system is under control, then there will be no need for a lockdown. But if it goes out of control, we may be forced to impose a lockdown,” the chief minister said.The Capital has seen three distinct surges, or waves, of the viral infections. The first was between early May and early July, the second was in September, while the third was reported between the second week of October and November-end.During the first wave, the seven-day average of cases peaked at 3,446 and the week-on-week growth touched a high of 101%. In the second wave, which peaked at 4,174 cases in mid-September, the growth rate never went beyond 58%.Read more: Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says KejriwalEven during the third wave, when the seven-day average of new cases soared to 7,341 in mid-November, the week-on-week growth rate remained under 40%.The test positivity rate, which is considered a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection in a region, has also shot up sharply over the past few weeks. The city reported a positivity rate of 9.43%, showed the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin on Sunday. A week ago, this number was at 4.64%, while two weeks ago, the rate was 2.35%.To be sure, Delhi also conducted the most tests in a single day on Sunday, collecting 114,288 samples to check for the infection, greater than the previous high of 109,398, recorded on Friday. Most of the tests on Sunday — 67% — were conducted using the more reliable reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “People have let their guards down in terms of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, and this is visible everywhere around us now. This has contributed to the ongoing surge majorly. While the government has to scale up its testing, tracing, containment and vaccination strategies to arrest the spread of the disease at the earliest, people will have to adhere to the regulations that are in force in Delhi.”After the third wave, the case trajectory and deaths dropped sharply to lows not seen since the early months of the breakout of the coronavirus disease, and the pandemic seemed to decline.Read more: 20-30% people lose natural immunity against Covid in 6 months, new study findsThe fifth serological survey conducted between January 15 and 23 revealed that 56% of samples collected during the study had antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease.Delhi’s test positivity rate fell to an all-time low of 0.17% on February 16, as the infections reported a lull in the city. On that day, cases too, fell to a 292-day low of 94.Dr Kant said, “Mass vaccination looks like the only way to achieve herd immunity now. It is clear that natural antibodies do not last long. Delhi recorded a sero prevalence of 56% in February but still the virus is raging in the Capital now. Also, sero-surveys only told us about detection of antibodies among individuals, but not about the quality and quantity of the antibodies detected in those individuals. These are areas in which we still need more data to understand the disease, its trends and to control its spread more effectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-cases-breach-10-000-mark-101618166353866.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Lockdown no option, step out of home only if necessary: Kejriwal||On a day when Delhi reported its highest ever tally of Covid-19 cases in a day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that though a lockdown was no solution to the pandemic but the city government could be forced to impose full restrictions if the health care system collapsed, while urging citizens to stay indoors and step out of their homes only if “very necessary”.“In Delhi, we have fought three waves. The fourth wave is dangerous. It is spreading fast. Around mid-March, Delhi was witnessing less than 200 cases a day. On Sunday, it recorded 10,732 cases in the previous 24 hours [This was updated to 10,774 cases in the health bulletin issued later in the day]. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 7,897 new cases and on Friday 8,521 new cases. It shows how fast the disease is spreading now. The situation is concerning and we are closely monitoring it,” said Kejriwal.Sunday’s case tally was the highest in the city so far. The previous record was 8,593 cases on November 11.Citing the government data to say that 65% of the patients who are now getting the infection in Delhi are less than 45 years old, Kejriwal urged the central government to open the ongoing vaccination drive to people of all ages and relax the protocol for starting new vaccine sites. The vaccination drive is currently open for people aged over 45 years across the country.Reaching out to those who have tested positive so far, the Delhi chief minister said those with mild or no symptoms should not rush to hospitals and leave beds vacant for patients with severe symptoms. According to the Sunday bulletin, 5,459 Covid beds were vacant in the city hospitals, while 17,093 people were under home isolation.3-step plan to curb casesSpelling out his government’s strategy to curb the sharp spike in infections, the chief minister said his government was working on three fronts — enforcing Covid-19 discipline, ramping up health infrastructure and speeding up vaccinations.“We are working largely on three fronts. First, we aim to arrest the spread of the disease. This is a front on which the government alone can’t do much. We need immense cooperation from the people of Delhi. I request people to always wear a mask, maintain social distancing, wash hands, and stay indoors. Step out only if necessary. We do not want to impose a lockdown but some restrictions had to be imposed yesterday (Saturday) in light of the severe spike in cases. Please let us try not to get that more severe.”“Second, we aim to ensure the best health care service – hospital beds, ICU, ventilators… Hospital management is our priority. We urge people to use the mobile app launched by the government to check the availability of beds. Also, please do not hesitate to go to government hospitals. The government hospitals in Delhi are good. We assure you of quality health care there,” he said.“Third, we are aiming at speeding up the vaccination process. I have written to the central government to remove all restrictions concerning vaccination. Now, 65% of patients are less than 45 years old, our records showed. How do we stop the spread without vaccinating this age group? We need to remove all restrictions and take up vaccination on a war footing.,” he said.Don’t rush to hospitalsHe added that only those with severe symptoms should go to hospitals, urging others to recuperate under home isolation under which the government provides free pulse oximeters and regular follow-up calls and advice by doctors. “If everyone rushes to hospitals, we will run out of beds, ICUs, ventilators, etc. An asymptomatic person going to a hospital can deprive a serious patient of a bed, that can eventually lead to that patient’s death. We have an excellent home-isolation model. That is more than capable of taking care of patients with mild or no symptoms. Please keep hospital beds vacant for serious patients.”On Saturday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought back sweeping restrictions on activities to curb the alarming spread of Covid-19, banning large public gatherings, curtailing crowds in wedding and funerals, and capping maximum capacity for restaurants, cinema halls and public buses among other things.No lockdown, for nowAllaying fears of a complete lockdown, the chief minister said such restrictions will be considered only in case the health system collapses.“I believe that the lockdown is no solution to the pandemic. We have seen that once. It is only meant for times when a state’s health system collapses. It helps to slow down the rate of transmission, giving governments more time to prepare. If we have your support and the health care management system is under control, then there will be no need for a lockdown. But, if it goes out of control, we may be forced to put in place a lockdown, even though we don’t want to impose one.”Don’t hesitate to get jabKejriwal also urged people to not hesitate from taking the vaccine amid reports that doctors who were reportedly vaccinated against the disease have tested positive. “We have come across reports from several states about doctors testing Covid-19 positive despite taking both doses of the vaccine. I consulted doctors and experts and learnt that vaccines do not give protection from potential infection. It protects from severe effects of Covid-19. So, I urge all eligible beneficiaries to not hesitate from taking the vaccine and add that additional shield of protection. But one has to continue wearing masks and following all regulations,” he said.Kejriwal called upon all political parties to join hands in controlling the pandemic. He said: “We have scaled up tests – 120,000 per day. I appeal to all political parties to join hands in the fight against Covid-19. This is not the time for politics. Let us fight Covid-19 together. I have also come across people who say that they are tired of wearing masks. I want to ask them: Are the doctors and paramedics not tired? They work in PPE kits all day. Letting our guard down is not allowed at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-no-option-step-out-of-home-only-if-necessary-kejriwal-101618166540908.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||AUD student fined ₹40k for defacing wall, told to attend anger mgmt classes||A final-year undergraduate student of Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) was on Friday fined nearly ₹40,000 by the varsity administration for “defacing” the walls of the campus during a protest last month, and has been advised to go for anger management counselling.On March 9, the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) organised a protest on the Kashmere Gate campus of the university, demanding that classes be held in person. SFI-AUD convenor Priyansh Maurya was later suspended by the varsity administration for drawing graffiti on the campus walls.Maurya, a history student, said he was shocked to receive the order. “..Making graffiti on the campus wall has been a culture of AUD…I completely deny that I drew the graffiti out of uncontrollable anger, for which the administration is referring me to the Ehsaas Clinic for anger management,” he said.In its order, the university administration said the proctorial committee constituted to conduct an inquiry in the matter submitted its report and said Maurya “is required to pay a fine of ₹39,442 towards the cost of damage of the university property.” The administration has barred Maurya from the campus till he pays the fine, and also scrapped his registration for the winter semester.“Maurya is advised to seek counselling at AUD Ehsaas Clinic for his anger management and submit a report verified by the centre of psychotherapy and clinical research school of human studies for the session attended by him before joining the 2021 monsoon semester,” the university said in its notice. They have also asked for an “apology letter through his parents.”While the university administration claimed Maurya admitted that his actions were due to a “bout of uncontrollable anger”, the student denied it.Elizabeth Alexander, another student of the varsity and an SFI member, said the order would require Maurya to repeat an entire year.The university’s public relations officer said, “He has been found to have defaced the property of the university in the past as well. As his acts were in clear violation of the AUD’s code of discipline for students, he has been fined ₹40,000 which is commensurate with the 50% cost of repairing the defaced property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aud-student-fined-rs-40k-for-defacing-wall-told-to-attend-anger-mgmt-classes-101618163820609.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre flags worsening Covid situation in 8 Punjab districts||The Union health ministry has expressed serious concern over a worsening Covid-19 situation in eight Punjab districts on the basis of reports of its teams stationed in the state and suggested measures to curb the virus spread. In a letter to Punjab principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhusan on Saturday said the state government should take necessary action to tackle the rising number of cases in Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Rupnagar, Mohali and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts. These are among the 50 worst-affected districts in the country, of which 30 are in Maharashtra and 11 in Chhattisgarh. The Union health secretary said the situation in four Punjab districts — Mohali, Ludhiana, Patiala and Rupnagar — was even more worrying. He also underlined that the central teams have also reported lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by the community and suggested stricter ground-level enforcement by the district authorities. The central teams have been tasked to work along with district health authorities on pandemic preparedness and response with focus on testing, contact tracing and containment operations, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and its enforcement, hospital infrastructure and availability of logistics and vaccination progress.There is a need to enhance focus on contact tracing in Patiala and Ludhiana while contact tracing and surveillance in Mohali were hampered due to shortage of manpower, the letter read. Low pace of testing was reported from Patiala, the home district of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, it was said. The Union health secretary said there is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar district and the issue be addressed urgently. “There is no dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Mohali and Rupnagar districts, and patients are being referred to neighboring districts or Chandigarh. Hospital bed occupancy rates in Mohali, Jalandhar, and Ludhiana are on the higher side and suitable arrangements be made with sufficient lead time to prepare for any surge in cases,” he added. The teams also reported issues regarding procurement of ventilators for proper case management in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, he pointed out. “Though ventilators are available in Rupnagar district, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of healthcare workers, particularly doctors and nurses. Contractual hiring of health care workers would go a long way in addressing this,” he claimed. The central teams also reported shortage of staff in Patiala and Mohali. In Patiala and Ludhiana, a slow pace of vaccination was reported among those aged above 45 and with co-morbidities.On Saturday, the Punjab CM had urged the Centre to share the schedule for supply of vaccines with the states over the next quarter based on confirmed orders as Punjab is left with only 5 days of supply. “As many as 98% beds with oxygen support were occupied in Hoshiarpur, the highest among the 8 districts, followed by Mohali at 69%. Also, 89% of ICU beds are occupied in Ludhiana, followed by Mohali (80%) and SBS Nagar (70.6 %). Jalandhar has the highest number of 139 dedicated ambulances for Covid management, followed by Patiala at 57,” the letter further reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-flags-worsening-covid-situation-in-8-punjab-districts-101618173213581.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Adesh Partap Kairon aides holding meets in Khemkaran despite Virsa Singh Valtoha declared SAD candidate||Former cabinet minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s supporters continue to hold meetings in the Khemkaran constituency even as party president Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced the candidature of ex-legislator Virsa Singh Valtoha from the seat last month. Kairon’s close aide Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, who has been holding meetings in villages, claims that the SAD leader’s wife and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s daughter Parneet Kaur Kairon will contest on party ticket from the segment which is the home turf of Valtoha. On Saturday and Sunday, Ghulla visited the constituency’s Valtoha, Bhaini Massa Singh and Rasulpur villages. “Adesh Partap Singh Kairon will resume holding public meetings in the constituency in the days to come. Whatever Kairon has said is his final decision. Come what may, Parneet Kaur will fight the election on party symbol from the seat,” Ghulla told HT over phone.Last month, Kairon, a former MLA from the Patti constituency, held public meetings in Khemkaran villages for two days, saying one of his family members will contest from the segment. But at a party rally at Amarkot village on March 15, Sukhbir snubbed Kairon by announcing Valtoha as party candidate from seat for the 2022 assembly elections.Without naming Kairon, Sukhbir said Akali leaders should stay away from “factionalism” and work for strengthening the party. Valtoha, who has been contesting on party ticket from the constituency since 2007, said the Kairon family was trying to benefit the Congress. “The Kairons have no right to stake claim for the ticket. They should focus on the Patti segment which they have abandoned for the last 4 years. The SAD workers in Patti are feeling dejected,” he said. “The Akali Dal decided to field me from Khemkaran after consultations with party patron Parkash Singh Badal. I will win the seat with a huge margin and the Kairon family’s plan to support the Congress will be exposed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adesh-partap-kairon-aides-holding-meets-in-khemkaran-despite-virsa-singh-valtoha-declared-sad-candidate-101618173033525.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shameful to allow Delhi cops to torture people in Punjab: Sidhu on ‘abduction’ of Sidhana cousin||Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said it was shameful to allow the Delhi Police to abduct and torture Punjab residents in the “territory and jurisdiction of our state”. Reacting to the alleged abduction and torture of a cousin of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in the January 26 Red Fort violence case, the cricketer-turned-politician posted on Twitter, said, “Lessons should be learnt from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who put the CBI behind the bars when they encroached upon her state’s jurisdiction. It violates the Punjab government’s authority. With whose connivance was it done?” Though he did not mention the name of Sidhana or his cousin, his tweet was seen as an indirect attack on his own party’s government.Sukhbir holds Amarinder responsible Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday condemned the alleged abduction and torture of a cousin of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana by the Delhi Police. In a press statement, the SAD leader held Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh responsible for the “atrocities being inflicted on the youth” who had participated in the farmers’ protests. “We want to ask Capt Amarinder why he is allowing the Delhi Police to indulge in such acts. The Delhi cops do not have any jurisdiction in Punjab but Amarinder Singh is allowing them a free hand to conduct raids in the state and arrest youth on flimsy charges. It should be stopped,” he said. “We want you to stand up to protect the rights of the people of Punjab and register a criminal case against the Delhi Police team which abducted and tortured the youth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shameful-to-allow-delhi-cops-to-torture-people-in-punjab-sidhu-on-abduction-of-sidhana-cousin-101618172976037.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster-turned-activist Sidhana’s cousin alleges abduction, torture by Delhi cops; DDR lodged||A cousin of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in the January 26 Red Fort violence case, has alleged abduction and torture by the Delhi Police. Gurdeep Singh (24) along with his friend Gurpreet Singh was allegedly picked by unidentified persons stated to be Delhi cops from near Punjabi University, Patiala, on April 8 evening supposedly to extract information about Sidhana’s whereabouts. They were dropped at Ambala around noon the next day, it was claimed. The Bathinda police on Sunday registered a daily diary report (DDR) in the alleged incident. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said since the alleged crime took place in Patiala, they have intimated their counterparts for further investigation. “A communiqué was sent today on the basis of a statement of Gurdeep Singh. Technically, the alleged incident took place in Patiala, but we are also probing the matter as the patient who is undergoing treatment at the Bathinda civil hospital,” said the SSP. Gurdeep, a law student, went to Patiala from Bathinda’s Sidhana village on April 8 to appear in examination through online mode, it was claimed. On Saturday night, Sidhana and his supporters reached the hospital. “Gurdeep was subjected to severe torture. The Punjab government should intervene against the illegal action of the Delhi Police. The Centre is resorting to such actions to intimidate those spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws,” Sidhana said. Dr Ravinder Singh Ahluwalia, who attended to Gurdeep at the emergency ward, said the patient had blunt injuries and he was out of danger since his admission. It is learnt that there are gaps in Gurdeep’s statement and the police have been asked to look into the same. As per the statement, Gurdeep and his friend were on a motorbike when they were forcibly taken in an SUV. Gurdeep told the police that abductors introduced themselves as Delhi cops who had arrested Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu in the Delhi violence case. Gurpreet was not touched by the alleged abductors, it was claimed. “Why no police complaint was lodged by anyone when he went missing is intriguing. We don’t know why the victim or his family waited for over two days till Saturday night to report the matter. Also, why did Gurdeep travel all the way to Patiala from his village just to appear in online examination,” said a police official. He said the mobile phones of both Gurdeep and Gurpreet will be analysed to gather forensic clues as where they were taken after the alleged abduction. Gurpreet will also be questioned for more details. The police denied that the victim’s family had shared any input of having CCTV footage of the abduction with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangsterturnedactivist-sidhana-s-cousin-alleges-abduction-torture-by-delhi-cops-ddr-lodged-101618172974529.html
12-04-2021||Delhi||Won’t let Khattar enter Badauli village: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will not allow Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to enter Badauli village for an event on April 14. Speaking to the media at Singhu border, Tikait alleged that Khattar was coming to “disrupt the amity” in the area in the garb of unveiling a statue of BR Ambedkar. “We are not against Baba Saheb’s statue, we are against Khattar. Samyukta Kisan Morcha has decided that as long as our protest is on, we are against the CM and the deputy CM. “He is not coming here to unveil the statue, but as per the BJP’s plot, he is coming here to disrupt the amity among people. And we, along with the Khap Panchayat, we will not allow him to do that,” Tikait said. Khattar is scheduled to visit Badauli village in Panipat to unveil a statue of Ambedkar on the occasion of the Dalit icon’s birth anniversary on April 14. “We won’t let him enter the village. If anyone else wants to unveil the statue, they can do it,” Tikait added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wont-let-khattar-enter-badauli-village-rakesh-tikait-101618172613871.html
12-04-2021||Other||Now, Dhankar faces black flags at Kaithal event||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana unit chief OP Dhankar on Sunday faced protests from farmers when he reached Kaithal to attend a programme organised to celebrate the birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar.Amid heavy police deployment and barricading, the farmers showed black flags to the saffron party leader as soon as he arrived at the venue. The agitating farmers also tried to jump the barricades. Police personnel deployed at the spot were seen struggling to contain the crowd but no incidents of violence were reported. BKU (Charuni)’s Kaithal unit president Hoshiar Singh Gill said the farmers will continue to protest against the BJP-JJP leaders till the three “anti-farmer” laws are repealed. Gill also accused the BJP-led state government of trying to divide people on the basis of religion and caste by organising programmes “on the pretext of honouring great personalities like Bhim Rao Ambedkar”.Reacting to the incident, Dhankar said the government has already agreed to make amendments in the three laws, and holding such protests is wrong and will lead to losses for farmers in the long run. “The new laws are not going to have any impact on the minimum support price (MSP) or mandi system. It is wrong to start agitations on flimsy predictions,” he added.The former agriculture minister of Haryana further said the farmers should protest against the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab for not purchasing sugarcane at rates par with Haryana. He also asked the Capt government to procure bajra and mustard on MSP like Haryana.Earlier during an interaction with mediapersons, Dhankar was quizzed about the registration of FIRs against journalists. He replied, “There may be some differences with cops but the courts are open and anybody can go there to get justice.”The minister was joined by minister of state for women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-dhankar-faces-black-flags-at-kaithal-event-101618172493535.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s active cases cross 20K as 3,440 more test positive for Covid-19||As many as 3, 440 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Haryana in the last 24 hours even as 16 others lost their battle to the virus, health department officials said on Sunday. At least 1.13 lakh people were vaccinated against the contagion on the day as per the officials. The infection claimed three lives in Jind, two each in Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Karnal and Ambala, and one each in Gurugram, Hisar and Sirsa.The active cases rose to 20, 981, while the cumulative tally of cases reached 3, 16, 881.As per the health bulletin, Haryana has vaccinated 24.69 lakh people across the state so far, with Gurugram leading the vaccination drive. The district has so far vaccinated 3.28 lakh beneficiaries and is followed by Faridabad (2.70 lakh), Sonepat (1.57 lakh), Ambala (over 2 lakh), Karnal (1.31 lakh), Yamunanagar (1.11 lakh), and Sirsa (1.24 lakh). At 1,084, Gurugram also topped the state in terms of fresh cases, followed by Faridabad with 445 new cases, Sonepat 155, Hisar 177, Ambala 183, Karnal 264, Panipat 110, Panchkula 116, Kurukshetra 194, Yamunanagar 149 and Jind 138. Teeka Utsav Haryana health department set up 1, 627 Covid-19 vaccination centres which administered 1,13,917 vaccine doses to beneficiaries on Sunday, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to observe “Teeka Utsav” from April 11 to 14. Additional chief secretary (ACS-health) Rajeev Arora said the consolidated number of vaccine doses administered till date has risen to 24, 69, 233. He said vaccination centres have been strategically placed in highly populated areas across the state and even in rural areas to ensure maximum penetration of the vaccine. Around 19.90 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries above 45 years till Sunday, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-active-cases-cross-20k-as-3-440-more-test-positive-for-covid19-101618172313663.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||In 3 months, 38 convicted for heinous crimes in Haryana||Thirty eight accused, booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act or for offences such as rape, murder, and under other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, were convicted during the first quarter of 2021 in Haryana. Different trial courts convicted eight accused in January, 18 in February and 12 accused were brought to justice and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment, ranging from five years to life term in March this year. The court had also imposed a fine, ranging between ₹7,500 and ₹55,000, on the convicted persons, a police spokesperson said. In January, one convict was awarded life term, two others were sentenced to 20 years in prison, while four were awarded 10-year jail term and one convict was sent to seven years in jail. During the hearing of cases in February, the trial courts convicted five accused after holding them guilty of rape and molestation and sentenced them to imprisonment ranging from five years to 20 years. One accused was awarded five years’ jail in a kidnapping case and 12 were sentenced to life imprisonment while holding them guilty in murder and dacoity cases, the police said. Police attributed the impressive conviction rate to effective monitoring of cases and evidence gathering by cops investigating such cases. “Police have not only been arresting the accused immediately after the crime is reported, but also ensuring that all such accused are brought to justice through effective presentation of evidence before the courts concerned,” a police spokesperson said. Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has been monitoring the functioning of field staff to ensure ‘effective pairvi’ of cases and conviction of the accused. The establishment of fast-track courts is also proving helpful in this direction, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-3-months-38-convicted-for-heinous-crimes-in-haryana-101618171839449.html
12-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Curfew imposed, internet suspended after riots||A curfew was imposed and internet services were suspended till April 13 in Chhabra town of Rajasthan’s Baran district after nearly a dozen shops and houses were set afire during communal clashes on Sunday, police officials familiar with the matter said.According to police, the riots erupted after two men from the Gujjar community were allegedly stabbed by members of the Muslim community following an argument late on Saturday. The two were admitted to a hospital and are stable, the officials cited above said. After the altercation, the members of the Gujjar community staged a protest at Chhabra police station and also reportedly thrashed a couple of Muslim men, police said. While three persons were arrested in connection with the stabbing case, the protesters demanded the arrest of two more persons.On Sunday, police said, violence erupted after a group of men tried to forcibly close a few shops run by the Muslims.“A curfew has been imposed and police have held a flag march in the riot-hit area. The situation is very tense. Violence by the mob continued for quite some time and we are trying to control the situation,” Baran superintendent of police Vineet Bansal said, adding that both mobile and broadband internet have been suspended in the area till April 13. Even as police used tear gas to disperse the mob, members of the two communities, armed with sticks, iron rods and weapons, continued the rampage till late in the evening, setting ablaze a fire tender and damaging public property, including police and government vehicles, officials said. They added that additional forces were called in and senior officials, including Kota range DIG , have rushed to the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-curfew-imposed-internet-suspended-after-riots-101618169951058.html
12-04-2021||Other||Breastfeeding room at Panipat mini-secretariat a big help for nursing mothers||Set up on the International Women’s Day, the breastfeeding room at the mini-secretariat in Panipat is proving to be a big help for nursing mothers. The room has been set up near the Saral Suvidha Kendra to make it accessible for women who come to avail the various citizen-centric services provided here. The idea of setting up a breastfeeding room was mooted by the staff of the district women and child welfare department. They took up the matter with deputy commissioner (DC) Dharmendra Singh, who readily gave his assent. Ritu Rani, district programme assistant of Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, said, “Earlier, women who wanted privacy while feeding their infants had to do so in the washrooms. This is neither convenient nor hygienic. The breastfeeding room will provide new mothers a clean, safe and private space to feed their babies.” DC Dharmendra Singh said breastfeeding rooms are aimed at making public spaces more accessible to women, especially those who have young children. “Gender parity cannot be achieved unless we make public spaces, including workplaces, safe and convenient for women.” Seema Rani, a migrant labourer who had come to the Saral Kendra with her six-month-old daughter, said, “This is a good initiative by the administration. We cannot leave our children at home. We should be provided a private space for breastfeeding the infants.” While women visiting the mini-secretariat said that similar rooms should be set up at other public spaces, such as railway stations, bus stands and women police stations as well, the Panipat DC said the administration is also exploring the possibility of starting a creche service for employees of the secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/breastfeeding-room-at-panipat-mini-secretariat-a-big-help-for-nursing-mothers-101618171353427.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Parminder Dhindsa condemns Gurdeep Sidhana’s ‘torture’ by Delhi cops||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) leader and Lehra MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa on Sunday condemned the alleged arrest and torture of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh by Delhi Police’s special cell. Dhindsa, who also lashed out at state government, wrote on his Tweeter and Facebook: “The arrest and torture of Gurdeep Singh Sidhana shows how the Union government continues to intimidate its rivals and ordinary citizens by misusing the central agencies. The Punjab government should show some spine and stand up for its people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parminder-dhindsa-condemns-gurdeep-sidhana-s-torture-by-delhi-cops-101618171053452.html
12-04-2021||Other||Two held for assaulting SHO in Jalandhar||Two men have been arrested for assaulting Bargo Camp station house officer (SHO), Bhagwant Singh, after he questioned a group of men violating night curfew orders in the wee hours of Sunday. Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar has constituted a special team under deputy commissioner of police Jagmohan Singh to arrest the absconding culprits.Bhullar added that the SHO informed the control room and senior police officers rushed to the spot and arrested the two men, identified as Manpreet Singh and Kamalpreet Singh. The other two accused, Harmandeep Singh and Avtar Singh, fled the spot. Police said that raids were on to nab them. He added that assaulting an on duty police officer was unwarranted and undesirable and they would ensure a speedy trial to ensure justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-assaulting-sho-in-jalandhar-101618170633492.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 unemployed teachers jump into Bhakra canal, rescued||Two protesting unemployed teachers jumped into the Bhakra canal near Passiana village on the Patiala-Sangrur road on Sunday, but were rescued and by a team of divers stationed at a bridge. Seeking jobs, unemployed BEd, ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers staged protests at three different places in Patiala on Sunday.When the unemployed BEd, ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers were on their way to gherao the chief minister’s residence, police resorted to cane-charge to restrict their movement. Over 100 protestors were detained for a brief period. State president of the Unemployed TET-Pass ETT Teachers’ Union Deepak Kamboj said two of their members protesting near the Bhakra canal bridge jumped into the water body. “They were upset with the government for not paying heed to our demands. Both were rescued,” he said.The unions said they were assured that the chief minister will make a formal announcement for their recruitment anytime soon, but nothing has happened to date.The unemployed TET-ETT teachers are demanding a notification for the recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of teachers and increase in the upper age limit to 42 years.Similarly, the unemployed BEd teachers are demanding a job notification for at least 15,000 posts and unemployment allowance of ₹2,500. Besides, they are asking the government to end the minimum requirement of 55% marks in graduation for backlog posts in the handicap quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-unemployed-teachers-jump-into-bhakra-canal-rescued-101618170513574.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster serving life term dies mysteriously in Hoshiarpur jail||HoshiarpurGangster Mani Partap ‘Amritsariya’, who was undergoing life term at the Hoshiarpur central jail in the murder case of an assistant sub-inspector’s son, died on Sunday morning under “mysterious” circumstances. His family has alleged torture at the hands of the jail staff whereas the prison authorities said 35-year-old Mani complained of stomach ache and he died on way to the civil hospital.Mani’s wife Prabhjit Kaur said her husband spoke to her over the phone around 10.30 pm on Saturday and was sounding good. She said the family was informed in the morning that Mani had died. She alleged that her husband was tortured in the jail at the behest of the ASI whose son was killed in the 2016 incident. She also claimed having transferred ₹35,000 in an account on Saturday as demanded by her husband.“We were not allowed to meet him in the jail but we were in touch on phone,” she said, adding: “He often told us that he was tortured. Even for routine medicine, money was demanded from him. We suspect that the bank account in which he made us transfer the money belonged to a cop.”Jail superintendent Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal refuted the allegations saying a magisterial inquiry will bring out the truth. “The inmate complained of stomach ache between 6 and 6.15am. He was attended by the jail doctor but as he started swooning, he was taken to the civil hospital in an ambulance where he was declared brought dead,” Dhaliwal said.He revealed Mani was lodged in the jail since 2019 when he was convicted for life for the murder ASI’s son 20-year-old Layakdeep Singh, who was shot dead in Amritsar on May 21, 2016. Several criminal cases were pending against Mani, Dhaliwal said. “As he was a high-risk prisoner, he was lodged in a separate cell in the high-security zone. Except for the duty staff, no one was allowed to enter in that cell,” he added.As for the use of cellphone by the gangster, the superintendent said it would have to be probed. “There is very little possibility as we conduct frequent searches, but we will inquire if Mani had access to one,” he said.After the post-mortem was conducted in the presence of a judicial magistrate, Mani’s relatives, accompanied by some local men, staged a protest outside the hospital mortuary and demanded a high-level inquiry into the “suspicious” death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-serving-life-term-dies-mysteriously-in-hoshiarpur-jail-101618170334387.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sonu Sood is Punjab’s brand ambassador for vaccination||Chandigarh Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday named Bollywood actor Sonu Sood as the brand ambassador of the Punjab government for its Covid vaccination programme. The CM made the announcement a day after meeting Sonu. “There is no one more ideally suited to inspire people to take the vaccine. There is a lot of hesitancy among people, Sonu’s popularity and his exemplary role in helping tens of thousands of migrants reach safely home since the pandemic broke out last year, will help counter their reservations,” said the CM. Sonu, who hails from Moga, said he was feeling honoured to be appointed as the brand ambassador for the life-saving vaccine. On the occasion, Sonu presented to the CM his book “I am no Messiah”, which he says captures experiences of his journey from Moga to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonu-sood-is-punjab-s-brand-ambassador-for-vaccination-101618169913404.html
12-04-2021||Other||2 held for stealing LPG cylinders worth ₹3.5 lakh from gas agency in Mumbai||Anticipating another lockdown, two men allegedly stole a tempo filled with liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders to sell them at inflated prices. The two were arrested by Dindoshi police on Saturday before they could sell any of the cylinders. The police recovered over 40 Hindustan Petroleum cylinders worth ₹3.5 lakh from the duo. According to police officers, the two accused – Bhagirathi Sona Ramesh Udhni, 25, and Jagdish Sarne, 38 – used to work at a gas agency. However, during the lockdown last year, the duo lost their jobs. The two had, however, maintained their consumer list. Senior inspector Dhamendra Kimble of Dindoshi police station said that on Saturday the two stole a tempo from Gargi gas agency in Goregaon (East). Kamble said that when the gas agency owner complained to them, they traced the accused through the tempo they had stolen. The two confessed to the crime and said that they were anticipating a total lockdown from next week and wanted to sell the stolen cylinders at ₹3,000- ₹4,000 each. The officers investigating the case said that when the accused worked for at the gas agency, they used to take out at least 1-2kg from each cylinder and fill another empty cylinder with it. They used to then sell that cylinder at inflated prices illegally to shops and establishments without proper licences, and put lives at risk. “We have arrested the two for robbery, dealing in combustible material and committing offence with common intent and cheating,” said Kamble. A local court remanded them to police custody till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-for-stealing-lpg-cylinders-worth-3-5-lakh-from-gas-agency-in-mumbai-101618169913844.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No green assessment for Metro Bhavan; experts seek scrutiny||Despite being located within an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), the Metro Bhavan high-rise in Aarey Colony proposed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) will not be subject to an environment impact assessment (EIA) or public hearing as part of the regulatory process for obtaining environmental clearance (EC), show public documents reviewed by Hindustan Times.The pro forma documents, submitted to the state environment department by MMRDA while seeking EC for the proposed 32-storey skyscraper, also show that the project is being appraised by a state-level authority. Experts and environmentalists alleged this to be in variance with the law which mandates that the project be referred to the Union environment ministry for clearance.“The purpose of demarcating an ESZ is to reduce anthropogenic stress on a protected area. The Metro Bhavan does exactly the opposite. Prima facie, it seems that the project proponent is evading the appropriate level of scrutiny. If sent to the ministry, it will rightly be considered a Category-A project, and impact assessment and public hearing will become mandatory. This could create a hurdle for the MMRDA,” said D Stalin, environmentalist and director, Vanashakti NGO. Stalin has filed three petitions relating to the Aarey dispute in the Supreme Court.ECO-SENSITIVE ZONEThe proposed location of Metro Bhavan (Survey No. 598A, Goregaon East) lies inside a delineated eco-sensitive buffer zone around Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), which was notified by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) in December 2016.“The ecological risks of any project in this area also have to be appraised by the ministry, not the state government,” Stalin added.At the time, MoEFCC had also constituted a monitoring committee to implement and oversee the rules prescribed in the ESZ notification. The committee’s tasks include making recommendations on proposed changes in land use, regulating vehicular movement within the ESZ, reporting violations to the ministry, among others.The ministry, in December 2016, had stated that any permissible activities under the Environment Impact Assessment Notification (2006), if proposed within the buffer zone of SGNP, “shall be scrutinised by the monitoring committee based on the actual site-specific conditions and referred to the Central government... for prior environmental clearances under the provisions of the said notification.”“It is necessary to conserve and protect the area around the Sanjay Gandhi National Park as Eco-sensitive Zone from ecological and environmental point of view and to prohibit industries or class of industries... in the said ESZ,” states the ministry’s notification, a copy of which is available online.However, MMDRA referred their Metro Bhavan project — proposal SIA/MH/MIS/188820/2020 on PARIVESH, a single-window online portal for processing environmental and CRZ clearances — to the state environment department on December 17, 2020.Two regulatory bodies under the department — an expert appraisal committee (EAC) and an environment impact assessment authority — have since considered the proposal on February 17 and February 26 this year. HT had reported the development on March 7. Available minutes of their meetings do not reflect any instruction to refer the matter to the Centre.“This is a deviation from the law. MoEFCC’s guidelines are very clear on what the protocol is. The ministry should ask the environment department to explain why they are appraising a proposal which is evidently not in their jurisdiction,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust.At least two senior officials in the MMRDA did not respond to a detailed request for comment. HT also contacted a deputy engineer with MMRDA, who is closely involved with the project, but they declined to speak.In a response to HT last month, MMRDA had said, “Metro Bhavan is a permissible activity as per MoEF notification of December 2016. Permission of monitoring committee is essential as the subject plot is under ESZ. Application for accord of permission of monitoring committee submitted.”Two monitoring committee members, including honorary wildlife warden Mayur Kamath and SGNP’s chief conservator of forests G Mallikarjuna, said they have not received such a proposal. When asked whether the Centre’s nod was mandatorily required for this project, committee members said they would follow the instructions of the ESZ notification when the matter comes to them.Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment, in a text message to HT said, “As of now, we have deferred the matter for several compliances including land use. The matter will be heard on merits once all compliances are submitted.”ECOLOGICAL RISKSMMRDA officials also did not respond to queries anddeclined to comment on the ecological impact of the project.Experts, on the other hand, emphasised that Metro Bhavan will pose a major flood risk in the immediate vicinity. The earmarked two-hectare plot lies within the catchment of Oshiwara river and is riven by a perennial stream that carries storm-water out of Aarey Colony and into the river which flows onward to Malad Creek.“Besides being located in a known leopard habitat, the project site also has a tributary of the Oshiwara river. Concretising the area around it will worsen flooding downstream in Mumbai’s suburbs,” said Sanjiv Valsan, organiser with Save Aarey movement and a resident of the area.Aslam Saiyad, an environmentalist who has been documenting Mumbai’s rivers over last five years, added that concretising two hectares of forest land here may divert runoff onto the Western Express Highway in Goregaon, creating a major traffic bottleneck during heavy rains.In addition to waterlogging, experts also expressed concerns over the building’s proximity to SGNP, which lies 3kms east of the proposed project site. Public documents show that MMRDA also plans to build a helipad atop Metro Bhavan at a height of 156 metres, along with parking for 365 vehicles and a capacity to house around 8,000 people.“This level of human activity, especially development of aviation infrastructure, will put an incredible amount of pressure on the surrounding forest. Not to mention all the pollution that will be caused during the construction phase. Solid waste, sewage, construction dust and vehicular emissions in the area will go up exponentially. How can one allow this so close to a known wildlife habitat,” asked Stalin.ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PLANAs per the documents reviewed by HT, MMRDA has categorised Metro Bhavan as a Category-B2 project under the EIA (2006), which means it will be cleared at the state-level and is also exempted from a public hearing and impact assessment.Category-A projects are those requiring clearance from the Centre following conditions, while Category-B1 projects are cleared at the state level after EIA compliances. B2 project are required to produce only an environment management plan (EMP) which is less intensive, logistically and financially.According to Zaman Ali — a lawyer who has litigated on several environmental matters before the Bombay high court and the western bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) — there is a specific condition under EIA 2006 which states that if any category-B project which falls within 5 kms of Protected Areas such as a national park or wildlife sanctuary, it mandatorily requires an appraisal by MoEFCC.“If this is allowed in this manner, the Metro Bhavan project will have a cascading effect on land use change in the area. Other builders will then apply for permission for more commercial projects in and around Aarey. The location is clearly avoidable since MMRDA has enough vacant plots in centrally located areas such as their home node BKC,” said Ali.Following rules for Category-B2 projects, MMRDA has allocated a capital expenditure of ₹351.5 lakh or 0.03% of the ₹972-crore budget toward EMP for Metro Bhavan.As per the MoEFCC’s EIA Notification, an EMP comprises “all mitigation measures... to be undertaken during the construction, operation and the entire life cycle to minimise adverse environmental impacts as a result of the activities of the project. It would also delineate the environmental monitoring plan for compliance of various environmental regulations. It will state the steps to be taken in case of emergency such as accidents at the site including fire.”Of the funds, ₹150 lakh will be spent on landscaping, ₹96 lakh on solar power infrastructure, ₹70 lakh on sewage treatment plants, ₹8 lakh on waste management and ₹7.5 lakh on rainwater harvesting equipment. In addition to this, MMRDA will incur an annual recurring cost of ₹39 lakh for operation and maintenance of this infrastructure.But, in another alleged deviation from protocol, MMRDA’s EMP does not include a detailed monitoring plan to ensure its own compliance. It does not prescribe any budget for “adverse environmental impacts” such as air pollution or human-animal conflict. Moreover, it does not allocate any fund toward regular environmental audits, as required under the EIA Notification.“Things like waste management, landscaping, rainwater harvesting... these are expected of any construction project today. So much so, they are built into the Bureau of Indian Standard’s National Building Code. It appears MMRDA has passed off routine expenses as part of its EMP,” said Stalin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaino-green-assessment-for-metro-bhavan-experts-seek-scrutiny-101618169792952.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Navy employee arrested for selling railway tickets illegally||Wadala Railway Police Force (RPF) arrested a tradesman mate of the Indian Navy on Saturday for booking e-tickets and tatkal tickets illegally for a commission of ₹200 each.According to officers of the anti-tout squad (ATS) of RPF, the accused has been identified as Parej Prabhakar Pimpol, 35. DH Patil, inspector, Wadala RPF, said ATS arrested Pimpol from GTB Nagar station when he was waiting for a railway clerk to hand over the tickets he had booked illegally. Pimpol was arrested with 13 e-tickets worth ₹35,693.Officials said that Pimpol had joined the Indian Navy in 2016 and was working as a tradesman mate. A few months later, the Railways had given a Passenger Reservation Centre at Navy Nagar to the Navy and asked their men to run it for Navy ticket bookings. A tradesman mate is usually employed to work in the production and maintenance section of the dock, ship or submarine. As Pimpol knew how to operate a computer, he was given training by a Railways clerk named Vinod Kumar for three days. After the training, Kumar allegedly told Pimpol to book tickets illegally for commuters who were ready to pay ₹200 for each tatkal ticket which Pimpol did from his personal mobile phone and user IDs.“On Saturday, when Pimpol went to GTB Nagar railway station to hand over the e-tickets to Kumar, he was caught by RPF ATS,” said Patil. On searching his bag, the police found a diary where Pimpol had written his user IDs and other details of passengers whose tickets he had booked through tatkal.The police are now in the process to question Kumar. They are also trying to find out whether more Navy personnel or tradesman mates are involved in illegal ticket booking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-navy-employee-arrested-for-selling-railway-tickets-illegally-101618169733887.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab gets stock of 4 lakh doses, begins vaccination at workplaces||Punjab began vaccination for all those eligible in the current phase of the immunisation drive at their workplaces after receiving fresh stock of 4 lakh Covishield doses from the Centre on Sunday.To rapidly immunise eligible beneficiaries amid the second wave of infection, the health department launched over 100 mobile vans across all the districts, which will visit government and private workplaces with at least 50 eligible and interested beneficiaries. The Covid-19 vaccinations at private workplaces will be a paid service with the price capping of ₹250 per dose while sessions at government offices organised by district health authorities will be free of cost.“Most of the people above the age of 45 are working in the organised sector and they were facing roblems to take a day off from their work to get vaccinated. Also, many big industries, government offices and private firms have more than 100 employees who can be vaccinated easily under one roof. As the state began anti-covid vaccination at workplace in all the districts from Sunday, the workplace authorities and owners can now consult the officials of the district health department and demand a mobile van at their place,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19.The workplace owners, both private and government, will have to submit names of at least 50 willing and eligible beneficiaries to call mobile vans at their workplaces. Any eligible employee of that workplace, even if not included in the list of 50, can avail the facility from the mobile van at his workplace. The management of the office, however, will be responsible for arranging rooms and space for inoculation.Dr Bhaskar added, “Besides workplace, people can also call vaccination mobile vans at their residential areas if there is the required number of willing beneficiaries. In that case, a vaccination camp will be set up at a particular place in that residential area and eligible beneficiaries will be allowed to take the jab. This initiative will help shun hesitancy as people will not have to visit faraway vaccination centres or hospitals and will not need to stand in long queues.”Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts have already started vaccinating people at their workplaces earlier this month, according to the health department.“As the state has received fresh stock of 4 lakh doses, we can expand our vaccination drive and can achieve our target of vaccinating maximum people,” Dr Bhaskar said, adding that the state has ordered more 10 lakh doses of the vaccine from the Centre, which are expected to arrive soon.66,585 get jabs on Day 1 of ‘Tika Utsav’The state health department administered the first dose of vaccine to 66,585 eligible beneficiaries on Sunday, the first day of the nationwide “Tika Utsav”. Also, 2,544 people were administered a second dose of their vaccine cycle on Sunday. Till now, the state has inoculated 16.91 lakh people of which 1.5 lakh have completed their vaccination process after taking second dose. “We are aiming to inoculate over 2 lakh people daily. Tika Utsav and vaccination at workplaces will help us to achieve our target,” Dr Bhaskar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-gets-stock-of-4-lakh-doses-begins-vaccination-at-workplaces-101618169733427.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: First-time home buyers||Home loan rates are at an all-time low, thus, prompting many people to invest in their choice of properties. The sops included in the Union Budget 2019 for first-time home buyers include a host of tax benefits, under Section 80C, Section 24 and Section 80EEA of the Income Tax Act 1961. This adds up to ₹5 lakh of tax benefits every year as opposed to the misconception that tax benefits do not exceed ₹1.5 lakh. Here’s what each section offers. Section 80C: This is one of the most popular and sought after sections among Indian taxpayers as it allows the benefits of reducing taxable income by ₹1.5 lakh every year from their income. The benefit of this section that can be availed by individuals and Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs) only includes the principal amount repaid towards home loan among other eligible investments for tax deduction purposes. Section 24: This section is of great interest to home loan borrowers as it allows deduction of up to ₹2 lakh on home loan interest provided the property bought is self-occupied by the borrower and his/her family. However, the total interest amount is written off as a deduction if the property is let out on rent. Section 80EEA: This new section introduced to boost the ‘Housing for All by 2022’ programme of the Indian government allows home loan borrowers to seek an additional ₹1.5 lakh deduction every year over and above the ₹2 lakh deduction enjoyed under Section 24. Since Section 80EEA was introduced to encourage people investing in property for the first time, the benefits under this section cannot be claimed by those who already own a property. Besides, borrowers may seek loan only from recognised financial institutions including commercial banks and housing finance companies, for a property whose stamp duty value does not exceed ₹45 lakh. The loan for the property must be sought between April 01, 2019 and March 31, 2022. Let’s take an example The principal and interest components of the home loan equated monthly instalments are likely to change every year. So, it makes sense to be aware of the loan repayment break up well in advance for better tax planning. Let us assume that you have purchased a property worth ₹50 lakh for which you have secured a home loan to the tune of ₹40 lakh. Many banks and finance houses are offering loans at interest rates as low as 6.7%. You may choose to avail the loan at fixed rates or floating rates depending on your convenience and ease of payment. Assuming that the loan has been sought for 20 years, the total interest payable on the loan would be equal to ₹32,70,985, thus, taking the total repayable amount to ₹72,70,985. The yearly instalment repayable would be ₹3,63,549. A breakup of the instalment would yield ₹2,65,011 as interest paid on the loan in the first year while ₹98,539 would be towards the principal repayment in the first year itself. Irrespective of your earnings every year, you can claim ₹98,539 (principal paid) deduction under Section 80C. The remaining ₹51,461 of the total amount of ₹1.5 lakh, which this section permits you to seek tax benefit, can be claimed under the same section from the stamp duty payment. However, deduction on stamp duty payment is valid only for the first year. Out of the total interest paid during the first year [to use the same example as above, ₹2,65,011], you can claim ₹2 lakh tax deduction under Section 24 if the property is self-occupied. The remaining interest payment of ₹65,011 can be claimed under Section 80EEA of the Act. However, if you have given out the property on rent, you can claim deduction on the entire interest amount paid in the first year under Section 24 of the Act. This way, you have benefited from the total tax deduction of ₹3,63,549 in the first year of taking the loan. Joint home loans The Income Tax benefit rules for first time home buyers remain the same even in the case of joint home loans, i.e., home loans taken jointly by husband and wife or by parent and child or by siblings. The benefit of deductions cannot be more than the amount paid towards the loan. This means that for a self-occupied property, one spouse can claim a tax deduction benefit of ₹2, 00,000 under Section 24 while the other can seek deduction up to the remaining amount of ₹65, 011 under the same section. When it comes to seeking tax deduction on the principal amount [ ₹98,539 in this example], one of the partners can either claim full exemption or both the partners can split the amount to claim a deduction depending on how they plan their taxes. This means that either one of the partners in the loan can claim a deduction of ₹98,539 under Section 80C or both the partners can split the principal amount to claim a deduction as per their tax planning. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-first-time-home-buyers-101618169673648.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||59 deaths, 3,116 new Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab reported 59 more coronavirus deaths on Sunday while 3,116 fresh cases took the infection tally to 2,72,772, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has killed 7,507 people in the state. The number of active cases, however, dropped marginally from 28,015 on Saturday to 27,874. Nine people died in Amritsar, seven each in Ludhiana and Sangrur, six in Hoshiarpur and five in Jalandhar, according to the bulletin. Ludhiana saw the maximum 530 infections, followed by 423 in Mohali, 274 in Amritsar, 260 in Patiala and 252 in Bathinda.A total of 3,121 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,37,391, as per the bulletin.There are 43 critical patients on ventilator while 342 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 63,46,316 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.District and sessions judge tests +ve in Patiala Patiala: District and sessions judge Rajinder Aggarwal tested positive for coronavirus hours after holding the National Lok Adalat on Saturday. Civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said Aggarwal had mild fever in the evening following which the test was conducted. “His report came out to be positive and is presently under home isolation,” the civil surgeon said. During the lok adalat, Aggarwal met a number of people and Punjab and Haryana high court judge Justice Rajan Gupta, who is the administrative judge of the Patiala sessions divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/59-deaths-3-116-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-101618169553455.html
12-04-2021||Other||Modified DBT for wheat procurement to run into procedural hassles in Punjab||Punjab’s decision to implement the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system of transferring the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for wheat directly into farmers’ accounts is likely to run into hiccups. The state food department faces the task of streamlining bank accounts of 12.5 lakh farmers. There could be chaotic scenes and slow progress, even as procurement started on Saturday (April 10).“This is a first for us and for implementation, several new procedures have to be designed. Account detail of each farmer has to be verified. For this, we are seeking support from the National Payment Corporation of India (NCPI),” said a general manager rank officer of the state food and civil supplies department, adding that confirmation of the NCPI will take a few days and payment was likely to be delayed. Rules, however, stipulate, that payment must be done within 48 hours after procurement. This year, 130 lakh tonne wheat is expected to be procured, for which 3,700 mandis have been set up, as 50% (1,850) have been added to ensure covid norms can be followed. Farmers have been issued tokens to bring produce in a scattered manner. Wheat arrival was negligible on the second day on Sunday, practically the first day of procurement, as arhtiyas were on strike against the DBT on Saturday.Arhtiyas called off their strike after CM Capt Amarinder Singh ordered steps to ensure their continued involvement in the procurement process. He also ordered release of ₹131 crore of their dues, without waiting for the money to come from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). The state food department is in the process of amending the payment software, Public Finance Management System (PFMS), so that the arhtiyas will continue to be involved in the process of release of payments to farmers, in a modified manner. MASTER TRAINERS TRAINED The department is in process of training master trainers in all 22 districts, who will then train users of PFMS. “The system needs to be updated to bring in arhtiyas’ role in the procurement system,” said an officer. Food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhusuan Ashu said, “The new system is complicated, for which training is on. Things would be under control soon.” The Punjab Mandi Board has issued contact numbers of the State Control Room set up at its headquarters in Mohali. The numbers have been made operational in all 22 districts. Board chairman Lal Singh said health protocols and social distancing measures would be followed to check Covid-19. He added that farmers must download ‘epmb mobile app’ of the Mandi Board to get e-passes for wheat procurement. Farmers and arthiyas are to contact secretary, market committee, for any issue related to procurement. In case, their problem was not resolved, they can contact their respective district control room numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/modified-dbt-for-wheat-procurement-to-run-into-procedural-hassles-in-punjab-101618169496504.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Pvt hosps can set up vax camps in private offices: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will now allow private hospitals to set up Covid-19 vaccination camps at private offices too. Also, starting Monday, vaccination at 62 private hospitals, which was suspended on Friday owing to shortage of vaccine doses, will resume in the city. The BMC on Friday had announced complete closure of all private hospitals acting as vaccination centres owing to shortage of vaccines in the city. The shortage of vaccines was reflecting on the ground since last Tuesday when several private hospitals could not vaccinate owing to shortage of vaccines. Speaking on tie-up with private offices, Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department said, “We will give permissions to private hospitals to tie up with offices having over 100 employees to set up vaccination camps there. This will help us cover maximum citizens in the permitted age group.” This is in line with Central government’s guidelines, civic officials said. Dr Gomare added, “There will be a set of protocols to be followed by private hospitals like having doctors and an emergency vehicle in case of adverse effect. The whole process will be done as per the guidelines issues by the government from time to time.” Further, according to the BMC, 62 private hospitals out of the total 71 have made the purchase for vaccines on Sunday and will restart the drive on Monday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Overall, 235,000 doses were received. From Monday onwards, we will start vaccination at most private hospitals.” On Thursday, 25 private vaccination centres were shut owing to the shortage that went up to over 50 by Friday. On Friday, several government facilities also ran out of vaccine doses due to which over 50% vaccination centres were shut in the city. Overall, in the city, there are 120 vaccination centres and till now 1,635,372 citizens have been vaccinated. Of these, 257,675 are health care workers, 278,841 are frontline workers, 658,373 are citizens above the age of 60 years, and 440,843 are citizens between the ages of 45 and 59.In Dharavi, the former hotspot of the city, the BMC vaccinated 360 citizens on Sunday. Meanwhile, overall, on Sunday, 33,256 citizens were vaccinated, of which 580 were health care workers, 1,149 were front line workers, 7,290 were senior citizens above the age of 60 years and 24,237 were between the age of 45 and 59. On an average, in the city, around 50,000 citizens are vaccinated daily, but the daily average dipped due to shortage of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pvt-hosps-can-set-up-vax-camps-in-private-offices-bmc-101618169253724.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 63K cases, its highest 1-day spike||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded its highest one-day spike with 63,294 new Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 349 fatalities on Sunday. With more than half of April 2021 still to go, Maharashtra has already recorded more than 5 lakh cases, with 594,179 cases recorded between April 1 and 11. This is close to the caseload recorded in March when the state saw 657,910 new Covid-19 cases. Since April 1, the state has been recording upwards of 40,000 cases and more than 200 deaths (except April 5) every day. Between April 1 and 10, the state recorded 2,710 deaths. The state’s tally is 3,407,245 cases and 57,987 fatalities. Maharashtra had entered 2021 with a huge drop in cases compared to the previous three months. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the state had recorded 487,519 infections.On Sunday, Mumbai also recorded 9,986 cases and 79 fatalities. The city, which has been a major contributor to the increasing number of cases recorded daily, and has recorded 520,498 total cases and 12,023 deaths to date. The state has 565,587 active cases, of which Pune has more than a lakh active cases, followed by Mumbai, which has 91,100 active cases. The state has a recovery rate of 81.65% and 34,008 recoveries were also recorded on Sunday. Owing to the increasing number of cases, of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, there are no beds available in close to 12 districts, a statement issued by the chief minister’s office stated. Of 20,252 ICU beds, 75% are occupied while 40% of 67,000 oxygen beds are also occupied in the state. Amid the grim surge, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been chairing meetings to impose stricter curbs in the state for a likely duration of at least two weeks. On Saturday, Thackeray said, “In last year’s lockdown, people were at home. Hence, tracing patients and most of their contacts was easier. Now, everything has opened up. There are practical difficulties in doing so.” He further said, “To break the Covid transmission chain, it is imperative that strict restrictions must be imposed for a certain period of time. The first priority will be given to saving lives. If this is a public health emergency, then the priority will be health of citizens and their lives.”Currently, besides a complete lockdown on weekends, the state government has imposed a strict night curfew of 11 hours and a prohibition of gatherings of more than five people during the day. It has also announced shutting down of shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities, restaurants, eateries, malls, theatres, multiplexes and religious places.Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) crossed the 1-lakh-cases mark on Sunday, with fresh 2,552 cases recorded on Saturday. The civic body recorded the highest spike of Covid-19 cases since the pandemic. The total number of cases recorded in KDMC is 101,857.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-63k-cases-its-highest-1-day-spike-101618169192814.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha 1st state to administer over 10mn doses||Days since the Centre-state feud over vaccine shortage broke out, more than 1,000 centres across the state have been shut and there has been a drop of 73% in the number of doses administered. However, amid the war of words, Maharashtra has become the first state to administer more than 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine. It has administered 10,038,421 doses till Sunday morning, highest in the country so far, said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. In a text reply to HT, N Ramaswamy, commissioner, national health commission, said the state received 743,280 doses of vaccine on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday, it received 877,890 doses and is expected to receive another 522,110 doses on Monday. On April 6, a day before health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was facing a shortage, Maharashtra had administered 388,071 vaccine doses across 4,239 centres. However, the numbers dropped to 282,944 doses in 2,849 centres on Saturday, as per data released by the health department on Sunday morning. Many vaccination centres started closing down starting April 8, as the doses exhausted.In a press conference earlier this week, Tope said the Centre is expected to supply 17 lakh doses post-April 15. Deputy chief minister, Ajit Pawar, on Saturday, also said the situation will be normal in the coming days. Maharashtra is aiming to administer 6 lakh doses per day and has been demanding 40 lakh doses per week from the Centre. On Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state aims to increase vaccination coverage amid an increasing number of cases.He said, “Increasing vaccination coverage is the need of the hour. The youth must be vaccinated. Pfizer is planning to vaccinate adolescents between 12 and 15 years of age.” In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Thackeray also demanded opening vaccination for all above 25 years of age. On Sunday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) spokesperson and minister for minority affairs Nawab Malik questioned the BJP’s alleged free distribution of Remdesvir in Gujarat. He tweeted, “There is shortage of Remdesvir in the country and the BJP is distributing it for free in its office in Gujarat. Is this is not politicisation?” BJP leader and leader of opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar, however, released a statement saying the state government must concentrate on strengthening its own healthcare before commenting on other states. “This is not a battle between two governments. This is a battle against Covid-19. Instead of wasting time in political commentary, the state must strengthen its healthcare system,” Darekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-1st-state-to-administer-over-10mn-doses-101618169132937.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Road accident: ₹31.5L relief for Zirakpur family||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has awarded compensation of ₹31.51 lakh to the family of a Zirakpur man, who died in 2017, after a speeding car hit his motorcycle.The deceased, Ramveer Singh, used to run a travel agency.Sarita, the deceased’s widow, and her three children had filed a claim petition against the driver of the car, Chaukas Singh from Dera Bassi, the car’s owner, Gurmeet from Ambala and insurer Iffco-Tokio General Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh.The petition stated that on October 13, 2017, Ramveer was going from his house to D-Mart, Zirakpur, on a motorcycle. In front of the Magnesia Office in Zirakpur, a speeding Tata Indica car hit his motorcycle from behind, leaving him grievously injured.“The driver of the car stopped his car and came out, but on seeing Ramveer seriously injured, he ran from the spot,” the petition added.He succumbed to his injuries two days later. Following his death, the claim petition was filed.In their written statement, Chaukas Singh and Gurmeet denied the accident and said that the FIR registered was false. The insurer claimed that the car’s driver was not holding a valid driving license at the time of the alleged accident and hence, there being breach of insurance policy, and it is under no obligation to indemnify the insured.After hearing the arguments, the MACT directed the insurance company to pay ₹31.51 lakh to the family within two months from the date of order, along with interest @ 6% per annum from the date of filing of the petition.Sarita will get 55% of the total compensation amount, while the children will get 15% each in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-accident-31-5l-relief-for-zirakpur-family-101618168473298.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Five of Haryana gang held for firing in Chandigarh||After making two arrests, police have managed to nab the remaining three men who vandalised vehicles and opened fire at Sector 38 (West) on the morning of April 8. They belong to a Haryana-based gang, said the police. While Raj Kumar, 24, of Dadumajra and Abhishek, 23, from Sector 25 were nabbed earlier, the other three accused arrested later are Monu alias Marodi, 24, also from Sector 25, Mukesh alias Gullu, 25, and Harshdeep, 26, both from Haryana’s Gohana. They were caught on Saturday and the weapon used in firing was also recovered. Monu is also involved in 20 other cases, the police said. The members of the gang from Sonepat’s Gohana, the police said, were previously named in murder, highway robbery and attempt to murder cases. Upon interrogation, the accused confessed that they had planned to extend their influence in Chandigarh by spreading terror and conspired to extort money from patriwalas, meat sellers and shopkeepers. Immediately after this incident, they had returned to Haryana to execute another murder, the cops said. Besides the countrymade pistol used on April 8, the police have also recovered two similar guns and a sword. The complainant, Davinder of Sector 38 (west), had said that at least five inebriated persons, who were in a white Mahindra Scorpio bearing a Haryana registration number, smashed the windscreens of his Tata Safari and his neighbour’s Maruti Zen. The vehicles were parked outside their houses.Closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage showed two suspects carrying a stick and a sword, while another was pelting stones at the vehicles.A case under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence commit­ted in prosecution of common object), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered initially, while Section 307 (attempt to murder) and provisions under the Arms Act were added to the FIR later. The accused were produced in a court on Sunday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-of-haryana-gang-held-for-firing-in-chandigarh-101618168353317.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||U-17 football league: Minerva Academy FC emerge champions||Minerva Academy FC (MAFC) won the Namdhari Under-17 Football League organised by the Namdhari Football Academy held recently. MAFC beat Chandigarh Football Academy (CFA) 1-0 in their last league match to emerge on top of the table. Before locking horns with each other, both the teams were tied at 13 points. On their way to clinch the title, MAFC outplayed Sri Dashmesh Academy in their first match. Thereafter, they beat Kick Football Academy, drew with FC Malerkotla and defeated Namdhari FC (B). In the next match, MAFC lost to Namdhari FC (A) but were still table-toppers. MAFC’s Himanshu Jangra bagged the best striker award for scoring eight goals in the tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u17-football-league-minerva-academy-fc-emerge-champions-101618168175662.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s public transport needs an overhaul: Study||Chandigarh, the city with highest density of vehicle ownership in the country and plagued with severe parking problems, needs to go for a major overhaul of its public transport system. A report by CEPT University, Ahmedabad, which was instituted by the Chandigarh transport department under the World Bank-sponsored Intelligent Transport System project, has highlighted major weaknesses in the city’s public transport. With only 11% population regularly using the bus service, nearly 80% Chandigarh Transport Undertaking buses, on an average, run vacant. “The load factor (bus seat capacity being occupied) of the service is around 22%, which is much lower than the desired range of 65-75%,” states the report, which was submitted to the administration in March. One of the reasons is the low trust on the system. “On an average 8% trips are cancelled daily without any prior information,” states the report after a year-long survey of the Chandigarh’s public transport system that was undertaken before Covid-19 restrictions were imposed in 2020. The report also notes that the public transport is highly centralised with most routes originating at interstate bus terminals in Sectors 17 and 43 or at the PGIMER, and only 45% of the city covered. “Concentration of routes on some corridors in the city leads to oversupply and also creates confusion for occasional passengers,” reads the report. Low frequencyAround 66% of 3.1 lakh daily trips in the city are performed by intermediate public transport (IPT), such as autos. However, even their frequency is low, leading to high dependency on private vehicles, notes the report. “The frequency of IPT is also very low, around 10 minutes, and fare levels are around 33-55% higher for trip lengths greater than 3km,” it says. The report states that CTU buses are being underutilised, with the average being 187km on weekdays, which is below the benchmark of 200km per bus on road daily for urban bus service. “Not surprisingly, against an operating revenue of ₹11.56 crore, the operating cost for CTU in 2017-2018 was ₹23.85 crore. The situation worsened in 2018-2019, with revenue at ₹14.17 crore and the cost increasing to ₹26.98 crore,” states the report. PPP model neededThe report has suggested involvement of private operators in running and managing public transport through public private partnership (PPP) model.“Chandigarh would require about a total of 420 to 1,000 buses depending on the level of service (LOS) targeted. As per the central benchmarks, cities should have a minimum of 0.4 buses per 1,000 population as LOS-1. Currently, 330 buses, ie 0.17 buses per 1,000 population, are operated by the CTU,” states the study. To improve accessibility, an average distance between stops is taken as 350-400 metre within developed areas, and Chandigarh needs 84 more bus stops to achieve that, says the report. The bus network has to cover 90% of the city, so that the service is available within 5-7 minutes of walking distance to everyone. Also, a minimum frequency of three to four buses per hour is needed at a stop. The study has also called for rationalisation of bus fares, ranging from ₹5 for up to 2km to ₹25 for more than 10km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-public-transport-needs-an-overhaul-study-101618168174134.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to get additional water supply by July 31: GMADA||After eight years, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) has finally set a deadline of July 31 for the additional supply of five million gallon daily (MGD) water from phases 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks.The previous deadline of the project was December 2020, but it was delayed due to the pandemic.Mohali is short of 10 MGD water and the demand shoots up to 12 MGD in summers.Gmada chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “The construction work of water treatment plant, which is coming up at Mohali’s Singhpur, is in full swing. We have set a deadline of July 31 and on the same day, Mohali residents will get additional five MGD water.”The construction of the plant has already been delayed owing to the indecision over capacity (whether to build it for five MGD or 20 MGD). Gmada has now decided to go with the second option. The project, which is being developed by a Vadodara-based company, will cost ₹100 crore. Chandigarh, meanwhile, has already started receiving its additional 35 MGD water under phases 5 and 6.Acute shortageFor the past several years, Mohali has been reeling under acute water shortage as the gap between demand and supply in the city stretches up to 10 MGD.MC councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, who had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court regarding shortage of water in Mohali, said, “The project has been delayed due to lackadaisical attitude of the officials concerned. It is unfortunate that the public had to suffer for years due to shortage of water.”In May 2012, Gmada had started laying pipelines to supply 80 MGD water to Mohali and Chandigarh from Kajauli waterworks at a cost of ₹200 crore, half of which was borne by Chandigarh.Presently, Mohali gets 10 MGD water from Kajauli waterworks and 10 MGD from 75 tubewells. Kajauli waterworks is located on Bhakra mainline canal near Morinda in Rupnagar district from where water requirement of Chandigarh, Mohali and Chandimandir are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-to-get-additional-water-supply-by-july-31-gmada-101618168054040.html
12-04-2021||Other||Waive Aadhaar card rule for vaccinating inmates: Maharashtra prison dept to state||The Maharashtra prison department has written to the state government, requesting that the mandatory Aadhaar card rule be waived for vaccination. The department has claimed that over 517 inmates lodged across various jails in the state are foreign nationals and do not have Aadhaar cards and should instead be allowed to avail a vaccine shot by showing their passport. As per data released by the National Crime Records Bureau, till December 2019, the state had 517 foreign inmates (51 convicts and 466 undertrials), of which 408 are males and 109 females. The Arthur Road jail (Mumbai Central), Byculla women’s prison, Thane jail, Taloja Central Jail, Kalyan Adharwadi jail and Yerwada Central Jail (Pune) alone have more than 250 foreign inmates. These inmates are mostly from Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nigeria and other African countries, as well as from the Middle East and South America. “We have written to the state government about the issues over making Aadhaar card mandatory for vaccination. We have requested to waive the rule off for prisoners across Maharashtra, irrespective of their nationality,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (ADG) of police (prison), said. A jail officer from Maharashtra jail has claimed that the only documents foreign inmates have is a passport. “The passport is the valid document through which they came to India. They submit the passport in court after they are arrested. The government should allow passports as documents for vaccination. Our aim is to vaccinate every prisoner and keep them safe from the virus,” said the officer. Sources from Maharashtra prison department said that even many Indian inmates do not possess an Aadhaar card. The vaccination process across the prisons in the state for inmates above 60 years and above and then for those in the 45-59 age group began last month as per the central government guidelines. “But this is merely 10% of the inmates. Many jails are overcrowded and the government should set up different guidelines for jails,” said a prison department source. “Moreover, inmates are taken to hospital for vaccination everyday. We need staff to guard the inmates on a regularly for the purpose. If the vaccination drive is started at jails, it would be a safer for guards as well as the inmates,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waive-aadhaar-card-rule-for-vaccinating-inmates-maharashtra-prison-dept-to-state-101618168052700.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar admitted to Mumbai hospital||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday afternoon admitted to Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai, as he is scheduled to undergo a gallbladder surgery the next day. Pawar, 80, was discharged from the hospital eight days ago after undergoing a medical procedure.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb has been admitted to Breach Candy Hospital and as informed earlier, a surgery will be performed tomorrow to address his gall bladder ailment,” tweeted NCP’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik.The veteran leader was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder. On March 30, he underwent an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage, immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis).The former Union minister was discharged from the hospital on April 3 and was expected to be admitted again for the surgery within a fortnight. He was advised for week-long rest by the doctors as there was swelling in his pancreas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sharad-pawar-admitted-to-mumbai-hospital-101618167992696.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid tally drops to 818||In some respite, the daily Covid-19 cases saw a 35% dip from the peak of 1,280 recorded on Friday, as 818 people tested positive across the tricity on Sunday. The tricity had reported 1,000+ cases for three consecutive days, with the past five days accounting for 5,245 or nearly 7% of the total 77,036 cases reported since the outbreak last March. Chandigarh recorded 402 cases on Sunday, followed by 300 in Mohali district and 116 in Panchkula.Meanwhile, three men succumbed in Chandigarh, taking its death toll to 399. They were aged 46, 63 and 73 and belonged to Khajeri, Sector 41 and Sector 45, respectively. All were suffering from underlying medical conditions.As many as 30,743 people have tested positive so far in the UT, of whom 27,037 (87.9%) have recovered. The number of active cases stands at 3,307, which is highest since the outbreak.Mohali district reported a record number of recoveries with 556 patients being discharged on Sunday, which took the total to 26,214 (83.4%). Meanwhile, four more people died, taking the toll to 477. The district has reported 31,440 cases so far, of which 4,749 are active. P’kula eateries to close by 11:30pmIn Panchkula, of 14,853 cases, 1,409 are active. While 13,286 (89.4%) patients have been cured and discharged, 158 have succumbed to the virus.In view of the surge, the Panchkula deputy commissioner has ordered that all restaurants and cafeterias are to be closed by 11:30pm. The decision comes days after the Chandigarh administration imposed night curfew and ordered all eateries to close by 10pm. In Mohali, where night curfew came into force last month, the deadline is 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-tally-drops-to-818-101618167933303.html
12-04-2021||Other||Release rescued woman detained for STD treatment: Bombay HC to NGO||In relief for a 27-year-old woman who was rescued from a Versova hotel where she was allegedly forced into flesh trade, the Bombay high court (HC) directed the NGO (non-government organisation) which had been entrusted the woman’s custody to release her. The woman was detained and sent to the NGO’s custody by the magistrate for a year so that she could be treated for a sexually transmitted disease (STD). The woman challenged the order stating that she was a survivor and had two minor daughters, and hence, could not stay in detention. HC allowed her release after medical reports stated that the woman did not have HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) nor did she require treatment for STD. The single-judge bench of justice AS Gadkari, while hearing the woman’s application, was informed by advocate Ashley Cusher that though the woman was a survivor under the Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act, the magistrate had sent her to the custody of NGO Rescue Foundation as she had tested positive for Treponema Pallidum Elisa (TPE) test. In an earlier hearing, Cusher had submitted that the woman was married and her daughters needed their mother’s care, and hence, she had applied for her release before the sessions court. However, as the sessions court had rejected her application, she had approached HC. After hearing the submissions and in light of the fact that the woman was an adult, the court observed that her detention was not required. On April 7, based on HC’s order, the NGO’s advocate Shehzad Naqvi submitted two medical certificates, attached to Mumbai District Aids Control Society and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital, which stated that the woman had tested negative for HIV and no treatment was required for the STD. The court then directed the NGO to release the woman on the condition that she gives an undertaking that she would be present at the time of the trial and disposed of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/release-rescued-woman-detained-for-std-treatment-bombay-hc-to-ngo-101618167872751.html
12-04-2021||Other||Inquire why cop took a year to file report in trivial matter: Bombay HC to police chief||Bombay high court (HC) directed the Mumbai Police commissioner to initiate an inquiry against an investigating officer (IO) who took over a year to file a report in a trivial matter, wherein an offence of rash riding was registered against a 27-year-old man from Kurla along with 13 others in 2014. The man, an engineer, had sought quashing of the criminal proceedings based on the delay by the IO, as he was unable to apply for a passport and work abroad due to the criminal case against him. The HC, while directing the inquiry against the IO, quashed the criminal proceedings against the accused. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of the engineer, was informed by advocate Shravan Giri that at the time of the incident, his client was an engineering student. After securing his degree, the man got a job in a reputed organisation and was also offered a promotion that enabled him to work in Oman. However, due to pendency of criminal proceedings, the man could not apply for a passport, and hence lost the said opportunity, Giri submitted. The petition stated that as the employer has kept the offer open, the man approached HC and sought that the criminal proceedings and the order of cognisance of offence taken by the magistrate be quashed and set aside on the grounds that the stipulated time for initiating such proceedings had lapsed as per law.Seven years ago, on March 3, a constable from Bandra police station had lodged a first information report (FIR) against the petitioner and 13 others for offences punishable under sections 279 (rash driving or riding) and 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were apprehended for riding motorcycles in rash and negligent manner at high speed. Giri submitted that the case was still pending and even a roznama (register of proceedings) had not been properly maintained by the magistrate court. He added that as the sentences prescribed under the offences were of six and three months, and the magistrate took cognisance of them in 2017, the same was barred as the limitation period for such cognisance had lapsed. However, additional public prosecutor KV Saste for the police opposed the petition and said that the case could be remanded to the magistrate to consider extension of limitation period, and hence, the proceedings should not be quashed. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the cognisance of the offence could have been taken only up to one year from the date of offence. “The request for remanding the matter back to the magistrate cannot be granted. There is nothing to show that the magistrate either applied his mind to the aspect of expiry of limitation or condoning the delay,” the bench observed. In light of these observations, the court held that the criminal proceedings against the petitioner was not sustainable and hence quashed and set aside the same. The bench then directed the police commissioner to initiate an appropriate inquiry against the IO concerned “who took more than one year for filing a report in such a trivial matter”, and said that the inquiry report be produced within three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inquire-why-cop-took-a-year-to-file-report-in-trivial-matter-bombay-hc-to-police-chief-101618167754366.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hospital for stray dogs coming up in Chandigarh||A state-of-the-art dedicated hospital and laboratory for stray dogs will become operational within a month at Raipur Kalan village in Chandigarh.The new facility, which is part of the Animal Birth Control Centre, is coming up on a two-acre plot. It will also have a dog pound to house around 500 stray dogs and sterilise about 1,000 dogs.Along with sterilisation of unclaimed dogs at the centre, their vaccination will also be done. For this, a special team will be appointed by the MC.The hospital will also tend to injured dogs. These dogs will be kept under the supervision of the team for treatment, and will be later returned to the same place from where they were picked.The MC has invited firms to start the sterilisation programme. A tender has been floated after the MC General House approved it in its February meeting.“A 21-day period has been given for the tender to be filled. After the tender is allotted, the centre will start. The agency will have to sterilise 150 dogs per month,” said an MC official connected with the project.If it does not meet this target, then a penalty will be charged at ₹100 per dog and it will be deducted from the monthly bill of the agency. The work will be allotted for one year.Currently, sterilisation is going on at the centre in Sector 38. In the latest MC drive started in September last year, around 2,500 dogs have been sterilised so far.The city has been witnessing a rapid increase in the stray dog population and the number of dog bite cases has also gone up by 35% in the last five years, according to the MC records. According to the latest animal census, conducted by the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, the number of stray dogs reached 12,900 in 2019, up from 7,847 in the last census conducted in 2012. The city has anti-rabies clinics in Sector 19 and Sector 38, where around 30 to 35 dog bite cases are being reported daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hospital-for-stray-dogs-coming-up-in-chandigarh-101618167753925.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||After Mumbai Police’s crime branch, it’s EOW’s turn to ‘clean up’||After Mumbai Police’s crime branch, the economic offences wing (EOW) could be the next department to face a “clean up” drive initiated by Hemant Nagrale, new Mumbai Police commissioner. Nagrale, who has taken up the uphill task of cleaning up the city police force and has shunted out over 65 crime branch officers who served in the crime branch for over five years, has now decided to give a similar treatment to the EOW. According to sources, officers who are serving in the EOW since more than four years are expected to be transferred out. Recently, joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik, who is known for his upright approach in decision making, recently issued an order to all the EOW unit heads hinting them about possible transfers soon. Kaushik’s order, a copy of which is with HT, stated, “Possible transfers of those officers who are completing four years in EOW as of May 31, 2021, cannot be ruled out in upcoming general transfers (which occurs every year in June). Hence all unit heads are hereby directed henceforth not to give such officers the investigation of new cases.”EOW, which investigates multi-crore banking/financial institute scams, corporate frauds, investment frauds, housing frauds by builders and other white collar crimes, also has officers who have been there since ages.Generally, a police officer is supposed to serve at a post for a period of three years and then be transferred to other posting. But, EOW sources said, “There are officers here (in EOW) who have been in the department since six-seven years by merely switching their postings within the EOW during transfers.” Now all these officers would be moved out to other police departments, which could be local police stations or side branches.“Once the lot of such officers are transferred out, 45-50% posts of officers in EOW would go vacant. These posts would be filled up with new officers,” said an EOW officer requesting anonymity.EOW officers, who are expecting transfers, are now busy winding up old cases which are with them for years, department sources told HT.Unlike the sudden order for crime branch and its immediate implementation, transfers in EOW would be effected during regular general transfers in June. “Immediate remedial measure with the crime branch was the need of the hour to send a strong message across a particular department, but same was not the case with EOW,” said a police officer from the headquarters.After controversies surrounding tainted crime branch officer Sachin Vaze and former police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s transfer, the Maharashtra government in mid-March entrusted deputy general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale with the responsibility of bringing back the lost glory of Mumbai Police. After taking charge on March 17, Nagrale first started with taking on cops who might have had developed close proximity with unwarranted elements by enjoying long tenure in the same department. Within six days of joining, he shunted out 65 crime branch officers. Explaining these transfers Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (Administration) said, “The transfers of policemen are governed by the Police Act where the prescribed service tenure is defined. Since crime branch officers require special skills which are acquired out of experience in the field, the Crime Branch officers were kept in the branch for long, for administrative convenience. But of late, it is observed that some of the officers developed vested interests. Hence, objective criteria was applied and all the officers who completed five years in the branch at a stretch or have done more than 10 years with some break in between, have been transferred out.” By inducting new officers in the branch, the department feels some fresh perspective can be brought in, which will help strengthen the Crime Branch and will perform with fresh zeal and enthusiasm. Another senior IPS officer said, “The commissioner’s clean up drive aims to uproot the nexus or connivance of policemen with the wrong elements that ultimately encourage corruption in the police department. Such nexus or connivance makes policemen overconfident and makes them indulge in unethical practices, which eventually could lead to another API Sachin Vaze-like episode which has brought tremendous embarrassment, shame and disrepute to the Mumbai Police, once considered a highly-reputed police force in the country.”Speaking of Vaze, a senior IPS officer said Vaze was given a completely free hand by former commissioner Singh and added that he was so patronised by his “godfather” that he had become super arrogant in terms of behaviour. “He would come to police headquarters in high-end private cars, issue orders to officers in any department, not respecting colleagues and not even saluting senior police officers. Such arrogance makes a policeman more vulnerable in breaching the discipline,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity. Those policemen who have been serving at the police stations of Mumbai for over five years will also be transferred and would be posted at side branches soon. “If a policeman serves at a post for a longer period, then he forms groups around him and is bound to indulge in unethical practices; therefore transfers are necessary,” another senior IPS officer said, adding, “The process has already been started with the constabulary at several police stations.”Sources in the police headquarters said not just crime branch and EOW, but many other important departments at the headquarters would also be covered under the move. “Police personnel posted at various departments that look after licensing and permissions for dance bars, permit rooms, hotels and other establishments would also be transferred, if serving at the same office for a long period,” said an officer.“Transferring policemen does not mean that all those who have been transferred are corrupt. Many of them served the force exceptionally well and earned respect, name and fame. But, the practice (of transfers) is aimed to send a message that it is the system that has made them big and achieve expertise in a field, and not vice versa. No one is above the system. Others should also get the opportunity to hone their skills and serve the society. Overstaying at one post make policemen vulnerable to wrongful and unethical practices, who then willingly or unwillingly become part of the system designed to benefit wrong people,” another IPS officer said. When asked what other measures are in the offing, Nagrale said, “You’ll know when it’s done.” He refused to elaborate further on the transfer strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-mumbai-police-s-crime-branch-it-s-eow-s-turn-to-clean-up-101618167632705.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||11-year-old boy dies as roof of his house collapses in Mohali||An 11-year-old boy died and five persons of his family were injured after the mud roof of their house collapsed in Dera Bassi’s Mirpur village on Saturday night. The boy has been identified as Harjit Kumar. According to police, the incident occurred around midnight, when all the family members were asleep. While Harjit was sleeping with his father Ram Kumar, 35, mother Geeta, 30, and two siblings, Amit and Adisha, in the room, his grandmother was sleeping outside the room. Neighbours rushed to the house after hearing a thud. After rescuing the family from under two-foot-deep debris, the neighbours rushed them to the civil hospital in Dera Bassi. Doctors referred them to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where Harjit underwent an operation but could not survive. “The house had a kacha roof, due to which it weakened and collapsed. The boy died due to suffocation after getting trapped under the debris. However, no one from the family sustained physical injuries. They have been discharged. The family has refused to get the boy’s postmortem conducted,” said Kuldeep Bawa, subdivisional magistrate, Dera Bassi. Dera Bassi MLA and Shiromani Akali Dal leader NK Sharma visited the spot and demanded better housing for the poor. He alleged the state government has not released funds under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and sought full compensation and a government job for Harjit’s family.Deepinder Singh Dhillon, Congress halqa incharge from Zirakpur, said the family will be given compensation from the chief minister’s relief fund at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11yearold-boy-dies-as-roof-of-his-house-collapses-in-mohali-101618167513785.html
12-04-2021||Other||14 of ministers in ex-Maharashtra CM’s cabinet faced allegations, but none resigned: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the current political situation in Maharashtra. Raut said that 14 ministers in the previous BJP-led Devendra Fadnavis government faced serious allegations, but none of them were shunted out. They continued to hold power by not resigning from their positions, he said. Raut alleged that a conspiracy was going on “behind the curtains” to bring the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government down by “misusing central investigation agencies”, but the Opposition will not succeed in doing so.In his column in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut said, “State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that in the past 36 days, two ministers from the state had to resign from their posts and indicated that a few more will be shunted out. Our [MVA] ministers resigned on moral grounds, but in the erstwhile Fadnavis government, 14 ministers who faced serious allegations chose to stick to power.”Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Anil Deshmukh, who was handling the home portfolio, had resigned on April 5 after the high court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe allegations of corruption against him. On February 28, Sanjay Rathod from the Sena, who was handling the forest department, resigned from the ministerial council after his name was dragged in a suicide case of a Tiktok star. “The Opposition [BJP] is leaving no stone unturned to malign the image of MVA government. It has become necessary to give them a befitting reply or else people will start believing their lies after a few days,” Raut wrote.“Attempts are on to dislodge the government. The [BJP-led] central government too is involved in it. But there is no possibility of it happening. Soon after HC’s decision directing a CBI inquiry into the allegations against the then home minister [Deshmukh], Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad raised the issue of morality and slammed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. But their [BJP] morality is only to create trouble against the governments led by opposition [non-BJP] parties by misusing central probe agencies,” he said.In his response, BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said the allegations against BJP ministers were of political nature. “As always, he [Raut] is misleading people as the facts are different from what he claims. The allegations made against the then home minister [Anil Deshmukh] was by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh and the high court ordered a CBI inquiry against him. There was a public outcry against Rathod. In contrast, there were political allegations against BJP ministers in Fadnavis government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-of-ministers-in-ex-maharashtra-cm-s-cabinet-faced-allegations-but-none-resigned-sanjay-raut-101618167453284.html
12-04-2021||Other||CBI quizzes staff of Anil Deshmukh and former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned two of Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistants (PAs), Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde, and former cop Sachin Vaze’s two drivers in connection with the corruption allegation made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against the former home minister.Palande and Shinde reached the DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) guest house in Santacruz (East) around 10am. They were questioned till 8.30pm. Vaze’s drivers, whose names have not been revealed, reached DRDO guest house at 4pm and were being questioned till the time of going to print. CBI took their statements to find out if Deshmukh had asked Vaze and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil to collect ₹100 crore from hotels, bars and restaurants in the city, as alleged by Singh in his eight-page letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. Singh had also mentioned in his letter that when Patil went to meet Deshmukh at the latter’s residence, Palande and Shinde were present there. A CBI team, which is in Mumbai to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh as directed by the Bombay high court (HC), had also recorded Singh’s statement on April 8 – a day after Vaze attempted to submit a letter to the special court in which he stated that Deshmukh and state transport minister Anil Parab had asked him to extort money from entrepreneurs and establishments. Deshmukh and Parab had denied the allegations. Deshmukh had resigned from the cabinet on April 5 after the HC order. In an official report submitted on April 7, newly appointed Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said all critical decisions related to arrests and raids in the Antilia explosives scare probe were taken under the directions of Vaze, who was then an assistant police inspector (API). The report stated that though an API does not usually report directly to the police chief, Vaze had reported directly to Singh.Previously, CBI had also recorded the statements of deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal, Patil, and Jaishri Patil – who petitioned HC for independent probe into the corruption allegations.The agency also recorded Vaze’s statement – when he was in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives case. To corroborate the allegations made by Singh, CBI also recorded the statement of a Kandivli bar owner, who was allegedly extorting money each month from other restaurant owners at the behest of a former police officer.NIA is probing the case of an explosives-laden SUV parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25. Vaze was arrested in the case as well as in the alleged murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the SUV placed outside Antilia. Hiran’s wife Vimla said Vaze was using the SUV since last November till February 5. Hiran, a spare parts trader, was allegedly murdered on March 4, the day he went missing. His body was found floating in a creek at Retibunder in Mumbra the next day. Along with Vaze, former police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor are also arrested in the case.The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) was investigating the Hiran murder case, before it was handed over to NIA. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had also constituted a committee on March 30 under retired justice KU Chandiwal to probe the allegations levelled against Anil Deshmukh. But experts told the government that the findings of the panel would have limited legal standings as the CBI probe would have wider scope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-quizzes-staff-of-anil-deshmukh-and-former-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-101618167272731.html
12-04-2021||Other||Vaccination to restart in Panvel from Monday||Covid-19 vaccines will once again be administered in the Panvel region from Monday. The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had stopped its inoculation drive due to the shortage of vaccine doses on April 8. At present, the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is on in Panvel region. There are 21 vaccination centres in the PCMC area. Of these, nine are government centres and 12 are private centres. With Covid-19 cases rising, the sub-district hospital vaccination centre has been shut, leaving 20 vaccination centres. Panvel municipal commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “We have received 5,000 Covishield vaccine doses. We will hence be restarting the drive from Monday.” He added, “Vaccinations will be given to all those who come for it as per the availability of stock. We will of course continue to make efforts to get more stock of vaccine. So far, 632 vaccination sessions have been conducted. In these, 63,879 persons were inoculated. Around 2,500 vaccinations were administered daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-to-restart-in-panvel-from-monday-101618166432679.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Noida slum fire: Most of victims rendered homeless||Noida: Most of the 150-odd families, who have been rendered homeless in the massive fire which gutted their homes in Bahlolpur village on Sunday afternoon, are left without a shelter.A majority of them work odd jobs to make ends meet.Mintu, a rickshaw puller, said his livelihood is at stake. “I came from Chapra in Bihar three years ago in search of livelihood. I recently bought a cycle-rickshaw to earn and support my family. The fire completely damaged the vehicle and I am now jobless. I have lost roti, kapda and makan,” he said, adding that goods and valuables inside his shanty were also burnt. Babita Devi managed to pull her two-year-old son just in time to safety when the fire broke out. “The boy was playing outside when the fire took place. He was not even wearing pants. Now, we have no money to buy clothes to cover him,” she lamented.There were many who were forced to escape leaving all their valuables behind, while many lost even their mobile phones in the blaze. Kusum Devi, another resident, said: “Our two motorcycles, some property documents, cash, clothes, etc. have all been lost in the fire. My husband was in the scrap dealing business. He had bought some scraps and stored them in the neighbourhood recently. All the goods have been reduced to ashes and our livelihood is at stake,” she said.A team of the Noida police reached the spot for documentation of the affected families. The personnel noted down their names, mobile numbers and addresses and assured them of help in rebuilding their lives.A group of locals also gathered at the spot after getting to know and said they will extend support to the victims.Hari Kishore Kumar, a local resident and office-bearer of a political party, said his organisation has decided to make arrangements for food for the affected people till they are re-settled. “We have brought milk, bread and other eatable items for them. We will also provide them meals till the situation normalises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-slum-fire-most-of-victims-rendered-homeless-101618166433342.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Two children die as 150 shanties gutted in Noida||Noida: Two children died and some people received minor burn injuries when a massive fire gutted around 150 shanties at Bahlolpur village in Noida Sector 63 on Sunday afternoon. Local residents claimed that the fire tenders reached the spot late. Govind, a resident, said that the incident took place around 1pm and the locals immediately informed police and the fire department. “They (fire tenders) reached the spot about 3pm. By that time everything was burnt down,” he said, adding that he lost goods and valuables worth ₹3 lakh in the incident. Arun Kumar, chief fire safety officer, said that it took some time to reach the spot due to narrow road. “We received the information at 2pm. There was no delay from our side,” he said. The fire department had engaged 17 fire tenders to douse the fire, the officer said, adding that the cause of fire is not known.According to police, two children -- Paro aged two years and Doll aged six years -- died in the incident.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, said it appears that the fire was caused due to short circuit or a cylinder blast. “The fire intensified due to hot weather conditions. Two children died and about 150 shanties were burnt. It appears they were sleeping and could not leave on time,” he said.Most of the victims are natives of Bihar. They are involved in scrap dealing, rickshaw pulling, and other smalltime jobs. Satish Kumar, a tailor who escaped narrowly, said, “I was taking a nap in the afternoon. There was a sudden noise and my children rushed in and informed that there was a fire in Birju’s shanty,” he said. The shanty of Birju, a scrap dealer who is presently in Bihar, was locked, Satish said. “It appears that a short-circuit in Birju’s house led to the fire,” he said. Satish was living there on rent with his wife Kanti Devi and two children. Kusum Devi, another resident, said that Sharman’s two daughters died in the incident. “Sharman, a scrap dealer, is in Bihar while his wife is looking after their eight daughters. When the fire broke out, she managed to rescue six daughters while two were caught in the fire and died,” she said. Some residents said there were about 500 shanties. A spot visit by HT showed the shanties were located on two plots divided by a five feet wall. The fire had damaged shanties on both sides. The plot was covered by residential societies on three sides while a road crosses on one side near Hanuman temple. Burnt stoves, beds, gas cylinders, utensils, scrap materials, among other things, were scattered around. Several cycle rickshaws parked in the area were also damaged. The DCP said that the UP government has announced ₹4 lakh ex gratia for the deceased’s kin and also assured of setting up the shanties again. He further said that a total of 163 families have been identified whose shanties were gutted in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-children-die-as-150-shanties-gutted-in-noida-101618166372619.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Traffic cop risks life to rescue three passengers from a burning car on NH-9||A 29-year-old traffic policeman suffered burn injuries when he saved lives of three passengers of a car which went up in flames after allegedly being hit by another car on NH-9 near the Dasna interchange on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) on Saturday night.Police officials said that an FIR was registered against an unidentified driver of the Hyundai Verna car which hit the victims’ car.Arun Kumar, a constable, was tasked to manage traffic near the EPE interchange as the expressway was blocked by protesting farmers since Saturday morning.“It was about 9.45pm when I saw two cars moving from Ghaziabad towards Hapur. Suddenly, they collided and one of the cars, a WagonR, overturned. The other car was a Verna which stopped in a normal position,” Kumar said.Kumar rushed to the incident site and pulled out two men from the rear seats, with the help of some other travellers. “At this time, I saw some sparks inside the car and a small fire started to build up. I pulled out the two men and then rushed to the rear seat where a woman aged about 60 years was shouting for help. I somehow managed to open the door and pulled her out. As soon as I pulled her out, the car went up in flame and there was also an explosion,” he said while adding that other people also rushed for help.As a result of the explosion, the car passengers and the constable suffered burn injuries to his arms and legs, police said.The three passengers were identified as Mohammad Asif, 35, Mohammad Amzad, 23, and Shahana, 62, who go by single names and are residents of Bijnore district.“They all were returning from Ghaziabad to Bijnore district when the incident took place. The speeding Verna car hit their car from behind,” said Irshad Ahmad, a relative of the three victims who filed a police complaint.“There were three-four unknown travellers who helped the victims also sustained minor burns in the process, but they continued with their journey. My brother Asif, nephew Amzad and sister Shahana are admitted to a hospital in Delhi. My sister’s condition is critical. The Verna car’s driver fled the spot,” he added.Police, on the basis of the complaint, registered an FIR under IPC sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing rash and negligent acts as to endanger human life) and 427 (causing damage) at Masuri police station.“We have registered an FIR and will soon trace the erring car driver who is unidentified. Both the cars were seized,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic), said that constable Kumar was stable and a cash reward of ₹10,000 was announced by the district police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-cop-risks-life-to-rescue-three-passengers-from-a-burning-car-on-nh9-101618166314376.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad adds more hospital beds for Covid patients||Ghaziabad: Amid the latest spike in Covid-19 cases, Ghaziabad has now roped in more beds — by adding four more private hospitals. In the private sector, the total beds have now gone up from 970 to 1,080. We have 1,598 beds, including the ones in the government setup, and 44% of the occupied beds are for patients from other districts, said the officials.“There is a rise in the occupancy of beds, and we have added four more private hospitals. Following the addition, the number of ICU beds have also gone up from the existing 223 to 278. 125 of the total ICU beds are occupied, and the occupancy is about 44.96%... Several bigger hospitals have a full occupancy of ICU beds... Some of the patients from other districts are at our L3 category Santosh Hospital, while the rest are undergoing treatment in private hospitals,” said a health department officer.As of Saturday evening, Ghaziabad has 15 private hospitals with 1,080 beds, and two government hospitals with 518 beds till, following the addition of the private hospitals. Officials said that 509 beds were occupied till Saturday evening — including 286 beds occupied by patients from Ghaziabad, and 223 from places Delhi, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, and Meerut among others.Officials of some of the private hospitals said that there was less occupancy for normal beds, and the ICU beds are in more demand.“We have 100 beds, including 20 ICU beds, in our hospital, and the overall occupancy is about 35-40%. However, the occupancy of 20 ICU beds is 100%, and they are always occupied. People keep calling us to know if the ICU beds are available,” said Deepak Garg, officer in administration department, Gayatri Hospital in Lohia Nagar.Dr Mahesh Chaudhary, director (operations), Navin Hospital at Vaishali, said, “We have a 100% occupancy of 65 Covid beds. The patients are from Ghaziabad and Delhi. Of the 65 total beds, 16 ICU beds are fully occupied. Besides the common Covid-19 symptoms, this year, patients having symptoms of diarrhoea and conjunctivitis, and suffering from headache are also getting admitted here.”Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate, said that many patients have been opting to get themselves admitted to bigger hospitals as they are on panel. “Hospitals in our district are fully equipped to cater to patients from Ghaziabad, and also from other districts. The occupancy is higher for ICU beds, in bigger hospitals too... Otherwise, beds are available in private and government hospitals... We have decided to open our Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital in Sahibabad within the next two to three days, as the L2 category facility. If needed, we have more private hospitals that will start operating as Covid-19 facilities,” Pandey said.Under the Uttar Pradesh government’s three-tier healthcare structure for Covid-19 patients, L2 category hospitals deal with Covid-19 patients with mild and moderate symptoms, while L3 hospitals deal with patients who require intensive care.Meanwhile, according to the data on Saturday, Ghaziabad reported 28,039 cases, of which 27,241 were discharged. About 103 deaths and 695 active cases were also reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-adds-more-hospital-beds-for-covid-patients-101618166313831.html
12-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guard flees with ₹4 crore from Axis Bank’s office in Chandigarh||A security guard at the Axis Bank’s office in Sector 34 is on the run after stealing ₹4.04 crore on Sunday morning.The office is the hub from where money is supplied to all ATMs of the bank in the city.The suspect, identified as Sumit, is a resident of Sohana in Mohali, and according to his verification details procured by police, he belongs from Tikkar Tal in Morni, Panchkula.According to police, Sumit was posted in Sector 34 for the past three years. The office was closed for two days and Sumit along with Punjab Police personnel was on night duty. He had reported at 10pm on Saturday and was to be relieved at 6am on Sunday.While the cops were deputed on the outer security circle of the office, Sumit was the main in-charge and had free access to the chest. Around 3am, Sumit went missing, which alerted the cops on duty with him. On searching the premises, they found that one of the trunks in the chest that contained money was cut open. They alerted the bank officials. On calculating, the missing amount was found to be ₹4.04 crore. The bank officials informed police about the theft around 2:30pm.Caught on camera, hid money in clothesSources in the police said that Sumit was caught on camera while stealing money from the trunk. He is seen making multiple rounds in and out with the money. The accused hid the money in his clothes to bring it out from the premises. Police are yet to ascertain as to which vehicle was used by him to flee with the money.Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, said: “We have identified the accused and have leads about his whereabouts. He will be traced and arrested soon.”Sources said police are raiding Sumit’s possible hideouts. His mobile number is switched off. A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector-34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guard-flees-with-4-crore-from-axis-bank-s-office-in-chandigarh-101618166313370.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Private vaccination centres get stock as Ghaziabad receives 80,000 doses||Ghaziabad: The fresh arrival of 80,000 doses of Covid vaccine to Ghaziabad from Lucknow has come as a breather for the private and government Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) on Sunday with the health department setting apart 70000 doses for distribution. The officials said that out of 70000 doses for CVCs, about 20,000 were given to private hospitals. There are 100 vaccination centres in the district, of which 63 are government and the rest are private.Private hospitals since last week were facing vaccine scarcity. “We received 200 doses on Sunday, and we have put up a requisition of 800 more. We hope that supply will get regular, and we are able to take up daily vaccination,” said Mohit Tyagi, accounts manager at Ganesh Hospital, Nehru Nagar. “The doses have become available now and we will pick our stock of 200 doses on Monday,” said Lalit Goyal, manager, operations, St Joseph Hospital at Nandgram. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad district, on the first day of the four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ on Sunday, was given a target of vaccinating 18,000 beneficiaries, but could cover only 8,112, official data shows. Of these, 7321 were inoculated at government centres and 791 people were given the shots at private centres.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 8 had said that states should observe a vaccine festival’ or ‘Tika Utsav’ between April 11 and 14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19. The target for the next two days of the festival, Monday and Tuesday, is vaccination of 35,000 beneficiaries each, said officials.“The stock of vaccine arrived Sunday morning and distribution took time. So, there was less vaccination, but we took up vaccination of about 8,000 beneficiaries,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. According to the state control room records, the district recorded 155 fresh cases on April 11 and the tally of active cases stood at 824. In the meantime, the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary issued an order in which there was focus on containment and other measures to control the spread of the infection. The order said that not more than five persons would be allowed at religious places located out of containment zones, and also said that the fire service department will take up sanitisation works in all the 75 districts. It also said that in mandis, shop timings would be staggered and retail shops should be opened up from 7am to 7pm only. It added that all trucks should be allowed in mandis from 4am to 8am and that efforts should be made to supply door to door delivery of fruits and vegetables to citizens through mobile units. It added that all passengers arriving at railway stations should be screened and tested with the help of rapid antigen kits and also through RT-PCR, as per requirement. “Senior officers of the districts should themselves check enforcement of night curfew. And the supply of essential commodities should be ensured in all containment zones,” the order by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond over the government’s order made available to the press by the district information officer.“We have received the government order and we will implement the directions after examining it,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-vaccination-centres-get-stock-as-ghaziabad-receives-80-000-doses-101618166253249.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Conduct exams according to schedule: National medical body||At a time when undergraduate medical students are requesting the state government to postpone medical exams, scheduled to begin on April 19, a statement released by the National Medical Commission (NMC) has maintained that exams should be conducted as per schedule.In the statement dated April 9, the director of the Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC said, “Considering various representations seeking guidance for the conduct of the final MBBS examinations in view of Covid-19 pandemic, it is decided that all exams should be conducted by the concerned universities as per their scheduled timeline.” It further advises universities to strictly adhere to the existing safety norms while conducting these exams.Over the past few days, second- and third-year medical students from several government and private medical colleges in Maharashtra approached the state medical education minister as well as the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), requesting postponement of exams especially at a time when the state is recording 50,000-60,000 cases daily.The exams in question were originally scheduled to take place in February, and were postponed first to March and then to April by the MUHS due to increasing Covid-19 cases and complaints of several medical students. According to the letter addressed to MUHS by students, close to 500 students from several medical colleges in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Satara and Solapur are currently in quarantine after testing positive, while many others have family members who tested positive recently and have to follow the two-week quarantine period.“Some students are also currently stuck in mini-containment zones, making it impossible for them to leave the residential premises. Hostels, too, are overcrowded with four students sharing a single room and bathroom, which is the main reason for increasing cases in colleges,” said a second-year student from Government Medical College, Solapur.The NMC letter, however, has clarified that exams should be conducted and in case external coordinators from outside the state are not available due to the current scenario, universities have been asked to invite other external examiners from the same health university for exams. “The internal examiners must conduct the exams physically on the same premises,” states the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conduct-exams-according-to-schedule-national-medical-body-101618166252616.html
12-04-2021||Noida||Over 6.5K vaccinated on inaugural day of four-day ‘Tika Utsav’ in Noida||NOIDA: Aimed to vaccinate as many eligible people against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease amid a surge in cases, over 6,500 persons were inoculated on the inaugural day of the four-day nationwide special vaccination festival (Vishesh Tika Utsav) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 8 had said that states should observe a ‘vaccine festival’ or ‘tika utsav’ between April 11 and 14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19.District magistrate Suhas LY said that vaccinations were carried out in over 70 centres in the district on the launch day. “On Sunday, as many as 6,553 persons were inoculated across 71 vaccination centres located in different government and private hospitals in the district. From Monday onwards, though we will not only increase the number of vaccination centres, we will also hold camps in government offices as a part of the ongoing drive,” he said. The DM further said that over 120 sites have been developed to inoculate eligible persons. “Our main focus is to cover as many people as possible during this drive. All persons aged 45 years or above are eligible to get shots now. Beneficiaries only need to bring an ID card for walk-in inoculation. Those who have pre-registered themselves can also come, besides, the ones whose second shots are due. Left out healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) can avail this offer. But, there will be no compromise with Covid-19 protocols during the entire drive,” he said.District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that on the remaining three days of the special drive, the health department has aimed to inoculate at least 20,000 people every day. “We’ll also focus on not wasting doses. If there is zero wastage in the four days of this drive, it will help increase our vaccination capacity,” he said, adding that no doses were wasted on Sunday.Additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is in-charge of vaccination in the district, said that on the inaugural day of this drive, as many as 1,408 senior citizens took their jabs, which includes 216 who got their second dose. “Besides, 5,084 people aged between 45 and 59 years were vaccinated. The number of left out HCWs and FLWs, who got their shots Sunday, was 61,” he said. Meanwhile, the district recorded over 200 fresh cases for the third consecutive day on Sunday. With 219 new cases on Sunday, the overall tally of Covid-19 cases in the district has now mounted to 27,486. The death toll remained at 93, as no fresh fatality due to the infection was reported in the last 24 hours, while active cases were 1,242.Ghaziabad, on the other hand, saw 155 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. No new deaths took place, keeping the toll at 103, while active cases were at 824. The district’s tally so far now stands at 28,191.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-6-5k-vaccinated-on-inaugural-day-of-four-day-tika-utsav-in-noida-101618166192628.html
12-04-2021||Other||Judicial work in Allahabad HC through virtual mode from today||As part of the preventive remedial measures against Covid-19, the Allahabad high court will perform judicial work by way of hearing through virtual mode only from Monday. The lawyers are advised to download ‘jitsi meet’ and install the same on their computer/ mobile to attend virtual hearing. The advocates, litigants and clerks to the advocates will not be permitted to enter the high court premises from Monday onwards. In a notification issued on Sunday, the filing of cases/petitions/applications/documents will be done both through e-mode and physical form. The committee for taking preventive and remedial measures and for combating the impending threat of Covid-19 has further resolved that initially as many as 25 courts will be made functional for hearing through virtual mode. However, the number of courts for virtual hearing may increase or decrease as per existing work load (number of cases) and requirement. The registrar (protocol) of Allahabad high court, Ashish Kumar Srivastava further informed that the front office/counters would be established outside the premises of high court enabling the advocates to file their cases in physical form. “A helpline will be made operational by the high court for assisting the advocates in each and every matter regarding filing, listing and other information related to their case”, the notification added. Sanitization schedule would be strictly followed, the notification added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/judicial-work-in-allahabad-hc-through-virtual-mode-from-today-101618166132615.html
12-04-2021||Other||UP receives 20 lakh doses of Covid vaccine||The Covid vaccination in Uttar Pradesh has got a boost as the Centre has provided it 20 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine. So far, the state government has vaccinated 85 lakh beneficiaries (till Sunday).A state government spokesperson said due to the effort of CM Yogi Adityanath, who had been reviewing the vaccination campaign daily since its launch on January 16 this year, UP had taken an edge over other states in Covid vaccination.Several states, including Maharashtra, were facing vaccine shortage due to their failure in formulating a concrete plan for Covid vaccination, he said. The UP government prepared different plans for treatment and vaccination of people. The targeted vaccination programme was launched in the state with the launch of the vaccination campaign in January. Till Sunday, 72,72,734 people had got the first dose of the vaccine and 12,42,562 both the first and the second dose. In total, 85,15,269 people have received Covid vaccine jabs so far.Director general (family welfare) Dr Rakesh Dubey said, “15,13,051 health care workers (health workers), 12,09,191 front line workers and 57,93,054 citizens have got Covid vaccine dose till April 11. Of them, 6,03,394 health care workers, 4,27,228 front line workers and 2,11,940 citizens have also received the second dose of the vaccine.”Dubey further said 28.2 lakh vaccine doses had been given in just 10 days in April. The vaccination programme got a thrust with the introduction of vaccination of the people above 45 on April 1.“The increase in the pace of Covid infection also forced people to take vaccine at the earliest. The demand for vaccine has increased rapidly across the state. On an average, 2.5 to 3 lakh beneficiaries are given vaccine jabs daily,” he added.On April 5, maximum 5.17 lakh people were vaccinated. Among the 85,15,296 vaccine doses given to people, 76 lakh were given Covishield and eight lakh were given Covaxin vaccines. “The state has received large quantity of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute followed Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine,” he said.The data of Covid vaccination in the districts were being monitored regularly. Balrampur and Auraiya districts bagged first and second position in the vaccination of health workers while Agra ranked last, Dubey added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-receives-20-lakh-doses-of-covid-vaccine-101618166012622.html
12-04-2021||Other||Report on jails’ security gathers dust amid concerns for Mukhtar’s safety||The report on steps to plug in security breaches in jails to avoid incidents like one in which a gangster Munna Bajrangi was shot dead by a fellow inmate in Baghpat jail is gathering dust on the government tables even as authorities are concerned for the security of Mafioso-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari lodged in Banda jail, people aware of the issue revealed.Gangster Prem Prakash alias Munna Bajrangi, Mukhtar Ansari’s close aide, was shot dead by his co-prisoner Sunil Rathi in July 2018 days after his wife publicly expressed concern about safety of her husband in the Baghpat jail. Bajrangi was shot at seven times when prisoners were being served morning tea.Taking the matter seriously, chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered formation of a three-member committee to suggest measures for jail reforms and security inside the prison premises. The committee headed by former director general of police (DGP) Sulkhan Singh also comprised former ADG (prison) Harishankar and former IG (prison) Sharad as members.People dealing with the issue said the committee submitted the report with its recommendation to the government in October-November 2018 only but the report, they added, had been gathering dust since then.“We submitted the report to the government long back but the government is yet to accept the report/recommendations leave alone implementing the same” one of the committee members said while requesting anonymity.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said he was not aware of the latest status of the report. “I cannot share the status of the report on prison reforms offhand. I will have to find out,” he said when contacted for confirmation. The three-member committee is said to have made several suggestions for strengthening security inside jail premises in such a manner as the inmates had little scope for coming out of their allotted barracks unnecessarily while also making it difficult for outsiders to sneak inside jails. “Our main recommendation was to check and track movement of prisoners in jails. We recommended that each and every movement of outsiders, jail staff and prisoners inside the jail premise must be duly recorded in registers. Reasons for any prisoner moving out of his barrack in the name of going to jail hospital etc must also be recorded and action be taken in case of violation against jail staff,” said the committee member.“Prisoners are not supposed to come out of barrack except for being taken to court, visiting jail hospital or for meeting visitors but they keep on roaming unchecked in the jail premises,” he said. The committee, according to the member, also recommended that the jail superintendents must not meet outsiders in their office inside the jail premises. “We suggested that a superintendent office be set up outside each jail as well for him to meet outsiders there,” he said. Other recommendations were about bolstering staff strength in jails and doing construction work of different nature in and outside jails. The committee during its visit to Baghpat jail found that there were only 14-15 constables posted in the jail where Munna Bajrangi was killed. The number of constables, the committee recorded, was far less vis-à-vis the number of inmates.“The barrack keys are often given to inmates only because of shortage of constables to man the barracks,” said the member.Taking a lesson from the killing of Munna Bajrangi, authorities are these days taking several steps to ensure security of Mukhtar Ansari who was reshifted to the Banda jail from Punjab a few days ago on the Supreme Court’s directives. Ansari is said to have a long bloody rivalry with Brajesh Singh, another dreaded Mafioso-turned-politician from Purvanchal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/report-on-jails-security-gathers-dust-amid-concerns-for-mukhtar-s-safety-101618165832629.html
12-04-2021||Other||Navratri fest to be low key in Ayodhya||Lucknow: Given the surge in Covid-19, the nine-day Navratri festival ( April 13 to 21) is likely to be a low key affair in Ayodhya this year.The Vishwa Hindu Parishad has already cancelled the 84-Kosi Parikrama which was scheduled to start from April 27.A large number of saints and devotees from all over the country take part in this annual event.The parikrama is taken out by the VHP every year under the banner of Hanuman Mandal, Ayodhya, after Chaitra Navratri.The Mela scheduled on April 21, when the Navratri ends, is a major event in Ayodhya in which several lakh people from adjoining areas participate. However, this time the Ayodhya administration is yet to issue any official order in this regard.“In the larger interest of locals and in view of the pandemic the Navratri Mela this year might be scaled down. The administration is yet to make a final announcement in this regard,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson, VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya.The state government has already issued a guideline for Navratri and Ramzan, restricting entry of five people at a time at a religious place.“We will all follow the guidelines issued by the state government for Navratri. These instructions are in the larger interest of the devotees and everyone must abide by them,” said Sunil Pathak, head priest of Badi Devkali Mandir.Last year in Navratri (March 25 to April 2), the temple was closed due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to fight Covid -19 and devotees could not worship the deity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navratri-fest-to-be-low-key-in-ayodhya-101618164212508.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||OSB Expressway Towers officials meet homebuyers over construction delay, in presence of 40 bouncers||Homebuyers in OSB Expressway Towers, an affordable housing project in Sector 109, held a protest on Sunday alleging slowdown in construction work despite the developer having collected over 90% of total costs from a majority of buyers.Over 150 buyers, who had gone to the project site for a meeting with the company representatives got into a heated argument as they were stopped from entering the premises, according to buyers. The alleged that negligible work has been done over the last one and half years, despite repeated pleas, and now, the developer extended the deadline by another year.“We have been asking the developer to expedite the construction work for the last one and half years but nothing has happened. Today (Sunday), we went to the project site for holding a meeting but the developer had called in over 40 bouncers and tried to intimidate us. We also had heated arguments as the developer has unilaterally stopped buyers from site visits and imposed impossible conditions,” said Mahipal Singh, a buyer in the project.OSB Expressway Towers project in Sector 109 was launched in November 2017, and the project delivery was scheduled for November 2021. Around 1,000 homebuyers have made purchases in the project.Singh said that despite repeated assurances, the work on the project has remained stuck and on Sunday also, there were few labourers at the site. “A majority of buyers are end-users who are paying rent as well as instalments for loans. Any further delay in delivery will break their back,” said Singh.The developer said that the work was on schedule but due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the project was delayed. “The authorities have given an extension of six to nine months due to Covid lockdown and as such, we have told the buyers that the project would be completed by June next year. Due to the lockdown, the work has been delayed. Otherwise, the constructions are on schedule,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a senior OSB official.When asked about the deployment of bouncers at the site, he said that it was a part of the security measures for the company director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/homebuyers-in-affordable-housing-project-protest-over-construction-delays-101618162355961.html
12-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram, Manesar civic bodies to increase sanitation staff strength||The municipal corporations of Gurugram and Manesar (MCM) initiated steps towards increasing their allocation of resources for cleanliness measures, officials privy to the matter said on Sunday.The newly-formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) increased the sanitation workers’ strength from 69 to 269, while the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to hire more agencies for employing contractual workers.The MCG directed senior sanitation staff members deployed in its four zones to prepare a list of sanitation workers needed for comprehensive coverage.Currently, there are 2,500 sanitation workers in Gurugram, managed by four agencies in each of MCG’s four zones. The MCG has now decided to increase the total number of agencies to 10 and increase the total number of sanitation workers to around 6,000.“Tenders for hiring new agencies for sanitation purposes have been floated by the MCG. We will be adding around 3,300 more sanitation workers. In each MCG zone, there will be workers deployed from at least two agencies while for newer sectors, we are planning on keeping two separate agencies for the task,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.MCG officials said that the move was necessitated due to an increase in its jurisdiction as well as the city expanding over the past five years.Sanitation workers primarily clean roads, green belts, either through manual or mechanical sweeping, and pick up trash from and dump it in municipal tractors for further disposal.The reasons for increasing sanitation workers in MCM, however, are entirely different. The MCM was established by the Haryana government in December last year and in the initial three months of operations, it had only 69 sanitation workers.Before the MCM’s formation, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) primarily looked after cleanliness measures in urban areas and gram panchayats in villages. Following MCM’s formation, the panchayat system was immediately abolished while the HSIIDC ceased several operations, including cleaning of urban areas in Manesar.“The number of sanitation workers has been increased to improve the sanitation system in MCM area. Senior sanitary inspectors concerned and sanitary inspectors were instructed to lift the garbage in the municipal areas and ensure the appointment of cleaning staff as per requirement. Work is being done, keeping cleanliness on priority, and wherever there is garbage, it is being lifted and the main roads are being cleaned with sweeping machines,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner, MCM.Attri said that the MCM is also carrying out a survey to determine the exact number of sanitation workers needed for providing comprehensive coverage across Manesar and subsequently, it may hire more workers on a contractual basis, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-manesar-civic-bodies-to-increase-sanitation-staff-strength-101618162355343.html
12-04-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze’s colleague Riyazuddin Kazi arrested, in NIA custody till April 16||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police’s assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi over the alleged conspiracy related to the planting of an explosives-laden car outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, and the subsequent death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, people familiar with the developments said.Kazi, who was posted in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) along with tainted officer Sachin Vaze, said to be the mastermind in both cases, was aware of Vaze’s plans and “actively” took part in the destruction of evidence after the crimes, an officer said on condition of anonymity.He was arrested around 12.30am on Sunday after hours of questioning and produced before a special court during the day, which remanded him to NIA custody till April 16.Kazi was shifted out of the Mumbai Crime Branch unit last month after NIA arrested Vaze on March 13 for allegedly devising the entire plan to regain his lost glory in the Mumbai Police, as first reported by HT. The agency also took over investigations into the murder of Hiran, saying it was a “connected” offence and that Vaze killed the auto spare parts dealer after he refused to take the blame for the explosives-laden vehicle.Read more: Sachin Vaze’s Shiv Sena connectionA second officer said Kazi destroyed vital evidence related to the case such as a fake vehicle registration plate and the digital video recorder (DVR) of the housing society where Vaze lives. He was also seen at several garages where he got fake registration plates made and later confiscated the DVRs from all the garages and destroyed them, the officer added.NIA earlier questioned Kazi for several days to join the dots in the probe. “He was also reportedly part of the meetings where the alleged conspiracy to kill Hiran was hatched, but this aspect is being further investigated,” the second officer said on condition of anonymity.While seeking Kazi’s custody, special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves argued before the court: “Kazi was working as assistant police inspector in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) and was well aware about the crime. He was also aware of the design and things that transpired after the case was transferred to NIA. Hence, the accused started destroying evidence like CPU and DVR.”NIA said it needed to confront the accused with every recovered article, document and witness. “Vaze has given half the facts and we need to question Kazi,” Gonsalves said.Defence lawyer Hasnain Kazi said: “Sachin Vaze was made the investigating officer (IO) in the case. As Qazi was in the same unit hence he was assisting him. The main accused was involved in destroying the evidence and Kazi was present there on the instructions of Vaze. Qazi was going to NIA office from last 20 days for investigation.”In a related development, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde to establish whether the allegations that Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars and restaurants were true. The allegations have been levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Singh said in his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Palande was present when Deshmukh allegedly asked Vaze to extort money from the businesses.Singh and a few other senior police officers from Mumbai have already been questioned by CBI since Friday, while NIA has also shared relevant case documents to assist the agency in its probe.CBI has been asked by the Supreme Court to finish its preliminary enquiry within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-s-colleague-riyazuddin-kazi-arrested-in-nia-custody-till-april-16-101618151432424.html
12-04-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: BJP revokes candidature of Kuldeep Sengar's wife||The BJP on Sunday withdrew the candidature of former MLA and Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s wife from the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls.The BJP had made Sangeeta Sengar a candidate for the district panchayat member from Ward No. 22 of Fatehpur Chaurasi, according to a list released by it earlier.Also Read | UP panchayat poll: BJP gives ticket to Unnao rape convict Kuldeep Sengar’s wife"The candidature of Sangeeta Sengar, the wife of former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who is a convict in the 2018 Unnao rape case, has been cancelled," State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told PTI.Singh said the Unnao party president has now been asked to submit three fresh names for finalising a candidate.He, however, exuded confidence that the BJP will emerge victorious in the four-phase panchayat elections, beginning April 15.Unnao will go to the polls on April 26.Kuldeep Sengar was awarded life sentence by a Delhi court on December 20, 2019 for raping a 17-year-old girl in Unnao.After his conviction, Sengar's membership as an MLA was cancelled.Sangeeta had earlier held the post of the district panchayat chairperson.Earlier, BJP spokesperson Harishchandra Shrivastava had said names of all candidates were recommended by the district unit and were forwarded to the party headquarters through the regional unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-polls-bjp-revokes-candidature-of-kuldeep-singh-sengar-s-wife-101618136885672.html
