13-04-2021||Other||HC to state: Look into viability of complete lock-down in worst Covid-hit districts||The Allahabad high court directed the state government on Tuesday to look into the viability of complete lock-down in those districts of the state, where corona spread had increased alarmingly, for at least two to three weeks and to restrict public gatherings to 50 people. The court also directed the Central as well as state government to ensure sufficient production of Remdesivir by making raw material available to pharmaceutical companies, ensure its supply in the open market and to take stern action against those who were hoarding it and black marketing it. The bench of justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation petition (PIL) dealing with the condition of quarantine centres of the state and treatment of corona patients. “The surge has absolutely paralysed public life and all the medical aid systems have reached a stage of complete saturation. We have been informed that Covid hospitals are flooded with patients and there is shortage of both manpower and facilities.” “The situation is so alarming that if it is not handled carefully and cautiously, we may head towards a stage of complete collapse of the public health system,” observed the bench. The bench directed, “While we insist on emergency purchases of BiPAP machines ( a kind of ventilator) and high flow cannula masks to meet the demands of patients who may even be lying in the corridors of Covid hospitals/ centres, we direct the government to acquire open places in the city areas of districts that are worst hit in the state, to set up temporary level 1 hospital in a makeshift structure.” The bench went on to observe, “Arrange man-power on contract basis immediately to serve all those admitted to temporary level 1 Covid hospitals/ centres. We also direct for immediate purchase and supply of BiPAP machine and high flow cannula masks in ambulances of all the district hospitals and level 2 and level 3 hospitals of districts like Prayagraj, Lucknow,Varanasi,Kanpur and Gorakhpur, where Covid infection has got widely spread.” “We have been informed that a new Covid testing machine (cobas) is not functioning for want of testing kit. We direct the state government to provide/arrange testing kits for this machine at Moti LaL Nehru College, Allahabad within 24 hours.” The court asked the state government to vigorously carry out the immunisation programme in the state. On medical needs of non-Covid patients, the bench said, “We must not forget that people suffer from various other diseases and so they may need not only urgent medical help but incentive care admission as well.” The court directed the state government to buy more ICU beds for hospitals. “We must give priority to public health over elections and the government is expected to streamline every department of public health and public care in the light of the observations made hereinabove,” said the bench while fixing April 19 as the next date of hearing in the case. During the course of hearing, some lawyers complained that health officials were not conducting Covid test properly to show fewer patients and that samples were kept pending for test for more than 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-to-state-look-into-viability-of-complete-lock-down-in-worst-covid-hit-districts-101618338526988.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nehria is Dharamshala mayor; Deepali, Poonam to take charge of Mandi, Palampur MCs||Elections for the mayors and deputy mayors of the Dharamshala, Mandi, and Palampur municipal corporations were held on Tuesday. BJP’s Onkar Singh Nehria is the mayor of the Dharamshala MC, Deepali Jaswal of Mandi and Congress’ Poonam Bali will head Palampur’s civic body. In Dharamshala, Nehria was elected unopposed for the top post while voting was held for the post of his deputy, which was won by independent councillor Sarv Chand. BJP had eight members in the 17-member house and was one short of majority. Congress had five members while four candidates were independents.Nehria, who comes from the Gaddi tribe, a dominant community in Dharamshala, had won the election from McLeodganj ward. He had served as a deputy mayor in the previous MC.Chand had contested the election as an independent candidate after being denied a ticket by the BJP. He had also been expelled from the party for six years. He, however, sided with the BJP after winning the elections.Chand defeated Congress candidate and former mayor Devinder Jaggi to become the new deputy mayor. He polled 11 votes while Jaggi got six votes. Three Independents voted for the BJP candidate while one favoured the Congress.After winning the election, Nehria said his priority would be to pace up development projects, especially projects being executed under the smart city mission.Elections for the Dharamshala mayor had become a prestige issue for the BJP and the CM flew in from Shimla to keep a tab on the entire process. He also met the BJP councillors before election to discuss the strategy.Virender Bhatt becomes deputy mayor in Mandi In the newly created Mandi municipal corporation, Deepali Jaswal became the first mayor unopposed while Virender Bhatt was elected as the second-in-command.BJP had won 11 seats in the 15-member house in Mandi MC and had a clear majority. Congress has four members in the corporation. Jaswal had won the election from Thaneda ward. Bhatt, once a trusted lieutenant of legislator Anil Sharma, won from the Old Mandi ward. He had joined BJP with Sharma before the 2017 assembly elections.Anish Nag strikes gold in PalampurWhile Poonam Bali, who was elected from Bharmat ward, was unanimously chosen as mayor in the Palampur municipal corporation, Anish Nag has been elected as deputy mayor. Nag, who was initially not even contesting the polls, was asked to file the nomination papers after the first candidate’s papers were rejected. He not only won the election but also grabbed a top spot! Congress had swept the MC elections in Palampur winning 11 seats in a 15-member house. Two seats had been won by Independents. Solan election deferred to April 16 Meanwhile, election to deputy mayor and mayor in the Solan municipal corporation was deferred to April 16 amid high-voltage drama.The district administration had fixed 11am as the time for oath ceremony and election process. However, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Anurag Chandra deferred the same after Congress councillors failed to turn up for over an hour.However, the Congress protested the decision. Congress in-charge for the Solan MC election Rajinder Singh Rana termed it an attempt by BJP to influence the election. The ADC later returned to the venue and administered the oath to Congress members. However, the election would be held on April 16 as seven BJP councillors and one independent candidate did not take oath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nehria-is-dharamshala-mayor-deepali-poonam-to-take-charge-of-mandi-palampur-mcs-101618338526406.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship: PU to issue degrees to SC students||In a major relief to Scheduled Caste (SC) students enrolled under the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, Panjab University has decided to issue detailed marks certificates and degrees to those who have deposited the exam fee.This was recommended by a special panel recently during a meeting and the recommendations were approved by V-C Raj Kumar. PU has withheld the DMCs and degrees of SC students of affiliated colleges enrolled under the scheme due to non-payment of funds. The panel was constituted after SC students enrolled under the scheme submitted representations demanding the issuance of their DMCs and degrees. PU’s controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said, “This is a good step taken by the university. Whatever little percentage is left, university has advised colleges to take up those cases also.”As per the records, only about 25 colleges have exam fee arrears of SC students and out of these colleges, eight have deposited exam fee but their late fee is still pending. The total pending amount till May 2020 was nearly ₹3 crore as exam fee and ₹3.6 crore as late fee.During the meeting, it was informed that about 9,700 DMCs/degrees of SC students of affiliated colleges were pending with PU and a major chunk of the pendency was prior to the 2019-20 academic session. Issue to be taken in syndicateThe panel members have also recommended that the issue of recovery of late fee from colleges may be put up before the syndicate for consideration.Also, PU’s dean college development council has been advised to write to the colleges concerned to take necessary steps to pay exam fee of SC students enrolled under the scheme, so that DMCs and degrees may be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-scholarship-pu-to-issue-degrees-to-sc-students-101618338343385.html
13-04-2021||Other||Amit Shah promises permanent solution to Gorkha issue if BJP assumes power in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that the BJP is committed to finding a permanent political solution to the Gorka problems and the Gorkhas need not do agitation for the same. He also touched upon the twin issue of according scheduled tribe (ST) status to the 11 Gorkha sub-communities. “The Centre and the state government (in case the BJP forms the government) would jointly find out a permanent political solution and the BJP can only give ST status to the 11 Gorkha communities,” Shah said while addressing a rally in Darjeeling.The BJP in its Lok Sabha election manifesto in 2019 promised to find a permanent political solution and to accord scheduled tribe status to the 11 communities. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), the most trusted ally of the BJP since 2009, has been blaming the BJP for ‘hoodwinking’ the Gorkhas. The GJM, which is now divided into two factions, is supporting the Trinamool Congress in the ongoing assembly election in West Bengal.“The statements made by Prime Minister and Home Minister are all jumla (hoax). They say different things at different places to confuse people. Even the Gorkha community knows that earlier too they (BJP) made such promises at least thrice. They were not met. This time too they won’t be met. It is very unfortunate that the home minister is making such jumla statements to confuse the people,” said Tapas Roy, TMC spokesperson. Shah, who has been camping in Bengal to bolster the party’s campaign ahead of the fifth phase polls, addressed three public rallies and led a roadshow. Meanwhile, defence minister Rajnath Singh attacked TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee saying that she has realized that her party will lose the assembly polls and is hence inciting people to resort to violence.“Perhaps, Mamata Banerjee has accepted that she too is going to lose. It is evident from her desperation and the language she is using for her political opponents. She is inciting people to resort to violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amit-shah-promises-permanent-solution-to-gorkha-issue-if-bjp-assumes-power-in-bengal-101618338282711.html
13-04-2021||Noida||How Noida’s villages are turning colorful, one wall at a time||In a step to encourage people to adopt best waste management practices, the Noida Authority is turning walls in rural regions into canvases with the message: “keep the city clean”. The artwork has been done on public walls including boundary walls of parks and government school in the villages. Apart from this, some artwork has also been carried out on boundary walls of villagers’ houses and shops. As per official data, Noida produces 900 metric tonne of waste daily.To help the city improve its cleanliness, the Noida Authority had undertaken several such initiatives to encourage people to follow the waste management practices, including door-to-door waste collection, waste segregation, starting waste-to-compost plants in residential areas and creating waste-to-art installations. Seven villages located along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway are beneficiaries of this makeover. These include Raipur Khadar (near sector 126), Rohillapur (near sector 132), Bakhtawarpur (near sector 127), Nagla Nagli (near sector 135), Nagli Sakpur (near Sector 133), Asgarpur (near sector 131) and Sultanpur (near sector 128). The project was started in October last year at Raipur Khadar village and the most recent project at Nagla Nagli village was completed last week. “We take permissions from the villagers before we paint on a house or a shop’s wall. We also create awareness among the villagers regarding the slogans and the message that our art sought to convey. For example, in Nagli Sakpur we have created artwork on waste segregation and also informed villagers how they can use wet waste for compost,” said Tarunima Bajpai from EcoSwop Solutions that was roped in for the artwork. The project is funded by tech major HCL as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) obligation. Mahesh, a resident of Raipur Khadar village said that since the group painted his shop, it had not been defaced. “People used to spit and urinate on the behind my shop earlier but it has stopped now since the wall has been painted,” he said. “We do not want villages left out of the beautification work,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/how-noida-s-villages-are-turning-colorful-one-wall-at-a-time-101618338222768.html
13-04-2021||Noida||GB Nagar village decides to elect gram pradhan unopposed||Noida: Dalelpur, a tiny village in Gautam Budh Nagar located across the Yamuna bordering Haryana, has decided to elect its gram pradhan (village chief) unopposed. The panchayat elections in GB Nagar will be held on April 19, district officials said, adding that the last date of filing nomination papers was April 8.Dalelpur, which was earlier part of Gulawli village, was made a separate village in 2018, the officials said. With a population of about 500, the village has around 200 voters, they said. Local residents said that six people, including Kailash Chaprana, had initially filed their nominations for gram pradhan. “The local people recently held a meeting and decided to choose Kailash Chaprana unopposed. The other five people decided to withdraw their nomination papers,” said Neeraj Tyagi, a resident. Chaprana, a 55-year-old farmer, said he is happy that the villagers have chosen him as gram pradhan. “Our village is disconnected from Noida and Greater Noida due to Yamuna river. The Haryana government used to supply electricity to the village. But the power supply has been disconnected due to the Freight Corridor project which passes through our village,” he said.Chaprana said he will work to bring electricity to the village. “We charge our mobile phones using the batteries of cars. Also, we will develop a school, a hospital and a crematorium in the village,” he said. Vandita Srivastava, ADM (finance) and returning officer, said that Dalelpur was made a separate village in 2018. “This is the first time since 2018 that the villagers are going to vote. Local people have decided to elect a candidate unopposed for gram pradhan. The election department will conduct a fair election in the village,” she said.Dalelpur residents use a boat to cross Yamuna and visit Noida and Greater Noida. It takes them nearly 20 minutes to reach Greater Noida. The villagers said that if they use road route (a distance of about 70km), it will take them two hours to reach Greater Noida.Meanwhile, the GB Nagar district administration has received around 3,000 nomination forms against 1,325 posts in the local elections. Diwakar Singh, ADM (executive) and returning officer, said that elections will be held for zila panchayat members, gram pradhans, and gram panchayat members, among others. “We are aware of Dalelpur village. The administration will make suitable arrangements for elections there,” he said.According to the officials, Dalelpur became a part of Dadri assembly constituency after the delimitation exercise in 1983. Now, it comes under Jewar Block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-village-decides-to-elect-gram-pradhan-unopposed-101618338222147.html
13-04-2021||Other||Covid cloud - Navratri begins on low-key note in Ayodhya||The Chaitra Navratri began in Ayodhya on a low–key note on Tuesday as devotees restrained themselves from visiting temples amid surge in Covid-19 cases.The famous Badi Devkali temple in Ayodhya, the clan deity of Lord Ram, witnessed moderate turnout of devotees as did the Chhoti Devkali temple. At Pateshwari Mandir too, devotees’ turnout was low. Most of the temples also avoided distribution of prasad. “Devotees were not allowed to crowd inside the temple premises. Only five devotees at a time were allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple,” said Sunil Pathak, head priest of Badi Devkali temple. Unlike in the past, no devotees visited Ayodhya from adjoining districts on the day due to the pandemic. Last year in Navratri (March 25 to April 2), the temple was closed due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to fight Covid and devotees could not worship the deity. The Ayodhya administration also tried to impose guidelines issued by the state government for devotees visiting temples. District magistrate Anuj Jha and senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey visited various temples to make sure government’s guidelines were being followed.Moreover, the Vishva Hindu Parishad has already cancelled the 84-Kosi Parikrama which was scheduled to start from April 27. A large number of saints and devotees from all over the country take part in this annual event. The parikrama is taken out by the VHP every year under the banner of Hanuman Mandal, Ayodhya, after Chaitra Navratri.The mela scheduled on April 21, when the Navratri ends, is a major event in Ayodhya in which several lakhs of people from adjoining areas participate. However, this time the Ayodhya administration is yet to issue any official order in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cloud-navratri-begins-on-low-key-note-in-ayodhya-101618338162668.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Four persons detained with ₹25 lakh in Greater Noida||Police on Tuesday detained four persons and seized ₹25 lakh from their possession in Greater Noida. Police identified the four as Rohit Garg, Mridul Garg, Vivek Garg and Devendra Garg. They were allegedly travelling in a car on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway when they were stopped for checking at Sirsa cut. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police are on high alert in the wake of upcoming panchayat elections in the state on April 19. “A team from Kasna police station was conducting checking when the stopped a car which was coming from Palwal. The police found ₹25 lakh hidden in the car’s boot. The police questioned the four persons about the source of money but they could not give a satisfactory answer. We have seized the money and detained the persons,” he said. They suspects residents of Sector Pi- 3 in Greater Noida, said police. Pandey said that the income tax department has been informed to further probe the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-persons-detained-with-25-lakh-in-greater-noida-101618338163221.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Two auto drivers assault traffic constable in Noida, arrested||Noida: Two auto-rickshaw drivers were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly assaulting a traffic constable when he stopped the duo from taking a wrong turn in Sector 57 on Monday.The suspects were identified as Dheeraj and Dheeru, natives of Etah and Badaun districts, respectively. The constable, Satish Kumar, was deployed at the Labour Chowk in Sector 57 when the incident took place. In his complaint, he mentioned that he was manning a U-turn in the area when he stopped the duo from taking a wrong turn. “However, they started arguing with me following which the matter escalated, and they abused and assaulted me and also tore my uniform,” said Kumar in his complaint.According to police, the duo fled the spot following the altercation. Based on a complaint by the constable, a case was registered at Sector 58 police station against the suspects under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code.“The traffic constable was doing his duty when he was attacked by the suspects. He sustained minor injuries during the assault and his uniform was ripped apart. He was sent for a medical examination and we registered a case against the duo,” said Anil Rajput, station house officer, Sector 58 police station.Police officials said that they traced the suspects with the help of number of the auto-rickshaws and apprehended them on Tuesday. The duo was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-auto-drivers-assault-traffic-constable-in-noida-arrested-101618338162098.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weatherman predicts rain for a week in J&K||The meteorological department has predicted a week of rainfall in Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday.  Light to moderate rain will lash the plains in Kashmir and the Pir Panjal region as winds blowing from the Mediterranean, the western disturbance, will bring moisture to the region, the department said. “Light to moderate rains will start on Wednesday night and there will be widespread precipitation till April 18,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.Mir said the spell will not be continuous but there will be intermittent pauses. “Most rainfall will take place in the plains while hilly areas like Gulmarg and Pahalgam may receive rain as well as snowfall,” he said. There will be a break in precipitation on April 19 after which another weather system will hit the region. “Another western disturbance will bring rainfall again on April 21 and 22,” he said.April has already witnessed a few wet spells in the Valley. After a relatively hot February, March had mostly remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir.The day temperature in Srinagar on Monday was 17.6°C against a normal of 20°C while the night temperature was 8.6°C. Kupwara had recorded a high of 20.2°C on Monday and 6.5°C during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.“The day temperatures will not drop much. The temperature will hover around 10-12°C during wet weather,” Mir said.Kashmir experienced the harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in the month of January. On January 31, Srinagar had recorded - 8.8°C, the lowest temperature since January 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weatherman-predicts-rain-for-a-week-in-jk-101618338103937.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Dhanauri wetland runs dry, forest department rushes to fill its core||Noida: Dhanauri wetland, a major sarus crane habitat in Gautam Budh Nagar, has run dry. Officials of the district forest department on Tuesday said that they have rushed to fill the wetland, spread across 101 hectares, using borewells. Located at Dankaur in Greater Noida, about 33 hectares of the wetland was under water, as per a remote sensing exercise in 2015. It is home to about 211 species of waterbirds and is also one of the biggest habitats of sarus crane in the region. In 2019, the forest department had spotted over 80 sarus at Dhanauri out of 140 in the entire district. The wetland, which has been proposed by the state forest department to be declared as a Ramsar site (a wetland of international importance) and a sarus crane sanctuary, has never dried completely earlier, said the officials and birders. While the forest officials say that they are trying to ascertain the reasons, experts point out mismanagement and exploitation apart from dry weather for the wetland to have run dry. “We have started filling water in the core area of main wetland using a bore well, taking water from nearby villages. For now, we are using only one pumping set, and if required we may use more. This is for the first time that the entire wetland has dried up and we have to use an external source to fill it up. There are a number of birds and after evening a number of sarus cranes roost here, so it was important for us to take this step,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest department (DFO), GB Nagar. Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder who was among the birders to have found the wetland in 2014 and initiated the legal battle for its recognition, said that the wetland needs immediate conservation. “It has been six years that the National Green Tribunal had ordered to recognise Dhanauri wetland under wetland rules, but no major steps were taken. Drying up of Dhanauri could also be attributed to construction around the wetland, and the forest department is up to a large extend responsible for not taking enough steps to declare it a Ramsar site,” said Arya. Though completely dry now, the ecologists had raised alarm in January this year when the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021, held by Wetlands International South Asia and the district forest department, found over four times drop in bird population as compared to 2020. The AWC 2021 found only 1,344 birds against 6,227 birds in January last year. “The climate change is causing drastic effects on the wetlands, besides Dhanauri has no external water sources and depends on rainwater. Also, the human interventions like agriculture activities at Dhanauri were increasing while the wetland suffered lack of conservational steps,” said TK Roy, a conservationist at Wetlands International South Asia. Meanwhile, the crane experts state that the mismanagement could lead to migration of the birds. “Drying up of such a habitat shows possibility of higher number of borewells in the area or water overdrawing, apart from the mismanagement. Now, sarus cranes, which have over 230 million years of evolution, are getting used to such phenomenon and they often move to better areas. The bird roosts in water at night as a protection against predators,” said KS Gopi Sundar, a scientist at the Nature Conservation Foundation. Sundar is also the global co-chair of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Stork, Ibis and Spoonbill Specialist Group (SIS-SG).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dhanauri-wetland-runs-dry-forest-department-rushes-to-fill-its-core-101618338102732.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Three employees of pvt firm arrested for faking robbery of ₹16 lakh||Greater Noida: Three employees of a private company were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly faking a robbery of ₹16 lakh. Police said they have recovered ₹5.53 lakh in cash from possession of the suspects. The suspects were identified as Alok Sharma, 30, a native of Bulandshahr, Anil, 32, a native of Auraiya and Awdhesh, 33, from Gonda. They were arrested from Surajpur, police said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida Central, said that around 9:30pm on Monday, Surajpur police received a call from Alok informing that four car-borne criminals looted ₹16 lakh from them in the Sector Omicron 3 area. Amit Kumar Maan, a sub-inspector, and complainant in this case, said that police reached the spot and found Alok and Anil with a mini truck, Tata Ace. “Anil identified himself as the driver and Alok as a delivery staffer of the company. They said that their vehicle got punched on the way and when they were replacing the tyre, four criminals reached there in a car and snatched ₹16 lakh from them. They claimed that the suspects also snatched their mobile phones,” Maan said. Police questioned both the persons separately and found discrepancies in their statements. “Anil said that the criminals were in the age group of 20-25 while Alok said they were 40-45 years of age,” Maan said. When police interrogated the duo thoroughly, they admitted to have faked the robbery, the sub-inspector said. Police said that the duo revealed about their accomplice, Awdhesh, in this case. “Awdhesh worked as a distributor for the company and he had company’s dues worth ₹12 lakh. Awdhesh asked them to plot the robbery so that he would escape from returning the money to the company,” DCP Chander said, adding that he had promised ₹1 lakh to each of them. On Monday, the suspects had collected ₹5.53 lakh on behalf of the company and Awdhesh had gone to his residence with the cash. The officials said that police seized the money and also recovered mobile phones of Alok and Anil which they had dumped on the way. Besides, the Tata Ace and a motorcycle have been seized from their possession, police said. A case has been registered against them under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 411 (dishonesty receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-three-employees-of-pvt-firm-arrested-for-faking-robbery-of-16-lakh-101618338102111.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Look into viability of complete lockdown in worst Covid-hit districts: HC tells UP govt||The Allahabad High Court directed the state government on Tuesday to look into the viability of a complete lockdown in the worst Covid-19 hit districts of the state for at least two to three weeks and to restrict public gatherings to 50 people. “The surge has absolutely paralysed public life and all the medical aid systems have reached a stage of complete saturation. We have been informed that Covid hospitals are flooded with patients and there is a shortage of both manpower and facilities,” the HC bench comprising justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar observed. The bench passed the order on a suo motu public interest litigation petition (PIL) dealing with the condition of quarantine centres of the state and treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The situation is so alarming that if it is not handled carefully and cautiously, we may head towards a stage of a complete collapse of the public health system,” it added. The court also directed the Central as well as the state government to ensure sufficient production of Remdesivir by making raw material available to pharmaceutical companies, ensure its supply in the open market and take stern action against those who were hoarding and black marketing it. “While we insist on emergency purchases of BiPAP machines (a kind of ventilator) and high flow cannula masks to meet the demands of patients who may even be lying in the corridors of Covid hospitals/centres, we direct the government to acquire open places in the city areas of districts that are worst-hit in the state to set up temporary level 1 hospital in a makeshift structure,” the bench directed. The bench went on to observe, “Arrange manpower on contract basis immediately to serve all those admitted to temporary level 1 Covid hospitals/centres. We also direct immediate purchase and supply of BiPAP machine and high flow cannula masks in ambulances of all the district hospitals and level 2 and level 3 hospitals of districts like Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur, where Covid infection has been widely spread.” “We have been informed that a new Covid testing machine (cobas) is not functioning for want of testing kit. We direct the state government to provide/arrange for testing kits for this machine at Moti Lal Nehru College, Prayagraj, within 24 hours,” the court stated. The court asked the state government to vigorously carry out the immunisation programme in the state. On the medical needs of non-Covid patients, the bench said, “We must not forget that people suffer from various other diseases and so they may not only need urgent medical help but intensive care admission as well.” The court directed the state government to buy more ICU beds for hospitals. “We must give priority to public health over elections and the government is expected to streamline every department of public health and public care in the light of the observations made hereinabove,” said the bench while fixing April 19 as the next date of hearing in the case. During the course of the hearing, some lawyers complained that health officials were not conducting the Covid-19 test properly to show fewer patients and that samples were kept pending for test for more than 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/look-into-viability-of-complete-lockdown-in-worst-covid-hit-districts-hc-tells-up-govt-101618338043018.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Exiled Kashmiri Pandits struggle for political representation||As the Jammu and Kashmir delimitation commission draws new electoral constituencies in the erstwhile state, Kashmiri Pandits have demanded that a few seats be reserved in the proposed legislative assembly. Two weeks after Pandit bodies met the delimitation commission, Congress leader Vivek Tankha, the son of a migrated Kashmiri Pandit, has requested the Prime Minister to consider grievances of the community before the delimitation process is completed.Tankha said he was optimistic as delimitation was the only way to get Kashmiri Pandits back on the political landscape of the Valley: “Post-migration we hardly ever saw any Pandit assembly member from Kashmir. Even before the migration when the presence of Pandits was thick in the Valley, there were just one or two constituencies that were represented by them, ” Tankha said.As per data from J&K migrant relief commission, as of January 2021, around 1,54,000 Kashmiri Pandits are living as migrants. Around 40,000 families were registered in the Jammu, and 20,000 in Delhi and other states. Thousands are also still present in the Valley. However, there has hardly been any representative of this community that has been part of the elected assembly in Kashmir for decades. The last time someone from the Kashmiri Pandit community made it to the Assembly was 2002. Even before the migration, the Assembly formed in 1996 had a lone MLA who belonged to the community despite their population being around 2 lakh in the Valley at the time.Tankha says from 1951 to 1996 (when insurgency in was at its peak), Pandits were elected from many constituencies such as Khulgam, Devsar and their bastion Habbakadal and these representations contributed to the overall empowerment of the community. However, post-migration, the community was scattered and there was not a single member to represent their demands.‘Community has become political fodder’ All India Kashmiri Samaj president Tej K Tikoo, however, said the community had become political fodder for politicians.“There is nothing concrete going on ground. There have been delimitations in the past as well, which did nothing better the condition of Kashmiri Pandits. At least till the 1960s, there were a couple of constituencies that were Pandit strongholds but when delimitation took place, even those four seats slipped from our hands,” Tickoo said, adding that there had been no response from the government despite multiple representations being made. “We had proposed that the upcoming 2021 census be considered for reference and a total estimate of all Kashmiri Pandits be done and seats reserved accordingly, but no one seems to be paying heed. Though they are planning to reserve seats for tribal communities, no plan has been formulated for us,” Tikoo added.The delimitation commission headed by the former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai is using the 2011 census as the reference data to draw a new electoral map of the UT. This is unique considering the readjustments made recently for other regions were done on the basis of the 2001 census.PM’s intervention sought In a letter dated April 8, Tankha had written to the PM saying the commission was powerless to draw constituencies exclusively for minorities and asked for his intervention.“As a student of law, I know the delimitation commission is powerless to draw political constituencies for exclusive representation of minorities, unless so empowered by law,” he wrote.Speaking on the issue, Congress stalwart, Shashi Tharoor, had also said the issue needs sympathetic consideration and genuine attention: “This is a very interesting idea to address the disenfranchisement of Kashmiri Pandits & it does deserve a serious and sympathetic consideration (sic),” Tharoor had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exiled-kashmiri-pandits-struggle-for-political-representation-101618337563609.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Accident victim’s organs give new lease of life to 4 at PGIMER||A 27-year-old man from Kalka, who died due to fatal head injuries, has given a new lease of life to four needy patients through organ donation.The donor, Amit of Tipra village in Kalka, Panchkula, had fallen from the stairs at his home and injured his head on the night of April 6. After the mishap, he was rushed to civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, and from there to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where he was declared brain-dead on April 10.“Transplant coordinators at PGIMER talked to us about organ donation. The idea of having a chance to save someone else’s life made sense to us, even though we didn’t have the heart to take Amit off life support,” said Subhash Chander, Amit’s father.The transplant teams retrieved the donor’s kidneys and transplanted them to two terminally ill renal failure patients. Apart from this, Amit’s corneas were also harvested, which on transplantation restored the eyesight of two other patients.Prof HS Kohli, head of PGIMER nephrology department, said, “The generous gesture by the donor’s family has given a second lease of life to the two recipients as both of them were suffering from end-stage debilitating kidney ailment. Their chances of survival without transplant were bleak.”About the procedure, Prof Ashish Sharma, head of renal transplant surgery department, said, “Since there are challenges in doing transplant in Covid-19 days, special precautions are taken. The deceased donor as well as both recipients were tested and confirmed to be negative for Covid-19.”ROTTO PGIMER nodal officer Vipin Koushal said that since April 2020, 31 lives of terminally ill organ failure patients have been saved with the transplantation of 28 kidneys, two livers, one heart, one pancreas. Moreover, 113 sight-impaired patients have been cured through corneal transplants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accident-victim-s-organs-give-new-lease-of-life-to-4-at-pgimer-101618336722615.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Wildlife census: Forest dept to engage locals in monitoring monkey population in Haryana||In a first, the forest department in Haryana will engage the locals for monitoring the monkey population in urban areas. This will be a part of the ongoing wildlife census in the state.The monitoring will be done through mobile application ‘Wildlife Census Haryana’, wherein the public along with the forest department staff can give information regarding the sighting of the simian species in their respective areas. The state forest department is conducting the census survey in collaboration with experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun chapter.ML Rajvanshi, chief conservator of forests for wildlife, Haryana, said, “This wildlife census is focusing on mammals, with special reference to monkeys, as we want to find out the estimated population of monkeys in the state. Currently, wildlife management is an important issue for us. Based on the numbers revealed through the survey, we will devise strategies on how to manage their growing population, and to contain man-animal conflict.”The survey is focusing on both outside and inside protected areas as the species of rhesus macaques are found in large numbers in both the areas. With the help of ‘Wildlife Census Haryana’, the forest department will hold a statewide outreach programme from April 20-27, regarding the survey. The survey will be conducted outside protected areas from April 28-30, when the people are set to participate in the monitoring process through the application.According to the WII’s survey protocol document for the census, “…The application is developed to count the rhesus monkey population, along with other species outside the protected areas of Haryana. Haryana is among the several states where the rise in the monkey population has led to a rise in incidents of human-animal conflict... A person, who will collect the data, can also upload the pictures of the recorded animals.”The forest department officials said that managing the population of monkeys in urban areas, especially Gurugram and Faridabad, has been difficult in the past few years.Many residents have been attacked by monkeys, especially in areas near the Aravallis, such as Golf Course Road, MG Road, Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, Golf Course Extension Road, and Sohna Road, said the officials. In some instances, monkeys have also caused severe bruises and cuts on the people.According to Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram, the wildlife department receives at least one complaint of monkey attack on a daily basis. “At least one or two cases of either monkeys attacking children, monkeys entering houses, or electrocution of monkeys in urban areas is reported daily. The behavioural change in the species is due to both degradation of forest, and easy access to food (people feeding monkeys near their houses). Now, they know where food is easily available, and get ferocious and attack children (who are easy targets for them) when they don’t get food,” said Chahal.Four years ago, an attack by a troop of monkeys had resulted in the death of a resident in Nathupur. A 25-year-old man had fallen from his open terrace, and succumbed to his injuries on December 18, 2016, after being allegedly chased by the troop of monkeys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wildlife-census-forest-dept-to-engage-locals-in-monitoring-monkey-population-in-haryana-101618336662629.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Amid rising temperatures, Gurugram likely to see light rainfall this week||According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday, Gurugram is likely to witness light rainfall this week amid a rise in the temperature.As per the weatherman, the city is expected to witness light rainfall or thunderstorms between April 15 and April 17, and the maximum temperature is likely to drop by 2-4° Celsius by April 17.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Light rainfall is expected in Delhi-NCR during the evening, night on April 16, which will lead to a dip in the maximum temperature in the region on April 17. Following that, the city is likely to see a rise in the temperature.”“This year, we saw rainfall for the last time around April 2-3, and the temperature has been on the rise since then. This is due to the lack of western disturbance activities. Both maximum and minimum temperatures have been higher than the normal level. Usually, with light rainfall, temperatures are maintained in the normal bracket during April,” Srivastava added.The temperature falls during the summers only with an impact of the western disturbance, which has been lower in number this April, compared to past years. The western disturbance is the wind originating over the Mediterranean region, which carries moisture and shed in the form of rainfall or snowfall, while travelling up the north.On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 40.4° Celsius — the highest maximum temperature recorded so far in April. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 21.5° Celsius, which was 4° above the normal. The city had recorded its highest maximum temperature of the season on March 29, with the temperature recorded at 40.5° Celsius. Meanwhile, the city’s air quality entered the moderate zone on Tuesday. The Central Pollution Control Board recorded the air quality index (AQI) at 199, which has improved over the past 24 hours — from ‘poor’ AQI — which was recorded at 210 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/amid-rising-temperatures-gurugram-likely-to-see-light-rainfall-this-week-101618336663268.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents, banquet hall owners in a fix over late weddings, reservations||The imposition of night curfew in the state upset the wedding plans of many in the city, with owners of banquet halls and hotels saying customers started calling them on Tuesday asking for changes in timings, schedules and seeking postponement of reservations. Hoteliers said that the night curfew will impact a majority of them as wedding ceremonies during the summer generally take place late evening or at night.According to tent owners and hotel owners’ associations, there are around 200 hotels and banquets halls in Gurugram district and 2,000 such facilities across the state, where reservations were made for dates between April 22 and May 20, considered an auspicious period for weddings as per religious calendars.“We have worked out that around 2,000 wedding events across Haryana will get impacted. We have very few wedding destination hotels. Revenue of around ₹3,000 crore that would have been generated will get hit. The hotel owners will make losses but suppliers and vendors might go out of business this year,” said Manbeer Choudhary, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana.Business owners said that due to the imposition of a night curfew in Delhi and Noida, a number of such functions had shifted to Gurugram but this business will also get affected now. Another main reason for this shift was that 500 people are allowed in open spaces and 200 in a closed space at weddings in the city, while the cap is at 50 in Delhi.The Haryana government on Monday evening imposed a night curfew between 9pm and 5pm to curtail the spread of Covid-19 infections. The state government on Tuesday evening changed the night curfew timing, stating it would start from 10pm. However, hoteliers said this would be of little help.The hotel owners’ association has sought an audience with the chief minister and is hoping to get some relief in the matter, he said. “The shift in timings by an hour is a positive move, but guests and hotel workers should be exempted from the curfew,” Choudhary said.The Haryana Tent Dealers Association, meanwhile, said it submitted representations to the government seeking relaxation in timings. “Livelihood of thousands of people will get affected if the marriages are curtailed as so many people are involved in making these functions happen. Not only that, people have paid money to book hotels and tents and cancelling functions is not feasible,” said Anil Rao, president, Haryana Tent Dealers Association.Hoteliers and banquet hall owners said that customers were starting to worry about a lockdown-like situation soon.Virender Rana, a resident of Faridabad, whose cousin is getting married on April 20, booked a hotel in Karnal for the wedding and the families of the bride and the groom were to arrive from Roorkee and Faridabad, respectively. “A majority of our relatives were to come from Faridabad and Delhi and return at night, but now, they have expressed their inability to attend. A family from the Netherlands came especially for the wedding, but is now in two minds due to the night curfew,” said Rana.Rana said that the Haryana government should at least give them time till midnight for people to make the return trip. “Only 150 people have been invited, while the banquet hall is meant for 400 people. We are going to follow Covid safeguards,” he said.Another family in Gurugram, which has a wedding scheduled for April 25, shifted the venue from Delhi to Gurugram because of Covid-19 restrictions. “At least people going to weddings should be allowed to move in the night. We are trying to adjust but in the summer season, the function starts at 9pm. This curfew has dampened the spirits. The government must relax the timings,” said Ramesh Dahiya, whose niece is getting married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-banquet-hall-owners-in-a-fix-over-late-weddings-reservations-101618336662106.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||ICU beds, ventilators for Covid-19 patients increased||The district administration on Tuesday increased the reservation of beds to 70%, from 50% at present, in intensive care units (ICUs) and of those with ventilators for Covid-19 patients, while the reservation of general beds was reduced to 40%, from 50%. The administration also directed private hospitals to strictly follow norms prescribed by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for admitting Covid-19 patients, saying that only serious patients, who need intensive care, should be admitted.During a meeting with private hospitals on Tuesday, Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that it came to their notice that private hospitals were admitting patients who could be treated in home isolation as well, due to health insurance policies.“Due to this reason, many serious patients suffering from Covid-19 find it difficult to secure admission. Patients should be admitted to wards on the basis of genuine requirement. Those who need to be admitted to ICU should be admitted there and those less serious should be treated in general wards or at home,” said Garg, adding that the hospitals must ensure an adequate number of beds, medicines and other equipment.The deputy commissioner also said that action would be taken against hospitals that don’t follow the prescribed admission norms.Health department officials said that at present, 185 Covid ICU beds and 48 ventilator beds are occupied, against the availability of 491 and 233, respectively, in total. As per the health department data, the total number of active cases in the district is currently at 6,460, of whom 6,018 Covid patients are in home isolation.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that apart from following admission norms, private hospitals were also directed to provide daily data of available beds and hospitalization status on the Covid-19 portal. “There has been a surge in cases and more patients are now requiring hospitalisation, either in ICUs or on ventilators. It is because of this reason hospitals have been directed to daily update the data and ensure that there is no discrepancy in the information available in the public domain,” said Yadav.Yadav also said that a majority of the Covid-19 patients presently can be treated in home isolation. “Hospitals have been asked to make rational decisions on admitting patients. The number of Covid-19 patients in general wards is less, so the reserved beds in general wards were reduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/icu-beds-ventilators-for-covid-19-patients-increased-101618336606289.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Migrant workers start returning, admin dismisses concerns||Migrant workers in the city were seen leaving for their home towns in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar on Tuesday, after the Haryana government imposed a night curfew on Monday evening. Workers said that they were apprehensive of another lockdown due to the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram and are ready to return to their home towns.However, the district administration on Tuesday said that the number of people leaving was low and people cannot be stopped from moving from one place to another.Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, said that the administration would reassure migrant workers that there was no danger to their livelihood and they should leave the city in a panic. “There is no such information that we will announce a lockdown. So, (it is not clear) why they are getting this impression and taking extreme steps,” he said.However, migrant workers said that their struggles following last year’s lockdown were still fresh in their memories and they want to avoid a repeat of the situation. On Tuesday, a few groups of migrant workers were spotted walking towards the railway station and bus stand after the curfew was imposed on Monday night. They were seen carrying their bags and walking holding their children.Hasina Bibi of West Bengal, who lived in a rented room in Tikri village in Sector 48, said that her family decided to return to their home state after learning about the night curfew, as their relatives asked them to return immediately. “We packed our stuff, mainly clothes and valuables, within an hour, kept our crockery at a local’s house. We will return after we all will get vaccinated and not before that,” she said.Another migrant, Nazrul Mandal, who returned to Jhansi on Tuesday evening, said trains are easily available now, unlike last year. “I had to walk nearly 550 miles to reach my home town and hardly got anything to eat. I hardly had any cash as my employer had not paid me for three months after the lockdown was announced,” he said.Many domestic helps on Tuesday informed their employers that they planning to return to their village and have asked to clear their dues.Lisha Parveen of Kolkata, who works as a domestic help on Golf Course Extension Road, said she informed all three families she used to cook for to look for a replacement. “People are extra cautious this year. I still remember how we reached home last year. It took seven days, with a change of 11 buses and a cost of more than ₹3,000. This time, it is better to pack our bags before travel restrictions are announced,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/migrant-workers-start-returning-admin-dismisses-concerns-101618336605688.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Devotees inoculated at camps set up on Baisakhi in Ambala||To ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination drive during the four-day Tika Utsav, the Ambala health department set up camps outside gurdwaras to cover the eligible devotees on Baisakhi on Tuesday.At an inoculation camp in Durga Nagar area, a team of health workers motivated the residents to get the vaccine on the auspicious day.Poorna Rani, a woman in her late 90s, who came for the langar at Gurdwara Singh Sabha also got the jab at the camp.The nonagenarian’s daughter-in-law, Poonam, 58, said, “My husband has already got the jab and I got it today. I brought my mother-in-law along for the langar and now she is getting the vaccine at her own will.”Another woman, Balwinder Kaur, 60, said that despite resistance from her neighbours due to the fear of vaccine side effects, she got the jab to prove them wrong. “Earlier, we were anxiously waiting for the vaccine. Now when it is available, why should we hesitate in getting it?” Kaur said.To create awareness among the citizens, announcements were made on loudspeakers about the free vaccination camp.Dr Ashish, in-charge of Chourmastpur health centre in the city’s rural area, said that it was difficult to motivate the rural residents. “But we are trying to tell them about the benefits of the vaccine. If they seem hesitant to health centres, we ask them to get the jabs at such camps organised in community halls or religious places,” the officer said.The department has also started mobile vaccination drive and deployed eight ambulances in the district for the same, mostly giving jabs at workplaces, including banks.Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said that as the vaccination drive is moving forward, resistance among beneficiaries, especially in the rural population, is going down.“Religious places have played an important role in promoting the vaccine. Announcements made from places of worship have had a genuine impact on human psyche,” he said.Ambala has inoculated — both first and second doses — more than two lakh beneficiaries. The district has so far reported 15,845 positive cases and 174 deaths. On Tuesday, 137 fresh cases and a death, was reported and the active caseload stood at 1,520.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/devotees-inoculated-at-camps-set-up-on-baisakhi-in-ambala-101618336604078.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Restaurants, pubs to shut shop by 9pm, fear big losses||Many restaurants and bars in the city on Tuesday decided to shut their operations by 9pm, citing interdistrict and interstate travel of staff members before the night curfew kicks in across the National Capital Region at 10pm.Inderjeet Banga, head, National Restaurants Association of India, Gurugram chapter, said, “We have requested the government to impose the curfew post 10pm as 70% of the guests visit restaurants and bars for drinks and dinner. To close operations at 10pm, we have to ask guests to give their last order at 9pm, which is still too early.”Restaurateurs in the city said that the curfew will hit their business, as the footfall fell sharply since Monday night. They said that the last year was difficult for the industry with dining facilities closed for several months due to the pandemic.“The new measure taken by the government is required, but it will have a huge impact on sales and revenues,” Banga.Rohit Mann, the director of Raise the Bar brewery at Clarens Hotel in Sector 29, said that their staff has started planning to return to their home towns and that the establishments that managed to continue operations after last year’s lockdown might not survive this time around. “Many outlets were closed last year and some that are trying new methods to run the show will not be able to make ends meet. The liquor licence fees and operation cost is so high that we will not be able to gain anything until 10pm. Either we will have to shut operations or move towards delivery options if they are allowed,” he said.Owners said that they cannot sustain operations on takeaways and deliveries alone. They said that the restrictions, coupled with the 50% cap in place, will adversely impact business.Arjun Sagar Gupta, founder of The Piano Man, said that it is an extremely difficult period for the hospitality industry at large, especially fine dining, bars and other operators whose primary revenue is generated in the evening and night hours. “There is unfortunately no structured support to ensure the survival of small businesses during these unprecedented times. The curfew has destroyed the modicum of hope that we were holding on to,” he said.“From a business point of view, the industry would be harder hit this time around, as most of us have stretched our capabilities to finance this period. The hospitality industry has been a major contributor towards tax revenues, employment and quality of life, and now, it requires well thought out support to survive the pandemic and bounce back. This is the time where we would need our peers’ and the government’s support.”Akshay Chauhan, owner of Boombox Brewstreet in Sector 29, said that they were just about to recover from the losses suffered last year, but the restrictions will bring them back to square one. “It is too early to close down operations at 10pm, as for it, we have to start packing up by 9pm. The footfall has already decreased with the fresh orders and we will have to permanently close down our establishments. Sales finally picked up and people had started visiting post 10pm, but we will not be able to survive any longer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/restaurants-pubs-to-shut-shop-by-9pm-fear-big-losses-101618336602581.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Night curfew to kick in at 10pm, cops deployed||Officials of the district administration said that the state disaster management authority on Tuesday revised the timings of the night curfew and that it will now kick in from 10pm, instead 9pm, as stated on Monday.Even as the police department said that essential services would be allowed after 9pm and passes can be availed of by those working night shifts, officials of the district administration said they are awaiting a detailed order from the state government for clarity on the exemptions and curfew passes.Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, said that a detailed order will be issued on the movement of essential workers during the curfew. “People involved in medical fields or exceptional cases will be allowed to move post 9pm. A detailed order is awaited from the government, following which a decision will be taken on curfew passes,” he said.The police on Tuesday deployed 41 special teams across the city to enforce the night curfew and four assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) were directed to keep a check of areas in their jurisdictions at night.Police commissioner KK Rao said, “Essential services will not be stopped but the vehicles will be checked and those who are working in night shifts or travelling for any emergency can avail of curfew pass from the district administration or ACP headquarters office,” he said.The Haryana government on Monday evening imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am, prohibiting the movement of people not involved in essential services. The decision was taken after the number of Covid-19 cases spiralled in the state with Gurugram adding more than 1,000 cases per day since Sunday. Last week, Delhi and Noida imposed a curfew between 10pm and 5am to check the spread of the infection.The police said that all market associations were informed of the orders and asked to ensure that all shops are shut by 9pm, failing which strict action would be taken. On Monday night, liquor shops and restaurants were found open till late night on Sohna Road, Golf Course Road, Sector 14, Sector 31, Sector 15 and Golf Course Extension Road, following which enforcement has been increased, said officials.Rao said that strict action, under applicable sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), will be taken against those violating the prohibitory orders. “Our teams are checking suspected vehicles and identity cards at checkpoints within the city and the borders. Also, we have requested people to ensure that no gathering or movement of more than four persons takes place,” Rao said.As part of the deployment plan, 79 police control room (PCR) vans and 123 patrol bikes were pressed into service, while 61 checkpoints were created across the city. Personnel deployed at Police Lines were also deployed to keep a check on the night movement.Five PCR vans and six motorbikes were also stationed at the Sirhaul border, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Sohna Road and Bilaspur crossing for ensuring law and order is maintained. Rao said that 10 PCR vans and 12 motorbikes will also patrol the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway to keep a check on unnecessary movement.The police said that the deployment of personnel and vehicles were done in a manner to ensure quick response across their jurisdictions and that all vehicles are equipped with GPS and wireless communication systems for better coordination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/night-curfew-to-kick-in-at-10pm-cops-deployed-101618336602042.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badnore releases book on Chandigarh’s tree treasure||UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore released a book titled ‘Tree Treasure of Chandigarh’ at Punjab Raj Bhawan here on Tuesday.A compilation of the diverse avenue trees of the city, the book has been published by the UT forest and wildlife department and authored by Prof RK Kohli, vice-chancellor of Amity University, SAS Nagar, Vikas Kahol, Dr Navdeep Kahol and Prof HP Singh. The book also profiles a number of old and majestic heritage trees.Speaking on the occasion, UT adviser Manoj Parida congratulated the department for the efforts and authors for their contribution. He said efforts made in bringing out this book will go a long way in creating awareness and attraction towards the preservation of trees of City Beautiful.UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said that Chandigarh has preserved about 46% of the total area under forest and green cover.“The city has preserved a large number of trees so as to harmonise with the built-up surroundings. There are a number of old and majestic trees here which serve as important green landmarks. The book provides useful information about the city’s green wealth. Chandigarh is known as the “Greenest City of India” owing to its lush parks, gardens and green cover,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badnore-releases-book-on-chandigarh-s-tree-treasure-101618336362657.html
13-04-2021||Noida||‘Tika utsav’: Ghaziabad, GB Nagar fall short of vaccination target||During the first three days of the four-day “tika utsav”, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar fell short of their daily vaccination target. Officials from both districts attributed the reason to diverting resources towards Covid-19 management duties such as enforcement, testing and surveillance. However, a few doctors said they also had to contend with the lack of vaccines.Tika utsave, or vaccination festival, was coined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Amid a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, Modi, in his recent interaction with chief ministers, had proposed for four days starting from Sunday to ensure maximum participants in the vaccination drive. At present, those above 45 years of age are eligible to get the anti-Covid shot.According to official records, Ghaziabad had vaccinated 32,358 people, while Gautam Budh Nagar vaccinated 25,070 till date.The Uttar Pradesh government had given targets to each of the 75 districts. Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad were vaccinate 18000 people each on April 11, and 35,000 each on April 12 and April 13. Instead, Ghaziabad vaccinated 8,112 people on April 11, 13,750 on April 12 and 10,496 on April 13. Similarly, the official records of GB Nagar health department stated that 6553 were vaccinated on April 11, 10787 on April 12 and 7730 on April 13. According to figures, Ghaziabad’s coverage stood at 36.77% while GB Nagar’s coverage stood at 28.48% for three days against target of 88000 each.The experts said that the coverage was not up to the mark considering target given. “During the last week, there were issues of short supply of vaccine. When the fresh stock arrived, they were distributed to different Covid vaccination centres. Although the target given was on higher side, but more could have been achieved with prior supply of vaccine and proper resource management. So, regular supply is must,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA - Ghaziabad). “Vaccination has become vital in times when infection is spreading. There is lot of reluctance among people to get vaccinated. So, more awareness is to be spread and people should be motivated to come to Covid vaccination centres (CVCs). We also suggest that vaccination should be a comprehensive program and clinics should also be authorised to administer doses,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad. Ahead of the “tika utsav”, both the districts received fresh supply of 80,000 doses each. GB Nagar received doses on the night of April 10 from Agra depot while Ghaziabad received their stock on morning of April 11 after which it was distributed to different CVCs. “We fell short as we had to devote our resources to Covid management also. With the available resources, we could have achieved 15000-18000 per day on limited number of days. However, we achieved 100% target in the month of March and this month’s target will also be achieved,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. Ghaziabad district magistrate could not be reached despite repeated calls made to him. “Our achievement fell short of target as our manpower was also busy with Covid duties. However, our daily achievement was about 10000 and we will try to increase it further,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tika-utsav-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-fall-short-of-vaccination-target-101618336302002.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad tally in 12 days of April double of cases last month||In the 12 days of April, Ghaziabad recorded 1,138 infections, outpacing what it had seen in March at 565.According to the records, the sample positivity rate [number of positive samples per 100 tests] was 0.69% [587 out of 84941 samples] in March, while that for April was 1.88% [1077 out of 57313 samples till date]. The number of positive samples will be higher than infections as a person may have had multiple tests.Records with the health department indicated that three residential segments of Indirapuram, Carte and Vaishali now have more than 100 cases each -- a throwback to last year when these areas showed the highest incidents of the disease in the district. Of the total cases in April so far, the worst affected is the Karhera II residential segment which includes Indirapuram with 148 cases at present against 63 reported in March. The other segment of Carte, which comprises of localities like Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar among others, have 148 cases at present with 90 reported in March. Vaishali with 120 cases is also among the three segments registering over 100 overall cases in April as against 51 in the month of March. Likewise, Sahibabad (I and II) segment has 96 cases in April and Vasundhara with 52 cases besides Vijay Nagar (I and II) with 82 cases in first 12 days of April. “As directed, we are taking up speedy testing, tracing and surveillance in high case load localities. Our teams are regularly monitoring such areas and even contact tracing has been expedited,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) said that rise in positivity and cases could be result of lack of enforcement and awareness among masses. “It is vital that proper regulation in containment zones is carried out and it is to be ensured that patients strictly stay at home when in home isolation. Among the masses, there is urgent need to spread awareness to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. If these can be enforced, it will help prevent spread, otherwise, we may be looking at lockdown to control cases and spread of infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-tally-in-12-days-of-april-double-of-cases-last-month-101618336242137.html
13-04-2021||Noida||25% of Covid-19 ICU beds occupied by outsiders in GB Nagar||As Covid-19 infections increase in Gautam Budh Nagar, 303 out of the 528 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city are occupied. A quarter of the occupation is by people from outside the district, according to official records.The district has capacity to provide beds to over 2,450 patients in the district.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY, said that private Covid-dedicated facilities had been asked to reserve at least 50% of their beds for the residents of the district. According to him, a hospital can turn away a patient from outside the district in case they have filled their quota.The DM also said that considering the need of isolation and ICU beds, the district health department had put the cap on the rates for the private hospitals. “The private hospitals have been divided into two different categories -- National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH)-accredited and non-NABH accredited. Even the patients have been categorised in three groups – moderate, severe and very severe. The rates for NABH-accredited hospitals vary from ₹10,000 to ₹18,000 per day, including the cost of PPE kits. For the non-NABH category, the rates vary from ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 per day, including the cost of PPE kits,” he said. Suhas said 426 asymptomatic patients were in home isolation. “Our home isolation cell in the integrated command call centre is keeping a close tab on the health conditions of these patients. So far, we have taken eight of them to the covid-dedicated facilities. Four of the home isolated persons are not the residents of GB Nagar,” he said. Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri said that on the basis of the data given by the home isolation cell about the overseas travellers, our surveillance team is doing the contact tracing of all of them. “We are keeping a close tab on the persons, who have recently travelled to foreign countries in the recent past. As per the cell’s records, there are altogether 225 international travellers in the district, including 198 from United Kingdom, 17 from South Africa, eight from Brazil and two from USA,” he said. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is the in-charge of vaccination in the district said that on the third day of four-day special vaccination drive (tika utsav), as many as 7,730 persons took their jabs on Tuesday. “As many 2,195 senior citizens took their jabs, out of which 555 were the second dose recipients. Besides, 5,277 people aged between 45 and 59 years were vaccinated. The number of left out HCWs and FLWs, who got their shots today, was 258,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/25-of-covid-19-icu-beds-occupied-by-outsiders-in-gb-nagar-101618335942035.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar exceed UP’s new minimum testing targets||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday ordered the health department to increase molecular testing for Covid-19, also called RT-PCR testing, to about 150,000 per day across the state to break the chain of infection.In December, Gautam Budh Nagar was given a target of 1,750 RT-PCR tests daily will now have to test 3,500. Ghaziabad’s target remained unchanged at 1,700. Officials from both districts said they were already operating in excess of these numbers.Overall, the state is currently targeting a testing rate of 100,000 antigen tests and 75,000 RT-PCR tests, said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health) on Tuesday. The state had tested over 37 million samples till date, he added.“We are exceeding the target,” said Prasad. “We tested 218,965 samples in the last 24 hours and a little over 97,000 of these were through RT-PCR method.”RT-PCR, or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, is considered more accurate than antigen tests, which is faster and cheaper.“We are conducting about 5,000 tests per day of which over 2,000 are RT-PCR tests per day. We can further scale RT-PCR testing if positivity [rate of positive cases per 100 tests] increases further. But we need to increase testing capacity,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar.Gims officials said that could testing up to 6,000-8,000 tests per day.“At present, we are conducting 2,800-3,000 tests per day. We get samples from Ghaziabad, Saharanpur and Hapur districts and giving test results within 24 hours. Sometimes it may get delayed depending upon the quality of sample sent to us. Both GB Nagar and Ghaziabad are sending about 1,500 to 2,000 samples per day,” said Brig (retd) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS.Ghaziabad had seen a sharp spike in cases over the last month and has increased its testing that had slacked during the first three months.“For about 10 days now we are testing 5,500-6,000 samples per day. We can scale RT-PCR tests further if required. But the results should be provided timely, ideally within 24 hours,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad officials said they were sending samples also to MMG Hospital. An officer at the hospital, requesting anonymity, said, “We are catering to about 700-800 daily samples and can scale up testing to about 2000 if we get the computerised extractor unit. We are sending our results within 24 hours from the time we receive samples.”District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey was unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gautam-budh-nagar-exceed-up-s-new-minimum-testing-targets-101618335822091.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces tighter curbs amid Covid-19 crisis. What's open, what's not||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced a 15-day curfew in the state in a bid to bring the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) under control and said that just consultations will no longer help.Thackeray said tighter restrictions will take a toll on the economy and jobs but urged the residents to follow new rules, adding: "Lives are more important than livelihoods".India's worst-hit state is also struggling with oxygen shortages, Thackeray said, asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deploy the air force and send fresh supplies."In the last few days, I have interacted with people from all walks of lives, to get consensus. But now discussions will not help. We are facing a shortage of oxygen, beds and an increase in cases has now burdened the health infrastructure," Thackeray said in his address to the citizens.Also read | No lockdown, Section 144 across Maharashtra from tomorrow: Uddhav ThackerayThe new measures follow Maharashtra's move to impose a state-wide weekend curfew that confined the state's 125 million people to their homes until the end of April unless needed for essential services.Here's what has been restricted:Also read: Asking PM Modi to allow IAF to supply oxygen for Maharashtra, says Uddhav ThackerayHere's what's open:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-tighter-curbs-amid-covid-19-crisis-what-s-open-what-s-not-101618332937261.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Education experts to converge at national web series on NEP-2020||Amazon Web Services (AWS) and IEEE-Prakash Bharati (consortium of IEEE Photonics Society Chapters of India) is organising the first part of the national web series to discuss the various policy measures undertaken by the government under the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020.Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan will be the chief guest and inaugurate the virtual panel discussion on April 16.The guest of honour for the event would be Dr Naresh Chand, associate vice-president of IEEE Photonics Society, New Jersey, US.The event is being technically sponsored by IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) Region 10 — world’s largest technical professional organisation for the advancement of technology — and its educational activities committee.On the basis of the draft of new education policy that has been approved by Union cabinet, top academicians along with techno- industries and regulators of the region shall be brainstorming to discuss the measures to be taken to bring along the technology in education.The programme chair for the event would be Dr Manpreeet Singh Manna, former AICTE director. Dr Manna has nurtured and nourished the idea of Swayam India, one of the largest MOOC’s platforms in the world. The co-chair for the event would be Dilpreet Singh, an employability consultant with AWS India Internet Services Pvt Ltd.The first session of the event titles “Women Academic Leaders in Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) - Atmanirbhar Bharat ki Nari Shakti” will see eminent speakers like Dr Madhu Chitkara, pro chancellor, Chitkara University Rajpura; Pooja Agarwal, pro chancellor, SRMU Lucknow; Prof Preeti Bajaj, vice-chancellor, Galgotias University, Greater Noida; Dr Neetu Bhagat, deputy director, SDC, AICT; Niraj Chandala, joint director, Himachal Pradesh IT department.Speakers for the second session on “NEP 2020 Road Map” will include Kunwar Shekhar Vijendra, chancellor, Shobhit University, Meerut; Prof Rajendra Kumar Anayath, vice-chancellor, DCRUST Murtha; Sunil PP, head of education and NPOs, AWS India, Amazon Internet Services Pvt Ltd, among other prominent academicians.The programme proposes to benefit the faculty members of various higher education institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/education-experts-to-converge-at-national-web-series-on-nep2020-101618335342478.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lookout notice against bank guard who stole ₹4 crore in Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police on Tuesday issued a lookout notice against security guard Sunil Kumar, two days after he fled with ₹4.04 crore from Axis Bank’s Chandigarh currency chest in Sector 34.Unable to trace him and to ensure he doesn’t escape abroad, police have issued the notice and alerted all airports and bus stands about his details. Police have already conducted raids at his house in Panchkula’s Morni. His father Ram Murti told police that Sunil had lasted visited them about six months back and had been staying at a paying guest accommodation in Mohali’s Kumbra village. The family told police that Sunil is a divorcee and has a daughter who stays with his former wife. Police have also questioned Sunil’s roommate in Mohali, but are still groping in the dark.Sunil for the past three years was working at the office in Sector 34, which is the hub from where money is supplied to all ATMs of the bank in the city.In his complaint, chest head Ritish Kumar told police that Axis Bank has outsourced unarmed guard posts to MSF Security Agency while Punjab Police personnel are also deputed on the premises. Sunil, who was employed by the security agency, was on night duty. Around 3am on Sunday, cops found him missing, following which officials were alerted.While checking the CCTV footage, it was found that Sunil was taking out something wrapped in a suspicious material from the chest premises.On checking the chest, one of the boxes was found damaged and opened from the rear side and ₹4.04 crore were missing from it. Ritish Kumar said that the suspect had stolen two packets containing 20 bundles in ₹2,000 denomination currency notes.The CCTV footage showed that Sunil moved out of the office with two bags. He fled on his motorcycle on which he used to daily come to work. His mobile phone is switched off. Investigations revealed that he is usually very active on social media, though no activity has been witnessed since the theft.Police are planning to announce a reward for any information about his whereabouts. A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector-34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lookout-notice-against-bank-guard-who-stole-4-crore-in-chandigarh-101618335282590.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula logs 278 Covid cases, highest in a day since outbreak||With 278 new Covid-19 cases, Panchkula district on Tuesday recorded the biggest single-day spike since the outbreak last March. At 201, bulk of the cases surfaced in Panchkula city alone.Meanwhile, the tricity saw a dip from an all-time high of 1,310 recorded on Monday to 1,184 cases on Tuesday. Mohali district accounted for 509 and Chandigarh for 397 of these new cases.Amid the surge, 13,000 devotees visited Mata Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula and Kali Mata Temple in Kalka on the first day of Chaitra Navratri Mela.The Panchkula health department sampled 84 devotees at Mata Mansa Devi Temple, of whom one tested positive. At another camp set up at the temple, 10 people were vaccinated.As many as 15,355 people have tested positive in Panchkula so far, of whom 159 have died, 13,638 (88.8%) have been cured and 1,558 are still undergoing treatment.5 patients succumb in Mohali, 1 in ChandigarhFive more patients succumbed to the virus in Mohali district while one died in Chandigarh, taking the toll to 483 and 401, respectively.Mohali has reported 32,611 cases so far, of which 4,775 are active. With a record 725 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered climbed to 27,353 (83.9%).In Chandigarh, 31,564 people have tested positive, of whom 27,793 (88%) have recovered, including 381 discharged on Tuesday. The number of active cases stands at 3,370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-logs-278-covid-cases-highest-in-a-day-since-outbreak-101618334923161.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Lake closed at weekends amid Covid surge in Chandigarh||In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday decided to reintroduce weekend closure at Sukhna Lake. Rock Garden has also been shut on all days till the situation improves. The administration even extended the night curfew by half an hour. Now, it will be imposed from 10pm to 5am, instead of 10:30pm to 5am. In the neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula, the timings are 9pm to 5am. The decisions were taken in the review meeting held under UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Mostly tourists visit Rock Garden. We closed it to check the spread of infection from those coming from outside. Even the lake is visited by many tourists and locals on weekends, leading to crowding.” All non-essential travel will remain banned during the night curfew. All restaurants, eating joints and food courts in malls will have to shut down by 9.30pm, and can accept orders till 8.30pm. Various exemptions already declared will remain in place.The limit for political, social and religious gatherings will be restricted to 200 for outdoor events and 100 for indoor events, as has been notified earlier. The administration also considered the option of reintroducing the odd-even rule for closure of shops, as was done in the initial weeks of the lockdown last year. However, the decision was deferred, keeping in view the economic needs of the trade and industry. Parida clarified that there are no plans to impose a complete lockdown in Chandigarh.Curbs imposed in 57 more areas Deputy commissioner Mandip Brar said that 57 new micro-containment zones have been declared in the city on Tuesday, taking the total to 122.With four each, the maximum number of areas where curbs were imposed on Tuesday are in Sectors 33 and 49. They are followed by Sectors 20, 46 and 47 with three micro-containment zones each. There are two each in Sectors 7, 9, 18, 19, 24, 27, 29, 37, 44, 45 and 63 and one each in Sectors 2, 4, 11, 15, 22, 23, 30, 34, 35, 39, 41, 48, 50, 51, Subhash Nagar, Pipliwala Town and Khuda Lahora. Brar told the administrator that 58,000 challans have been issued against people violating the Covid protocol. On this, Badnore directed the director general of police to intensify the drive. He also appealed resident welfare and market associations besides NGOs and political leaders to help the administration in its fight against the pandemic. Ramp up testing, vaccination: BadnoreExpressing concern over the rising number of cases, Badnore urged residents to take advantage of Tika Utsav and get themselves vaccinated. He specifically directed the health workers and frontline workers to take the advantage of priority slots available to them, since the facility may be discontinued soon. He also directed all stakeholders, including private hospitals, to plan better and ensure that vaccine doses are not wasted. The administrator directed the health department to intensify screening and testing. He ordered placement of mobile vans in crowded places, such as temples and gurdwaras during Navratri, so that the devotees could be screened.Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, said that seven mobile teams have been sent to various crowded places, including the railway station and bus stands, for screening and testing the visitors.  Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, told the administrator that they have 223 Covid patients at the Nehru Extension Block. Badnore directed him to enhance the bed capacity and also asked Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director principal, GMCH, Sector 32, to take similar measures at the hospital in Sector 48. He also advised them to provide RT-PCR test reports on time, so that infection could be contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhna-lake-closed-at-weekends-amid-covid-surge-in-chandigarh-101618334382681.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||No ceremony at Jallianwala Bagh for second consecutive Baisakhi||AMRITSAR For the second consecutive Baisakhi, there was no ceremony to commemorate the 102nd anniversary of Jallianwala Bagh massacre on Tuesday amid a fresh wave of Covid-19 outbreak and restrictions thereof. The Bagh, which was closed for restoration work around one-and-half years ago, was out of bounds for the visitors, including the family members of some of those who fell to bullets of British soldiers commanded by General Reginald Dyer on April 13, 1919. No one from the state or central government turned up even for the symbolic commemoration. Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti president Mahesh Behal whose grandfather Hari Ram was killed in the massacre said, “We requested that at least I should be allowed to go up to the memorial. However, the security personnel did not allow even one person inside. This is not fair. They should have eased the restrictions for today at least.” A group of farmers owing allegiance to Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee turned up there raising slogans in favour of the martyrs. They also tried to enter the garden but security personnel didn’t let them in. Farmers then raised slogans against the government. Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member and Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik reiterated that the revamped memorial would have been reopened this Baisakhi, but the Covid-19 norms turned out to be a hurdle in the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-ceremony-at-jallianwala-bagh-for-second-consecutive-baisakhi-101618334324405.html
13-04-2021||Ranchi||JMM founding member Simon Marandi dies||Senior Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and former minister Simon Marandi died after struggling a month-long illness at a Kolkata-based private hospital on Monday night. He was 74. Marandi was a five-time legislator from Littipara assembly constituency and was also a Member of Parliament once. Chief minister Hemant Soren and other senior leaders in the state expressed deep condolences over his demise. “His demise is an irreparable loss. He played a significant role in Jharkhand’s movement. His absence will always be felt,” Soren said. State Assembly speaker Rabindranath Mahto said, “One of the leading leaders of Jharkhand movement, Marandi was an MLA for five times and also held the post of Protem speaker in Jharkhand assembly. Being a parliamentarian from Rajamahal seat, he voiced people’s concerns in the Parliament.” According to Marandi’s family members, he was suffering from an illness and his condition became serious nearly a month back. He was admitted to a hospital in Kolkata, where he was undergoing treatment for past one month, and he died on Monday night, they said. Marandi started his political career during his days as a student. He fought the Assembly polls from Littipara constituency for the first time in 1977 and won the seat by 149 votes. Thereafter, he held the post in 1980, 1985, 2009 and 2017. In 2014, he contested the seat on BJP ticket, but lost. Marandi also contested from Rajmahal parliamentary seat in 1989 on JMM ticket and won. In 2013, he was also a Cabinet Minister in the Hemant Soren government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jmm-founding-member-simon-marandi-dies-101618334201969.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||SBS Nagar’s Sanchita tops Uttar Pradesh civil services exam||JALANDHAR Sanchita Sharma, 29, of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar has topped the Uttar Pradesh Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services Exam 2020 the result of which was declared on Monday evening. Sanchita is a qualified chemical engineer and masters in business administration from Panjab University, Chandigarh. In 2016, she went to Delhi for Union Public Services Commission examination preparation and got selected for Jamia Milia Islamia Residential Coaching Centre in 2018. Her father Chander Shekhar is a pharmacist and mother Jyoti Sharma is a lecturer of home science. Her elder sister is a dentist and brother is pursuing a degree in law. Her father said he feels proud of her daughter and expressed hope that she will do well in UPSC exam too. Besides the family, she dedicated her achievement to SK Sharma, the principal of her primary school. Sanchita said Sharma (sir) wanted to see her in a beacon-fitted car. She didn’t find the engineering career appealing as she wanted to contribute more to society. “Satisfaction parameter is more important than money,” she said. She studied till Class 10 in SBS Nagar and passed her senior secondary from Chandigarh in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sbs-nagar-s-sanchita-tops-uttar-pradesh-civil-services-exam-101618334142782.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||UP governor appeals to religious leaders to encourage people for Covid-19 vaccination||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel Tuesday appealed to religious leaders to motivate the eligible people to take the vaccine against coronavirus in view of the more dangerous second wave of Covid-19.Addressing a virtual meeting with the Dharmacharyas and religious leaders from the Raj Bhavan, she said everyone contributed towards checking the first wave of coronavirus."Now, this second wave is more dangerous, the infection is (spreading) faster and a lot of cases have come in a short period of time. In such a situation, there is an appeal to all religious leaders to motivate everyone to take the Covid-19 vaccine," the governor said, according to a statement.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present in the meeting.The governor also asked the religious leaders to quell the rumours being spread about the vaccine."We will all together beat coronavirus," she told them.Dharmaguru Ram Kamal Das Vedanti from Mathura, Maulana Khalid Rashid Farangi Mahali and Maulana Kalbe Jawwad and Baudh guru Bhanteji were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-governor-appeals-to-religious-leaders-to-encourage-people-for-covid-19-vaccination-101618333560288.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Teenager held for killing grandmother, says ‘took cues from TV crime shows’||Hoshiarpur Influenced by crime-based television shows, a 16-year-old boy allegedly killed his 83-year-old grandmother on Monday at a village falling under the Hariana police station. The boy hit the bed-ridden woman with an iron rod and when she died, he set her on fire. To hoodwink his parents, he concocted a story that some outsiders had attacked the house but confessed to the crime during police questioning. The teenager, a Class 12 student, revealed that he was fed up with his grandmother as she often scolded him and wanted to get rid of her. He said he took cues from television shows to plan the murder. On Monday afternoon, when his parents had gone to the market to shop for their wedding anniversary, he allegedly killed the old woman. He then rang up his parents to inform them that four unidentified persons had come with an intention to loot the house and had set the grandma’s room on fire. When the couple returned, they found their son lying in a bed box with limbs tied. They were told that the attackers had threatened to wipe out the entire family. The family informed the police and requested them to trace the culprits. However, on Tuesday, when the investigation team led by SP (investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu quizzed the teenager, he broke down and confessed to having committed the crime. “The boy said he was inspired by the crime serials and had been planning the murder for quite some time. When he got the opportunity on Monday, he executed the plan,” said Sandhu. Senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal said the accused was sent to a juvenile home. “Since he is a minor, we did not ask for his police remand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teenager-held-for-killing-grandmother-says-took-cues-from-tv-crime-shows-101618333909510.html
13-04-2021||Other||New Hero Motors plant inaugurated at Ludhiana’s Hi-Tech Cycle Valley||Punjab industries minister Sunder Sham Arora on Tuesday inaugurated a new plant of Hero Motors Company at Hi-Tech Cycle Valley in Dhanansu village here. Earlier, the cabinet minister also unveiled the 8.5 km and 100 feet wide approach road — connecting Chandigarh Road to the cycle valley — constructed at a cost of ₹66 crore.He was accompanied by Hero Motors Company CMD Pankaj Munjal, Punjab Small and Export Corporation chairman Gurpreet Singh Bassi, Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka and others.Arora said that the new hi-end export-oriented manufacturing plant at the cycle valley will help generate thousands of jobs, while marking a major leap for the Make in India initiative. He said that the opening of the new plant by Hero Motors marks the first phase of operationalisation of the cycle valley.While speaking on the occasion, Pankaj Munjal informed that the cycle valley is a critical element in establishing Hero Motors’ global engineering and manufacturing chain with R&D facilities centred in Europe and manufacturing in India.He said that Hero E Cycles Ltd factory is a major component of Hero Motors Company’s ambition to make India a global manufacturing hub of premium bicycles and e-cycles.He added that the factory will help Hero Motors augment its manufacture capacity to 10 million units annually, with a production of four million premium bicycles and e-cycles, majorly for global consumption. Along with the new plant, the cycle valley will also house a series of international component suppliers to achieve complete localisation of manufacturing in India.Spread across a sprawling 380 acres of land, the cycle valley is expected to employ over 9,000 people when fully operational. The park is establishing a complete ecosystem for international component suppliers to localise production and help India eliminate its dependence on premium component imports.Munjal said talks are on with several foreign companies for joint ventures as a number of major players have decided to set up their mega units here. He said that very soon, many other companies would also be setting up their units in Dhanansu. It would not only boost the economy of the state but also generate employment for thousands of Punjabi youths, he added.While 50 acres of the valley houses the e-cycles factory, another 50 acres has been marked for a dedicated suppliers’ park. Munjal said that over ₹1,000 crore is being undertaken over two years in total to operationalise the e-cycle valley and grow Hero International in the EU and UK.While Hero Motors is spending ₹350 crore in operationalising the valley, the vendors are bringing in an estimated ₹400 crore. Additionally, it plans to further invest ₹300 crore over the next couple of years to fortify its brands, R&D and distribution across the EU and UK.Munjal said that the firm was already in advanced talks to finalise a joint venture with an international player for electric motor localization and another JV for manufacturing international quality alloy frames, suspension and CVT in India. Premium bicycle parts maker Spur Technologies, a subsidiary of Hero Motors Company, has already set up a manufacturing unit at the valley.With hi-end component localisation and innovation centre, the ecosystem is expected to upgrade Hero Motors’ manufacturing capability to make bicycles priced at USD 150-500, and e-bikes for USD 1000 to 5000 against USD 60 today. The best-in-class ecosystem and a Make in India hub will enable the country to become a global manufacturer of quality bicycles, e-bikes and auto components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-hero-motors-plant-inaugurated-at-ludhiana-s-hi-tech-cycle-valley-101618333842552.html
13-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid tally nears 40,000 mark with 480 cases||The district on Tuesday saw addition of 480 cases to its Covid-19 tally, taking it closer to the 40,000 mark in less than a month after registering 30,000 cases.Of the total 39,974 cases reported so far, 3,391 patients are still under treatment and 1,215 have died, including three on Tuesday.As many as 35,368 people have successfully beaten the virus.In some respite, the Covid graph saw a slight bend after registering 500+ cases for two consecutive days. In the highest-ever spike, the district had logged 530 cases on Sunday, followed by 523 infections on Monday.The latest fatalities include a 73-year-old man from Basti Jodhewal, a 60-year-old man from Shimlapuri and a 31-year-old man from Dugri.The latest positive cases include a cop, an undertrial and a government school teacher from Hargobindpura.Amid the recent surge, Ludhiana has recorded 5,564 cases and 71 deaths in less than two weeks of April, against 7,294 cases and 115 deaths in March. In February, the numbers were 1,319 and 28, respectively.Over 300 cases are being recorded daily since March 20, including 400+ cases on eight days and 500+ on two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-tally-nears-40-000-mark-with-480-cases-101618333602778.html
13-04-2021||Jaipur||Beds in Jaipur hospitals filling up fast as Covid-19 cases surge||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, beds across hospitals in Jaipur are filling up fast, according to hospital authorities.A senior official of the state health department said all private hospitals with 60 or more beds have been asked to reserve 25 per cent of them in wards and another 25 per cent in ICU for Covid-19 patients.On Monday, Rajasthan recorded 5,771 fresh Covid-19 cases that took the state's total tally to 3,69,564, while 25 more fatalities, the biggest single-day jump, pushed the death toll to 2,951, according to an official report.Jaipur district recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the state at 961. It is often the biggest contributor to Rajasthan's Covid-19 tally.Dr Ajeet Singh Shekhawat, superintendent of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Hospital here, told PTI, "For the last three days, more than 100 patients are being admitted to the hospital every day. The situation is alarming this time and the beds are filling up fast."The hospital has 1,200 beds, including 450 oxygen beds and 200 ICU beds, he said."As of now, nearly half of the beds are occupied. Around 330 patients have been admitted in the last three days," he said.Dr Virendra Singh, president of Rajasthan Hospital, said the beds at the facility are already full."The second wave is very alarming and the number of patients is increasing rapidly. In our hospital, beds are full," he said.The health department officer said directions have been issued to all private hospitals having 60 or more beds to reserve 25 per cent of them in wards and another 25 per cent in ICU for Covid-19 patients."Initially, on April 2, private hospitals with 60 or more beds were instructed to reserve 10 per cent of beds for Covid-19 patients. But looking at the spread of the infection, another order was issued on April 5 to increase the percentage of reserved beds from 10 to 25 with effect from April 9," the officer said.As of Monday, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan stood at 36,441, according to the official report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/beds-in-jaipur-hospitals-filling-up-fast-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101618333101826.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Monetary assistance, free food during curfew in Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray announces||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday his government will spend ₹5400 crore to support the people of the state as he announced a 15-day long statewide curfew from Wednesday with only essential activities being allowed. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his address to people of the state that the curfew will come into effect from 8pm on Wednesday. “ ₹5400 crore will be used to support people during this period,” Thackeray said during his address.Under the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's flagship economy meal scheme, Shiv Bhojan Thali, food will also be distributed for one month. The meal distribution scheme, which was launched by the state’s food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal on January 26, was provided to needy individuals during last year’s lockdown period for ₹5, but for the next one month, it will be distributed free. “Shiv Bhojan thalis will be given free for the next one month. The state gives around 200,000 thalis daily,” Thackeray said during his address.Thackeray also announced an initiative to distribute ration consisting of 3 kilograms of wheat and 2 kilograms of rice for a month. “Three kg wheat and 2 kg rice will be provided for one month to 7 crore people,” Uddhav Thackeray said during his address.The chief minister also announced a cash transfer scheme for registered construction workers, where Rs.1500 will be distributed to some 12 crore individuals working in the construction sector. “Twelve crore registered building and other construction workers will be given ₹1500 each,” said Thackeray.Thackeray also asked for an extension on the deadline for filing Goods and Service Tax (GST) returns of small and medium enterprises by three months as businesses have been left reeling under the wrath of the second wave.“Another demand is to push the deadline by three months to file GST returns of small and medium enterprises,” he said.Thackeray’s announcement of assistance comes after the comments of opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis earlier this month, asking the government to provide financial assistance to the poor and middle class if a lockdown-like situation arises. "Lockdown or a partial lockdown is okay. We will support the government, but it should also focus on providing financial assistance to the poor and the middle class," Fadnavis said to reporters on April 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monetary-assistance-free-food-during-curfew-in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-announces-101618331540230.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray imposes Sec 144 in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 crisis: 10 points||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) will be clamped across the state till May 1 in order to bring the coronavirus crisis under control. Announcing a slew of restrictions, Thackeray said that the situation in Maharashtra is dreadful and the increase in cases has now burdened the health infrastructure.The government has shut the cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums, amusement parks, gyms, sports complexes. Shooting for films, serial, ads has also been closed. All shops, malls, shopping centres that are not performing essential services will also remain closed from 8pm on April 14 to 7am May 1.Also read: No lockdown, Section 144 across Maharashtra from tomorrow, announces Uddhav ThackerayHere are the highlights from CM Uddhav Thackeray's address:Also read: Maharashtra reports over 60,000 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload up by over 28,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-imposes-sec-144-in-maharashtra-amid-covid-19-crisis-10-points-101618327693258.html
13-04-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19 situation worsening, swift measures should be taken: HC||The Jharkhand high court on Tuesday observed that the Covid-19 scenario in the state was worsening with each passing day and it will be difficult to control if things were not spruced up immediately. A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad pulled up state authorities over lack of health care and services even after a year of the outbreak. “A year has already elapsed since the outbreak of this pandemic. We were expecting that the government must have set up adequate arrangements and streamlined the system to meet such medical exigencies. But, unfortunately, nothing much has been done. We still face shortage of beds in hospitals, delay in sample testing, death of patients in want of treatment and many more troubles,” the bench observed.It said even the state’s biggest Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has only three RT-PCR machines.“More than 5,000 untested samples are piled up in this hospital alone. Government is sending samples to other states for testing. This indicates lack of preparedness. The situation will worsen if not controlled immediately. Adequate and swift measures must be taken. Every stakeholders is required to work sincerely in this difficult time,” the bench stated.It suggested the government to set up isolation centres in hotels and banquet halls, and asked to furnish a progress report on the whole issue by April 17, the next date of hearing.The court pointed out that it was hearing a matter related to mismanagement in RIMS for last one year and passing orders from time-to-time to improve its condition but to no avail.“The hospital, which is generally flooded with patients from across the state, doesn’t have many important testing machines. There is a paucity of technicians and other staff. In current situation, this medical institution is overburdened with patients and it is finding it difficult to handle the rush,” the bench said.Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan, however, informed the court that all private hospitals were directed to reserve 50% beds for Covid-19 patients. “The state is testing more than 35,000 samples everyday. RIMS governing body is slated to meet to discuss matters related to purchase of CT scan machines and others. The government is handling the Covid-19 scenario with all sincerity,” he argued.Earlier, the HC took serious exception to the fact that reports of samples collected from over 70 court staff on April 5 were yet to be generated. It also took notice of the fact that an electric crematorium set up in Ranchi for disposal of bodies of Covid-19 casualties was not functioning and bodies were piled up.Earlier on Monday, the court asked a slew of top officials, including health department’s principal secretary, Ranchi deputy commissioner and others, to appear before it through videoconferencing.The court was informed that the electric crematorium at Ranchi’s Harmu will be repaired in a day. Another electric crematorium at Ghagra will be made functional soon. Proper arrangements have been made for disposal of infected bodies, officials concerned said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-situation-worsening-swift-measures-should-be-taken-hc-101618331501789.html
13-04-2021||Other||Bihar reports 14 Covid deaths, highest on a day this yr||Bihar on Tuesday reported 14 Covid-19 deaths during the last 24 hours, including a top state official and a district immunisation officer, and recorded 4,157 new cases, with Patna accounting for 1,205. Vijay Ranjan (59) an IAS officer posted as director, Panchayati Raj department, and Dr Lalan Kumar Rai (62), the district immunisation officer of Vaishali, were among the 14 people who died of coronavirus. Syed Maqbool Karim, a retired professor of physics at Patna University, also died of Covid-19 at AIIMS Patna, where he was admitted on April 1. He is the brother of SM Karim, acting vice-chancellor of the Aryabhatta Knowledge University in Patna. The 14 fatalities reported in the state were the highest in a day this year due to the pandemic. The total death toll in the state due to the pandemic had gone up to 1,630, with Patna accounting for a maximum of 475 deaths. Bihar has seen a more than eight-fold increase in cases after reporting 488 infections on April 1. The number of active cases had also gone up to 20,148 from just under 350 last month. A team from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) was expected here on Wednesday to explore possibilities of reopening a 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 care centre at the ESI hospital at Bihta. The Centre had opened two such centres, one in Patna and another in Muzaffarpur, last year. “Many doctors are hospitalised, some are serious. Incidentally, all those who are serious are above 60 years of age,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the Indian medical Association, Bihar. He demanded from the state government that doctors above 60 years of age should not be given Covid-19 duty while also appealing to them to take vaccination and all possible precautions against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-14-covid-deaths-highest-on-a-day-this-yr-101618331442464.html
13-04-2021||Other||Munger firing: After transfer of 17 police officers, SP also shifted||A day after the transfer of 17 officials out of Munger district in keeping with the Patna High Court order in the case involving firing during idol immersion in Munger last year, the district’s superintendent of police (SP) Manavjeet Singh Dhillon was also shifted to Samastipur on Tuesday evening.SP (rail) Jagunath Jala Reddy replaces Dhillon at Munger. Samastipur SP Vikas Burman has been made new rail SP, Patna. A notification to this effect was issued by the home department late Tuesday evening. On October 26 last year, an 18-year-old boy, Anurag Poddar, had died in alleged police firing at a Durga idol immersion procession in the town. Later, his father Amarnath Poddar moved the HC, which, on April 7, ordered the transfers of police officers related to the probe, in any way, into the firing in which the boy was killed. The then DM and SP, Rajesh Meena and Lipi Singh, respectively, were transferred from Munger on the directive of the Election Commission as the incident took place two days before the state Assembly polls in the constituency. Rachna Patil was appointed as DM and Manavjeet Singh Dhillon the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/munger-firing-after-transfer-of-17-police-officers-sp-also-shifted-101618331441825.html
13-04-2021||Patna||2nd wave: Patna hospitals face shortage of beds||Most beds are full in major hospitals of Patna, treating Covid-19 patients. As many as 83 out of 112 beds were occupied at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), the oldest government-run medical college of Bihar, on Tuesday. At AIIMS, 106 of the 115 beds were occupied, while only 12 of the 100 beds at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital were available. The Paras-HMRI hospital and the Ruban Memorial hospital, the two NABH-accredited hospitals in Patna, are also full. “We are running 100% occupancy with 49 of our 50 beds full for Covid-19 patients,” said Paras medical superintendent Dr Syed Asif Rahman. At Ruban hospital, all 93 beds for Covid-19 patients were occupied. “I feel helpless when I have to refuse patients because of unavailability of beds. Yesterday, one patient brought to our facility died because we could not provide ICU bed as all 26 are occupied. We have a running waitlist, which has now shot up to 18 as on Tuesday. We are admitting Covid-19 patients through the waiting list generated at our hospital,” said Dr Satyajit Singh, director, Ruban hospital. He said the hospital would increase 15 beds tomorrow and another five later this week to accommodate the rush of patients. Dr Rahman claimed there was a shortage of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug used in the management of Covid-19 patients. “We have already told the health department and have been mentioning about the shortage of Remdesivir in our daily report to the state drug controller for the last 4-5 days. We are managing the drug somehow through our central unit in Gurgaon and supplying patients on a daily basis,” said Dr Rahman. The AIIMS-Patna was increasing its bed capacity to 145 from Wednesday, said Dr Veena Singh. It had increased its number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients from 60 to 100 initially and then to 115 this month. On papers, Bihar has a capacity of 21,203 beds at its dedicated Covid hospital, dedicated Covid healthcare centre and the Covid care centres. Of the available 15,883 beds, 14,974 were vacant and remaining 909 occupied as on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2nd-wave-patna-hospitals-face-shortage-of-beds-101618331381930.html
13-04-2021||Patna||PMCH sets up 25-bed Covid unit for staff after 60 test positive||The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) has set up an exclusive 25-bed unit for its healthcare workers who contract coronavirus, after around 60 employees, including its principal, have been infected despite most having completed their vaccination schedule. The Covid-19 unit, exclusively for doctors and paramedics, is expected to be functional by Wednesday. It has five ICU beds with ventilator support. The unit has been set up near the Indira Gandhi Central Casualty, earlier being used for vaccination, which has, in turn, been shifted to the other end of the hospital, housing the skin and venereal disease department earlier, said PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur. In setting up an exclusive Covid-19 unit for its staff, the PMCH has been able to spare 20 beds in the Covid-19 wards for general patients, taking its bed capacity to 120. Meanwhile, the PMCH has its own share of worries after almost 60 staff have so far tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus. “At least 20-30 of the 60 staff infected at our institution are doctors. A senior doctor in the pulmonary medicine department, re-employed post superannuation, has also tested positive for the virus on Tuesday,” said PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary. “Though asymptomatic, I decided to get myself tested after my daughter, who is doing her internship at the Patna Dental College, got infected. I am now under home quarantine,” added Dr Choudhary. “The doctors infected include four resident doctors of the medicine department, two tutors of microbiology department, a postgraduate student of ENT, a senior resident of the department of surgery and another of clinical pathology,” said Dr Thakur. “This is the second time the senior resident from the surgery department has contracted the infection. He was infected last year as well,” added Dr Thakur, who is also the professor and head, department of surgery, PMCH. At least five students of the General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) school at the PMCH had also been infected. The administration has since closed the nursing school and sent the students on home quarantine. Meanwhile, the AIIMS-Patna was increasing its capacity of beds for Covid-patients from 115 to 145 by Wednesday after a sudden surge in demand for hospital beds. The state government on Tuesday deputed three IAS officers for one week to oversee arrangements and availability of beds for Covid-19 patients at the PMCH, the Nalanda Medical College Hospital and the AIIMS, government managed medical colleges in Patna. Bihar has a capacity of 21,203 beds for Covid-19 patients at its dedicated Covid hospital, dedicated Covid healthcare centre and the Covid care centres. Of the available 15,883 beds, 14,974 were vacant and remaining 909 occupied as on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pmch-sets-up-25-bed-covid-unit-for-staff-after-60-test-positive-101618331321830.html
13-04-2021||Other||Assam issues revised guidelines for air passengers; Covid-19 tests mandatory||Assam government on Tuesday issued revised guidelines for air passengers making it mandatory for all incoming passengers to undergo Covid-19 tests. “There will be no exemption from the tests in case of any passengers arriving in Assam and all earlier standard exemptions in this connection are hereby withdrawn,” said the order issued by Samir K Sinha, principal secretary, health.An order issued by the state’s health department stated that all air passengers arriving at any airport in Assam will have to undergo a mandatory Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on arrival. No fees will be charged for the tests. Earlier, tests were mandatory only for passengers arriving from Bengaluru and Mumbai. If the test result comes positive, the passenger will have to undergo home isolation or get admitted to a hospital depending on his/her condition. If it comes negative, the passenger will have to undergo an RT-PCR test at the airport by paying ₹500. After the RT-PCR sample is collected, the passenger will leave the airport premises and stay in quarantine till the time the test result is out. Passengers will be hand-stamped after RT-PCR tests. If the test result is positive, the passenger will have to spend time in home isolation or get admitted to a Covid-19 facility depending on their condition. If the result is negative, they can continue their normal activities subject to observing Covid-19 safety protocols. The order stated that residents of north-eastern states, other than Assam, who are arriving at any airport in the state and are directly travelling to any other NE state shall be exempted from tests provided they are asymptomatic. All passengers of intra-Assam and inter-north eastern routes will also be exempted from tests. Both categories of passengers will need to provide their addresses in NE before leaving the airport. The new guidelines will come into effect immediately and anyone found violating will be persecuted under provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the order read. Assam has been witnessing a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in recent days. On Monday, the state recorded 583 new cases. At present, there are 2,387 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-issues-revised-guidelines-for-air-passengers-covid-19-tests-mandatory-101618331142562.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Rare 1968 short film on Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar now in NFAI collection||The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has recently acquired a rare short film made on Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in 1968, adding another memorable reel into their collection. The film in Marathi titled ‘Mahapurush Dr Ambedkar’ was produced by the director of publicity, Government of Maharashtra in July 1968. Directed by Namdeo Vatkar under the banner of Vathkar productions, the music for the 18-minute short film was composed by renowned composer Datta Davajekar. Veteran film artist David Abraham was the narrator for the film. Namdeo Vatkar was a veteran actor and director in Marathi film industry who wrote and directed films like Aaher featuring Sulochana in 1957 and Mulga featuring Hansa Wadkar in 1956. He also wrote the story of Ram Gabale’s film Ghardhani along with PL Deshpande in 1952. “It is a very timely discovery of the film on Dr BR Ambedkar when we are celebrating the 130th birth anniversary of the key architect of the Indian constitution on April 14th. The short film fictionalises the key events of Dr Ambedkar’s life, and it also has live footage of his later years,” said Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI. The film has the visuals of Dr Ambedkar embracing the Buddhist religion and his visit to Nepal along with close-up shots of his funeral procession at Dadar Chowpatty in Mumbai. Madhukar Khamkar took care of the cinematography while GG Patil edited the film. “The film was originally made in 35 mm format but what we have found is a 16 mm copy probably meant for distribution in rural areas. The condition of the film is moderate, and we plan to digitise it soon so that it can be accessed by people,” said Prakash Magdum. He added, “We appeal to individual collectors and distributors along with others to come forward and submit films or footages at NFAI so that it can be preserved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rare-1968-short-film-on-dr-babasaheb-ambedkar-now-in-nfai-collection-101618330721856.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Out of whack machinery piles up 70,000 tonnes garbage at Ramtekdi processing plant||The Ramtekdi garbage processing unit premises is littered with tons of garbage as the machinery is not running up to the mark. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) solid waste management department has floated a tender to clear 70,000 tonnes of garbage lying at Ramtekdi industrial plot in Hadapsar and build a new 200-metric tons plant at Urali Devachi. In the Ramtekdi industrial area, the PMC possesses more than 10 acres of land for processing garbage. There are three processing plants, Rochem separation system, Adarsh processing unit and the Pune bio-energy company which is set to begin. The city generates around 2,600 tonnes of garbage daily. Of that, almost 300 metric tonnes of garbage has not been processed from the last nine months as Ramtekdi based garbage processing units are not running with full capacity. Therefore, there is 70,000 tonnes of garbage lying without processing at Ramtekdi industrial area. Ajit Deshmukh, deputy municipal commissioner said, the PMC solid waste department has admitted the piling up of unprocessed garbage in Ramtekdi. “In the Ramtekdi industrial area, the PMC has given a contract to Rochem company to process 700 metric tonnes of garbage per day. However, the company is processing only 200 metric tonnes of garbage per day. We have initiated a process to terminate the contract.” Solution on the way Deshmukh further said, “Now, the Pune bio-energy company has started a trial of the processing plant which has a capacity of processing 700 metric tonnes per day. It will start processing 350 metric tonnes of garbage per day in two-three days. After that, it will gradually increase capacity up to 700 metric tonnes until the month of September. Therefore, the problem of unprocessed garbage will be solved within one week.” “Due to the under-capacityprocessing of garbage, a total of 300 tonnes of garbage piles up in the Ramtekdi industrial area daily from the last nine months. The garbage has reached 70,000 tonnes. We have floated a tender to process and clear the garbage and given six months of time for that,” he added. New plant at Uruli Devachi The PMC will set up another plant of 200 metric tonnes in Uruli Devachi garbage depot; however, villagers from Uruli Devachi and Phursungi are opposing the plant. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has given permission to set up a plant in the depot which will solve the issue. As per the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directives, the PMC stopped open dumping of garbage at Uruli Devachi garbage depot from January 1, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/out-of-whack-machinery-piles-up-70-000-tonnes-garbage-at-ramtekdi-processing-plant-101618330661752.html
13-04-2021||Pune||46-year-old booked for molestation||A 46-year-old man was booked after a woman registered a complaint of molestation at the Shivajinagar police station on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Lobard Martin Fernandes (46). According to police officials, the accused was known to the woman’s husband, and she gave ₹5 lakh to him as per her husband’s instruction. From the last few days, the accused was avoiding returning the money. When the woman approached the accused and demanded money, he molested her after holding her hands. Police are investigating the case further. ---------------------------- FIR registered after fake profile created, number disclosed A 25-year-old woman has filed a police complaint against an unknown person for creating a fake social media account and writing an offensive post while disclosing her mobile number. The woman, a resident of Dhankawadi began receiving phone calls from unidentified numbers. Callers were using objectionable language, when she got to know that someone had opened a fake Instagram account on her name and posted her mobile number, she approached the cops. The Sahakarnagar police have lodged a complaint against unidentified persons under the IT act. Senior police inspector Govind Gambhire is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/46yearold-booked-for-molestation-101618330601835.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs close to 13,500 new Covid-19 cases in another record daily spike||Delhi on Tuesday reported 13,468 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the Capital’s tally mounted to 750,156, according to a bulletin from the health department. Also, 81 people succumbed to Covid-19 during the same period, which pushed the death toll to 11,436, the bulletin also showed. The Capital recorded 11,491 new Covid-10 cases on Monday, 10,774 cases on Sunday and 7,897 cases on Saturday.The active cases of the disease in the city currently stands at 43,510, an increase of 5415 cases from the 38,095 reported on the previous day. Meanwhile, 7,972 patients were cured of the disease on the day, which took the overall recoveries to 695,210, according to the bulletin. The recovery rate stands at 92.67 per cent currently.Also read | Asking PM Modi to allow IAF to supply oxygen for Maharashtra: Uddhav ThackerayAs many as 102,460 Covid-19 tests, comprising 64,544 RTPCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and 37,916 Rapid Antigen Tests, were conducted on the day. With this, 15,753,100 tests have been conducted in the national capital and the tests per million count stand at 829,110, the bulletin showed.The cumulative positivity rate considering the total tests done and the total confirmed cases stands at 4.76 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.52 per cent, according to the latest data. Also, there are 6,852 containment zones within the city and 21,954 patients are currently under home isolation.The government also noted that 89,065 people have received the Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. With this, 2,234,330 people have been inoculated so far, of whom, 1,853,974 have received the first dose and 380,356 have got their second, data from the bulletin showed.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed his concerns over the rapid increase in the number of infections in the city. He also appealed to the people below 45 years of age to avoid any unnecessary movement and also asked them to follow all Covid-19 appropriate protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-close-to-13-500-new-covid-19-cases-in-another-record-daily-spike-101618329823641.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Court cases hinder Chandani Chowk improvement works||In spite of promising to finish the land acquisition for Chandni Chowk flyover in two weeks, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is unable to acquire the necessary land due to the ongoing court cases. Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari visited Chandni Chowk to review the much-delayed work and instructed the administration to speed up the land acquisition work. The PMC needs to acquire three buildings, around 5,000 sq ft land of Ved bhavan and one more property but as the case is pending in the court, the matter has not been sorted out. PMC estate department head Rajendra Muthe said, “The case is pending in the high court. Three flat holders went in the court and denied the compensation. Rest all the flat owners accepted the compensation but as three members from three different buildings did not accept it, the land acquisition process remained incomplete.” PMC engineer Rajiv Thorat said, “The PMC filed a review petition in the high court for getting the possession earlier. The Ved bhavan also went to court, the government had given the land to this institute. It was a written clause that whenever needed, the Ved bhavan would return the land to the government, but they too went to court. The PMC requires the land for the multilevel flyover.” All the properties are on Sringeri Math road. Considering the heavy traffic in the area and a busy junction where city’s traffic mixes with the highway traffic, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) stepped in to solve the traffic issues and complete the project. The PMC is providing land for this project; the state government has given the land acquisition cost to the PMC. The Chandni Chowk flyover work got much delayed due to land acquisition issue. Though the project got an approval almost three years ago, it is getting halted due to the land acquisition issue. The defense had given a nod to hand over the required land for this project. A PMC official said that the work of flyover is in progress. “Though these properties are not in the possession, it is not halting the work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/court-cases-hinder-chandani-chowk-improvement-works-101618330481773.html
13-04-2021||Pune||An uphill task: Parents juggle between working from home and managing toddlers||With day-cares and play schools closed in Pune, working parents are facing a tough time managing work from home, household chores and baby care all at once. In an attempt to find a solution, working parents are now preferring to stay in their hometown or at their in-laws instead of a nuclear setup in Pune. Since April 3, many playgroups and day-cares have decided to shut voluntarily as precautionary measures. There was no mention in the state order to close down day-care centres. “With the spike in Covid cases, we kept the centre closed and we had also prepared a circular to open it again from April 15th but now all things depend on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s lockdown decision,” said Monika Kulkarni, director of Aajol who has 22 day-care centres in Pune. “Things have been hard with handling my 5-year-old son and managing work from home. If the lockdown extends, I will prefer to go back to Amravati and I hope travelling is allowed,” said Shruti Sinha, IT professional, and a resident of Hinjewadi. The concern for day care was the risk of a child testing positive for Covid-19, hence they preferred shutting down completely. “We have our SOPs, but we could not risk keeping our centres open. Parents are willing to send their kids back to day-care to decrease their workload,” said Kulkarni. Riya Marne, a housewife who has already returned to Yavatmal said,’ “I was in two minds before going to my in-laws as cases are increasing but doing office work and handling my 4-year-old daughter was not possible. Now, my mother-in-law handles the daughter.” Opting for online options Many playgroup schools in the city have started one-hour online session where they engage kids below six in various activities. “Business has already been hit badly with the current scenario but the online is one option which parents are showing interest in as the kids are learning something good in their screen time,” said Meenal Dand, teacher from Little Millennium School, Aundh. “In this age group (below 6) we will also like for physical classes but with no option left we are running online classes where we are conducting dance classes and fancy-dress competition as well,” added Dand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/an-uphill-task-parents-juggle-between-working-from-home-and-managing-toddlers-101618330301722.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Liquor shops unwilling to home deliver despite mayor’s permission||Liquor shops within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are giving a lukewarm response to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol’s decision of permitting home delivery of liquor from Monday to Friday between 7 am to 6 pm. The demand for liquor is overwhelming, however, business owners fear crowding outside the shop, if they open shutters for home delivery. Ajay Deshmukh, secretary of the Pune liquor association and owner of Ajay Wines said, “I am not doing it and many of my fellow businessmen are also not doing it for the main reason that once we open our shutters, the crowd starts showing up and then police harass us. In many cases, shop owners were taken to police stations on the charge of allowing crowds at their shops. Since Section 144 is applicable, it is tough to avoid crowds.” The liquor shops have been shut from April 2 to curtail the further spread of the virus. However, the excise department has been hit by huge revenue loss. Last year too, the state excise department allowed the home delivery of alcohol but received a lukewarm response. This year, people can order during specific timings. GSP wines in Aundh has put up a board with a contact number for home delivery but people hover around waiting for the shop to open its shutters. “It is an overwhelming response, that is difficult to handle and tiring. In a day, we are doing 34 to 35 deliveries and I have four of my staff ready to help. We have down the shutters, and I have bouncers to help maintain social distance for people still come to the shutters and bang on it,” said Raj Bhagiya, owner of GSP wines. Mahendra Ghule of Ghule wines is finding replying to the phone calls difficult. “Ever since the mayor announced it, people are calling nonstop and asking for a lot of stock which is slowly depleting. If things don’t slow down, we will have to stop this service,” said Ghule. The PMC has around 170 shops, while the district has around 270 shops of which hardly 10-12 shops might be doing home delivery, but the loss of business is huge. “In Pune we are paying almost Rs1 lakh per month as licence fee which is heavy. Also, during the lockdown, we need to pay our staff, electricity as usual. It comes with a heavy blow,” added Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/liquor-shops-unwilling-to-home-deliver-despite-mayor-s-permission-101618330241763.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Jewellers home deliver gold on Gudi Padwa, sales take a hit||Jewellers in Pune used the online booking and home delivery option for customers who wanted to buy gold on the occasion of Gudi Padwa, but there was a big difference in the number of people purchasing gold online over physically at the shop. “Jewellers opted for the online option on Gudi Padwa. We also provided the online buying option to our customers and had kept the facility open until 5 pm on Monday, so that gold can be delivered on the festive occasion. People look forward to getting the gold on Gudi Padwa,” said Amit Modak, director-CEO, PN Gadgil and Sons. There is often a great deal of buzz in the jewellery market on Gudi Padwa which is considered to be an auspicious day to buy gold, however, with restrictions on movement in place, jewellers kept their businesses shut. Fattechand Ranka, president of the Maharashtra Rajya Saraf Suvarnakar Federation and managing director of Ranka jewellers admitted that there’s no personal touch for customers in the online purchase of gold. “All the Sarafa market is closed in Pune, only the online purchase option is available. We are getting a usual response for online gold purchase. Of course, there is the personal touch missing. People mostly buy pure gold online. There is a home delivery facility for online purchase. They get home delivery after 2-3 days,” Ranka said. The rate of 24 carat gold in Pune on Tuesday was ₹45,760 per 10 gram whereas 22 carat gold cost ₹44,760 per 10 gram. Despite the fact that the online booking and home delivery option has been available for gold purchase, jewellers say that there is still a limit to online booking and people still prefer to buy gold in person. “People are opting out to buy gold or diamond online but if you compare it with the usual sale in the shops it is not even 1 percent of it. People usually prefer to purchase heavy gold items in person. Online purchases mostly range up to 20,000 for light items. Online gold purchase has limits and we are aware of that, doesn’t matter how much concession we give, people still prefer to buy gold in person. It was still not clear to people if shops are going to be closed or open till Sunday. So they couldn’t decide whether to buy online or wait to go to the shops. So, there were fewer bookings online as well,” said Modak. Car dealers in the city also provided home delivery to their customers on the occasion of Gudi Padwa as automobile showrooms were also closed in the city. Anant Gajendragadkar, a resident of Kothrud got his brand-new car home delivered on Tuesday. “I had booked this car three weeks ago. Of course, I would have liked to go to the showroom and bring my new car home, but the situation is different now. We all should take care as much as possible,” Gajendragadkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jewellers-home-deliver-gold-on-gudi-padwa-sales-take-a-hit-101618330181753.html
13-04-2021||Other||10,019 fresh Covid cases, 17 deaths in Pune district||PUNE Pune district reported 10,019 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Tuesday, as per the state health department.A total of 17 deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday, with four in Pune rural, 12 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, and one in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the last 24 hours.In the Pune district, there are a total of 6,71,426 Covid cases. Of this, 5,44,576 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,682 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,18,168 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 3,49,607 Covid cases and 4,901 deaths till Tuesday. Whereas PCMC reported 1,67,157 cases so far, and a total of 1,420 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,54,662 total cases so far and 2,308 deaths due to Covid. As per the state health department, 31,624 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 28,66,097 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 81.44%.Across Maharashtra, 60,212 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 281 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.66%.Currently 32,94,398 people are in home quarantine and 30,399 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10019-fresh-covid-cases-17-deaths-in-pune-district-101618328081636.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 60,000 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload up by over 28,000||Maharashtra, the worst affected state by the coronavirus disease, on Tuesday recorded 60,212 Covid-19 cases taking the state’s tally to 3,519,208 cases so far, a bulletin from the health department said. The bulletin also said 281 patients succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours pushing the death toll to 58,526 in the state. The active caseload too witnessed a massive increase of 28,296 cases from the 564,746 reported on the previous day and currently stands at 593,042, data showed.Daily new infections have increased steadily in the state since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic in India. It has remained upwards of at least 40,000 infections every day since April 1. On Sunday, the state witnessed 63,294 new cases, its highest single-day spike. However, a significant drop in cases was reported on Monday with 51,751 new cases that could apparently be attributed to a drop in the number of tests conducted.Also read | Covid-19: Active caseload jumps by over 63,000, 5 states contribute 69%﻿Meanwhile, 31,264 patients recovered from the disease on the day, taking the overall recoveries to 2,866,097 so far and the recovery rate currently stands at 81.44 per cent. As many as 237,658 samples were tested for the disease on the day and so far, 22,560,051 tests have been conducted by the state government, data showed.According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra alone adds 44.78 per cent to the national tally of active cases. Pune (118,168 cases), Mumbai (86,098 cases), Thane (81,303 cases), Nagpur (62,527 cases) and Nashik (41,438 cases) remain the top five districts in the state with the maximum number of active cases, the latest data from the state government showed.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said earlier in the day that the average daily cases in Maharashtra has grown significantly and currently stands at over 57,000 between April 7 and 13. Data shared by Bhushan also showed that the average tests per million (TPM) per day count too has increased to 1,887 in the same week. However, he noted that despite TPM’s growth in the state, it hasn’t kept pace with the surge in the daily new cases.The Union health ministry noted that 10,529,376 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 9,520,725 first doses and 1,008,651 second doses, have been administered to the beneficiaries in the state as on 7am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-60-000-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-up-by-over-28000-101618324173600.html
13-04-2021||Other||Corruption allegations against doc handling vaccine distribution leads to transfer, pending probe||PUNE After allegations of corruption were made against a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official working with the health department, the official, on Tuesday, was transferred. The official was handling the distribution of vaccines to all centres, private and government, in PMC limits.Corporator Prashant Jagtap wrote a letter to PMC demanding a full investigation into the allegations.“I have received complaints from various private hospitals that the officer would charge money to supply vaccines to private hospitals. After receiving these complaints, I had approached officials of the health department to highlight this issue” said Jagtap.PMC has stated that these allegations will be looked into.Vikram Kumar, commissioner of PMC, said that the officer was relieved from that post and transferred to a hospital after the allegations.“The official is a doctor and is transferred to a hospital where his services can be utilised by the general public. He was given the responsibility of distributing vaccines surrounding which the allegations were made. That responsibility is now handed over to another official who is in administration. We are in need of doctors at our hospital as the Covid cases are on the rise,” said Kumar.He added that there will be an investigation into the allegations.“We are looking into the allegations. And appropriate investigation and action will be taken,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corruption-allegations-against-doc-handling-vaccine-distribution-leads-to-transfer-pending-probe-101618327481620.html
13-04-2021||Other||Death in Covid times: Cremation grounds, graveyards in Lucknow overburdened||LUCKNOW With the Covid tally rising, cremation grounds and graveyards in Lucknow are overburdened having received more bodies than usual during the last few days. While staff at Baikunth Dham and Gulalaghat were working day and night to end the waiting list for last rites, cremation of Covid positive bodies was not allowed at the Alambagh crematorium. “The influx of bodies has increased in the last few days. Normally, 10 to 15 bodies are cremated in a traditional way every day and around 5 to 10 are cremated in the electric crematorium at Bhainsakund,” said Ram Nageena Tripathi, in-charge of city crematoriums. “At Gulalaghat, 7 to 10 bodies are usually cremated in a traditional way and 4 to 6 are cremated in the electric crematorium. But all of a sudden, the number of bodies has doubled at these crematoriums since last Friday,” he added. On Sunday, 42 bodies were brought to Bhainsakund and 27 at Gulalaghat while on Monday Bhainsakund received 57 bodies and Gulalaghat 29. Most of these were Covid positive bodies. On Tuesday till 3.30pm, 57 bodies had been brought for cremation, 38 at Bhainsakund and 19 at Gulalaghat, said Tripathi. BODIES FROM OTHER DISTRICTS ALSO He said many bodies were from adjacent places where cremation of Covid positive bodies was not possible. “No one is willing to touch these bodies in other districts, but here we have trained manpower for cremation of infected bodies and that’s why bodies from Sitapur, Baranbanki, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Jagdishpur, Sultanpur are sent here for cremation,” added Tripathi. 100 WORKERS FOR CARRYING BODIES The Lucknow Municipal Corporation has hired 100 labourers on contract to properly carry infected bodies from the bus to the cremation platforms. These workers would be provided PPE kits, gloves and sanitisers. They will work in two shifts, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. 50 EXTRA PLATFORMS The corporation has raised 50 extra platforms for cremation of bodies at Bhaisakund and Gulalaghat, he added. NO WOOD SHORTAGE NOW There was a shortage of wood at the cremation grounds during the last three days because of a large number of cremations, but the problem has been sorted out, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. Five more incinerators would be placed at Gulalaghat, Bhainsakund and Alambagh crematoria within 15 days, he said. Currently, there are two machines at Baikunth Dham (Bhainsakund), one of which is around 30 years old, so it would be replaced by a new one, while two more machines will be installed bringing the number to four, added Dwivedi. “Gulalaghat and Alambagh will get one new machine each,” he said. VEHICLES TOWED AWAY Parking has become a problem in front of the Bhainsakund cremation ground due to more cremations. A number of vehicles were towed away by the private contractor hired by the LMC for towing vehicles. Many people accused him of extortion. However, the allegations of charging penalty were refuted by an IPS officer on twitter, with a warning of action against those who spread rumours about challans. SIMILAR SCENE AT GRAVEYARDS Graveyards and cemeteries in the city also saw an increased number of burials. Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam, Eidgah, said he had never seen so many burials together. He also requested people to stay indoors and to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. The Sunni cleric said the Aishbagh Kabristan (city’s biggest graveyard) recorded burial of more than 200 bodies in the last 10 days. “And, 30 burials took place on Monday,” he said. Suppa Kabristan, Tal Katora, Malka Jahan, Imdad Hussain Khan, Gufran Mab, Abbas Bagh Ki Karbala, Misiri ki Bagiya were a few other graveyards that also witnessed burial of Covid infected bodies in the last few days. The mutwallis of graveyards said these people had largely died of Covid. Similarly, cemeteries witnessed 12 burials in the last 10 days. Father Donald De Souza, parish priest, St Joseph’s Cathedral Church, Hazratganj said three burials were of infected patients that were carried out as per Covid protocol. Cemeteries at Nishatganj and Bandariyabagh are the two main Christian cemeteries in stat capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-in-covid-times-cremation-grounds-graveyards-in-lucknow-overburdened-101618327302972.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||No lockdown, Section 144 across Maharashtra from tomorrow: Uddhav Thackeray announces||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced a 15-day statewide curfew from Wednesday, April 14, to stop the surging cases of the coronavirus disease in the state as he refrained from calling the new curbs a lockdown. Uddhav Thackeray said in his address to people of the state that the curfew, which excludes essential services, will come into effect from 8pm on Wednesday. “We are imposing strict restrictions… Section 144 to be imposed in the entire state from tomorrow. I will not term this as lockdown,” Uddhav Thackeray said. “People have to decide whether they want to help corona or the government that is working to curb it…” he added during his address to the state, which battling a massive surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 60,212 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, CM Thackeray announced during his address and said he will seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's help in sourcing oxygen through the Indian Air Force. “I am writing to PM to allow air force to supply oxygen," Thackeray said.Fight resumedThackeray said the state has resumed the fight against the coronavirus pandemic amid the surging infections and pointed out the fresh cases in the state were the highest so far. "There was some control over Covid-19 in November and December last year. We had managed to keep cases in check till January and February. We have resumed our fight against the virus as numbers have surged. Today's numbers are the highest till date at 60,212,” Uddhav Thackeray said. “The Covid situation in the state has become dreadful… The increase in cases has now burdened the health infrastructure,” he added.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray imposes Sec 144 in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 crisis: 10 points“In the last few days, I have interacted with people from all walks of lives to get a consensus. But now discussions will not help,” Thackeray said in his address. The chief minister was referring to the all-party meeting last week on Friday during which he indicated that a lockdown could be imposed in the state to curb the surging Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, he met members of the state Covid-19 task force and said a standard operating procedure (SOP) will be prepared after holding consultations with stakeholders.GuidelinesServices and activities under the essential category will be exempted and public transport, including buses and local trains, will not be suspended during the restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, he said. According to the guidelines, no one will be allowed to be in a public place without any valid reason. All establishments, public place activities and services will remain closed.Thackeray said his government will spend  ₹5400 crore to support the people of the state as he announced the 15-day long statewide curfew. Food will also be distributed for one month under the government's flagship economy meal scheme, Shiv Bhojan Thali. “Shiv Bhojan thalis will be given free for the next one month,” Thackeray said during his address.Thackeray said the government will distribute 3 kilograms of wheat and 2 kilograms of rice for a month to 70 million people. The chief minister also announced a cash transfer scheme for 120 million registered construction workers, who he said will be given ₹1500. Thackeray also asked for an extension on the deadline for filing Goods and Service Tax (GST) returns of small and medium enterprises by three months.Also read | Maharashtra health minister seeks increase in Remdesivir productionMaharashtra reported 51,751 Covid-19 cases on Monday, a drop after the highest single-day infections of 63,294 on Sunday due to a fewer number of tests conducted over the weekend. The death toll in the state is 58,245 as of Monday.The Maharashtra government has already imposed lockdowns in some cities, clamped night and weekend curfews to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. On Monday, it postponed the state board exams of Class 10 and Class 12, which were scheduled to be held later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-lockdown-section-144-across-maharashtra-from-tomorrow-uddhav-thackeray-announces-101618326926722.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Asking PM Modi to allow IAF to supply oxygen for Maharashtra: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said he will seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi's help in sourcing oxygen through the Indian Air Force for the state battered by the ongoing coronavirus disease crisis. Thackeray was addressing the people of the state virtually as the situation in Maharashtra continues to deteriorate."I am writing to PM to allow air force to supply oxygen," CM Thackeray said in his address.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 60,212 fresh infections of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the state's cumulative tally past 3.5 million-mark, CM Thackeray announced in his address.Also read: Maharashtra’s Covid situation has become dreadful: Uddhav ThackerayMaharashtra’s cumulative case tally now stands at 3,519,208 and the death toll at 58,526, the health department said.A day earlier, the state saw 51,751 fresh coronavirus disease cases and 258 deaths, data showed. The state's cumulative case tally now stands at 34,58,996 and the toll at 58,245, it said.Ahead of Thackeray’s address to the state, people were seen on the streets of the financial capital on Tuesday evening buying essential items. Vegetable vendors and general stores selling fast-moving consumer goods saw higher buying from around 5.30pm when the CM's office informed of Thackeray's virtual address on Tuesday over social media platforms, reported PTI.Over the past fortnight, Maharashtra has been witnessing a massive growth in daily infections with cities like Mumbai and Pune, and also some districts like Aurangabad witnessing a surge in cases.Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, account for 80.80 per cent of fresh Covid-19 cases reported in a day, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday as 161,736 new infections were registered in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/asking-pm-modi-to-allow-iaf-to-supply-oxygen-for-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-101618326049661.html
13-04-2021||Other||PMC stays on the Covid bill audit trail of pvt hospitals; bed mgmt issues keep officials busy||PUNE Even though Covid cases are seeing a surge, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials note that the PMC has not received many complaints of hospital and medical bills being overcharged or inflated.After a rise in cases last year, PMC started bill audits to keep a check on private hospitals. With the second wave of cases, however, PMC is overwhelmed with issues related to bed availability.Dr Manisha Naik, assistant chief of the health department at the PMC, said as cases have seen a rise, there have been more and more demands for beds.“In the last eight days, there has been no complaint received by the PMC of bill inflation by private hospitals. The department officials have been busy with bed management to ensure that patients get the necessary medical care. We had a few minor issues reported to us which we have resolved immediately,” said Naik.Speaking about the bill audits done by the PMC, Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at PMC, said that there are two teams that are deployed to audit the bills.“One team does pre-audits and the other does post-audits of bills. We conduct bill audits of Covid patients who have a bill of ₹1.5 lakh or more from a private hospital,” said Dr Bharti.Dr Manisha Naik further added that a few pre-audit cases were resolved by the PMC.“In the last few days a few cases during the pre- audit have been immediately resolved,” said Dr Naik.Dr Abhijeet More, a health activist from Pune, said that the practice of bill audits started during the last wave to check inflated bills.“Even in this wave, bill audits should be continued,” said Dr More.Till February 15, PMC has evaluated up to ₹16,76,66,879 bills and refunded ₹2,86,86,926 to patients, according to officials.Bill audits by PMCTotal bills audited - ₹16,76,66,879Bill refunded to patients by PMC - ₹2,86,76,926Total number of bills scrutinised - 1,040* Patients who have a Covid bill of ₹1.5 lakh or higher, can contact the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on 020-25502115 for a bill audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-stays-on-the-covid-bill-audit-trail-of-pvt-hospitals-bed-mgmt-issues-keep-officials-busy-101618327121612.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Will do our best to save lives, says minister ahead of Maharashtra CM's address||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Tuesday taken a decision about imposing strict guidelines in the state battling a massive spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and related deaths, minister Aslam Shaikh said. Uddhav Thackeray will address the state at 8.30pm.Uddhav Thackeray, during an all-party meeting last week, hinted that a lockdown will be clamped in the state to curb the surge in Covid-19 cases. He held a meeting with members of the state Covid-19 task force on Sunday and said a standard operating procedure (SOP) will be prepared after holding consultations.“The CM will take a decision related to imposing strict SOPs today. We have to break the chain of transmission of infection. We could have avoided lockdown if the number of cases was less. The government will do its best to save lives,” Aslam Shaikh said according to news agency ANI ahead of Thackeray’s address. "Maharashtra chief minister has already spoken to members of the Covid-19 task force. He also held discussions with political leaders, including those from opposition parties, and with members of industries. We tried a weekend lockdown, night curfew and other measures," Shaikh was also quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Maharashtra reported the highest single-day infections at 63,294 on Sunday but the cases dropped significantly to 51,751 on Monday due to a fewer number of tests conducted over the weekend, taking the tally to 34,58,996. The death toll in the state is 58,245 as of Monday.Also read | Covid-19: Active caseload jumps by over 63,000, 5 states contribute 69%Shaikh also said the government was assessing the possible implications of lockdown. "Some members said that if a lockdown is to be announced, it should be for a period of minimum 21 days while others demanded that the lockdown should be for 14 days,” he added.The minister, while speaking to reporters, also said the government will also have to decide upon guidelines for those returning from Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, adding that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was not being followed at the gathering. He also said the situation is still under control in the state and that the government was adding 5,300 more beds to the health infrastructure, of which 70 per cent of beds will have the oxygen supply facility.The Maharashtra government has already imposed lockdowns in some cities, clamped night and weekend curfews to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. On Monday, it postponed the state board exams of Class 10 and Class 12, which were scheduled to be held later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-do-our-best-to-save-lives-says-minister-ahead-of-maharashtra-cm-s-address-101618323338141.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||‘Water supply will be hit’: Raghav Chadha warns of scarcity in Delhi, slams Haryana||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice chairperson Raghav Chadha on Tuesday once again raked up the water dispute between Delhi and Haryana, warning that supply in several areas of the Capital could be affected due to the presence of “untreatable” waste in the water of the Yamuna being sent by the neighbouring state.Also Read | Supreme Court orders status quo on water supply to Delhi“At a time when several festivals are on the horizon and the Covid-19 pandemic is at its peak, Haryana is sharing water which has a huge quantity of ammonia and industrial waste in it, which is untreatable. We cannot share the water if we cannot treat it. The Yamuna provides 40% of the water produced in Delhi every day,” Chadha, also an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, said at a press conference.ऐसे समय में जब नवरात्रे है, रमजान भी है और कोरोना महामारी चरम पर है तब हरियाणा सरकार दिल्ली में भारी मात्रा में अमोनिया, गंदगी, Untreated Waste वाला पानी भेज रही है, जिसे कोई विश्वस्तरीय Plant भी Treat नहीं कर सकता। - @Raghav_Chadha pic.twitter.com/jC95YgfhX4“Several areas of Delhi, including North Delhi, South Delhi, Central Delhi and West Delhi will be affected as Haryana is not honouring even its legal commitment as directed by the Supreme Court with regards to the clean water that it has to supply to Delhi. Haryana is indulging in criminal negligence,” Chadha, who took over as the DJB vice chairperson in March 2020, said. He added that Haryana was “wilfully violating the right to life of the 22 million residents of Delhi.”South Delhi, North Delhi, Central और West Delhi पानी की Supply से प्रभावित होने वाला है, क्योंकि हरियाणा सुप्रीम कोर्ट के Order के बाद भी दिल्ली को साफ और पर्याप्त मात्रा में पानी नहीं दे रहा है।हरियाणा आपराधिक लापरवाही कर रहा है। - @Raghav_Chadha pic.twitter.com/y8S1PU7sSLNoting that the Delhi government has approached the Supreme Court in this regard, the AAP leader also said DJB has written several times in the last 15-20 days to Haryana over the rising levels of ammonia in the Yamuna. Chadha further urged Haryana to realise its responsibility to not play with the lives of the people of Delhi.हमने Supreme Court का दरवाजा भी खटखटाया है और 15-20 दिन से लगातार हरियाणा सरकार को पानी मे Ammonia की मात्रा को लेकर पत्र भी लिखा है। लेकिन हरियाणा सरकार आँखे मूंद कर बैठी है। हम हरियाणा सरकार से मांग करते है कि वो दिल्ली को साफ और पूरा पानी दे। -@Raghav_Chadha pic.twitter.com/cb8ix9aYLUDelhi and Haryana have been, for years, involved in a dispute over the sharing of the water of the Yamuna. The two states have also locked horns over the high level of pollution in the Yamuna, with both the Centre and Haryana government, where the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power, describing the AAP-led Delhi government as a “habitual offender.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-will-be-hit-raghav-chadha-warns-of-scarcity-in-delhi-slams-haryana-101618321124985.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Majority of Delhi to face water scarcity because of Haryana, says Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said south, north, central, and west Delhi are going to be hit by water scarcity as Haryana is not supplying sufficient water to the national capital."The water supply in south, north, central, and west Delhi is going to be affected as Haryana is recklessly turning a blind eye to the people of Delhi. They are not honouring even their legal commitments as the Supreme Court has already fixed the quality and quantity of water that Haryana is obliged to supply to Delhi," Chadha said in a press meet.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also alleged that Haryana is wilfully brushing aside its responsibilities and violating the rights of 22 million citizens of Delhi."I am saying this with responsibility that this is criminal negligence on part of Haryana government and they are, to some extent, willfully violating the right to life of 22 million citizens of Delhi," he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/majority-of-delhi-to-face-water-scarcity-because-of-haryana-says-raghav-chadha-101618320914842.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Noida Police arrests four people involved in inter-state theft of two-wheelers||The Noida Police on Tuesday arrested a gang of four people in a case related to an interstate theft of two-wheeler vehicles.The police recovered 30 two-wheelers out of which 14 have been traced back to their respective FIRs. The Delhi Police was also informed about the same, said Rajesh S, DCP Noida.Speaking to ANI, he said, "Maximum bikes were traced back to Bulandshahr and Delhi. As a matter of interstate crime, the Noida police have also alerted the Delhi Police about the arrest after which they visited Noida to make an enquiry."He added, "We have got a lead of two more individuals involved in this and necessary action will be taken soon."The Noida police are in constant contact with its Delhi counterpart to track any further leads, which might connect them to any drug abuse case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-arrests-four-people-involved-in-inter-state-theft-of-twowheelers-101618320059710.html
13-04-2021||Patna||1 held, 5 booked over rape of minor girl in Bihar's Muzaffarpur||At least five people have been booked and one accused has been arrested on Monday for allegedly raping a minor girl in Bihar's Muzaffarpur.Women Police Station's cop Sambedana Snehi said, "Five have been booked and one has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl in the area of Muzaffarpur."The medical test of the victim has been done, the police said.The age of the girl yet to be examined, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/1-held-5-booked-over-rape-of-minor-girl-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101618319344562.html
13-04-2021||Jaipur||‘Slightest negligence will prove dangerous’: Gehlot’s appeal amid rising Covid-19 cases||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday urged people to avoid going out of their houses and to stick with Covid-appropriate behaviour, warning that the pandemic situation in the state will otherwise worsen as he cited rising deaths in other parts of the country. “I request you all to not come out of your house unnecessarily. If you have to go out, wear a mask, follow social distancing and wash your hands. Now even the slightest negligence will prove dangerous to you and your near ones,” the chief minister tweeted in Hindi.“Reports from other states about queues for medicines, including Remedesvir, and the mass cremation and burning of the dead in the open is heart-wrenching. Corona has now taken a shocking form,” he said. “There is no such situation in Rajasthan right now, but the speed with which new cases are coming daily can worsen the situation,” Gehlot added.Also read | Covid-19: Rajasthan promotes students of Classes 6 and 7 without examsOn April 11 too, Gehlot said that the rising number of Covid-19 cases has been a matter of great concern and warned of more stringent restrictions if the protocol is not followed, according to a report by news agency PTI. The chief minister’s comments came ahead of a meeting with officials to review the Covid-19 and the vaccination situations in the state.On Monday, Rajasthan reported 5771 Covid-19 cases and 25 related fatalities in the span of 24 hours. So far, Rajasthan has reported 369,564 cases and 2,951 people have succumbed to the infection, according to the latest data from the state government. As far as vaccinations are concerned, 9,925,581 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state as of 7am on Tuesday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Gehlot has also said that the state is facing a shortage in the supply of Covid-19 vaccine stock and wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 9, requesting 30 lakh more doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/slightest-negligence-will-prove-dangerous-gehlot-s-appeal-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101618319869807.html
13-04-2021||Kolkata||JP Nadda counters TMC's 'Khela Hobe' slogan, calls Mamata a 'defeated player'||BJP president J P Nadda, taking a dig at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will be played) slogan, said on Tuesday that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's plight is that of a "defeated player".Nadda, who led a roadshow at Kalna in Purba Bardhaman district, also said that the TMC supremo, who has her accusatory finger pointed at the BJP and the Election Commission, seems to have forgotten that she has not done anything creditworthy for the people of the state."Mamata's condition is like that of a defeated player in a game. She has done injustice to the people of the state for many years. The BJP, however, will usher in development, stop atrocities on women and create jobs for youth, if voted to power," the top BJP leader claimed.He also said that the TMC dispensation has failed to maintain law and order in Bengal."Mamata Banerjee's politics of extortion, appeasement, her dictatorial nature, and the cut-money (bribery) culture institutionalised by her party have ruined the state," Nadda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/jp-nadda-counters-tmc-s-khela-hobe-slogan-calls-mamata-a-defeated-player-101618317531600.html
13-04-2021||Indore||Indore set to have one more Covid-19 care centre amid rising infections||Amid the growing number of Covid-19 cases in Indore, the district administration and health department have started setting up one more Covid care centre in the city.The centre is being built on Radha Swami Satsang Vyas's ground on Khandwa Road. Efforts are being made to complete the setting up of the centre in two days."We are making arrangements for 500 beds in the first phase. There will be 10 blocks, each comprising 50 beds. Every block will have a doctor, nurse and other medical staff members. In the second pase, we will increase the number of beds to 1000 and if need arises, we can even think of exceeding the number of beds to 2000," said Doctor Amit Malakar, Covid Nodal Officer."We will isolate asymptomatic patients here. Their fooding, lodging, any other facilities will be catered free of cost," Malakar added.On Monday, the number of Covid-19 containment zones in the district increased to 22.A day after the extension of the 60-hour lockdown in Indore till April 19, the district administration on Sunday had announced to impose a five-day-long corona-curfew in the municipal limits of Indore district.India reported 1,61,736 new Covid-19 cases, 97,168 discharges and 879 deaths on Monday. Madhya Pradesh is among the 10 states which accounted for 80.80 per cent of the new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-set-to-have-one-more-covid-19-care-centre-amid-rising-infections-101618316871650.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Sena leader’s jibe at minister Prasad on govt’s move over foreign Covid vaccines||Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on Tuesday took a jibe at Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for his reaction to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi raising the issue of the alleged shortage of Covid-19 vaccines even as she welcomed the Centre’s move to fast-track approvals for foreign-made shots against the coronavirus disease that have been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) in other countries.Also Read | Vaccination programme going slow, alleges Rahul Gandhi in letter to PM“Welcome move. An embarrassing moment for Ravi Shankar Prasad ji,” Chaturvedi tweeted on Tuesday evening.“Also, for all those cabinet ministers screeching, politicising and tweeting that there is no vaccine shortage at all, I offer my sympathies. Especially Rail Minister, Textile Minister and Environment Minister,” the Sena MP posted in a subsequent tweet, referring to Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani and Prakash Javadekar respectively.Also, for all those cabinet ministers screeching, politicising and tweeting that there no vaccine shortage at all, I offer my sympathies. Especially Rail Minister, Textile Minister, Environment Minister. https://t.co/gnnWUWwKeWChaturvedi was referring to Prasad’s attack on Rahul Gandhi for writing a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging the Prime Minister to allow states to have a greater say in the procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. The Union law minister last Friday called Gandhi a “failed part-time politician,” accusing him of “lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines.”Also Read | Ask them first: Ravi Shankar Prasad hits back at Rahul over vaccine letterPriyanka Chaturvedi has been quite vocal over the last few days over the alleged shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country, especially in her home state of Maharashtra, whose caseload is the highest among all states and Union territories.Also Read | Centre says 43 million Covid vaccine doses in stock after shortage alarmOn Monday, she tweeted after the clearance of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. “Hope Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad Ji is not contesting this decision in the court or asking for CBI investigation for corruption because he had a problem with the advise when it came from the opposition,” she wrote.Sputnik becomes the third approved vaccine in India. Hope Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad ji is not contesting this decision in the court or asking for CBI investigation for corruption because he had a problem with the advise when it came from the opposition.Sputnik V, once approved, will be the third Covid-19 vaccine to be used in India. The other two vaccines are the one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, which is being manufactured in India as Covishield, and Covaxin, the country’s first homemade vaccine against the coronavirus disease. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing Covishield, while Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited has developed Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-leader-s-jibe-at-minister-prasad-on-govt-s-move-over-foreign-covid-vaccines-101618315910326.html
13-04-2021||Other||Gyanvapi mosque panel files plea in Allahabad HC seeking stay on ASI survey||The management committee of Varanasi’s Gyanvapi Mosque has filed an urgent petition in the Allahabad high court seeking a stay on the April 8 order of a local court allowing a survey to determine whether the Muslim place of worship was built after destroying parts of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.In its petition filed on Monday, the committee has said that the order was passed illegally and without jurisdiction. It argued the order came even as the high court had reserved its judgment on the maintainability of the suit pending in the Varanasi court. “The [Varanasi] court should not have passed any order in the suit till the issue of maintainability of the suit was decided,” said SFA Naqvi, the committee’s lawyer.“Further, the lower court ignored the entire written submissions and the applicability of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 and Order 7 Rule 11D of the Civil Procedure Code while passing the order.”The 1991 law froze lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent, except Ayodhya. The Supreme Court last month agreed to review the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act.On April 8, civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered the formation of a five-member committee, comprising two Hindu, two Muslim members, and an archaeological expert, to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey” of the centuries-old Gyanvapi mosque complex. The plea in the case contended the mosque in Varanasi was a part of the temple.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise without any media briefings, Tiwari ordered as he fixed May 31 as the next date of hearing.“This court finds that survey by ASI alone can bring the truth of the matter before this court. Irrespective of what surfaces, the survey by ASI may go on to help not only to the plaintiffs but also to the defendants, if their version is indeed true,” the lower court order said.The order was passed in a 1991 suit stayed by the high court in 1998. The trial was re-commenced by the Varanasi court, which held that the stay stood vacated in light of the Supreme Court’s directions in the Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Pvt Ltd case. The apex court had held in this case that a stay granted by a court will end on expiry of six months from the date of such order unless a similar extension is granted.The suit was filed in 1991 seeking restoration of the ancient temple at the site where the Gyanvapi mosque currently stands. On March 15, the high court reserved its judgment in various pleas challenging the maintainability of the 1991 suit before the Varanasi court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gyanvapi-mosque-panel-files-plea-in-allahabad-hc-seeking-stay-on-asi-survey-101618315362043.html
13-04-2021||Other||Higher education a distant dream for students from outer Delhi||New Delhi: Vikram Dagar, 24, a resident of Najafgarh’s Issapur village, had to travel at least a 100 kilometres every day for three years to pursue a Bachelor of Science degree from Delhi University’s Deshbandhu College. He is now pursuing his postgraduate degree from DU’s Faculty of Law – over 40 kilometres way.“I don’t have time left for myself or engage in self-study. For residents of Najafgarh, the struggle is on two fronts – to get into DU and then find a way to access these colleges,” said Dagar, adding that he used to leave at 6.30 am and return home by 9.30 pm during his undergraduate degree days. “Since my village is at the far-end, even reaching the nearest metro by bus takes over an hour.”The 24-year-old said that this results in a lot of dropouts. “Colleges often do not offer hostels to those living within a 60-km radius. So, we have no option but to stay at our homes. Not everyone can afford to travel by metro or getting PG accommodations near campus. In the past four years, I have seen so many people drop out for this very reason. If there had been even one government college in Najafgarh, so many dropouts could have been avoided,” he said.This is a common concern among the community living in outer Delhi areas -- such as Najafgarh, Mundka, Ghumanhera, and Roshanpura – where despite the availability of lands, no government colleges have come up in the recent years, leaving the youth with few options for higher education.During the Delhi government’s annual budget last month, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that Delhi has not been able to “make higher education accessible to every child in the last 75 years due to increasing population”. The government said that despite an increase of 36.42% in the seats allotted for higher education and 66.44% in those for technical education, more needs to be done.Residents of these areas too said that the budget did not focus much on higher education. Jagbir Yadav, 60, a resident of Mundka village, said, “Though it is good that the government is talking about developing a sports university here, some attention has to be given towards regular undergraduate degree courses as well. Students here shift towards ITI or technical courses from private institutes and that does not give them the exposure available to students living in the main city.”Kartar Singh, general secretary of the Najafgarh Senior Citizens’ Association, said, “A generation was left behind in terms of education and development because there are hardly any colleges here. Those wishing to pursue higher education had to go towards the Haryana side or drop out of colleges. Lack of education and subsequently career opportunities led to some of our youngsters taking the wrong route and becoming outlaws. Else they too could have studied and contributed to development. It would have been good if the annual budget focused more on getting higher education work done.”Singh said that except Bhagini Nivedita College for women, nearest DU colleges were at least 20 km away and the other option for students residing in the areas is to study in IP university in Dwarka.The lack of colleges has impacted young women the most. Shiksha Rani, who teaches Political Science in Bhagini Nivedita College, said, “Najafgarh is a big area with around 70 villages under it and this is the only government college in the area for girls. Naturally, it isn’t enough. Families are not willing to let their daughters travel for longer distances to pursue education. So, they are either made to drop out or opt for distance education and since they are at home, parents insist for marriage. This affects women’s education in the area.In 1989, around 83 bighas of land was allotted to DU in Roshanpura, Najafgarh, to build a campus but the project is yet to start more than 30 years later. In 2019, the Delhi high court had also instructed the university to build the college “as early as possible”, depending on the “availability of budget”. The long-standing issue of creating an approach road to the college – which was one of the reasons for the delay – has been resolved for now, said DU acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi. He also said that university officials will soon visit these areas and start creating “facility centres” for students.“We have larger plans but for that we need funds which have to be generated in due course of time. We will be writing to central agencies for funds as well. But what we are going to begin with is creating facility centres in north-west, west, and east Delhi soon so that students don’t have to come to north campus for various kinds of work,” Joshi said.“As far as Roshanpura is concerned, there is a proposal for a college. We recently met the deputy chief minister and discussed this along with other things. The minister said it was a good idea and the Delhi government would help us in it,” he added.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “Work on the Sports University in Mundka is going on in full swing. Ghumanhera already has a higher education facility like District Institute of Education and Training (DIET). The government is making serious efforts to provide quality education in other areas of outer Delhi. This includes efforts like creating a Skill University as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/higher-education-a-distant-dream-for-students-from-outer-delhi-101618314402698.html
13-04-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Moonwalking at night on city streets||If you are asthmatic, don’t come to Bengaluru. If you have dust allergies, this ain’t the place for you. If you have balance issues, be especially careful as you pick your way through the mounds and valleys that have now become common here.Bengaluru’s streets are like moon craters. Why bother with Mars rovers, I say, when you can barely walk on Magadi road?Bengaluru recently got a new BBMP commissioner, Gaurav Gupta. He has his work cut out for him. The whole city has been dug up in an effort to “improve” city streets. For a citizen, this ham-fisted process is the opposite of user-friendly. They seem to be digging up all the roads in sequence, without finishing the work section by section. As a result, the whole city looks like a MGNREGA exercise gone wrong.Migrant construction workers sit on sidewalks with their cute children who play on the mounds of gravel, bricks and dirt. Pedestrians try valiantly to navigate the streets. Senior citizens have given up walking. Worst-affected are the pushcart fruit vendors who have no option but to share the single lane with honking automobiles. As for the wandering cows, where have they gone?Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Blooming tabebuias and drooping jacarandasThis hits close to home for me because I fractured my big toe on one of these sidewalks. It happened a few months ago, on December 9-- exactly 10 days before my father passed away.One moment I was striding along in my white and red Jamdani saree. The next moment, one of the sidewalk tiles tilted like a garbage-can opener. I fell into the gutter, quite literally. There were blood and tears. I discovered that my great toe was fractured. A kind orthopedic doctor in nearby Frazer Town put what is called a buddy-bandage connecting my great toe with my middle toe. I was advised bedrest for the 2 to 3 weeks.Ten days later, on December 19, my father passed away. All through 2020, I had visited my ailing father pretty much every day. But I could not go and visit him during the last 10 days of his life. I was lying in bed, keeping my foot raised. The sequence of events filled me with guilt and regret until a kind friend told me, “Perhaps your absence was what was needed for your Dad’s soul to release itself from the earth. Because when loved ones hang around, the soul does not want to leave.”It is something that I think about constantly as I pick my way through my beloved city’s streets. I don’t step on the sidewalk tiles any more. Instead, I gingerly place one foot forward and then another. Muscle memory they say, lasts longer than other types of memories. This holds true for me. Every step is a test. Will I fall into the gutter or not?The dug up streets are particularly galling because this is Bengaluru. You see, this city has so much going for it. All the government needs to do is preserve. The weather is salubrious pretty much all year round. The people are genteel and largely welcoming. There is infectious start up energy all around, attracting the young and the curious from all parts of the world. Bengaluru is a land of lakes. The trees were planted by Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan. There are ancient rock engravings right in Hebbal.Save Maharashtra, this city can hold its own in the sporting element too-- we have Dravid, Kumble, Padukone and Bhupathi. There are wildlife enthusiasts, thanks to access to the Nilgiri Biosphere nearby. There are conservation scientists like Ullas and Krithi Karanth, and philanthropists like Rohini Nilekani and Azim Premji. This surfeit of riches is perhaps why it is so galling when the politicians take a perfectly lovely city and mess it up.At the Bangalore International Centre, which today hosts more programmes than the much older India International Centre, the citizenry comes together to talk and bemoan their falling, failing city. Activists stand outside Town Hall and Freedom Park still carrying banners, trying to effect change.As for me, I want to join all these protests. For that, I have to get out of my own street, which I currently cannot, because you see-- and you know where I am going with this, right?-- it is all dug up.Sumukhi Suresh ought to do an episode in Pushpavalli about Bengaluru’s dug up streets. Perhaps then, the powers that be will pay attention.Shoba Narayan is waiting for the dust to clear as she kicks up some dirt, all while trying not to fall into the gutter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-moonwalking-at-night-on-city-streets-101618313801915.html
13-04-2021||Other||Coast Guard find two of 14 missing fishermen after boat meets with accident near Mangaluru||Indian Coast Guard and local fishermen have managed to locate two of the 14 missing crew members of a boat that met with an accident on Tuesday. Indian Fishing Boat Rabah met with an accident approximately 43 nautical miles from Mangaluru, said the Indian Coast Guard in a tweet. The fishermen are said to belong to Tamil Nadu, Bengal, and Odisha.Mangaluru police said as per the preliminary information, the boat set sail from Beypore in Kerala. While reports said that the boat was hit by a ship, police said an official confirmation from the coast guard is awaited. In its tweet, the coast guard said that three ships and aircraft have been deployed as part of the search operation. (This is a developing story and will be updated when more details are available)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coast-guard-find-two-of-14-missing-fishermen-after-boat-meets-with-accident-near-mangaluru-101618313081690.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||75% quota in private jobs can trigger exodus: PHDCCI||Cautioning the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government about the disastrous effects of the 75% quota in private jobs for local candidates, the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said that the law will be a blow to the one nation, one market concept and trigger an exodus of investors from Haryana. Under the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, the private sector will have to employ 75% of local candidates with respect to posts where the gross monthly salary or wages are not more than ₹50,000. This Act applies to all companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, and any person employing 10 or more people. Khattar held a virtual meeting with industry representatives in Haryana on March 25. Deputy chief minister and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader Dushyant Chautala, who holds the industry portfolio, also sought suggestions from industry bodies in an attempt to allay fears of the private sector. The PHDCCI submitted its response and suggestions to the chief minister on April 8. PHDCCI president Sanjay Aggarwal said: “Ideally, the Haryana government should not have brought in this law reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. It’s a disaster when you stop people coming into your state. We have informed the CM that this legislation will have a disastrous effect in Haryana.” The PHD (Progress, Harmony, Development) Chamber of Commerce is a national apex chamber working at the grassroots with national and international linkages. It has listed six steps that Haryana should take while implementing the reservation rules so that the growth of the industry is not impacted. Reduce threshold salary level to ₹15,000 Asking Haryana to exempt special economic zones from this Act, the chamber has suggested reducing the threshold monthly salary level of ₹50,000 to ₹15,000. The ₹15,000 should be the total cost to the company and not basic salary that can be increased marginally every year with skill development taking place. Another step suggested is to reduce reservation in the beginning to 25% and increasing it over the next decade after skill development takes place. Aggarwal said the Haryana legislation violates the Constitution’s Article 14 (equality before law) and Article 19 that guarantees rights, including the one to reside and work in any part of the country. “Investors and businesses source the best human resources available to be competitive and successful. Hiring is done on the basis of merit and talent rather than domicile of the candidates,” he said, reminding the Haryana government about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s catch phrase: Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat. Law will set a wrong precedent: Industry body chief Stating that implementing the legislation just when business activities are picking up amid the pandemic can result in an exodus of investors from Haryana. The PHDCCI has told the state government that while many industries are in the process of starting their ventures in the rural areas, if the new law is implemented, it may not be easy to find skilled labour across bands to fulfil the reservation rule. “This law will set a wrong precedent. It is a negative step,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/75-quota-in-private-jobs-will-trigger-exodus-warns-phdcci-101618312121781.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Nature’s summer glory paints neighbourhood in a golden hue||There’s an Amaltas (Indian Laburnum, and Bahava in Marathi,) tree near my house. Come summer, and its golden glory lights up our neighbourhood. My daughter has had a special relationship with it, as her grandmother would assign her the task of fetching a sprig of flowers for the Vishukani, or decoration for Vishu. Vishu is the harvest festival in Kerala and the decorations include many “golden” items like the yellow cucumber, lemon, and mango. If the tree near our house does not flower in time, then another tree must be located. Harvest festivals like Vishu give even city dwellers an opportunity to connect with nature and thank her for the gifts that make our lives possible and beautiful. Observing nature in the neighbourhood can be rewarding for children and their teachers, care-givers and parents, whether its school holidays or studying (or even working) from home.Some favourite activities for exploring trees are by observing the variety of shapes, sizes and colour of leaves and bark, and touching and feeling the textures. The most fun activity is taking “leaf autographs” – put a leaf under a sheet of paper and run your pencil over it to reveal its shape and ridges.Nature painting and drawing by looking at real flowers and leaves is another wonderful way to improve children’s (and adults’) observation skills. It can be calming and satisfying. A fun practical trigonometry exercise is to measure the height of a tree. You don’t need to climb it, you just need a stick or pencil (see box).Certain trees are “keystone” species, meaning many other living beings are dependent on them, and without their presence, nature in that neighnourhood or ecosystem would be quite different. The banyan tree, for example, is a keystone species and a habitat in itself. It plays host to many types of insects including ants, bees, and butterflies, as well as spiders, lizards, birds, little mammals like squirrels and bats. Just watch the antics and interactions of these creatures.But today, we have to look for some flowering Amaltas trees for our Vishukani. . Our neighbourhood Amaltas is a little late in flowering this year. I wonder if the peak of the profuse abundant flowering of Amaltas occurs in Pune at least a couple of weeks later than in Kerala? I have enrolled in SeasonWatch, an India-wide programme that studies the changing seasons by monitoring the annual cycles of flowering, fruiting and leaf-flush of common trees. This long-running citizens’ science initiative has a website and an app. Students and anyone interested can join it. The organisers suggest that the observations of citizen scientists from different parts of India could help understand the impacts of climate change on nature. I plan to observe my neighbourhood bahava and contribute my observations. Wish you a Happy Baisakhi and Vishu!Pencil-rotation method to measure the height of a tree1.Hold pencil at arm’s length vertically2.Move toward or away from the tree to be measured until the base of the tree is aligned visually with the top of the hand at the base of the pencil, and the top of the tree is aligned with the top of the pencil3.Without moving the arm up or down rotate the pencil until it is horizontal and parallel to the ground. The base of the pencil should still be aligned with the base of the tree. 4.Ask your friend to stand at the spot on the ground that aligns with the top of the pencil. If alone, pick a distinctive point on the ground to mark this point. The distance from the base of the tree to this point is equal to the height of the tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-nature-s-summer-glory-paints-neighbourhood-in-a-golden-hue-101618312002681.html
13-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa talks tough against RTC employees' strike||In a stern message to the striking employees of road transport corporations, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said the state government was not ready to accept any of their conditions and warned of stringent action against them.Speaking to reporters in Bidar, the Chief Minister said, "Don't ask me about the transport employees' strike. We will not accept any of their conditions under any circumstances."Noting that his government has already fulfilled eight of their demands, Yediyurappa said the adamant posture of the employees is causing trouble to the people of the state."The employees have to give up their obdurate stand.We will not give salaries to those who remained absent from their job. We will take more stringent action," the CM said.The strike by the RTC workers on wage related issues entered the 7th day on Tuesday even as the transport corporations struggled hard to operate buses, which a few miscreants damaged.According to a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation official, 2,299 buses including 262 Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses were operated in the state on Tuesday.The official said 54 buses were damaged allegedly by the employees.So far 72 FIRs have been registered in connection with the damage to 36 buses by 10 am today.As many as 115 employees were involved in vandalism of which 19 have been arrested, he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-talks-tough-against-rtc-employees-strike-101618309253466.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s policies in interest of corporates: Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Tuesday charged the BJP-led Centre with working to benefit chosen corporate houses at the cost of the Sikh community’s economic interests. Addressing a religious gathering on Baisakhi, which marks the Khalsa foundation day at the historic Damdama Sahib gurdwara in Talwandi Sabo, the jathedar made an indirect reference to the farm laws, saying the Centre’s policies are aimed at hitting the agrarian and non-agricultural sections equally. “The communities may cease to exist if their economic sources are targeted. Ill-conceived government policies are to be blamed for the ongoing economic instability. New policies are being formulated keeping in view the interests of a few business families,” Giani Harpreet Singh said. Also read: Covid-19: Active caseload jumps by over 63,000, 5 states contribute 69%Calls for abstaining from drugs, deras The Damdama Sahib gurdwara is significant as Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh master, prepared the full version of Sri Guru Granth Sahib there in 1705. Giani Harpreet Singh called on members of the Sikh community to fight against drug abuse and shun following deras (sects). Huge rush of pilgrims amid Covid surge Owing to restrictions imposed after the Covid-19 pandemic, Baisakhi celebrations were low key last year as people were asked to stay home and celebrate the festival. However, this time, when cases are seeing a surge across the country, including Punjab, religious bodies have made large-scale arrangements to mark the festival. Covid guidelines were blatantly violated as there was an unchecked rush to devotees at the shrine since Monday night. Markets in the vicinity of the gurdwara were crowded and people were seen without masks and there was no enforcement of the protocol. There was no provision for thermal scanning. Authorities express inability to enforce guidelines Officials in the health department and civil administration expressed their inability to enforce the Covid guidelines. “Issuing challans may lead to a law and order situation in such a huge gathering. Last year, religious bodies had proactively appealed to devotees to hold special prayers and avoid visiting the shrine on Baisakhi and it got the desired results. But the virus infection threat is far more serious today and Talwandi Sabo is seeing such a big gathering,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Farmers’ rally organised near gurdwara Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrhana) also held a kisan (farmers’) rally adjacent to the gurdwara to protest the farm laws. A large part of the gathering comprised elderly villagers and women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-policies-in-interest-of-corporates-akal-takht-jathedar-101618309421344.html
13-04-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: Ranchi administration reviews preparations at cremation ground||Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chitra Ranjan inspected preparations at the cremation ground on Monday at Swarnarekha Ghat in Ghaghra after bodies of Covid-19 victims were piled up at the electric crematorium for two days.Deputy Commissioner Chitra Ranjan said that review took place after information that the cremation of corpses was not being done due to a malfunction in the electric crematorium at Harmu Muktidham."As soon as the matter came to our notice, arrangements were made for the cremation bodies at the Ghaghra Ghat with the cooperation of the district administration and the Municipal Corporation," said Ranjan."This alternative arrangement will continue with the cooperation of Ranchi Municipal Corporation for the cremation of patients who died due to COVID-19 till the electric crematorium at Harmu Muktidham is fixed," he added.A total of 52 bodies were cremated at the Ghaghra Ghat on Monday which also included the corpses that came on Sunday.During the inspection, the personnel engaged in the cremation work observed Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-ranchi-administration-reviews-preparations-at-cremation-ground-101618308807389.html
13-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM assigns districts to ministers for Covid-19 management||Amid the surge in new cases, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday assigned the responsibility of Covid-19 management in various districts to his cabinet colleagues.The Minister for Water Resources Tulsiram Silawat has been given the charge of Indore district, which is the worst hit in the state both in terms of number of cases and deaths, an official of the MP Public Relations Department said.Bhopal district, which is also hit hard by the pandemic, is assigned to Minister for Medical Education Vishvas Sarang, she said.Similarly, other ministers were allotted different districts.Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 6,489 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the biggest spike in a single day, while 37 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the tally to 3,44,634 and toll to 4,221, as per the state health department.Madhya Pradesh is now left with 38,651 active cases, including 7,917 in Indore and 5,438 in Bhopal.As of Monday, Indore's cumulative caseload is 79,434 while that of Bhopal is 58,951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-assigns-districts-to-ministers-for-covid-19-management-101618304442054.html
13-04-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee, on dharna against EC's campaign ban, takes to painting||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who sat on a dharna in Kolkata on Tuesday to protest against the Election Commission of India's (ECI) ban on her campaign for 24 hours, took to her favourite hobby and produced two paintings while sitting on her wheelchair.Banerjee arrived at the Mayo road venue in the morning and began her sit-in next to a Mahatma Gandhi statue at the venue. She went about with pouring colours on the palette, making swift brushstrokes, and soon she produced a painting, which she showed to the crowd as it cheered.Meanwhile, a defence official said that the area where Mamata Banerjee is staging a protest belongs to the army, and the TMC was yet to receive permission for the programme. "We received an application from Trinamool Congress (TMC) at 9:40 am, for a No Objection Certificate (NOC) for Kolkata's Gandhi Murti as the area falls under Army's jurisdiction. It is under process and NOC hasn't been issued yet," the official said, according to news agency ANI.Banerjee is staging the dharna as a mark of protest against what she called the EC's "unconstitutional decision" to bar her from campaigning for 24 hours in the ongoing state assembly polls. The poll body's order came after the chief minister's remarks against the central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones.The EC said that Banerjee had made "highly insinuating and provocative remarks laden with the serious potential of the breakdown of law and order and thereby affecting the election process" and advised her "to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force."The next phase of West Bengal Assembly polls will be held on April 17. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-on-dharna-against-ec-s-campaign-ban-takes-to-painting-101618300394944.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh pilgrims stranded in Lahore on Baisakhi amid clashes in Pakistan||Protests and road blockades across Pakistan following the arrest of a far right leader, Saad Hussain Rizvi, on Monday have left 818 Sikh pilgrims headed for Gurdwara Panja Sahib on the occasion of Baisakhi stranded en route. The jatha, which was accommodated at Gurdwara Dera Sahib in Lahore on Monday night, has not been able to proceed to Hasan Abdal, where the historic gurdwara is located, in view of the tension in Pakistan. Baisakhi is also celebrated as Khalsa Foundation Day and the jatha members, who left Amritsar on an enthusiastic note on Monday morning, are stranded in Lahore since Monday night. Inter-city highways were closed after protests in Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad. Local media reported clashes between police and protesters in Lahore. “We were stuck at Wagah border till 9.30pm on Monday after crossing over to Pakistan. We spent the entire day waiting in buses though arrangements of food and water were made for us. After Pakistan’s security forces got the roads cleared, we were taken to Gurdwara Dehra Sahib at 11.30pm,” Gurdev Singh, one of the pilgrims said over phone. Jatha at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib under tight security According to the original plan, the Sikh pilgrims were to reach Gurdwara Panja Sahib at Hasan Abdal on Monday directly to celebrate Baisakhi. Since there was no plan of staying in Lahore, the Pakistan government and the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) made arrangements for the stay of the jatha besides langar on the spot. “At present, the entire jatha is staying at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib under tight security. We are not sure when we will be able to go to Gurdwara Panja Sahib,” he said. Protests began after Saad Hussain Rizvi, the leader of the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), was arrested in Lahore on Monday. Leaders of his party alleged that the government had violated an agreement signed with the party in February to stave off the threat of further protests over perceived blasphemy by French President Emmanuel Macron. The TLP is demanding the expulsion of the French ambassador over the publication of blasphemous caricatures. Following news of Rizvi’s arrest, highways and roads were blocked by TLP workers in Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi and Islamabad. Families of pilgrims worried about their safety The pilgrims have not been able to contact their families in India as the internet connectivity is down there. PSGPC president Satwant Singh was not available for comment. No office-bearer of the committee came forward to offer an update on the situation, adding to the concern of the pilgrims’ families in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-pilgrims-stranded-in-lahore-on-baisakhi-amid-clashes-in-pakistan-101618302162363.html
13-04-2021||Kolkata||EC asks Dilip Ghosh to clarify stance on Cooch Behar violence||The Election Commission of India has asked Dilip Ghosh, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s West Bengal unit, to clarify his stance over the killings of four men at Sitalkuchi in the state's Cooch Behar district. Ghosh had earlier courted controversies by saying that more Cooch Behar-like killings may happen in the next phase of the state assembly elections if "naughty boys like the ones who died in Sitalkuchi" try to take the law into their hands. The EC notice on Tuesday cited Dilip Ghosh's remarks and asked the West Bengal BJP president to respond to the notice and make his stand clear on his statements by 10am on Wednesday, ANI reported.Four persons died last Saturday as CISF personnel opened fire after some people "attempted to snatch their rifles" while voting was underway in Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi assembly constituency area in the fourth phase of the ongoing West Bengal assembly polls. Ghosh, while addressing an election rally at Baranagar in North 24 Parganas district on Sunday, had said, "Naughty boys, who had presumed that the rifles of the central forces were just for a show during election duty, will not dare repeat the same mistake after seeing what happened in Sitalkuchi"."Naughty boys received bullets at Sitalkuchi. If anyone dares to take the law into his hands, this will happen to him also," Ghosh said without elaborating on the phrase 'naughty boys'.The Trinamool Congress had earlier approached the Election Commission against Dilip Ghosh and also demanded his immediate arrest. "We demand his immediate arrest for making such an inflammatory statement which will encourage trigger happy forces and threaten the safety of voters," news agency PTI quoted TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy as saying. Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty, among others, had also condemned Ghosh for making the "irresponsible statements" and said that these remarks "unmask the fascist face of the BJP".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ec-asks-dilip-ghosh-to-clarify-stance-on-cooch-behar-violence-101618298169483.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||As Delhi sees highest spike of 13,500 Covid-19 cases, CM Kejriwal makes an appeal to the youth||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital are increasing at a rapid pace, adding that in the last 24 hours, 13,500 new cases were recorded which the highest count in a single day. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said that the current Covid-19 wave is very severe and the youth are the most affected by it.“As per data of the last 10-15 days, 65 per cent of the infected patients are below the age of 45. I appeal to the youth. You are very valuable to us, the country and your family. Your life, health and safety is important to all of us. I know you have the responsibilities of your parents, spouse, children and you have to venture out to fulfill these responsibilities and make your end meet. But whenever you leave your house, please follow all Covid protocols. Your safety is in your hands.” he said.The chief minister also urged those above the age of 45 to quickly get vaccinated. "Vaccines are free at all government hospitals and some of these are working round the clock," the chief minister added.Also Read| Cancel board exams: Kejriwal to Centre as Delhi sees 13.5k Covid cases in 24 hrsDuring the briefing, Kejriwal requested the Centre to cancel the upcoming board exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as they can become massive Covid-19 hotpots. “Six lakh children in Delhi are going to write CBSE exams. Nearly one lakh teachers will be a part of it. These (the centres) can become major hotspots leading to large-scale spreading of corona,” he said.Kejriwal reiterated that there will be no lockdown and efforts are on to ensure the health infrastructure is in control.With a view to increase beds for infected patients, the CM announced all major hospitals in Delhi are being attached with banquet halls and hotels. The patients which are mildly infected will be shifted to banquet halls and hospitals will only cater to serious patients, he said.Towards the end of the briefing, Kejriwal pointed out there is a shortage of plasma at present and its demand is increasing day by day. “If you have recovered in the recent days, please donate your plasma at the LNJP hospital, Rajiv Gandhi hospital and ISLB hospital so that others can be saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-sees-highest-spike-of-13-500-cases-cm-makes-an-appeal-to-the-youth-101618300535637.html
13-04-2021||Other||Punjab, Haryana HC ends lawyer’s ‘day dream’ to marry Prince Harry||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a lawyer’s plea seeking action against Prince Harry of the British royal family for “breaking a promise” to marry, saying the alleged pledge is just a “daydreamer’s fantasy”.“..I find that this petition is nothing, but just a daydreamer’s fantasy about marrying Prince Harry,” said a bench of Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan last week. “This petition, though very poorly drafted, both grammatically and lacking the knowledge of pleadings, speaks about some emails between the petitioner and Prince Harry, in which the person, sending the email, has stated that he promises to marry soon.”Palwinder Kaur, the petitioner, told the court she has never been to the UK and that she had a conversation with Harry through social media. She even sent messages to “Prince Charles that his son Prince Harry” is “engaged” to her.“It is well-known fact that fake IDs are created on various social media sites like Facebook, Twitter, etc, and authenticity of such conversation cannot be relied upon by this court. There is every possibility that so-called Prince Harry may be sitting in a cybercafe of a village in Punjab, looking for greener pastures for himself,” the bench said.“(The court) can only show its sympathy for the petitioner that she has believed such fake conversation to be true.”In her habeas corpus plea, Kaur demanded legal action against “Prince Harry Middleton” son of “Prince Charles Middleton resident of United Kingdom”. Further directions were sought to direct the “United Kingdom Police Cell” to take action against him for breaking the alleged promise to marry her. Kaur also sought arrest warrants to avoid any further delay in their marriage.A habeas corpus is filed to have a person, generally, a detainee, produced before a court to determine whether the detention is lawful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-haryana-hc-ends-lawyer-s-day-dream-to-marry-prince-harry-101618300420910.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Drugs cartel busted, 30.5 lakh opioid pills, 70,000 cough syrups, and 15 kilos of amphetamine seized; 4 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday said it busted an international drugs cartel and seized 30.5 lakh opioid pills, 70,000 codeine-based cough syrups and nearly 15 kilograms of amphetamine that were manufactured by an authorised pharmaceutical company in Uttarakhand, which allegedly fudged records and supplied them to drug traffickers who further parcelled them out to the UK, the US and European countries.Four persons of the cartel have been arrested from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in the past 10 days, while the recovery of the contraband were made in 34 seizures by the NCB’s Delhi zone team during the same period.NCB’s deputy director (operations) KPS Malhotra said the members of the cartel used the darknet to receive orders from international clients and they used various other encrypted platforms, including WhatsApp, to communicate with suppliers and carriers for the delivery of drug consignments.“They used encrypted platforms to ensure the anonymity of both the receivers of consignments and the people involved in the logistics. The destinations of the consignments were primarily the US, the UK and Europe. To evade the law and escape detection, the syndicate used to conceal the psychotropic drugs in herbal supplement packages,” Malhotra said.NCB officials said last month, more than two parcels of “herbal supplements”, destined for an address in the UK, were seized from a courier company in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar following a tipoff that the parcels actually contained psychotropic drugs. The packets were opened and more than two kilos of opioid pills (tramadol) -- the use of opioid pills is strictly curtailed across the world -- were recovered.“We traced the supply chain and found that multiple channels were used to deliver the parcels to the courier company. Our efforts led us to a drug peddler, Kapil Aggarwal in Agra, UP, from whose godown at least a dozen similar parcels, all destined for the same UK address, were seized. We arrested Aggarwal and his interrogation led us to man named A Goyal, also from Agra, and the recovery of more such pills,” said an NCB officer, who asked not to be named.During his interrogation, Goyal disclosed the name of a key player of the syndicate whose job was to receive orders on the darknet and further issue instructions on WhatsApp and other encrypted platforms for procurement, packaging and dispatch of the contraband, the deputy director said. NCB did not reveal the name of the key player, citing ongoing investigations.“Goyal also revealed that the opioid pills were being supplied to them by a pharmaceutical company in Haridwar, Uttarakhand. We searched the factory, found discrepancies in the documentation and seized more tramadol pills, cough syrup and other psychotropic drugs. The owner of the company is currently on the run,” Malhotra said.According to Malhotra, their investigation revealed that the syndicate is a complex one and connected to various other groups involved in the illegal trade using a similar modus operandi. Last year, in a similar operation, the police had arrested a man named Mausam alias Kashmir and the name of one Som Dutt from Delhi had emerged during Mausam’s interrogation.“As Dutt’s name also surfaced during the interrogation of Aggarwal and Goyal, our team collected information about him from Delhi’s Narela. Dutt is one of the prominent shippers of the cartel and he uses India Post for sending consignments to the US and UK, using forged IDs. Dutt’s interrogation led to the arrest of Manish from Balia in Uttar Pradesh,” added the deputy director.He said the arrest of the factory owner and the key player will help the bureau to further unravel the cartel and its dealings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drugs-cartel-busted-30-5-lakh-opioid-pills-70-000-cough-syrups-and-15-kilos-of-amphetamine-seized-4-held-101618300300365.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Cancel board exams: Kejriwal to Centre as Delhi sees 13.5k Covid cases in 24 hrs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the central government to cancel CBSE board exams as the national capital recorded the biggest-ever surge so far with 13,500 fresh Covid-19 cases.Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said a slew of decisions have been taken to augment bed capacity for serious patients as well as those with moderate symptoms. After adding 2,653 Covid-19 beds across private and government hospitals on Monday, Kejriwal said another order is being issued wherein banquet halls and hotels will be attached to the hospitals near them. He also said all government and private hospitals in the city are being analysed so that patients with mild symptoms can be discharged and treated in home isolation.“The aim is to allot hospital beds only for serious Covid-19 patients,” he said. Also Read | Amid strict Covid protocols, temples in Delhi begin Navratri festivity“We have also started another exercise wherein doctors are identifying and releasing Covid-19 patients who can be treated at home. There is nothing to worry about as our teams will regularly monitor them at home through tele-counselling and each patient will get a pulse oximeter so they are able to check their oxygen saturation levels and a timely intervention is made if necessary,” he said.Kejriwal also requested the Central government to cancel the upcoming board examinations or consider some alternative way to conduct them. He suggested the exams could be conducted online or students could be promoted or failed on the basis of their internal assessment marks. “CBSE board exams are approaching. In Delhi, there are 600,000 students who are scheduled to appear for the examinations this year. In addition to that, there are 100,000 teachers who will be involved in conducting these exams. These (the exam centres) could end up being Covid-19 hotspots… Several countries which are witnessing a second wave have also cancelled such examinations. Several state governments in our country also have done the same in their respective state boards,” he said. The chief minister said that with the increase of Covid-19 cases, the demand for plasma has also increased, but currently the city has little stock. He urged those who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma so that others can be treated.Urging those who are 45 years and older to get vaccinated, Kejriwal said those who can avoid going out should remain indoors. “Currently, 65% of the Covid cases in Delhi are of those who are below the age of 45. I know the youth of our city have a lot of responsibilities and they have to work. But, it is for your own safety and that of your family that I urge you to stay indoors. Step out only if it is extremely necessary. Those who have to go out anyway should strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Your safety is in your own hands. Those who are aged 45 years and above must go and get vaccinated,” he said.Kejriwal said that non-Covid emergency services will be available in all hospitals except the 20 private and government hospitals exclusively earmarked for Covid-19 treatment. “There are still several other hospitals other than the... hospitals where people can get emergency treatment for non-Covid ailments. But, we are postponing all planned surgeries and requesting people to do the same. The main focus for us now is to ensure optimum and efficient hospital management. If we are able to manage our health infrastructure well then we will wade through this fourth wave smoothly,” he said.On Monday, Delhi reported 11,491 fresh Covid-19 cases and 72 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cancel-board-exams-kejriwal-to-centre-as-delhi-sees-13-5k-covid-cases-in-24-hrs-101618299521116.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination age limit of 45 years should be reduced: Maha minister Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik said on Tuesday the age limit of 45 years for getting vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) should be reduced. The Centre on April 1 had started the third phase of its nationwide vaccination drive where doses are being administered to people of age 45 and above.“The age limit should be reduced for states which are most affected by Covid-19 and vaccination should be allowed,” Malik was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He also demanded vaccinations should be done for all journalists that are operating on the field.Malik’s appeal comes a week after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 5 where he requested Modi to lower the age of vaccinating people to 25 years ‘as the states facing the surge are having to place curbs to safeguard lives of the population.’ Thackeray also said if more young and working population is inoculated, then the intensity of cases will be much lower than the treatment they need at present.45 साल कि उम्र सीमा को कम किया जाए। जो राज्य ज्यादा प्रभावित हैं वहां उम्र सीमा कम करके वैक्सीन लगाने की अनुमति दी जाए। हमने मांग की है कि जो पत्रकार दिनरात मैदान में हैं उन्हें भी यह सुविधा दी जाए। आने वाले दिनों में और कड़े फैसले लिए जा सकते हैं: नवाब मलिक, NCP pic.twitter.com/lSD2cXfezdMaharashtra has so far vaccinated 10,529,376 beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease till now, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. More than 9.52 million of these beneficiaries have received the first dose while 1,008,651 have been given both the doses.Earlier, a war of words broke out between the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led state government and the Centre regarding the shortage of vaccine doses. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope claimed on April 8 the state was short of doses and demanded 4 million jabs per week from the Centre. He also said that Maharashtra was provided far less doses as compared to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana.Last week, several vaccination centres in Mumbai, Panvel and Pune district had stopped their inoculation drive due to the shortage reported by the state government.However, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on April 8 the Centre was continuously monitoring and enhancing supply of doses. Countering Tope’s allegations, Vardhan tweeted that Maharashtra and Rajasthan had received the highest number of doses across the country.He also slammed the MVA government by saying it was diverting the attention from its failure of managing the pandemic by raising the issue of vaccines. “The inability of the Maharashtra government to act responsibly is beyond comprehension. To spread panic among the people is to compound the folly further. Vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it. Allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless,” the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-age-limit-of-45-years-should-be-reduced-maha-minister-nawab-malik-101618298374140.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||'Request Centre to cancel CBSE exams': Kejriwal amid spike in Covid-19 cases||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged the Centre to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations and said some alternative methods could be thought of. "6 lakh children in Delhi are going to write CBSE exams. Nearly 1 lakh teachers will be a part of it. These can become major hotspots leading to large-scale spreading of Corona. Children's lives and health is very important to us. I request Centre to cancel CBSE exams," Kejriwal said.He added that children can be promoted this time on the basis of either an online method or internal assessment. "Some alternative methods could be thought of. But CBSE exams should be cancelled," he said, according to news agency ANI.In the wake of rising coronavirus cases, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia has asked schools to postpone the ongoing CBSE class 10 and 12 practical exams till at least April 20. “We have advised schools to consult with their external examiners and postpone the remaining CBSE class 10 and 12 practical exams for a while. Only one or two practical exams are left in a majority of schools and we have advised them to reschedule these to after April 20”, he said.All colleges and coaching centres in the city will also be shut, due to the pandemic, Sisodia said.This comes days after the Delhi government ordered suspension of all in-person academic activities in city schools, leaving board students confused about their practical exams.The CBSE classes 10 and 12 practical exams have started from March 1. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the CBSE has allowed the schools to complete the practicals by the last date of the theory exams, which is June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/request-centre-to-cancel-cbse-exams-kejriwal-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101618296415356.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Two shot dead inside car in Lucknow, cops launch probe||A man and a woman were found shot dead in a car in Bania Khera area of Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow on Monday, the police said.According to Additional DCP (East) Qasim Abidi, prima facie, it seems the man shot the woman dead before shooting himself."The deceased man has been identified as Sanjay Nigam, while the identification of the woman is still unknown," Abidi said."There is no sign of struggle at the crime spot. We are collecting the evidence," he said.An investigation into the matter is underway, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-shot-dead-inside-car-in-lucknow-cops-launch-probe-101618297215914.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Navratri Jagratas shifting to daytime during Covid night curfew?||Jagran/jagrata and Mata ki Chowki singers from Delhi are in a fix after most religious congregations have being cancelled or postponed at the last hour due to the new Covid-19 guidelines, announced right before Navratri. Most say that they have had to incur huge financial losses, and some share that in a few cases jagrans have been shifted to the day time due to night curfew! ‘Kaam zero hai, ‘Jaagran nahin ho rahe hai’, are some of the responses of jagran singers, who are part of bhajan mandlis across Delhi-NCR, since the news of night curfew and capping on religious gatherings to a minimum of 50, has come in. A Delhi-based jagrata singer Jyoti Prakash Sharma, who has been singing bhajans for over 20 years, says his scheduled programme has been shifted to the day time. “I mostly perform at atleast four to five programmes at a gap of a day or two, during the entire period of Navratri. This time, after the news of night curfew and new guidelines came in, around three programmes got cancelled. But one of the places, where I had to sing, has been shifted to a day time of 3.30pm. The organisers have discussed to wrap by max by 7pm so that both the musicians and devotees can reach home within time. Ma ka parchar kar rahe hain hum toh; raat ki jagah din me kar lenge to bhi Ma khush hongi hi!” But this scheme of things isn’t as easy to adjust, say some, since many singers or instrumentalists with the bhajan groups have other jobs or businesses to attend during the day time. “Log pareshan hai (People are hassled),” says Vinod Arora from Maa Bhagwati Sewa Mandal, which has a team of eleven members. Talking about the current scenario, he adds: “Lagta hai virtually karna padega. Jo orchestra rent pe dete hain unka toh kamai ka time hota tha yeh. We’ll either planning to do virtually or shift it to the day time, between 2pm to 5pm. A lot of enquiries are coming in to check if we will perform in the day time, because those who had booked us for chowki in the evenings of Navratri, have already called up to cancel their plan. But the concen is that those of us who are working elsewhere during the day can’t shut shop at 6pm to perform at such events during the day time. Even the devotees who are working will find it difficult to attend a day time Mata ki Chowki.”Anita Khanna, from Rakesh Khanna and Party based in Mayur Vihar, rues how she had to incur losses all of last year, but now after things started coming back to normal, she feels back to square one. “Bahut programmes cancel ho gaya hain. Chowki ho rahin hain par 6pm to 9pm, and mostly din ke programme bhi 6pm tak khatm hote hain to uske baad ek aur program fatafat karna humesha possible nahi ho pata,” says Khanna, and Vipin Bhalla, a singer from a jagran party based in Geeta Colony, adds that most of his programmes have been postponed to a later date. “Night curfew se saara kaam band ho gaya. Everyone is at home... Humara kaam sab jagran aur chowki jaise dharmik program par hi nirbhar hai. Kaam hi nahin hoga toh.... Jagrans are not possible online. What one experiences live is completely different. It’s been a year fighting this disease, don’t know how will we survive further.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navratri-jagratas-shifting-to-daytime-during-covid-night-curfew-101618296942384.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Amid strict Covid protocols, temples in Delhi begin Navratri festivity||Navratri celebrations began on Tuesday at different temples in the city amid strict Covid-19 protocols. Morning aarti was performed at popular Jhandewalan Devi Mandir by the priest in the presence of temple authorities but it was not open for the public.Navratri is a popular Hindu festival where devotees pray to goddess Durga for nine days. “The aarti and puja were performed today morning and the same will be done in the evening as well. However, the temple will remain closed for devotees due to the sudden surge in coronavirus cases. Devotees’ safety is paramount for us,” a functionary at the temple said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, devotees offered prayers at Kalkaji Temple amid strict Covid-19 protocols. To regulate crowd and ensure that social distancing norms are followed, the temple management has introduced a system of e-pass for visitors. “Devotees can get it issued from the temple website where they will be given a time slot for visit on a particular day. This will discourage crowding. There is no entry in temple without masks,” a temple management functionary said.Other than this, the popular Chattarpur Temple will remain closed for devotees for nine days. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued guidelines that there should be no religious gatherings such as jagrans (prayer meetings) and community feasts (bhandara) anywhere in the city.Delhi Police officers said police personnel will be deployed at popular temples and mosques to ensure due compliance of Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amid-strict-covid-protocols-temples-in-delhi-begin-navratri-festivity-101618296460902.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Baisakhi 2021: Celebrating the spirit of the festival with fitness!||If you spot men and women running on the streets of Gurugram while sporting turbans and traditional wear, do pause and wish them Happy Baisakhi! “While Baisakhi is celebrated with great gusto in Punjab, members of the community in other places might miss the enthusiasm in their own cities. This made us start The Great Run of Punjab (TGRP), an annual Baisakhi running or walking challenge, to connect people in various parts of the world,” says Mehak Kapoor, a Gurugrammer who along with Balwinder Singh, from Gurgaon Runners Group, organised the fourth edition of the virtual running challenge, ahead of Baisakhi. This year, TGRP challenge started on April 1 and culminate on April 13. It has over 250 participants joining virtually from not just Amritsar and Delhi-NCR, but even Goa! Deepak Chhillar, a Delhiite who works as a business manager in a pharmaceutical company, has been running the challenge each year, often with podium finishes, and says, “This is an innovative way of celebrating the festival, but at one point I really wanted to give up because it’s not easy to get up and run 25 km and then head back to work... I realised how running helps me become strong headed because you don’t just need physical exercise but also mental strength for it!” “The challenge has two categories — regular runners who can run 13km per day and beginners who can opt for 1km on day one, 2km on day two, and keep increasing the distance by a kilometre every day, to slowly incorporate running as an activity in their lives,” informs Kapoor, adding, “TGRP has grown to become a loved festival activity that allows every participating member to ring in the festival while promoting a healthy lifestyle. And the pandemic only highlighted the need to have a proper fitness regime, which is what we aim to further through this run.”A Gurugrammer, Aparna Paul Shet, who formed a women’s cricket team in her condo, has inspired seven other residents to participate in this challenge. “Since due to the Covid situation we can’t have communal Baisakhi celebrations, participating in TGRP is a perfect way to celebrate the harvest festival. While I run 20km per day, I asked members of the cricket team here to participate in the event as well, so that they feel fitter. And we are taking all safety measures while running as we run only in open lawns, wear masks when we are together, and sanitise all the surfaces where we sit.”  Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baisakhi-2021-celebrating-the-spirit-of-the-festival-with-fitness-101618294852592.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||On Baisakhi, Sidhu visits epicentre of 2015 sacrilege incidents in Punjab||Punjab Congress leader and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Baisakhi paid obeisance at the gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district from where a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen in 2015. However, Sidhu did not visit the families of the firing victims protesting barely 20 km away from the gurdwara against the delay in getting justice. Sidhu was prompt to upload photos of his brief visit on social media and announced a Facebook live interaction. After the Punjab and Haryana high court last week quashed probe reports submitted by Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing, the families of Gurjeet Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who were killed in the police firing in Faridkot district’s Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, announced the protest at Kotkapura Chowk on Tuesday against the delay in getting justice. All parties have failed to get us justice: Victim’s kin Sukhraj Singh, the son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, said they got to know about Sidhu’s visit to the gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala and his return to Moga only this morning. “No one contacted us. I don’t know why he chose to visit the gurdwara today and not support our cause. All political parties and religious outfits have failed to get us justice,” he said. The bir of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from the gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. A case was registered at Bajakhana police station. Later, the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib was committed as torn pages of the bir were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari on October 12, 2015, triggering outrage across the state. Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village had died in the police firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. Besides, many people were seriously injured. They joined the villagers in their demonstration at Behbal Kalan bus stand against the sacrilege incident at Bargari. Earlier that day, the police had opened fire on protesters at Kotkapura Chowk, injuring several persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-baisakhi-sidhu-visits-epicentre-of-2015-sacrilege-incidents-in-punjab-101618294600714.html
13-04-2021||Patna||Passengers at Bihar's Darbhanga airport struggle without transport at entry gate||Travelling with children in the scorching heat during summer is turning out to be a challenge for passengers at Darbhanga airport as they have to walk more than 100 metres from entry point to civil enclave due to the restrictions, including no vehicles for pick and drop, imposed by the air force.“It is difficult for passengers with heavy luggage to manoeuvre both the baggage trolley and carry their children from entry to terminal building or vice versa,” said Kavita Thakur, passenger at Darbhanga airport.It is equally tough for senior citizens to stand in queue in hot and humid weather outside entrance gate, awaiting their turn and walk with baggage trolley to reach civil enclave, said another passenger.Meanwhile, airport director (APD) Biplab Kumar Mondal said he has already initiated talks with senior officials and district administration regarding facilities like golf cart, e-rickshaw or to consider a proposal for construction of skywalk to provide link between civil enclave and main road. “When something new comes up, you need to upgrade facility gradually. Efforts are going on to expand facilities,” he added.“Two battery operated tricycles, assisted by a home guard jawan, were provided to ferry senior citizens and differently abled passengers to cover the distance from entrance gate to civil enclave ,” the APD said.Bihar water resources and IPRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha tweeted on Monday, “ It has been a great start. The figures for the first five months (November 8- April 7) of traffic are testimony to this fact. It is a matter of pride for us”.The minister concerned provided data of number of flights and passengers.The figure revealed that in the first five months, despite frequent flight cancellations during winter season, Darbhanga airport catered to as many as 165,990 passengers and operated 1030 flightsHowever, since becoming operational on November 8 last year, as many as 173,811 passengers have travelled to and from Darbhanga airport till April 11, revealed an informed source.Former MP attacks Nitish Kumar over developement of airportFormer Darbhanga MP Kirti Azad launched a scathing attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar for delay in land acquisition for expansion of the airport.In a press statement issued on Sunday, Azad said the CM and one Yuvraj (whose identity was not specified by the ex-MP in his statement) were throwing dust in the eyes of people of Mithila by doing table politics just to give credit to each other.The matter concerning land acquisition was so far on paper only, he added.“Chief Minister was never interested in the development of Darbhanga Airport. Just like no initiative has been started for the development of Purnia Airport till date,” Azad said.In the meantime, incumbent MP from Darbhanga Gopal Jee Thakur said that he raked up demand to start civil aviation facility long ago. “I had raked up the issue of starting flight service from Darbhanga airport in state assembly as an MLA from Benipur assembly constituency,” he said.Thakur said he also met the then union minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha to discuss expansion and development of airport under UDAN. “An area of 78 acres will be required to construct permanent civil enclave and set up navigational facilities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/passengers-at-bihar-s-darbhanga-airport-struggle-without-transport-at-entry-gate-101618290171553.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||EC's decision to ban Mamata from campaigning taken at behest of BJP: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday alleged that the Election Commission's decision to bar West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours was taken at the behest of the BJP.This was a "direct attack on democracy" and sovereignty of independent institutions of the country, Raut claimed in a tweet.The Sena's chief spokesperson expressed solidarity with Banerjee, while terming as the "Bengal Tigress".Assembly elections are currently underway in West Bengal.The Shiv Sena, which is not contesting the polls, has extended its support to Banerjee, who heads the Trinamool Congress (TMC).The Election Commission (EC) on Monday barred Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours over her remarks against central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones.Reacting to it, Raut in a tweet said, "ECI has imposed a ban on Mamta didi for 24 hours. This is clearly done at the behest of BJP, ruling party in India.""It is a direct attack on democracy and sovereignty of independent institutions of India. solidarity with Bengal Tigress, @MamataOfficial @derekobrienmp," the Rajya Sabha member added.Banerjee on Monday said she would stage a dharna in Kolkata on Tuesday to protest against the poll panel's "unconstitutional decision".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ecs-decision-to-ban-mamata-from-campaigning-taken-at-behest-of-bjp-sanjay-raut-101618292241546.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration says lockdown will be imposed if Covid-19 cases rise||Chandigarh administration on Monday said that lockdown will be imposed if Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city."A lockdown cripples the economy as it impacts livelihoods of people. Decisions on lockdown are taken in war rooms only after conducting discussions with experts. We are keeping an eye on neighbouring states too. If cases continue to rise then the option of lockdown cannot be ruled out," Manoj Parida, Adviser to Chandigarh Administrator, told ANI.In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city, the administration in the Union Territory has already enforced a night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am from April 7.Speaking about the current situation of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, he said: "At a point, we had reduced daily cases to 20, which has now gone up to 350-400 cases. Primarily, this is due to the number of tests we are conducting. So far, we have conducted 3 lakh tests against a population of 12 lakh."He further mentioned that night curfew and restrictions of gatherings in Chandigarh can help in preventing the spread of Covid-19 in some aspects."Night curfew along with restrictions on public functions and gatherings does help in some aspects. Borders cannot be sealed as people come to the city from Delhi, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. People have to follow Covid-19 protocols and get vaccinated," he said.Chandigarh reported 424 Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 31,167.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administration-says-lockdown-will-be-imposed-if-covid-19-cases-rise-101618291003920.html
13-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa calls all-party meet on April 18 over spike in Covid-19 cases||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday said he has called an all-party meeting on April 18 over the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, adding that there is no question of lockdown."Have called all-party meeting on April 18 regarding Covid situation here. There is no question of lockdown right now. Technical advisory committee has said that positive cases will increase here till May 2 hence people must abide by Covid appropriate behaviour," Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A night curfew is already in place in the state till April 20 from 10pm to 5am in seven district, including capital Bengaluru. A total of 10,250 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Karnataka in the last 24 hours, out of which 7,584 are from Bengaluru alone.The government has ruled out stopping scheduled examinations of schools and colleges in the state. Offline classes have been discontinued for students of Class 6 to 9 and for most degree colleges.The state government has so far closed gyms, swimming pools and party halls in residential complexes and limited the attendance to 50% at fitness centres and cinema halls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-calls-all-party-meet-on-april-18-over-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101618289973442.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Fearing lockdown amid Covid spike, some migrant workers begin leaving Delhi||Amidst the rising number of Covid cases in the national capital, some of the migrant workers have started returning to their native places in fear of imposition of lockdown.Some alone, with backpacks, while some with their families, migrant workers can be seen leaving for their home at ISBT, Anand Vihar and other key transit points in the city.With increasing Covid numbers the fear of imposition of lockdown has been making migrant workers anxious.Gouri Shankar Sharma, who hails from Lucknow, told ANI, "The way Covid numbers are rising, there are chances of lockdown. There is no work. So I am leaving.""The current situation, pushing Delhi towards another lockdown. I have no choice. I am leaving from home," Sunil Gupta, a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly told ANI."The leaders do not have any problem. They travel in air-conditioned cars. If lockdown is imposed, the transportation will be closed. So I am leaving now," a migrant worker who was heading for Kanauj in Uttar Pradesh told ANI."The rate at which the cases are rising makes it obvious that lockdown would be imposed. That is why I am going home," a labourer told ANI.The country had last year witnessed a major movement of migrants labourers and workers after the imposition of a nationwide lockdown in the last week of March.The nationwide lockdown resulted in an exodus of migrant workers from cities to their native places.Delhi reported 11,491 new Covid-19 cases and 72 related deaths on Monday. This is Delhi's highest single-day spike since the start of the pandemic.According to the state health department, the infection tally in the national capital has gone up to 7,36,688 and a total of 11,355 fatalities due to the disease have been recorded so far. There are 38,095 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi.The city's positivity rate stands at 12.44 per cent while the cumulative positivity rate is at 4.71 per cent.In view of the rapidly rising cases, the Delhi government has imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10 pm to 5 am on April 6 till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fearing-lockdown-amid-covid-spike-some-migrant-workers-begin-leaving-delhi-101618290676982.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow district court complex shut after judge, lawyers test Covid-19 positive||The district court complex in Lucknow has been closed till April 18 after a judge, a few judicial employees and some lawyers tested Covid-19 positive, according to an order issued on Monday.The order was issued by the district judge.Providing a list of the affected persons, the Chief Medical Officer of Lucknow in an advisory to the district judge had suggested that the court complex be closed for sanitisation.After the receiving the advisory, District Judge Sarvesh Kumar ordered closure of the district court till April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-district-court-complex-shut-after-judge-lawyers-test-covid-19-positive-101618289498861.html
13-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 2,366 new Covid-19 cases, 19 fresh fatalities||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,41,750 on Tuesday as 2,366 more people tested positive for the infection, while 19 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,232, a health official said.Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 787, followed by East Singhbhum (370) and Ramgarh (142), he said.Ranchi and Dhanbad districts recorded eight fresh fatalities each, followed by two in East Singhbhum and one in Lohardaga, the official said.The state now has 15,343 active cases, while 1,25,175 people have recovered from the disease to date.The administration has tested 37,028 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-2-366-new-covid-19-cases-19-fresh-fatalities-101618289314858.html
13-04-2021||Noida||Over 2,100 penalised for not wearing face mask: Noida Police||As many as 2,172 people were issued challans across Noida and Greater Noida on Monday for not wearing face mask in public place, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said.Challans were also issued to owners of 1,624 vehicles for flouting Covid-19 protocols and traffic rules, the police said, adding five vehicles were impounded in the action.Amid a surge in cases of Covid-19, the district police is now carrying out announcements in public places and patrolling crowded places to raise awareness about the situation.“As many as 2,172 people who were found without face masks in public places were issued challans and ₹2.17 lakh collected from them in fines,” a police spokesperson said.“Action was taken under Section 188 (disobeying government order) against 91 people and FIRs were lodged in 28 such cases,” the official added.Challans were issued against owners of 1,624 vehicles and ₹1.59 lakh was collected from them in fines while five vehicles impounded, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-2-100-penalised-for-not-wearing-face-mask-noida-police-101618289365635.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh tests positive for Covid-19||Virbhadra Singh, 86, a former chief minister of Himachal Pradesh and veteran Congress leader, has tested positive for Covid-19. The six-time chief minister was in isolation at his house in Shimla after he tested positive on Monday but was brought to a private hospital in Mohali for treatment at 10am on Tuesday, family sources said . Virbhadra’s son Vikramaditya Singh, 31, who is the Congress MLA from Shimla Rural, had tested positive two days ago. Also read: Himachal sees 70% rise in Covid cases in a weekVikramaditya is also the state Congress general secretary and was the co-incharge for the Mandi municipal corporation elections on April 7. He was at the forefront of the party’s campaign. Virbhadra’s wife Pratibha Singh has tested negative for coronavirus but a domestic help at the former CM’s residence has tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618287160307.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Babri demolition case judge takes over as UP’s deputy Lokayukta||Surendra Kumar Yadav took oath as Uttar Pradesh’s deputy Lokayukta (anti-corruption ombudsman) on Monday months after he acquitted former deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani, and 31 others accused of criminal conspiracy to bring down the 16th-century Babri mosque in Ayodhya in 1992.Lokayukta Justice (retired) Sanjay Mishra administered the oath to Yadav. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi, deputy Lokayukta Dinesh Kumar Singh, and secretary (Lokayukta’s office) AK Singh were present at the oath-taking ceremony.Yadav retired as district judge (Lucknow) on September 30, 2019. But he served as a special judge in the Babri case on a Supreme Court order.Also Read | Ramayana Museum and Cultural Centre to be established between Ayodhya, LucknowOn September 30 last year, Yadav acquitted the 32 accused in the case, citing a lack of evidence.The demolition triggered violence across the country and left hundreds of people dead.In its verdict, the special court blamed “miscreants”, who mingled with the crowd, for the demolition.It came a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Ram Temple at the demolition site. The Supreme Court earlier in 2019 paved the way for the temple construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/babri-demolition-case-judge-takes-over-as-up-s-deputy-lokayukta-101618286020149.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Tikri and Singhu borders remain closed||Tikri and Singhu, the two important border crossing points between Delhi and Haryana, remained closed on Tuesday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws.Along the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one carriageway of the Ghazipur crossing point is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi. Farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.The Delhi Police have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists after remaining closed for several weeks until late January.Also Read | Farmers ready to talk if govt invites, no change in demands, says Rakesh TikaitSome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continued to remain closed fully or partially. Traffic police officers said that Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year against the three farm laws.The traffic police have advised motorists to expect heavy traffic towards Ashram. “Traffic will be heavy due near the Moolchand underpass towards Ashram due to breakdown of a truck,” Delhi traffic police said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-tikri-and-singhu-borders-remain-closed-101618282359973.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see partly cloudy sky today, air quality to remain moderate||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 18.3 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39.2 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Monday was 18.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius—three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the poor on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 225. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 241 in the poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read | Rainfall likely in several parts in next 4-5 days: IMDOn Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated marginally to the high end of the moderate category as forecasted. AQI is forecasted to slip to the poor category by today afternoon. The PM10 (dust) remains the prominent lead pollutant. Surface winds are moderate and West southwesterly direction. Air quality is expected to stay poor to moderate for the next three days.”According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the poor to moderate category on Tuesday and moderate category on Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the moderate category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-partly-cloudy-sky-today-air-quality-to-remain-moderate-101618281940026.html
13-04-2021||Bangalore||BBMP orders to set up Covid care centres in Bengaluru due to rise in cases||The Chief Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Gaurav Gupta on Monday ordered to set up Covid care centers amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru.Gupta, while holding a review meeting regarding the spread of Covid-19 in Bengaluru, said, "As Covid-19 cases are rising in the city, Covid care centers must be set up as per requirement at the zonal level. 50 per cent beds must be reserved immediately in private hospitals."The BBMP Commissioner further said that more swab collection teams should be deployed and ordered the officials to take necessary action within 24 hours of the test.He also requested the Karnataka state government to supply the required vaccine needed in the city.Chief Secretary of BBMP Ravikumar, Principal Secretary Tushar Girinath, Zonal Commissioners Tulsi Maddineni, Ravindra, Manoj Jain, Rajendra Cholan, Reddy Shankara Babu, Randeep, Basavaraj, all zonal coordinators, zonal commissioners, chief health officer, and all zonal health officers were also present at the meeting.According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 69,244 active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka while total cases in the state have mounted to 9,83,157.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bbmp-orders-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-in-bengaluru-due-to-rise-in-cases-101618280637061.html
13-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal election: 14 crude bombs recovered in Murshidabad||As many as 14 crude bombs were recovered at the Shamsherganj area of poll-bound West Bengal's Murshidabad district on Monday.Later, the bombs were disposed of by the Bomb Disposal Squad.The incident came into light ahead of the fifth phase of assembly polls in the state on April 17.Earlier on April 10, violence erupted at a polling booth in Cooch Behar during the fourth round of polling. The ruling TMC alleged that Central forces opened fire twice at polling booths in Cooch Behar where people are casting their votes, killing four party workers.Official sources in Cooch Behar confirmed the death of four people in the district.Following the incident, the EC ordered the adjourning of the poll in PS 126 of Sitalkurchi AC, Cooch Behar based on an interim report from Special Observers. The EC will seek a detailed report from them and the Chief Election Officer by 5 pm on Saturday.Since the incident, the Election Commission has barred the entry of any political leader in the Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours.Polling for the first four phases has been concluded in West Bengal. The fifth and sixth phases of the ongoing elections will take place on April 17 and April 22. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-election-14-crude-bombs-recovered-in-murshidabad-101618275306922.html
13-04-2021||West||Mamata Banerjee to stage sit-in protest against EC campaigning ban today||A day after the Election Commission of India (ECI) banned West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours, she will stage a sit-in protest against the poll body on Tuesday. The ECI banned her from 8pm on Monday till 8pm on April 13 for her “highly insinuating and provocative remarks” which, the poll body said, could affect the election process.Click here for full election coverageOn April 7 and April 8, the ECI sent notices to the Trinamool chief for allegedly urging Muslims to guard against those splitting their votes and for asking people to “gherao” (block) central paramilitary security forces respectively. Commenting on her reply to these notices, the poll body said Mamata Banerjee has “selectively chosen parts of her speech in her reply” and that “her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia.”In its Monday notice barring the leader from campaigning, the EC condemned her statements and advised her "to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force."To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti, Kolkata from 12 noon."Whereas, the Commission has carefully considered the matter and is of the considered view that Ms. Mamata Banerjee, who also happens to be the Chief Minister of the State, has in violation of the provisions of Model Code of Conduct as well as Section 123(3) & (3A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and Sections 186, 189 and 505 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 made highly insinuating and provocative remarks laden with serious potential of breakdown of law & order and thereby adversely affecting the election process,” the commission said in its order.Also Read: EC bans Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours, she says will protestReacting to the latest ECI notice to her, the TMC leader condemned the poll body for its 'unconstitutional' and 'undemocratic' decision.“To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti, Kolkata from 12 noon,” she tweeted.West Bengal assembly elections are being held in eight phases out of which four have been conducted. The next phase will be held on April 17 and the last one on April 29. Results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/mamata-banerjee-to-stage-sit-in-protest-against-ec-campaigning-ban-today-101618273381522.html
13-04-2021||Patna||23-yr-old tortured on suspicion of theft in Bihar, one arrested: Cops||A 23-year-old man was allegedly beaten up and force-fed faeces by a mob in Kushthan village of Bihar’s Madhepura district on the suspicion of theft, police said on Monday.One person was arrested and a case was filed against seven identified and 25 unidentified accused, police said.According to police, the victim, a scheduled caste (SC) man identified as Jhakash Sharma, was allegedly caught stealing maize from a field belonging to a Yadav family.A mob — comprising Yadavs and some SCs — then allegedly thrashed the 23-year-old after tonsuring his head, and paraded him in the village with slippers around his neck.Kushthan comprises mostly of people from the Yadav community, classified as Other Backward Class (OBC) in Bihar, and SCs. In the region, many SC families use the surname Sharma.Madhepura superintendent of police Yogendra Kumar ordered a probe into the incident after a video of the incident surfaced on social media on Sunday. HT has seen the video.The incident took place on April 8, the officials said, adding that the victim’s father filed a complaint. “I demand strict punishment for those who were responsible for the condition of my son,” the victim’s father, Prem Lal Sharma, said.Station house officer (SHO) of Bihariganj police station Arun Kumar said, “We have lodged an FIR against seven people and 25 unidentified people under various sections including SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on the basis of the written statement of Prem Lal Sharma, the father of the victim, Jhakash Sharma.” The arrested accused was identified as Gobinda Sharma, the SHO said, adding: “Police are carrying out raids to arrest the other accused.”Activists sought stringent punishment for the accused. “The incident has shamed us, and we are going to write to the state human rights commission to take up the issue,” said Sumit Prakash, a social worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/23yrold-tortured-on-suspicion-of-theft-in-bihar-one-arrested-cops-101618252304534.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra discusses Covid-19 lockdown plan||The Maharashtra government again held marathon meetings on Monday as it readied the plan for another Covid-induced lockdown in the worst hit state. According to officials familiar with the matter, the state government is expected to make an announcement about the lockdown on April 14, after a cabinet meeting, and begin its implementation from the evening of April 15.The state recorded 51,751 new cases on Monday, taking its overall tally of cases to 3,458,996; 258 people died from Covid-19.Read more: Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra postpones state board examsState public health minister Rajesh Tope said the lockdown is inevitable, but the state government was tapping the ways to reduce its impact. “We held a couple of meetings with various departments on Monday... We want to make sure that the people from the lower strata are not impacted. Besides the food, the period will also be utilised for the augmentation of the health infrastructure,” he said, adding that the people will be given ample time to prepare for the lockdown.Read more: Pune’s Covid cases fall but shortage of ambulances, Remdesivir worry residentsAccording to the officials from the finance department, a relief package to help the economically weaker sections during the lockdown is in its final stages. “Foodgrains including rice and pulses were distributed through PDS during the last lockdown until November last year under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. 2.5 million metric tonne rice was distributed to about 16 million ration card holders. In the absence of the central scheme, the state will have to launch its own scheme... Similarly, its ongoing Shiv Bhojan Thali, distributed in ₹5, will have to be expanded to a large extent. All these schemes will be part of the package,” the official said.An official from the relief and rehabilitation department said the state government has started preparing SOPs for lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-discusses-covid-19-lockdown-plan-101618257634878.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||DDA plans to mark boundaries of Yamuna plains, experts raise alarm||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is preparing a proposal to demarcate the boundaries of Zone O -- the land planning zone which encompasses the Yamuna floodplains -- to provide ownership rights to 76 unauthorised colonies that have come up along the river, senior officials aware of the matter said.The officials said the proposal will be submitted to the principal committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Experts, however, warned that any change in the boundaries of the already encroached-upon floodplain will spell doom for the Yamuna.The Parliament passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Bill in December 2019 to provide ownership rights to over 40 lakh people living in 1,797 unauthorised colonies across the capital.DDA had to suspend the process of survey and assessment in these 76 colonies including Jaitpur, Badarpur, Okhla, Karawal Nagar since they fall under Zone O. As per the MPD-2021 norms, no construction is allowed in Zone O that is spread over 8,070 hectares along the Yamuna in Delhi.Floodplains play an important role in maintaining the flow of the river, helping recharge ground water and providing a habitat for aquatic biodiversity. They are integral to river hydrology. A senior DDA official said in the latest proposal, the agency was marking all the different kinds of developments that have come up in Zone O.A second official speaking on the condition of anonymity said, “The floodplain has to be protected...but these unauthorised colonies are located outside the floodplain.” The official added that taking these colonies out of the Zone O will help provide better infrastructure and environment-friendly development.Residents of Jaitpur, Badarpur, Okhla, Karawal Nagar, etc have been demanding that their colonies should be denotified from Zone O.Anil Sharma, a resident of Meethapur in south east Delhi, has formed an association to push the demand for removal of the colony’s name from the restricted zone. He said the colony was situated more than 1.5km away from the floodplain.“This was agricultural land, but we are still placed in ‘O’ zone. Due to this, several development projects are stuck. We can’t even reconstruct our houses,” said Sharma.After the Centre announced the PM-UDAY scheme, several residents of these colonies applied for ownership rights. Mahesh Yadav, 52, who has a house in Ekta Vihar in the Badarpur assembly constituency, said his application was rejected last year and DDA suspended the scheme in his colony. “I had all the paperwork in place, but my application was rejected as the colony falls in Zone O... It is a huge disappointment,” said Yadav, who has been living here for the past 28 years and works with an insurance firm.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is the leader of Opposition in the Delhi assembly, said the process to define O-zone was incorrect. “It includes areas which are over a kilometre away from the river. There are resettlement colonies, which were given land by the DDA, and several villages that have been in existence for years... These should be removed from the zone so that development can happen. The Centre has come out with PM-UDAY, but lakhs of residents can’t benefit from the scheme,” said Bidhuri.But environmentalists disagreed. Manoj Misra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, said, “The move will play havoc with the integrity of the river in the city and set a wrong and dangerous precedent... By delineating the boundaries of Zone O, efforts are being made to legalise all illegal constructions. I have written to Delhi L-G and DDA that this shouldn’t be done.”Referring to the concerns of residents in 76 unauthorised colonies, Misra said, “The NGT judgment of January 2015 already provides for such exigencies suggesting that these areas be treated as a ‘special area within Zone O’ so that activities like laying of sewer lines, etc could be carried out there without requiring any change in the existing boundaries of the zone.”Shashank Shekhar, professor at DU’s department of geology, said these colonies have come up illegally and delineating the zone ‘O’ will set a wrong precedent. “The aim should be to protect the floodplain. Before going to NGT with its proposal, DDA should get a study done by experts to explore and suggest possible environmentally sustainable options to the problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-plans-to-mark-boundaries-of-yamuna-plains-experts-raise-alarm-101618257124036.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||6th sero survey kicks off in Delhi amid Covid-19 case surge||As the fourth wave of Covid-19 rages in the Capital, authorities in Delhi on Monday started collecting samples for the city’s sixth serological survey to determine the population-level prevalence of antibodies against the Sar-CoV-2 virus. Officials said sample collection will end in around 10 days.The last such survey, samples for which were collected between January 11 and 21, found that over 56% of Delhi residents were exposed to the virus.District and health department officials said field workers and auxiliary nurse midwifes, who were already working overtime, have now started collecting samples for the sero survey.Read more: Delhi Covid-19 testing labs at capacity, home collections hit“It will take around 10 days to complete the drive, especially now that the Covid-19 cases are going up and workers are busy with contact tracing and containment work. Usually, we request nurses, doctors, and teachers from civic body and government hospitals to conduct the survey,” said a senior district official.The prevalence of antibodies more than doubled from 25.5% during the October round of survey, largely owing to the third wave of cases in November, when 8,593 cases were reported in a single day at the peak.The ongoing fourth wave of the infection has eclipsed previous records, with 11,491 new cases reported on Monday.For the sixth round of the sero survey, 28,000 samples will be collected from the 272 municipal wards in Delhi, officials said.“The study is designed to gauge the prevalence of antibodies; I cannot comment on the quality of the antibodies. We are expecting to see an increase in the level of antibodies in the current survey. However, it will not capture the current increase in cases as it takes some time to develop the antibodies,” said Dr Pragya Sharma, professor of community medicine, Maulana Azad Medical College, who is a part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6th-sero-survey-kicks-off-in-delhi-amid-case-surge-101618256629338.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Doctor arrested for forging wife’s signature to get loans||The Delhi Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) on Monday said it arrested a 58-year-old doctor for allegedly forging his wife’s signature and ID cards to mortgage their joint property and avail two loans worth ₹2.90 crore without her knowledge.The couple, both doctors, have been living separately since 2006. The accused, Sudhakar Arya, who runs a nursing home in Vaishali near Ghaziabad, was arrested last week and is presently in jail, said additional deputy commissioner of police (EOW) K Ramesh. “A case of cheating and forgery was registered in 2018 on the complaint of Arya’s wife. During the investigation, we verified the allegations and sent the relevant documents and signatures to the forensic lab for authentication. After collecting enough evidence against Arya, we arrested him. The probe is still on,” he said.Additional commissioner of police (EOW) R K Singh said the fraud came to light when an application by Arya’s wife for a loan in a nationalised bank for her daughter’s higher studies was rejected. The bank told her that she had already taken heavy loans and had defaulted on payments too. Upon further enquiry, she learnt that her husband had allegedly taken two loans of nearly ₹2.90 crore from a finance company in 2015-16.“The woman found that her signatures were forged on the loan forms and the attached PAN and voter ID cards were also fake. Her husband had mortgaged their joint properties as a collateral security, without her knowledge or consent,” said Singh, adding that a case was registered on the woman’s complaint and investigation was taken up.During the probe, the additional DCP said, it was learnt that the non-banking financial institution had moved for the auction of the property due to non-payment of dues. The two mortgaged properties are in Vaishali and east Delhi’s Patparganj.“Our probe revealed that the couple had a joint account in which the two loan amounts were transferred. Arya withdrew the money and used a portion of it to repay the loans he had earlier taken in his own name. Where he invested the remaining money is being probed,” added Ramesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctor-arrested-for-forging-wife-s-signature-to-get-loans-101618257291871.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Denied money to buy alcohol, 29-yr-old stabs father to death||Angry at not being given money for buying alcohol, a drunk man allegedly killed his 61-year-old father by repeatedly stabbing him at their home in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri on Sunday night.The accused, 29-year-old Balwan Singh, allegedly tried to escape from the crime spot, but was too drunk to venture far away, said police. “We arrested Balwan alias Vicky soon after receiving a call about the attack,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south).Balwan lived with his wife, three children and his father, Manohar Singh. His mother passed away six years ago.Manohar retired as a sanitation worker with the municipal corporation and had a monthly pension. His son, who worked as a mason and did odd jobs, would often drink for several days and not go to work, the DCP said.“Every other day, Balwan would ask his father to give him a part of his pension money, mostly to use it for drinking. But his father wouldn’t part with his money. That would lead to frequent quarrels between the father and son,” Thakur said.But the calming presence of Balwan’s wife in the house usually meant the quarrels didn’t lead to violence, police said.On Sunday, however, Balwan’s wife and three children had gone to a relative’s house.Balwan, who was drinking, approached his father after he fell short of money on Sunday night. “When his father refused, he repeatedly attacked him with a knife. He then threw the knife somewhere and left the spot,” the DCP said.Neighbours rushed the injured man to the AIIMS trauma centre where he succumbed to the stab wounds.After visiting the crime scene on Sunday night, police arrested Balwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/denied-money-to-buy-alcohol-29-yr-old-stabs-father-to-death-101618257250543.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 testing labs at capacity, home collections hit||Covid-19 testing labs in the national capital are swamped with samples, forcing many to reject requests for home collection and return results after delays stretching to days, a problem that could jeopardise efforts to contain the outbreak as infected people remain unaware of their need to isolate and their contacts are unreached.The Capital conducted over 100,000 tests thrice in the last seven days. In the first week of March, it was at an average of around 63,500 a day.Officials said the delays are hitting the government’s containment and contact tracing measures. “Earlier, we used to get all the test reports within the day; now it takes at least 48 hours or even more. It is across government and private sector labs, we send our samples to both, because they are flooded with a lot of samples,” said a senior district official, asking not to be named.The official added, “This does impact the containment measures. We can only create the containment areas once we get the report. We also ask all contacts to remain in quarantine till their test results come back, but without the test report many do not take it seriously.”Read more: Low-key celebrations to mark festivals, albeit with precautionsThe Delhi health minister had said that 20 to 30 contacts were being traced and tested for each positive case when the current surge began.One of the bottlenecks, the official said, was with a particular lab SpiceHealth, which promised results within hours. The official website of the laboratory on Monday had a message stating: “Due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in India, we have been inundated with RT-PCR samples to test. Providing an accurate test report is paramount to us. So, while we are trying our best to share your reports soon, expect them to be shared within 48 hours.”The Delhi high court in October last year asked the government to ensure that Covid-19 reports are made available within 24 hours.Typically, RT-PCR tests take at least 4-5 hours after a sample is collected. The process involves data entry, which need to conform to a format laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research, before batches are processed in the RT-PCR devices. The last leg of the process, analysis of the report, too adds to the turnaround time.The Union government has advised states to carry out at least 70% of the tests using this method since it is more accurate than the rapid antigen tests.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the laboratories were working at “optimum level”. “We are now using all our labs to an optimum level. In addition, we are also using the capacity of some laboratories in the NCR region. The government has also directed laboratories to increase their testing capacity,” this person said.Read more: 14 private, 6 state govt hospitals dedicated for 100% Covid-19 treatmentThe owner of one of the laboratories approved to conduct RT PCR tests in Delhi-NCR said on the condition of anonymity that it was difficult to increase capacity. “How can we increase capacity? All governments have capped prices for tests; the prices are so low we can barely make ends meet. Where will we find the investment to set up new machines? A new RT-PCR machine along with an RNA extractor costs ₹50 lakhs. And, this does not factor in the money needed for the physical infrastructure for housing the machine, the manpower needed to run it,” said this person.Another private laboratory owner, who too asked not to be named, said: “The number of samples that we are getting has shot up – from 1,500 to 2,000 a day in one of my labs to nearly 8,000. All my employees are overworked, they are doing double shifts in order to process the samples.”Experts said several issues may come up due to this crunch in testing capacity.“The number of tests is going up, but no one is talking about quality. Do we have so many good quality kits available, enough trained manpower to collect samples, run the test, and analyze the report? Instead of numbers, we need to focus on reliable, valid tests,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“In addition, we should do targeted testing of those who are symptomatic instead of testing every one. We needed to target the contacts, and follow the test, trace and treat when the number of cases were low. Now, the infection has already spread everywhere,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-testing-labs-at-capacity-home-collections-hit-101618256546274.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI to question Deshmukh over ex-top cop’s allegations||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to appear before it on Wednesday in connection with its preliminary enquiry (PE) against him into allegations that he asked suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month in Mumbai from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources, two officials said on Monday.Former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, in a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, levelled these allegations against Deshmukh in the aftermath of an explosives-laden vehicle being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, the murder of a man linked to the vehicle, the arrest of Vaze, and the removal of Singh as Mumbai’s police commissioner.“Anil Deshmukh is the primary suspect in this enquiry. He needs to be questioned regarding the claims that he wanted Vaze to collect this scale of money every month. He will be confronted with the statements of Vaze, Param Bir Singh and his staff,” said one of the officers who asked not to be named.The Bombay high court ordered a CBI probe against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Deshmukh on April 5, saying a police investigation was not possible as the department reported to him. He resigned as home minister the same day.Read more: After crime branch, Mumbai Police's EOW officials to face 'clean up'On April 8, terming the allegations as “serious”, the Supreme Court dismissed pleas by the NCP leader and the Maharashtra government challenging the high court order.On Sunday, CBI questioned Deshmukh’s personal assistants, Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde. Vaze and Param Bir Singh were examined last week.CBI took their statements to find out if Deshmukh indeed asked Vaze and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil to collect ₹100 crore from hotels, bars, restaurants, and other sources, as alleged by Singh in his eight-page letter to Thackeray on March 20. Singh also said in his letter that when Vaze and Patil went to meet Deshmukh at the latter’s residence, Palande and Shinde were present there.People familiar with the CBI’s PE procedure told HT that though they have just nine more days to conclude the inquiry, finding a “prime facie” offence would not be difficult.Several documents recovered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) during the probe into the bomb scare near Ambani’s house Antilia, and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the vehicle in which the gelatin sticks were found, have been analysed by CBI over last few days. The federal agency has also questioned bar owners, Mumbai Police officers, and people close to Deshmukh.Read more: 11-min call led ATS to accused in Hiran caseNCP leader Dilip Walse Patil has assumed charge as the home minister of Maharashtra after Deshmukh’s resignation. The state government has also set up a probe by retired Bombay high court judge Kailash Chandiwal to probe the allegations against Deshmukh, and submit a report within six months.NCP said that Deshmukh will cooperate with the agency in the inquiry. “If CBI has summoned him then he (Anil Deshmukh) will respond and cooperate accordingly. He made no mistake and we are sure he will come out clean in the CBI inquiry,” said Nawab Malik, the party’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-to-question-deshmukh-over-ex-top-cop-s-allegations-101618252025423.html
13-04-2021||Other||Cong supporters violate distancing norms at Mullanpur-Dakha event||Even though chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh has banned political gatherings in the state in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Congress supporters, including his own political advisor Captain Sandeep Sandhu, gathered for the stone-laying ceremony of the bus stand project at Mullanpur-Dakha on Monday. Many guests at the event were seen openly flouting the distancing and mask norms as police and administration officials remained mute spectators. Sandhu claimed that no invites had been sent out and that the residents had turned up on their own. This even as the party’s supporters had installed huge hoardings across the town, to announce the event. “We had planned for a gathering of only around 100 people so that distancing can be maintained. Residents themselves thronged to the site,” said Sandhu. Cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra, who laid the foundation stone of the bus terminal project, echoed Sandhu’s views. “People thronged the site themselves. We could not stop them. However, we ensured that Covid-19 guidelines are followed.”Interestingly, no police action has been taken against the violators. Mullanpur-Dakha station house officer Prem Singh said, “Police inspected the spot. Social distancing norms were being followed. Residents from Mullanpur town and nearby villages had gathered at the spot uninvited as is the case at most political events. Police have received no complaint in this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-supporters-violate-distancing-norms-at-mullanpur-dakha-event-101618258119067.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Snatched at gunpoint in Moga, car found abandoned 3km away||Carjackers targeted the manager of a Jalandhar-based firm near Samalsar town on Sunday night and took away his Maruti Swift before abandoning it merely 3km away from the crime spot, police said on Monday. The incident took place around 10pm when the victim was going to Jalandhar from Rajasthan.Garish Kapoor, 39, of Jalandhar, told the cops that the unidentified men intercepted him and threatened him at gunpoint before fleeing with his car. The police said that they have recovered the car and registered an FIR against unidentified persons under Section 379 (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 25/54 and 59 of the Arms Act.Investigating officer ASI Gurnaib Singh said after snatching the car, the accused left it on the road and left in their own car.“It appears that when the accused came to know that the victim’s car had a GPS system installed, they left the vehicle on the roadside. The accused are at large and efforts are on to nab them,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snatched-at-gunpoint-in-moga-car-found-abandoned-3km-away-101618257460857.html
13-04-2021||Other||Mullanpur-Dakha town to finally get a bus stand||In a relief for residents of Mullanpur-Dakha, Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on Monday laid the foundation stone for a bus terminal in the town. It will be set up on 7, 000 sq yards at a cost of ₹8.81 crore. The residents of the town, which has a population of around 20,000, have been demanding the setting up of a bus stand here for the past several decades.In the absence of a dedicated bus stand, residents, including women and schoolchildren, had no option but to go all the way up to the main Mullanpur Chowk or the Ludhiana-Moga highway to catch a bus.Sarabjit Kaur, who was waiting at the Mullanpur Chowk to board a bus to Jagraon, said, “We have to come all the way up to the main chowk or the highway to catch a bus. Sometimes, even after waiting for hours, we aren’t able to catch a bus as the bus operators sometimes don’t even stop at this chowk.” She added that since there is no shed here, people have to stand in the scorching heat while waiting for a bus. “We sometimes take refuge in nearby shops but it is still tiring to stand for hours on. Once a bus stand is set up, we will at least have a seating facility,” she said. Rajinder Singh, a resident of Mullanpur town, said, “We had been demanding a bus stand for decades. We hope the work is completed quickly.” Political advisor to the CM and in-charge of Dakha constituency, Captain Sandeep Sandhu said the bus terminal project will be completed in six months. He added that the office of the municipal council will be shifted to the first floor of the three-storeyed bus stand building. Besides, parking, shops, and canteens will also come up here. Sandhu said, “We selected this site so that buses headed to all four directions, Raikot, Moga, Sidhwan bet and Ludhiana, can be boarded from here. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had promised a bus stand to residents during the 2019 bypoll and now we have fulfilled our promise.”Former cabinet minister Malkiat Singh Dakha, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, municipal councillor Mamta Ashu, OSD to CM Punjab Damanjit Singh Mohi, DCC Ludhiana (rural) president Karanjit Singh Soni Galib and others were present during the stone-laying ceremony.Bus stand dedicated to martyrs:Sandhu said the bus stand will be dedicated to those, from the town and constituency, who laid down their lives for the country. During the event, one-minute silence was observed to pay tribute to those who died during the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mullanpurdakha-town-to-finally-get-a-bus-stand-101618257459870.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rift in Congress over Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat chief’s seat||Fissures have emerged in the ruling Congress over the election of Bhikhiwind nagar panchayat’s president with two party councillors threatening to approach Punjab and Haryana high court over the ‘unfair’ election of the committee’s chief.On Saturday, councillor from ward number 4, Rajinder Kumar alias Babbu Sharma, was elected as the committee’s president in presence of Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and Bhikhiwind subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Rajesh Sharma.Out of the total 13 wards of the nagar panchayat, the Congress won 11 seats while the victory on two other wards was established by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidates. The election was held in February. Two of the 11 Congress councillors — Sukhpal Singh alias Gabria and Sakattar Singh Daliri — and two SAD councillors had boycotted the election of the committee’s chief. Both the rebellious Congress councillors have alleged that the MLA had “killed the democracy” by forcing the other councillors to vote for Babbu Sharma. The duo has also claimed that the MLA had promised to give them higher representations in the committee.“I have been working in the Congress for the last 20 years. I live in ward number 12 while MLA Bhullar had asked me to contest the election from ward number 3 where SAD’s senior leader Virsa Singh Thekedar was my contender. I won the election with a margin of more than 100 votes. No one from the Congress was willing to fight against Thekedar. Before the election, the MLA had promised me the committee’s president post,” Gabria said.“On Saturday, the majority was in the favour of me and Daliri as we had gathered seven councillors. But the MLA mounted pressure on other councillors, mostly women, to elect Babbu Sharma. Following this, I and Daliri had boycotted the election. Many of the councillors wanted either me or Daliri to be the president. The MLA has taken bribes from Babbu. We have also informed the party high command about the MLA’s excesses. Now, we are planning to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court to cancel the unfair election of the president. When we will file our petition, seven to eight councillors will be with us,” he claimed. “I supported Sukhpal Bhullar during his MLA’s election. He promised to elect me as the committee’s chief in public gatherings. However, on Saturday, the MLA betrayed me,” said Daliri, former president of the Bhikhiwind arhtiya association. Daliri had won the election from ward number 12.He alleged, “Babbu is an incompetent person and he had lost the election from ward number 4. However, the MLA had rigged the poll results to make him win. Even fake votes were casted to ensure Babbu’s victory.”The MLA, however, said, “Both the councillors are lying. Their action is just for their personal gain. The election of the president was held in free and fair manner and majority of the councillors had voted for Babbu Sharma. The duo should follow the party’s ethics and respect the people’s mandate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rift-in-congress-over-bhikhiwind-nagar-panchayat-chief-s-seat-101618257458766.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala police record statement of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana’s cousin||A team of Patiala police on Monday recorded the statement of Gurdeep Singh, who was allegedly abducted last week by ‘unidentified persons’.Gurdeep is a cousin of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in the January-26 Red Fort violence case.Led by ASI Ajaib Singh, the Patiala police met Gurdeep at local civil hospital’s emergency ward in the evening. The visiting official said a complaint of abduction, torture, and intimidation was received against ‘unknown persons’.“Further investigation and legal action will be initiated after registering an FIR at the Urban Estate police station,” he added.On Sunday, an official message was sent to the Patiala police administration that a 24-year-old patient, who is undergoing treatment at Bathinda civil hospital, has alleged that he was taken into illegal custody of Delhi Police’s special cell near Punjabi University on April 8.Gurdeep, a law student, went to Patiala from Bathinda’s Sidhana village on April 8 to take an exam through online mode, it was claimed. He was stated to be accompanied by Gurpreet Singh, a patwari with state irrigation department, and both were picked by the Delhi cops. In a statement, the Delhi Police on Monday confirmed that a special cell team picked Gurdeep to know the presence and movements of Sidhana, who is wanted for a crime in the national capital.“Gurdeep was relieved with a direction to appear and join the investigation as and when required. The allegation pertaining to illegal detention and physical assault are strongly denied as being false, baseless and an afterthought to put pressure on the investigating teams,” the Delhi Police reportedly said.Meanwhile, officials at the civil hospital said in view of Gurdeep’s chronic ailment of ulcer, he has been advised to shift to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College for better care during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-police-record-statement-of-gangster-turned-activist-lakha-sidhana-s-cousin-101618257398757.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lakha Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeeep was quizzed, not detained: Delhi Police||The Delhi police on Monday refuted allegations that they had “illegally” detained gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh in Punjab, even as a team of its special cell questioned him. Sidhana is wanted by the Delhi police in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital, when thousands of protesting farmers, who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border, clashed with the police. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured in the violence. In a statement, the police said it is learnt that allegations and misinformation are being propagated on the social media regarding the detention of one Gurdeep Singh alias Mundi by a Delhi police team in Punjab. Several cases were registered by the Delhi police in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital, a large number of suspects have been examined and about 160 accused belonging to Delhi and several other states arrested. Sidhana is wanted in some of these cases and is deliberately evading arrest, the statement said. According to the police, on April 8, a special cell team that was moving in the vicinity of Patiala in search of Sidhana, questioned Gurdeep Singh. He was asked about the presence and movements of Sidhana and thereafter, he was relieved with a direction to appear and join investigation as and when required. “The investigation is being conducted as per law and in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is relevant to note that no allegation of assault or mistreatment has been made by any of the 160 accused persons arrested by the Delhi police in these cases so far,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakha-sidhana-s-cousin-gurdeeep-was-quizzed-not-detained-delhi-police-101618257281416.html
13-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana adds 523 new cases to tally||A day after the district logged 530 cases, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic’s outbreak in March last year, as many as 523 cases were reported on Monday. It is for the second consecutive day that the city has seen over 500 cases in a day.Despite imposition of night curfew, closing of educational institutions and ban on large public gatherings, Covid cases in Ludhiana are continuing on the upward surge. Compared to 7, 294 cases and 115 deaths in March, the district has recorded 5, 084 cases and 68 deaths in just 12 days of April, including five casualties on Monday that took the toll to 1, 212.Over the last 17 days, the district has recorded 400-plus cases on eight days, including 497 on March 27, trumping the first wave’s highest surge of 464 cases on September 17, 2020.Ludhiana’s case tally now stands at 39, 494, of which 3, 381 patients are under treatment, while 34,901 have recuperated – taking the recovery rate of 88%, against the national average of 90.44%.Those who died on Monday include a 72-year-old male from Ghumar Mandi, a 52-year-old female from Alamgir village, a 59-year-old female from Daba Road, a 65-year-old male from Lohara Road and a 69-year-old female from Khanna.Among those positive are three healthcare workers, a policeman, an undertrial, two international travelers and two teachers from Government Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, and a teacher from Sacred Heart School, Sarabha Nagar.10, 192 people inoculated As many as 10, 192 people turned up at various government and private health centres for Covid vaccination on Monday. These included 2, 988 senior citizens and 5, 149 comorbid people aged between 45 and 59. So far, 3, 32, 148 people in the district have been inoculated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-adds-523-new-cases-to-tally-101618257279272.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Laboratories swamped with samples for Covid tests for patients, travellers||The surge in Covid-19 cases brought about by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and state guidelines mandating negative RT-PCR tests for those working in public transportation, home delivery services, film shoots, and roadside eateries, among other categories, likely led to a surge that created a backlog in several testing laboratories in Mumbai. Recognising the delay caused in supplying these reports, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday asked all the laboratories to issue reports to the municipal body within 24 hours. The civic body has also advised laboratories to enter data of the samples processed, between midnight to 6 am starting immediately, so that a considerable number of people can be given their results faster. The state’s Break the Chain initiative issued on April 4, which mandated RT-PCR tests for the working-class starting April 10 (the tests would have been valid for 15 days only), was subsequently amended to allow antigen tests. However, several private labs across the city said that reports are now taking between two to three days, and samples collection has got delayed too. “For three days last week, we had to completely stop taking new clients,” said Dr A Velumani, chairman and managing director of Thyrocare, a private company which began conducting RT-PCR tests in its laboratories last year. The reports are now taking 36 hours to be issued, as the company has seen a weekly jump of 20% in samples collected since mid-February. “In at least 100 cases last week, we have issued reports to travellers who were already at the airport to board flights,” he said. “After the first wave passed, the volume had come down to 2000 samples a day, but it suddenly jumped to 15,000 a day this February when we entered the second wave,” he said. Thyrocare’s collection and testing capacity is 12,000 samples per day at present. By the second week of May, their labs will process 17000 samples a day, Velumani added. Metropolis, another private laboratory in the city is doubling its capacity in a week’s time. However, its spokesperson did not provide data on the laboratory’s current testing capacity and how much it would be after the scale-up. Between April 5 and April 10, the city has tested between 47,000 to 52,000 samples daily.“Mumbai’s current RT-PCR testing capacity stands at 45,000,” said a civic official who did not wish to be named. “If the cases don’t increase further, this capacity is enough. During the first wave, the city’s daily testing capacity was 25,000,” the official added. In June and July last year when Mumbai’s cases began to rise during the first wave of the pandemic, reports took up to 48 hours. However, as labs scaled up their facilities, reports were given within 24 hours.“The RT-PCR processing takes about four hours. The transportation and data entry takes more time with a greater load of samples,” the official quoted above said, adding that data automation and early transportation can help save some time in between. In Mumbai, testing follows a three-step process: collection of samples, processing in the laboratory and data entry in the software provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last year mandated that only negative reports could be directly communicated to the patient. Positive reports are first communicated to the civic body, which, in turn, informs the patients. The rule allowed the civic body to conduct effective contact tracing as well as centralize the bed distribution system to ensure that patients don’t crowd hospitals and are treated based on their symptoms. However, residents said that the rule has increased delays, and also led to greater anxiety among possible Covid patients.City-based physician Dr Pratit Samdani said that most of the reports are now taking three to four days to reach patients, which is also causing difficulty in deciding the course of treatment. “Most doctors are initiating the treatment based on the clinical diagnosis. But the patients don’t isolate properly till they see a positive report and this is leading to more infections,” Samdani said. Delayed results have also posed other problems for city residents. Thane-based commercial photographer Amit Rane (46) cancelled his flight to Bhubaneshwar twice last week after none of the laboratories could guarantee him a Covid-19 test report before he took off. “I felt helpless with all that was happening. I lost ₹16,000 on the flights in a week,” said Rane, who has rescheduled his photoshoot in Odisha, which like many other states is demanding negative RT-PCR reports from the 72-hour time frame from travellers. “The problem is that no laboratory is willing to give reports that soon,” said Rane. He finally booked his flight on April 14 after the private laboratory advised him to give his sample directly at their Navi Mumbai collection centre for quicker results. Last March, Pune’s National Institute of Virology was the only laboratory equipped to test for Sars-CoV-2 in samples. Since then, Maharashtra has scaled up its testing capacity tremendously: from 339 laboratories in August to 476 in November and 487 in December. By March 2021, 524 laboratories are conducting tests in the city; of these, 383 are government-run. These numbers provided by the public health department include laboratories carrying out RT-PCR as well as antigen tests. In Mumbai, around 43 private and 10 public-run laboratories are testing samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-laboratories-swamped-with-samples-for-covid-tests-for-patients-travellers-101618257157984.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Professional colleges wary of repeat of 2020||Manasvi Parikh, 19, cleared her Class 12 board exam in June last year, however, her first lecture as a first-year law student began only two weeks ago. With the state’s decision to postpone SSC and HSC exams to June this year, students as well as colleges are worried about a repeat of academic year 2020-21. “We were worried that the current batch of first-year students will end up studying in the same class as the first-year batch of the 2021-22 academic year because the current year admission concluded only recently. But with Covid-19 lockdown spilling into the next academic year, looks like the next batch will be equally delayed,” said the principal of a south Mumbai law college, on condition of anonymity. Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months in 2020-21, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota. In December, registration process for most professional courses, including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy, had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission form after the state decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota. Government and private engineering colleges in the state started their lectures for their first-year students only towards the end of January 2021. “The central bodies finished admissions to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) by the last week of November, but the state common entrance test (CET) cell was still conducting registration till end of December. In the coming year too, engineering admissions to non-IIT institutes will be affected if the CET cell does not act quickly,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra. He added that for the current first-year batch, colleges have planned their first semester exams online this month and hope to finish the second semester by July 2021. Due to the status of Covid-19 across the country, officials are now contemplating postponing entrance exams to all professional courses this year. While the National Testing Agency (NTA) is yet to clarify the status of the third session of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains, scheduled to take place in the last week of April, parents and students are already unhappy about how this delay will affect students and their preparation for a very important year of their lives. “School education boards should plan online exams for Class 10 and 12 students instead of postponing exams. What happens if the situation doesn’t improve until May or even June? Does the government expect Class 10 and 12 students to live in this anxiety for months,” asked Sudha Shenoy, parent of a medical student and an activist. She added that delay in the academic structure of Class 10 and 12 students for two consecutive years will have a cascading effect on their future courses as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/professional-colleges-wary-of-repeat-of-2020-101618257097986.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||SSC, HSC exams deferred: Degree admissions may be delayed again||The state’s decision to postpone Class 10 and 12 board exams has once again brought back fears of delayed admissions for junior as well as degree college courses. While the education department is hoping it won’t affect admissions for 2021-22, college heads are not sure. Anushree Lokur, principal in-charge, Ramnarain Ruia Autonomous College, Matunga, said the delay is now inevitable. “The largest chunk of students every year for traditional and non-traditional courses comes from the state board, so we cannot start admissions before Class 12 results are announced across all education boards,” she said. Last year, admissions to undergraduate degree courses affiliated with the University of Mumbai began in August, and looking at a large number of seats left vacant after three common admission rounds, the university had requested colleges to release a fourth merit list. “Like every year, we will wait for results of Class 12 exams to be released, and the university will try to wrap up the admission process as early as possible,” said an official from MU. He added that with online lectures, colleges will be able to cover the curriculum, even if admissions get delayed by a few weeks. For junior college admissions, principals said a delay in starting the new term can be managed with online classes. “Our first-year junior college (FYJC) classes began in late December. The online mode gives us more time to teach in comparison with the physical mode. Barring public holidays, we did not take any break and managed to finish our syllabus this month with proper teaching,” said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal of VG Vaze college in Mulund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-hsc-exams-deferred-degree-admissions-may-be-delayed-again-101618257038630.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||No meals on flights if journey is less than 2 hours, says MoCA||No meals will be provided to passengers whose air journey is less than two hours. In order to control the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Monday issued an order restricting airlines from serving food to passengers with flying time less than two hours. The ministry, however, has allowed meals for flights flying for more than two hours, provided the airlines use disposable cutlery and serve only pre-packed food. This order will come into effect from Thursday (April 15).According to the MoCA order, for flights which are allowed to serve food, the tray set up, plates and cutlery in all classes should be completely disposable and no re-use or cleaned and disinfected rotables should be used. It also said that used rotables should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before reusing them. Tea, coffee, alcoholic and non- alcoholic beverages have been allowed only in disposable cans or bottles or glasses. “There will be no pouring services and beverages will be served in single-use disposable units and all the disposables will be disposed in trash bags or carts by the crew at the end of the meal service,” the order read.MoCA asked all operating crew members to wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal or beverage service. It also asked the airlines to inform passengers about these amended norms by making announcements. “The service of in-flight meals is to be staggered among the adjacent seats as far as possible,” the order concluded.Central government had earlier restricted serving meals during flight after it resumed flying for the domestic sector in phased manner. This was being done as a precautionary measure to avoid spread of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. However, on August 29, it allowed selling in-flight meals, which is a significant source of ancillary revenue for low-cost airlines. While airlines can only serve pre-packed snacks and beverages in domestic flights, they ca serve hot meals and alcohol in international flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-meals-on-flights-if-journey-is-less-than-2-hours-says-moca-101618257038042.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||SSC, HSC exams postponed: Mixed response in Maha||The state government’s decision on Monday to postpone HSC and SSC exams saw a mixed response from various stakeholders. While some welcomed the move, others said the government should have instead gone for internal assessments to avoid future uncertainty. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association, a group of parents that petitioned the government to cancel offline exams, said, “The decision will just push the uncertainty further because we do not know what the situation will be in June. The government should instead mark students on the basis of internal assessments. Postponement will not help as students and parents are already under a lot of stress.”Reema Lokesh, a city-based parent, said all boards should give two options to students and parents. “Those who wish can opt for results with internal assessments and those who wish to write the exams can do so. This way, students can decide what’s best for them and take a call accordingly,” she added. Rupa Roy, principal, Balmohan Vidya Mandir in Dadar, said the postponement comes as a big relief for schools and students. “Schools were extremely worried about conducting the exams in the middle of growing infections. We are happy that the safety of students has taken prominence over anything else. The days to come are going to be challenging for teachers too. They will not get any summer vacations and will have to manage both – the existing Class 10 students and teaching the new batch of students who will go in Class 10 this year simultaneously,” she added. Shivnath Darade, secretary of Shikshak Parishad, a teachers’ group, said, “We had conducted an online survey with 3000 responses. A total of 69% respondents had demanded the exams be postponed. This included students, teachers and parents. We are happy with the postponement.” Sandeep Deshpande, spokesperson, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), said “We wanted these students to be promoted without taking exams, but we are okay if the exams are postponed.” MNS chief Raj Thackeray had advocated promoting students without exams on the grounds that it was stressful for students, especially due to the Covid-19 second wave.BJP leader and former school education minister Ashish Shelar said, “There were concerns among the parents and students appearing for the board exams. We have received requests from many of them and in turn, we had requested the state government for postponement. We thank the state government for the decision.”With inputs from Naresh Kamath||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-hsc-exams-postponed-mixed-response-in-maha-101618256978021.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||State postpones SSC and HSC exams amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Maharashtra government on Monday postponed SSC (Class 10) and HSC (Class 12 exams) owing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state. While the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams will begin towards the end of May, the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams will be conducted in June 2021, said state education minister Varsha Gaikwad. The HSC exams were earlier scheduled to take place between April 23 and May 21, 2021, while the SSC exams were planned between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 3.3 million students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year. The exams are conducted simultaneously across 9 divisions in the state. A revised timetable of the exams is yet to be released by the department and will be out soon. “Keeping in mind the safety of students, we have decided to postpone the exams. While postponing exams, we also want to make sure that future education plans of students are not affected,” said Gaikwad in a video message released on Monday afternoon. The decision was finalised in a meeting held between state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and officials of the state government and education department on Monday. The state government has written to heads of other boards like the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), requesting a similar postponement in the exams of these boards for students in the state. “We will approach them now that the government has taken a decision in this regard,” said an official from the state education department. CBSE exams are scheduled across the country between May 4 and June 14. While ICSE (Class 10) exams will be held between May 5 and June 7, ISC (Class 12) exams will be held between May 5 and June 16. Representatives of the CBSE and the ICSE boards did not respond to calls and messages. It was on January 21 that the state board had announced dates for SSC and HSC exams. However, with rising infections in the state, several representations were made to the education department and the government from parents and schools, requesting authorities to either postpone exams, conduct them online or mark students on the basis of internal assessments. There has been a big jump in the number of infections in the state between January and April this year. While there were 2,886 cases in Maharashtra on January 21, Mumbai recorded 527 new infections that day. The numbers, however, rose to 63,294 and 9,986 respectively on April 11. The education department held consultations with various stakeholders like parents, schools, educationists and representatives of various online platforms to come up with possible solutions. Representatives of online companies like Google and TCS stated that conducting online exams on such a large scale would require a well-developed infrastructure, a process that might take two years. Since online exams were not feasible and as schools have remained online for the last one year, offline exams at a further date were suggested to be the best possible solution by experts. “During the consultations, various alternative assessment options were evaluated, keeping the health, well-being and future of our students in mind. Postponing exams seemed to be the most pragmatic solution,” said Gaikwad. Schools said that the decision is a welcome step to ensure the safety and wellbeing of students and staff. “We are happy with the postponement. We hope that this will ease the stress of both teachers and parents,” said a suburban school principal. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state by Covid-19 ever since the start of the pandemic last March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-postpones-ssc-and-hsc-exams-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101618256918580.html
13-04-2021||Other||Surge in cases leads to lack of beds for Covid-19 patients in Navi Mumbai||Between March 29 and April 2, Mahek Mukadam has barely had a moment’s rest. The 34-year-old Vashi resident received a call last Monday from the Covid centre where her father was admitted. “Your father’s condition is deteriorating. Please shift him to an ICU [Intensive Care Unit] bed,” the caller from the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) Exhibition Centre – a jumbo Covid Care Facility with 1,200 beds which came up in May 2020 told her. Saleem Bhatkar, 59, had got admitted to the centre on March 24 after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Soon after the call, Mukadam began the search: she visited at least 20 hospitals, she said, between Panvel and Airoli. Not one had an ICU bed free. “He was already on bypass oxygen bed and yet he needed an ICU. We were continuously getting calls from the center to look for an ICU bed. I would have visited at least 20 private hospitals right from Panvel to Airoli. We were told there were no beds. After a lot of struggle we managed to find one ICU room at Rajpal Hospital in Kopar Khairne,” she said. But by then, Bhatkar’s condition had worsened. The hospital asked Mukadam to look for plasma donors – a secondary level treatment that many doctors have taken to providing though a September study by the Indian Council for Medical Research pointed out that plasma therapy did not help in reducing mortality rates or progression of the disease to a severe state. Nevertheless, it’s a popular therapy employed by doctors in moderately symptomatic patients, but the rub is, only 1% of at least 2.3 million recovered patients have donated plasma to date. By the time Mukadam found a donor, it was too late. On April 2, Bhatkar breathed his last. “At Cidco centre, he saw a patient die and he panicked. While he was being taken to the ICU, he wanted to speak, but couldn’t because of the oxygen mask. Everything took a toll on his mental health. He just wanted to come home,” Mukadam said. On Monday, 1,074 new cases were reported in Navi Mumbai, taking the tally to 85,950. The city also reported four deaths, taking toll to 1,241. Active cases stand at 11,579.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) already had a system in place as the second wave surged in the state. Navi Mumbai which comprises eight wards and a population of 1.2 million, has been seeing close to 1,000 cases daily, on average since the beginning of April 2021. Those with mild symptoms must quarantine at home, and a doctor assigned by the NMMC’s Covid-19 war room checks on them. If a person needs to be admitted to a hospital, the area’s medical officer should be contacted, and they would arrange for a bed at the nearest Covid Care Centre. This system was put in place following the pandemic, which raged through the state last year, claiming 1,080 lives in Navi Mumbai alone. Though the corporation’s capacity has increased – last September, for instance, the corporation had 2,856 beds, and 700 healthcare workers; by March 31, 2021, it had 3,500 beds and 1,000 healthcare workers – people like Mukadam are still dealing with the repercussions of not being able to find beds on time to save lives. In many ways, it feels like a repetition of last year’s tragedy. The biggest challenge that the corporation faces is one of trained healthcare staff. As of now, the corporation has 891 contractual medical staff and is in the process of hiring more. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “Last year around 700 staff members were hired. Now, their contracts have been renewed, but that number is still not enough. With increasing cases, we need to arrange at least 3,000 beds more. But for that we need the medical staff.” However, Bangar pointed out that there is a marked difference between last year’s expression of the pandemic, and what the second wave seems to be presenting. “Last year the demand was more for ventilators and ICU beds. This time, with more asymptomatic and mild infection cases, the demand is more for the Covid Care Centre beds. During the last surge, of the total positive cases, around 3% used to be admitted to ICU while this year, it has come down to 1%,” he said. All the same, the NMMC dashboard reveals that only 28% of the ICU beds are available in the city, while 10% of the isolation beds with oxygen and 49% of the isolation beds without oxygen are available. At present, 3,435 people are hospitalized in Navi Mumbai, and 11,050 are active cases. There are three types of containment zones: In gated, housing societies, the number of cases determine whether the flat, floor or entire building would be declared as a containment zone. For independent houses, a banner comes up depending on the proximity of other houses. “The actual barricading is done at the slums and chawls when cluster cases found. After barricading, police bandobast is provided 24/7. However, with the increasing cases, it is not possible for the police to provide bandobast in all containment areas,” Bangar said. There are 15 containment zones in type three in two wards. Bangar said that the corporation received 40,000 Covishield vaccines from central government on April 1. On average, around 2,000 to 3,000 vaccinations took place daily in March; since April 1, when vaccination opened up for 45 year-olds and above without co-morbidities, at least 7000 vaccinations are being given daily. By April 11, 154,500 Covishield and 28,740 Covaxin vaccines had been supplied to NMMC, of which 15,000 Covaxin remained, which would be administered for the second dose starting April 12. “While senior citizens were the most affected last time, this time the office-going age group from 20 to 50 is most affected. My vision is to have 10,000 daily vaccination but for that we need uninterrupted vaccine supply,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-in-cases-leads-to-lack-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-navi-mumbai-101618256918059.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha plans for lockdown, relief||The Maharashtra government again held a number of meetings on Monday to deliberate on the strict lockdown, which is likely to be announced in a day or two. The relief package for the vulnerable sections of society has almost been finalised, while a decision over the restrictions on the industrial units is expected to be taken by Tuesday.The state is expected to make the announcement on April 14, after a cabinet meeting, and implement it from the evening of April 15. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has made it clear after meetings with leaders from all parties on Saturday that there would be no option, but to go for a lockdown amid the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state. Thackeray on Sunday held meetings with the state government-appointed task force’s doctors and officials to deliberate upon the modalities and duration of the lockdown. The task force members have recommended the lockdown to be at least for two weeks.State public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the lockdown is inevitable but the government was tapping the ways to reduce its impact. “We held a couple of meetings with various departments on Monday. The measures for the preparations were discussed in the meetings. We want to make sure that the people from the lower strata are not impacted. Besides the food for this section of the society during the lockdown, the period will also be utilised for the augmentation of health infrastructure,” he said.He said that the people will be given ample time for preparing for the lockdown.Leaders from opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and even the ruling parties have demanded a relief package for the poor and lower strata of the population directly affected during the lockdown. Admitting to the demand, the state government has prepared a plan for the package and bear the financial burden for it. “The plan has been discussed for the relief package to the labourers and poor people who get affected during the lockdown. It will be finalised after discussing with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,”said Eknath Shinde, urban development minister after the meeting.Shinde said that the decision over the lockdown has been done as there was no other option. “The final decision will, however, be taken by the CM,” he said.Though the decision over the lockdown has to be taken by the CM, he wants the consensus of all ruling parties over itm by discussing it in the cabinet, said a NCP leader.According to officials from the finance department, the relief package will focus on the population from the lower strata and the people who are largely dependent on daily wages. “Foodgrains including rice and pulses were distributed through PDS during the last lockdown until November last year under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. 2.5 million metric tonnes of rice was distributed to about 16 million ration card holders. In the absence of the central scheme, the state government will have to launch its own scheme by bearing the cost. Similarly, its ongoing Shiv Bhojan Thali, distributed for Rs5, will have to be extended to a large extent. All these schemes will be part of the package,” the official said.Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhajbal wrote a letter to the CM on Monday demanding distribution of grains to the poor through ration shops. “There is need to provide essential commodities like pulses, edible oil, sugar and salt free of cost or at concessional rate to the poor during the lockdown. Many elected representative have demanded this by writing to us. State government should launch Chief Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to provide the essential commodities and the decision needs to be taken immediately,” he has said.The state government has started preparing the SOP for the lockdown and is expected to be finalised in a day or two. “There are differences of opinion over the operation of industrial units and the permission for private vehicles. The decision is expected to be taken by the government after more deliberations with experts. The state is likely to shut industrial units barring those in the manufacturing of essential commodities, including food items, pharmaceutical commodities and the articles needed for their packing. There would not be any restrictions on the public transport, including trains, buses and taxi-autos, to ensured that the vaccination drive and the ongoing exams are affected. The state government is expected to bring the lockdown into effect from April 15 by announcing it a day or two in advance,” said an official from relief and rehabilitation department.In the meeting chaired by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, district collectors have been asked to closely monitor the distribution of the anti-viral injection, Remdesivir, to avoid their black marketing. He also announced to allow to expend 30% of the district planning committee fund on Covid-19 related expenditure. “To avoid the delay in providing infrastructure to the beds procured in the private hospitals, the powers of purchase have been given to the divisional commissioners. The district collectors have been asked to monitor the supply of Remdesivir injections,” the statement from the DCM office has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-plans-for-lockdown-relief-101618256859118.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Covid19 spike spoils Lucknow’s eating-out scene!||The surge in Covid-19 cases and the night curfew in the state capital have already hit restaurants hard. They were still recovering from last year’s lockdown and the unlock phase, when this wave has left customers wary of eating out.Chef and restaurateur Nittin Mohan opened his restaurant only in February after the lockdown last year and with sudden rise in cases closed it for dining on April 8. “From Tuesday, we are closing deliveries and our convenience store too. It’s a proactive measure that we have taken for our staff and customers. Cases are rising rapidly so we need to protect our staff and our customers with whom we deal with. After a week we will see the situation and take a call as it’s about everyone’s safety,” he said.A popular city Awadhi-food joint has decided to close two of its restaurants. “Our dine-in restaurant near the Press Club will be shut down for the time-being. Besides, we will soon take a call to close another. With night curfew on, we have to start closing by 7:30-8 pm as the staff too needs time to wind-up and reach home. Sales have dipped by 60-70%, as during summer, people don’t venture out during the day and in the evening we close early,” said Arshi Jamal.Anup Kanchan, an educationist and foodie echoes similar sentiments. “Ab dar lagne laga hai! Before Navratri, there is a usual practice to get some non-vegetarian stuff for dinner but this time, it’s better to control our cravings and be safe with ghar-ka-khana!” Bollywood actor and reality TV star Ankita Srivastava recently opened Kamli Bistro in Gomti Nagar but got a shocker soon after. “We opened the bistro after Holi believing that things would improve. The night curfew has affected the business badly. We have tastefully set-up everything with a lavish menu and ambience, but the cases started rising suddenly. Customers are just not venturing out and we have no idea what to do…can just wait and watch.” This time, the spike in cases has been sharp so the fear is immense. “The current situation is one of panic. People are not dining-in. Instead, food is being packed and taken home, but that too is not too great. We are once again in for losses but for our staff we need to run things. Big marriage parties that were lined-up are either getting postponed or are being reduced to 40-50-people affairs. We are in for a very tough time,” said Manoj Bachaani of Richi Rich restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-spike-spoils-lucknow-s-eating-out-scene-101618256858537.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 991 infections; no deaths||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 991 novel coronavirus infections on Monday, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 39,381. However, for the first time in two weeks there was no Covid- related death in the UT and the overall death toll stood at 2,034. So far, 40 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past six days, the UT has been recording around 800 cases, the highest daily count in six months. The UT had recorded this year’s highest case count on Saturday with 1,005 cases.Of the new cases, 492 were from Kashmir division while 499 were from Jammu. J&K had recorded all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 303 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 181 in Jammu, 160 in Udhampur( including 157 travellers), 97 in Reasi (including 85 travellers), 55 in Kathua(all except one travellers) and 53 in Baramulla. Eight out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases while no case was reported in three districts. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March, reached 7,908, officials said. Since February 9, when active cases were at the lowest at 593, the UT has added 7,315 cases.As many as 1, 29,439 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 92.86 % from the highest of around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.53 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the UT so far. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-991-infections-no-deaths-101618256799212.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police officer dies of Covid-19||A 54-year-old sub inspector attached to Vakola police station died of Covid-19 on Monday while undergoing treatment at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) Covid care facility. With this, the Covid-19 toll in the Mumbai Police reached 101 with a total of 7,997 cases of infection reported since April 2020. As of Monday, the city police force has 455 active infected policemen.Sub-inspector Mohan Dagde, who had been assigned court-related works and was posted at the Bombay high court, last reported to work on April 2. The next day he tested positive for Covid-19 and got admitted at the BKC Covid care centre. His condition deteriorated on Sunday, leading to his death, said a police officer. “Dagde was diabetic and had high blood pressure,” confirmed Sunayna Nate, senior inspector, Vakola police. Despite being from the 50+ age group, Dagde was reporting to work and not staying at home as directed by senior police officers earlier to prevent spread of infection among the most vulnerable group of policemen from the force. The department is looking into why a policeman from 50+ age group having comorbidities such as diabetes and high blood pressure was called on duty, a police officer said requesting anonymity.Dagde was living with his family in Andheri police quarters. His family would get a compensation of ₹50 lakh from the state government. Beside this, a sum of ₹10 lakh would also be given from the Mumbai Police welfare fund.With the surge in Covid-19 cases, more policemen are also getting infected. Hence, the department is restoring measures that were implemented to bring the infection under control last year. The police have recently restored the Covid helpline for cops to enquire about availability of beds at hospitals and Covid centres. “We are taking all possible measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the police department,” said Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-officer-dies-of-covid19-101618256797949.html
13-04-2021||Other||In Lucknow, 16,427 beneficiaries inoculated in a day||LUCKNOW A total of 16,427 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine jabs in the city on Monday – the highest in a day till now. On April 2, 15,631 people took the shots and 15,607 were inoculated on March 18. One the second day of the 4-day Teeka Utsav, 139 vaccination sites were set up in Lucknow, including 76 at government facilities, where 12,964 beneficiaries took the jabs and 63 at private hospitals where 3,463 people took the shots, according to health department data. Under a special initiative, a vaccination centre was set up at the Secretariat dispensary where 676 beneficiaries were inoculated, said officials. Special vaccination camps were also set up at different government and private offices. “In UP, 8846408 doses have been administered to beneficiaries, including over 75.76 lakh first doses and 12.70 lakh second doses,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-lucknow-16-427-beneficiaries-inoculated-in-a-day-101618256739143.html
13-04-2021||Other||Baisakhi amid covid: SGPC event, farmers’ rally in Talwandi Sabo today despite Capt’s ban orders||The historic town of Talwandi Sabo in the district is set to see two mega public events on Baisakhi amid a surge in covid-19 cases. The Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) will hold a religious programme, while the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ughrahan) has given a call for a ‘Kisan Rally’ on Tuesday.Talwandi subdivision officer Varinder Singh said instructions from the state government have been sought, as a huge gathering is expected at the events. He evaded a direct reply on whether the local administration has granted permission to hold mass programmes.Over the past week (since April 5), Bathinda has reported 1,396 new covid cases, while the active number of patients on Monday was 1,494. After a review meeting with medical experts on pandemic control management, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on April 7, had announced a complete ban on all political, social, cultural or sports gatherings till April 30.The CM had directed officials to take action against violators, even if they are political leaders, and even asked the administration to book them under the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act.Sources said there was no specific reference to the ban on mass gatherings organised by religious bodies or farmer unions protesting since September last year against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.Paramjit Singh, manager, Gurdwara Damdama Sahib at Takht Damdama Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhism, said in view of the expected rush of devotees at the shrine, special stay arrangements have been made. He appealed to devotees to follow covid-19 instructions, including wearing masks and maintain social distancing, religiously.On Monday, BKU (Ughrahan) spokesman Jasvir Singh said union president Joginder Singh Ughrahan and other farm leaders from Punjab and Haryana will participate in Tuesday’s rally. Civil surgeon TS Dhillon said the health department will deploy a special awareness van where people will be motivated to follow covid guidelines. “Teams will also be stationed for on-the-spot sample collection and covid vaccination,” he added.The district administration has deployed its own police, and from adjoining districts as well, to maintain law and order during the twin events at Talwandi Sabo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baisakhi-amid-covid-sgpc-event-farmers-rally-in-talwandi-sabo-today-despite-capt-s-ban-orders-101618256738716.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan leads with highest progressive Covid-19 cases in MMR||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), which had seen its highest peak of Covid-19 cases last year in July with 661 cases and had the highest progressive cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with nearly 17,000 cases, is again leading with more than 100,000 cases and around 2,000-2,500 new cases reported daily. On Monday, KDMC recorded 1,527 cases, taking the tally to 103,384. The city did not report any new death, so toll remains 1,160. The civic body had, on Sunday, crossed the 100,000-cases mark with 2,552 new cases taking the case count to 101,857. According to the civic body, the case positivity rate stands at 18%. KDMC has ramped up testing to around 6,000-6,500 daily tests from around 2,500-3,000 tests conducted in July last year. As the case fatality rate stands at 0.19%, down from 1.95% in October 2020, KDMC claims the situation is in control.“Although cases are increasing, the fatality rate is less as compared to earlier months, which is a major relief. The cumulative death rate since beginning is 1.5%. Our main focus is on controlling deaths,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commission. Activists from the city claim the major reason behind the surge in cases is lack of maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, wearing masks at the ground level, and added that the civic body is not carrying out sanitisation work at the centres, hospitals and other crowded places like it was doing earlier. “When I went to take vaccine, I could see social distancing was not maintained properly by the people. The administration has done a lot by providing testing facility and building infrastructure, but people are not following the norms,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizens Forum, Kalyan. He added, “I have also noticed that earlier when the cases were on rise the civic body used to carry out sanitisation on a regular basis, but now I can hardly see sanitisation happening at any of the centres or hospitals.” Residents also claimed that the civic body has not taken strict action against those violating Covid norms in all parts of the city. “Even though the civic body and police claim that they have been taking action against those violating norms, this is not happening in every corner of the city on a regular basis. Even now, when shops are asked to shut, some are still operating if civic officials are not around,” said Swaraj Patil, 39, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West). Since January 21 this year to April 9, KDMC and police have taken action against 4,601 people for not wearing mask and collected ₹20.32 lakh in fines. Kalyan zone 3 police have also registered a total of 1,191 cases. A KDMC official who did not wish to be named said, “We do not have enough manpower to take action against violators when compared to the population. Those who are taking action against violators also have their routine works to do, hence there is no regular drive.” The civic body also pointed at housing societies for not maintaining norms. Ashwini Patil, KDMC medical health officer, said, “Most of the cluster cases are in housing complexes while slums have very less cases. Residents are not following home isolation strictly, which is leading to the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-leads-with-highest-progressive-covid-19-cases-in-mmr-101618256677994.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s ward war rooms for Covid-19 to operate at night too||To ensure that needy Covid-19 patients promptly get hospital beds, especially during night between 11pm and 7am, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has allotted nodal officers at 24 ward war rooms in Mumbai. The officers will work in two shifts — 3pm to 11pm and 11pm to 7am — to ensure patients get beds round the clock.However, the patients who call the ward war room between 11pm and 7 am, will be allotted beds predominantly at jumbo Covid facilities only. Nodal officers at ward war rooms are expected to fast-track bed allotment at night, and to ensure this, they will stay in touch with the seven jumbo facilities at all times. Once the beds are allotted to the patients, they will have to reach the facility and will be allotted a bed after assessing the medical condition and requirement of the patient. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal made an announcement to this effect on Monday morning.In addition, those who call the ward war rooms at night but have not received their test report or have not been tested, will be entitled to beds in such facilities under the suspected category and a test will be conducted to ascertain if they have contracted the disease.The city on Monday reported 6,893 new Covid-19 cases and 43 deaths, taking case count to 425,091 and toll to 12,066. Active cases in Mumbai have gone up to 89,125 while case fatality rate is 2.8%. On Sunday, Mumbai conducted 39,398 Covid tests, pushing the total number of tests conducted in the city so far to 4,650,187.Mumbai will also get three more Jumbo Covid hospitals with around 2,000 Covid-19 beds including 200 intensive care unit (ICU) beds within the next six weeks, BMC announced on Monday. Of these beds, around 1,400 will be oxygen beds.With the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, the civic body has decided to requisition some four-star and five-star hotels to create Covid quarantine facilities (CCC2) for positive patients, to be run by professionals from major private hospitals. With this, BMC plans to make large number of beds available to needy patients by shifting substantially recovered patients to these CCC2 facilities.BMC will also add 1,100 additional hospital beds including 125 ICU beds within the next week. As of Monday afternoon, Mumbai has 19,329 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients of which 3,878 are vacant. Of the 2,542 ICU beds, 60 are vacant, 20 of the 1,330 ventilator beds, and 1,394 of 9,934 oxygen beds are vacant.All laboratories have been instructed to ensure that Covid-19 test results are concluded within 24 hours without fail. The labs have also been instructed to give priority to swabs of symptomatic patients. In addition, labs have been asked to submit reports of patients who tested positive by 6am every morning, in a bid to ensure that such patients get beds by 8am the same day and within 24 hours of their swab collection. Presently, positive reports of patients who get tested in the first half of the day are submitted to BMC by midnight the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-ward-war-rooms-for-covid-19-to-operate-at-night-too-101618256557998.html
13-04-2021||Other||Sharad Pawar’s condition stable after surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar underwent a successful gallbladder surgery at Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai on Monday morning. His condition is stable and he is likely to stay in the hospital for a day or two.The 80-year-old leader was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder and was admitted to the hospital on Sunday afternoon.The veteran leader underwent a laparoscopic surgery – also known as keyhole surgery – which requires minimal invasive surgical procedure. “A successful keyhole surgery was conducted today on our party president Sharad Pawar saheb’s gallbladder by Dr Balsara, and stones have been removed. His condition is stable and he is recuperating,” NCP’s chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said.“He is doing fine, but will have to be kept in hospital for observation,” said an NCP leader.On March 30, he had undergone an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage, immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis).The former Union minister was discharged from the hospital on April 3 and was expected to be admitted again for the surgery within a fortnight. He was advised for complete rest for a week by doctors, as there was swelling in his pancreas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sharad-pawar-s-condition-stable-after-surgery-101618256497944.html
13-04-2021||Other||Covid weighing heavy on medical manpower in Lucknow||LUCKNOW With around 1,000 health workers from different health facilities in the city testing Covid positive in the last 2-3 weeks, officials are now taking measures to ensure there’s no manpower crisis. “This has happened despite the front-liners being vaccinated. There has been a spurt in Covid cases since the last week of March and health workers were working at OPDs without too many restrictions in place,” said Dr MMA Faridi, principal, Era Lucknow Medical College, where at least over a dozen staff tested positive. At the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), over 200 staff members tested positive in the past two weeks. Restrictions, including mandatory Covid report of patients visiting OPDs, have been introduced since Monday. “The crisis, you may say, has begun. This is because some staff has to be given leave for three or more days, if they report any illness or symptom. This unplanned leave is putting extra burden on those on duty when hospitals are already under pressure,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, IMA, Lucknow. “Three of my lab staff is on leave after reporting illness,” he added. “We have introduced new measures in the OPD. Apart from making Covid report mandatory for patients visiting select OPDs, other OPDs have been shifted to digital platform, to ensure zero contact between patient and doctor,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU. He said, “Reserve teams have already been formed for the next two rounds of Covid duty. Each round of Covid duty is of 14 days. We have to ensure that Covid ward gets uninterrupted manpower, and for the purpose, list of staff for the next two rounds has been made,” added Sudhir. Meanwhile, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences announced helplines (telephone numbers) for OPD patients. “We request patients not to come to the campus unless it is unavoidable,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson of the institute. Bed strength is also being enhanced in Lucknow. The current strength of 537 ICU beds at 29 hospitals will be increased to 48 as Balrampur Hospital is being converted into a Covid facility with 215 beds, including 167 isolation beds. “ICU beds will go up by another 10 in the next few days and total bed strength will be 300. We are making efforts to ensure adequate manpower and reserve staff is being told to be on standby in case the ones listed fall ill,” said Dr GP Gupta, of Balrampur Hospital. Lucknow has so far reported 1,11,286 Covid cases and 1,353 deaths. The active case count is 23,090.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-weighing-heavy-on-medical-manpower-in-lucknow-101618256440891.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabis soul of farmers’ movement: Rajewal at Gurdaspur rally||Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), including Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni and Ruldu Singh Mansa, on Monday mobilised rural people during a ‘Maha Rally’ held in grain market of Gurdaspur.While addressing the event organised by farm, labour and other local organisations, Rajewal said, “The movement against farm laws has reached its peak and all farmers of the country are eying Punjabis who are the soul of this campaign and leading it. So, people of Punjab with all their might must ensure victory in this rare struggle that has never been seen in this country earlier.”Rajewal, who is also the president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), said, “We all are here not to fight for others, but ourselves as the story of our destruction is being penned by the BJP government at the Centre with enactment of these farm laws.” BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The government wants to crush this unprecedented people’s movement in the name Covid-19 outbreak. Where is this virus in the poll-bound states where BJP leaders are addressing massive rallies which are being attended of thousands?”“The Modi government has forgotten that it has been elected by the people and its primary duty is to address their problems. But instead, it is playing into the hands of market forces and corporate houses,” Ruldu Mansa said.Actor Sonia Mann also addressed the rally, while Punjabi singers performed in support of farmers’ agitation. Notably, no compliance with the Covid safety norms was seen during the rally where limited people in a gathering of around 5,000 covered their faces with masks. No social distancing was followed and the leaders who addressed the rally refraining from wearing masks as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabis-soul-of-farmers-movement-rajewal-at-gurdaspur-rally-101618256440483.html
13-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC suspends sentences of elderly couple convicted in Pocso case||In a relief to an octogenarian couple sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor in 2013, the Bombay high court (HC) not only suspended their punishment, but also granted them bail after finding inconsistencies in the evidence of the witnesses against the two. A single-judge bench of justice Revati Mohite-Dere, while hearing the interim application in criminal appeal filed by an 87-year-old man and his wife, 81, was informed by advocate Dinesh Tiwari that on March 11 the special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court had convicted and sentenced the couple for offences punishable under section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Pocso Act to undergo 10 years rigorous imprisonment. Tiwari informed the bench that the couple had been falsely implicated in the case and the real motive of the complaint was to take over their house. He added that while the minor’s mother stated that both the applicants had sexually assaulted the girl, the child had stated only the man had touched her appropriately and no allegations were made against his wife. Tiwari submitted that in light of these facts, the couple had filed an appeal against the conviction and sought suspension of their sentence till their appeal was heard through the interim application. Additional public prosecutor SV Sonawane for the police and advocate Ameeta Kuttikrishnan, a court-appointed lawyer for the victim, opposed the application. After hearing submissions, the bench observed that initially first information report (FIR) was lodged for an offence punishable under section 354 (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), and subsequently provisions of section 376 (rape) was added. “The applicants, aged 87 and 81 years, were on bail pending trial and have not abused or misused the liberty granted to them. Prima facie, having considered the evidence on record, the applicants have made out a case for suspending their sentence and enlargement on bail,” justice Mohite-Dere said. HC allowed the application by the couple and suspending their sentence, enlarged them on bail after furnishing personal bond of ₹25,000 each with one or more sureties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-suspends-sentences-of-elderly-couple-convicted-in-pocso-case-101618256438091.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 70% rise in Covid cases in a week||Amid the unrelenting surge in coronavirus cases across the state, Himachal Pradesh has recorded a 72% rise in the fresh infection in the week.Health department data reveals the hill-state reported 4,444 fresh infections from April 5 to 11, compared to 2,582 cases in the previous week from March 29 to April 4.Solan district reported the highest spike of 1,170 fresh infections, In the previous week, Solan, which has the maximum industries in the state, had recorded only 343 infections.Kangra recorded 933 infections, registering an increase of 77%, against last week’s 526 cases.Hamirpur was the third worst-hit district with 677 infections. From March 29 to April 4, the district had recorded 282 cases. Thus, there has been an increase of 140% in new infections. Shimla and Mandi are the other two severely hit districts recording 484 and 428 infections, respectively.The second wave of the novel virus hit the state in February-end and now has the state in a grip.The tribal district, Lahaul and Spiti, which had remained Covid-free for over two and half months has also been hit again.The district has recorded 59 cases in last week.Meanwhile, deaths have also increased by around 32%. The state recorded 45 deaths in the last week against 34 in the preceding week. Kangra has witnessed 18 fatalities in a week, Una 10 and Shimla five.With 1,089 infections HP reports highest single-day spike since outbreak  Himachal Pradesh on Monday witnessed recorded 1,089 fresh infections, the highest single-day jump since the outbreak in March 2020, taking the state’s tally to 70,775. The death toll mounted to 1,111 after nine patients died due to complications caused by the virus.There has been a major spike in 10 of 12 districts.Of the new cases, 249 cases were reported in Kangra, 166 in Solan, 114 in Lahaul-Spiti, 98 in Hamirpur, 94 in Shimla, 85 in Una , 82 in Bilaspur, 73 in Sirmaur, 66 in Mandi, 45 in Kullu,16 in Chamba and one in Kinnaur. The active cases have soared to 6,069 while recoveries reached 63,558 after 380 people recovered.Shimla is the worst hit district with 11,697 cases followed by Mandi (11,105) and Kangra (11,058). Solan has 8,695 infections, Una 4,916, Kullu 4,786, Sirmaur 4,438, Hamirpur 4,145, Bilaspur 3,754, Chamba, 3,331, Lahaul-Spiti 1432 and Kinnaur 1,413. PRI representatives must step-up to combat Covid: Jai RamChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday exhorted Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) representatives to play a pro-active role in helping the state government to fight the coronavirus pandemic, acting as a bridge between the people and the state health department.He was virtually addressing over 3,000 elected representatives of PRIs. “The state is going through a difficult phase and it is therefore the duty of every person to help the government fight the virus,” Thakur said, adding that PRI representatives had played a significant role during the first wave. “The second wave is more dangerous and fatal. Thus, the newly elected members of the PRIs must work pro-actively to help their panchayats in tackling this virus. They must take the lead and encourage the public to strictly adhere to standard operating procedures (SOPs) - wearing face masks and observing social distancing. The representatives must ensure the wellbeing of the patients under home isolation and remain in constant touch with the family members of the patient as this helps in keeping their moral high. “They should also inform those under home isolation about the dos and don’ts to avoid spreading the infection to other family members. The PRI representatives must also arrange for a separate toilet for patients,” the CM said. Observing that the biggest vaccination campaign was underway in the country, Jai Ram urged people to come forth for vaccination. Special thrust on expansion of health infrastructure: CMThakur also said that amid the surge in Covid cases stress will be laid on expanding the health infrastructure. He was presiding over a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in Mandi and Kullu districts at Mandi. “Work on Prefabricated Hospital at Bhangrotu and Mother Child Hospital Mandi must be expedited and completed at the earliest so that oxygenated bed capacity in the district can be increased,” he said. He also directed the transport department to ensure effective sanitisation of buses and other public transport. “Shopkeepers must follow ensure to strictly follow ‘No Mask, No Service’ policy,” he said. Private bus operators shall also be directed to properly sanitise their vehicles and avoid overcrowding. The CM directed strict implantation of guidelines in social functions and attendance must not be more than the fixed number. He said that action, if required, could be taken against the violators. The district administration must also ensure that adequate arrangement are made to meet emergency situation if there major spike in the cases, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-70-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-101618256379279.html
13-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC asks 3 accused in suicide case to surrender, be in custody before seeking bail||The Bombay high court (HC), while observing that a bail application could not be entertained without the applicants being taken into custody, directed three accused in a suicide, to surrender before the magistrate first and then apply for bail. HC held that the applicants had “abused the process of law” while surrendering before the magistrate, and immediately applying for bail without being subjected to interrogation in the case – which was serious in nature – and hence, rejected their bail application. The three applicants, a woman and her two daughters, are accused of instigating the woman’s daughter-in-law to commit suicide.The single bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the bail application of the three women, was informed by advocate Ajinkya Udane that the victim died by suicide last September in Shirur town of Pune district, a month after her husband’s death. A case of suicide was registered against six persons, including her mother-in-law and two sisters-in-law. An application for anticipatory bail for the three accused was filed in the sessions court, the HC and the Supreme Court through a special leave petition, but they were all rejected, and the Apex court directed the women to surrender and then apply for bail before the magistrate. In January, the three accused approached the judicial magistrate first class at Shirur, and based on the SC order, sought to surrender and apply for bail at the same time. The magistrate, however, rejected their bail application, following they approached the sessions court in the first week of February. But after their application was rejected there, they approached HC. After perusing the records, justice Naik observed that the anticipatory bail of the three women had been rejected by all courts, including SC, as the allegations were serious. Similarly, the bail applications were also rejected by the magistrate and sessions court on similar grounds. Justice Naik further noted that the ploy of the women to surrender and immediately apply for bail was not as per the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which required an accused to be in custody before being able to apply for bail. However, as the women had not been in custody, the magistrate and sessions court were right in rejecting their bail application. While rejecting the bail application, justice Naik directed the three women to surrender before the magistrate and directed the magistrate to deal with the accused as per law and CrPC, and dismissed the bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-asks-3-accused-in-suicide-case-to-surrender-be-in-custody-before-seeking-bail-101618256317992.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Red Fort violence: Court reserves order on actor-activist Deep Sidhu’s bail plea||A Delhi court Monday reserved its order on the bail application of actor-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day. Special judge Neelofer Abida Perveen said the order on Sidhu’s bail plea will be pronounced on April 15. Sidhu’s counsel told the court that mere presence did not make him part of unlawful assembly and that he was an honest citizen who was part of a protest. The public prosecutor representing the Delhi Police claimed that Sidhu participated in the protest with the intention to create violence and disregard the national flag and that he was the main instigator of unlawful assembly. Sidhu was arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day during farmers’ tractor parade against the Centre’s three new agri laws. The prosecutor opposed the bail application, claiming that if released, Sidhu will destroy the evidence as he destroyed two phones before he was apprehended. He told the court that before January 25, Sidhu gave interview to media wherein he said “26th (January) is coming..more and more people should come.” The prosecutor read out the transcripts of an interview that Sidhu had given to a news channel and claimed that he admitted in this interview that he broke the barricade. He further quoted from the interview where Sidhu had allegedly claimed to have broken barricades in Punjab on November 26. He claimed that in Sidhu’s presence national flag was disrespected and that he did not try to stop it. The prosecutor claimed that Sidhu was very well aware in advance that protesters at Singhu border will not follow the route. “There was no intention to follow the route. There was a planning to defame our country. They disregarded our national flag. When police tried to stop, they were attacked by mob brutally...more than 144 police personnel received injuries,” the prosecutor said. The investigating officer (IO) added that “There was one lakh reward on him. Police caught him. He was absconding. His role is different from the ones on bail. There can be no parity.” Sidhu’s counsel opposed police’s arguments, saying that the accused was talking about unity in protest. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/red-fort-violence-court-reserves-order-on-actor-activist-deep-sidhu-s-bail-plea-101618256259281.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shrines gear up for festivities in Chandigarh tricity||With Baisakhi and Navratri festivals set to be celebrated on Tuesday, gurdwaras and temples are taking extra precautions to handle large crowds.To enter Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula, devotees will have to apply for tokens on the temple’s website https://mansadevi.org.in. Police will set up 15 checkpoints around the temple and some cops will be deployed in plain clothes to ensure Covid protocol compliance. Those flouting the norms will be fined. A police control room has also been set up for the Mansa Devi Mela.A Covid vaccination camp will also be organised here while no langar or sandhya would take place. The temple dharamshala will also stay closed.Online darshan facilityMansa Devi Shrine Board will also provide online darshan facility for the devotees on the social media. Up to 180 people would be allowed to pay obeisance at the Panchkula temple every 15 minutes, while the limit will be 120 per 15 minutes at Kali Mata Mandir in Kalka. For preferential darshan through the lift entrance at the Panchkula temple, devoteed would be charged ₹50 each, and in one hour, up to 100 would be allowed the same. Registrations will have to be done in advance on the temple website.50% occupancy limit in Chandigarh temples In Chandigarh, temple bodies will take similar measures to manage the devotee rush. President of Maa Kali Temple in Sector 30, Rakesh Pal Modgil said, “This time, we will only give fruits as prasad. We will ask patrons not to distribute any items like halwa in the temple premises. Prayer will be held out as per tradition, but there will be a 50% occupancy limit inside the temple complex.”President of Sector 40 temple and chief of Hindu Parv Mahasabha in the city, BP Arora said, “We urge all to follow Covid protocol strictly. Devotees without masks will not be allowed to enter temples.”All gurdwaras to serve langar During Baisakhi celebrations, gurdwaras will also remain under strict vigil for Covid protocol compliance. However, langar will be served at all gurdwaras. Tara Singh, president, Chandigarh Samuh Gurdwara Prabandhak Sangathan, said, “We have asked langar halls to operate at 50% capacity as it is unlikely to become a problem. The footfall has already dropped drastically due to the rising number of Covid cases and we are not expecting a large turnout on Tuesday.”Sector 20 gurdwara president Gurinder Bir Singh said, “While preparing langar, it will be ensured that the sevaks wear masks and sanitise their hands frequently. Members of the gurdwara committee will remain present during the celebrations to see that order is maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shrines-gear-up-for-festivities-in-chandigarh-tricity-101618256200845.html
13-04-2021||Other||Cremation grounds in Lucknow: Shortage of wood making the dead wait longer||LUCKNOW Shortage of wood is making the wait longer for the last rites of the dead at Baikunth Dham (Bhainsakund crematorium). “Cremation of several bodies was delayed as the stock of wood dried up. Usually, around 14 to 15 bodies used to be brought here for traditional cremation, but now around 40 to 45 are brought every day,” said Pandit Narendra Mishra, who is performing the duties of Mahabrahmin at Bhainsakund. In the absence of space on platforms, a few bodies had to be cremated on the riverside. The situation is similar at Gulalaghat, he said. “This indicates poor management of Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials,” said Ranjit Singh, former corporator, who is active in raising problems faced by people at the cremation ground.Mishra said, “The contractor of woods must be directed to keep enough stock of wood and not fleece people coming for cremation of bodies.”One Suman Rawat who went to Bhainsakund on Saturday with the body of his relative accused the wood contractor of fleecing people. “We had to pay ₹7,500 instead of ₹2,500 for the arrangement of wood immediately. Despite our complaint to higher officials of LMC, no action was taken,” said Rawat.“Around 12 truckloads of wood have been brought and from now there would be no shortage. These are unprecedented circumstances and keeping that in mind we have decided to keep a close watch on supply of wood at Bhaisakund, Gulalaghat and Alambagh cremation grounds,” said Ram Nagina Mishra, chief engineer of LMC’s rubbish removal department and also in charge of Bhainsakund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-grounds-in-lucknow-shortage-of-wood-making-the-dead-wait-longer-101618256197924.html
13-04-2021||Other||13 officers shunted out from Mumbai Police’s EOW as part of ‘clean-up’ act||City’s top cop Hemant Nagrale on Monday shunted out 13 police officers from the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police. These officers were serving in EOW for over five years, said a senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer. On Monday, HT had first published the story, ‘After crime branch its EOW’s turn to clean up’, explaining how Nagrale has taken at hand the task of shunting out those officers who are enjoying postings in the same department since a long period. On Monday Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order), who is holding additional charge of joint commissioner of police (administration), issued the transfer order of five inspectors and eight assistant inspector-rank officers from EOW. “These officers served in EOW for over five years and are now transferred to side branches, police stations and traffic divisions,” Patil said.“Generally, a police officer is supposed to serve on a post for a period of three years and then be transferred to other posting. But there are officers in EOW who have been in the department since the past six-seven years,” said a source from EOW. A senior officer indicated that Monday’s transfer can just be the beginning and a huge chunk of officers who are in EOW since long could be shunted out in the upcoming general transfers, slated to be announced in June.Recently, joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik had issued an order to all EOW unit heads, directing them to not assign officers, who have served in the unit for over four years, any new cases.EOW investigates multi-crore financial institution scams, corporate and investment frauds, housing frauds by builders and other white-collar crimes. Cases involving more than ₹6-crore disputes or complex financial crimes are assigned to EOW. On the backdrop of controversies surrounding suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and former police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Nagrale after taking charge on March 17 first started taking on cops who might have had developed close proximity with “unwarranted elements” by enjoying long tenure in the same department. Within six days of joining, he had shunted out 84 officers, including 65 from the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13-officers-shunted-out-from-mumbai-police-s-eow-as-part-of-clean-up-act-101618256140666.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi pilgrims to be tested at Lakhanpur, Katra railway station, Banganga||The holy cave shrine of Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills of Reasi district in Jammu and Kashmir has been decked up for the nine-day Navratri festival, which begins on Tuesday. However, this time the pandemic may cast a shadow over the pilgrimage. At 5,200 ft, the shrine is one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimages and is visited by a large number of pilgrims from across India and all over the world during the nine auspicious days. Thus, the administration has tightened security and fixed a ceiling of 25,000 pilgrims in a day. Pilgrims arriving in trains to Katra will undergo RAT at the railway station where Covid kiosks for testing have been set up. Those arriving via road will undergo Covid-19 test at Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir. Local devotees will undergo Covid 19 rapid antigen tests (RAT) tests at Banganga. However, it is advisable for the pilgrims, coming from outside J&K to bring their Covid-19 negative reports, preferably RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction )test, not older than 72 hours. Devotional singers invited Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has said it has made elaborate arrangements to facilitate the pilgrims “The shrine board has invited famous bhajan and bhaint (devotional) singers, who will perform in morning and evening atka aarti. In run up to the festival, the board’s CEO Ramesh Kumar on Monday visited bhawan (sanctum sanctorum) and other locations on the track and reviewed the arrangements. He also took stock of the arrangements at yatra registration counters at Katra, Darshani Deodi, Banganga, Adhkuwari, Tarakote Marg, Sanjichhat, Himkoti Marg, Bhawan, Bhairon Complex and other locations enroute Katra to Bhawan with deputy CEOs and other officers, concerned engineers as well as area and unit heads of the Shrine Board. The arrangements include ensuring round-the-clock water and power supply all along the tracks leading to the shrine, sanitisation, medicare and availability of special ‘fast-related’ food at the catering outlets of the Shrine Board. Other special features include organising a Shat Chandi Maha Yagya at the holy shrine. The yagya will be telecast live from 10.30am to 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaishno-devi-pilgrims-to-be-tested-at-lakhanpur-katra-railway-station-banganga-101618256140162.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will make Mohali most beautiful in tricity, says new mayor||Making Mohali the most beautiful in the tricity is among the top priorities of Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, who got elected as the new mayor on Monday.“Besides providing better basic amenities to all residents, I will also be working towards addressing the stray cattle issue,” he said. Last year, Mohali slipped to the 157th position in the Centre’s Swachh Survekshan rankings. It was mainly attributed to the municipal corporation’s failure to operationalise its ambitious solid waste management project at Samgoli village.While the state government has failed to expedite the project, the new mayor plans to take the help of resident welfare associations to at least create awareness among citizens about waste segregation. “I will soon hold a meeting with MC officers and will organise awareness camps in various sectors. We will try our level best to improve the city’s ranking,” he said. On rampant encroachments across markets and residential areas, Amarjeet said that he will ensure regular drives for their removal, “without any bias”. “I will constitute a committee which will supervise the anti-encroachment drive. During the previous regime, no such committee was constituted,” he said.The mayor said he will also be holding a meeting with GMADA and police officials to constitute an expert committee, which will address black spots that are leading to accidents on the city roads. Managing finances a challengeAmarjeet has taken over the reins of the civic body when it is heading towards a major financial crisis. Amid scarcity of funds, more than 200 tenders of development works worth ₹30 crore have not been allotted for the past two years. These works pertain to development of parks, laying of paver blocks, construction of footpaths, recarpeting of roads and installation of gyms in parks. In 2020-21, the MC House had approved a budget of ₹268 crore, but the Punjab local bodies department had imposed a cut of ₹141 crore and approved only ₹127 crore. “I will hold a meeting with the state government, requesting them for adequate funds. Development works worth ₹100 crore are already going on in the city. We will not impose any fresh tax, but will ask the residents to pay their dues of water and property tax,” said Amarjeet.Meanwhile, with former senior deputy mayor Rishiv Jain and his councillor wife Raj Rani Jain boycotting the first meeting, it will be a challenge for Amarjeet to keep his flock together. The Congress has won 37 seats out of the total 50 in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-make-mohali-most-beautiful-in-tricity-says-new-mayor-101618256138618.html
13-04-2021||Other||DMCH study finds gender gap in vaccinations||The number of elderly women coming forward to get vaccinated against Covid-19 is less than elderly men, data compiled by the community health department of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) has revealed.The hospital studied the data of senior citizens who got vaccinated at the hospital in the month of March and found that of the total 10,079 who took the jab, 5, 576 (55%) were males while 4, 503 (45%) were females.Dr Anurag Chaudhary, head of the department of community medicine of DMCH, said, “The gap in vaccination can be attributed to a number of reasons, including the requirement of male family members to accompany the women while stepping out. Long commute to the vaccination centre is another problem. Besides, health problems, such as arthritis among the elderly women, were also found to be the reason why fewer women than men were coming forward to take the jabs.”The study also found that women were hesitant to take the jabs as they had come across some misinformation regarding vaccine safety, on social media. 60 to 69 age group had maximum vaccinationsThe data also showed that the maximum number of vaccinations was seen in the 60 to 69 age group, wherein in 6, 104 persons got jabbed. Of these, 3, 236 were males while 2, 868 were females.In the 70 to 79 age group, a total of 3, 196 people were inoculated out of which 1, 857 were males while 1, 339 were females.In the 80 to 89 age group, 722 were inoculated, out of which 444 were men and 278 were women.The 90-plus age group had 39 males and 18 females taking the jab. The eldest beneficiary in the hospital was a 100-year-old male.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fewer-women-than-men-coming-forward-to-get-vaccinated-finds-dmch-study-101618256018974.html
13-04-2021||Other||Mansukh Hiran murder: Maharashtra ATS scanned 9K callers to nab accused||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) scanned the calls made by 9000 mobile phone users on the evening of March 4 in the vicinity of where murder victim Mansukh Hiran lived, which led them to arrest two persons in connection with the case, a senior ATS official said on condition of anonymity. A Whatsapp call made to Hiran’s phone on the evening he went missing eventually led the ATS to a bar dancer who in turn, led the investigators to arrest a bookie on suspicion of murder. Hiran, a 48-year-old auto parts businessman was in possession of a Scorpio that was found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. Hiran’s body washed up ashore the Reti Bunder creek on March 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze in connection with the explosives case on March 13. Last month, the federal agency also took over the probe into the murder case, in which the ATS had arrested two persons including a convicted policeman out on parole. On March 21, the ATS arrested former police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor and named Vaze as the alleged mastermind of the murder. The NIA is now in custody of all three men. After scanning the Whatsapp calls made on the evening of March 4, the ATS zeroed in on a particular number which matched the location of Hiran’s house and the approximate time he had left his home on the evening of March 4. The ATS official said that the team reached out to mobile service providers to procure the numbers which were in use at the time. From this, they uncovered the number which was used to call Hiran on his phone.Hiran’s wife, Vimla, had said in her statement to the ATS that Hiran had received a call from an officer named “Tawde” following which he left the home at 8.30pm. Hiran did not return home that night, and when Vimla tried his phone at 11 pm, she said it was switched off. Hiran’s body was found the following morning, but his personal effects including his phone and wallet are still untraceable. The officials were able to find the address that the number was registered on, which led them to a trader in Bhuj, Gujarat. The investigators discovered that the SIM card corresponding to the number was procured by a local trader. When questioned by the Thane ATS unit, he told the police that he had sold 14 SIM cards to a cricket bookie, Naresh Gor. The trader also told the police that Gor had given one of the 14 SIM cards to one of his friends who worked as a bar dancer. The ATS team traced the woman who led them to a hotel in Mumbai which Gor frequently stayed at. In order to book a room, Gor would supply his address and identity card details, she told the investigating team. The officers were then able to find Gor through the Aadhar card details that he had supplied to that hotel. Gor was arrested from Bhuj on March 21. The bookie reportedly revealed the name of a south Mumbai-based club owner through whom he had met former police constable Vinayak Shinde and suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze. Gor reportedly told ATS that he had given Shinde and Vaze five of the 14 SIM cards that he had bought from the Bhuj trader. It was one of these SIM cards that was used to contact Hiran on the evening of March 4. The ATS suspect that Shinde or Vaze pretended to be a policeman by the name of Tawde to lure Hiran to a spot along Ghodbunder Road in Thane, following which he was abducted. The call reportedly lasted for 11 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-maharashtra-ats-scanned-9k-callers-to-nab-accused-101618256017941.html
13-04-2021||Other||People violating home quarantine to face action||LUCKNOW The health department will take action against Covid positive patients who violate home quarantine. Such people, if found roaming outside, will be picked up, admitted to hospital and also face penal action. “It is a punishable offence. If you are Covid positive and roaming outside, it is irresponsible behaviour and hence can calls for penal action,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional achief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Monday. Across UP, there are 44,196 covid patients in home isolation, including 23,090 in Lucknow. He said nigrani samitis need to keep a watch on people in home isolation so that they do not spread infection. “We, as individuals, have to contribute to efforts to break the infection chain,” he added. Prasad said people are allowed home isolation keeping in view their health condition, hence they should follow the protocol for home isolation. “They are being monitored,” said Prasad.As per the Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, there are penalties for disobeying any regulation or order made under the Act that is simple imprisonment for 6 months or fine of ₹1000 or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-violating-home-quarantine-to-face-action-101618255898584.html
13-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 51,751 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since April 5||Maharashtra on Monday reported 51,751 new Covid-19 cases, its lowest one-day count since April 5, taking the tally to 3,458,996. The slight dip in new cases has been attributed to marginally lower tests conducted in the previous 24 hours by state health department officials. Maharashtra, in the past 24 hours, tested 208,021 samples and positivity rate on Monday was 24.87%.The state also reported 258 fatalities on Monday, taking toll to 58,245. Of the 258 deaths, 169 occurred in the previous 48 hours, 59 in the past week and the remaining are from the period before that. Along with surge in Covid-19 cases, the state has also witnessed a slight jump in fatalities with 5,522 deaths reported in a month. On February 12, the state had 51,451 fatalities which rose to 52,723 on March 12. In the past seven days alone, Maharashtra added 2,212 fatalities. Meanwhile, after a slight slowdown in vaccination drive, Maharashtra is expected to cross 350,000-beneficiaries mark on Monday, said senior officials. Owing to shortage of vaccine, the state administration had to temporarily shut some vaccination centres, but the stocks have been replenished and distributed, said N Ramaswami, health services commissioner.“In the past two to three days, we have received about 2.1 million doses. All our 3,600 vaccination centres [across the state] are operational now. The stock is enough to last around five days or so,” Ramaswami said, adding the state is expected to cross 400,000-450,000 daily vaccinations soon.In view of the surge in cases, the government and administration has also focused on ramping up health infrastructure, including beds, ventilators, oxygen supply and making life-saving antiviral drugs available. A decision on whether a complete lockdown will be put in place in the state is expected to be taken on Wednesday. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar held meetings with officials and ministers on the issue.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the lockdown, if put in place, is expected for two weeks. “As of now, the CM is thinking of a lockdown for a week. But it is not possible to break the chain of transmission in one week; therefore, we may have to go for lockdown for two weeks, looking at the situation. The matter will be discussed in the state cabinet and a decision will be made,” Wadettiwar said. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will consider the needs of the people below poverty line before announcing a lockdown. He further said that Pawar has decided to set up liquid oxygen plants in every district, streamline oxygen production and its distribution, and distribution of Remdesivir injections — a life-saving antiviral drug. The state is facing shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir for the past few days, and if the number of cases continues to mount in the coming days, this shortage could result in more fatalities.Tope, who attended the meeting chaired by Pawar, said the distribution of Remdesivir has been streamlined and its price has been capped at ₹1,400. “Today 50,000 injections are available, which will be distributed in two ways. Government hospitals will seek it via the stockist. Private hospitals, too, they must record their order with the stockist of the district. The injections will be given under the supervision of FDA and district collector after filling up a form. There should not be any misuse or irrational use. It will take a day or two to streamline the distribution and it should be sold under ₹1,400.”Regarding the shortage of oxygen supply, Tope said Pawar has directed districts to set up liquid oxygen plants in every district, for which funds will be provided through District Planning and Development Council (DPDC) and State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF). “We use 100% of the 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen that is manufactured daily. Monitoring daily production, distribution and refuelling must be done strictly. As many districts do not have liquid oxygen tanks, it has been instructed to build liquid oxygen plants at subdivision level, for which expenditure can be done through DPDC and SDRF funds. It will help save time and transportation,” he said.Govt advisory for Gudi Padwa, RamzanMaharashtra issued advisories, urging people to celebrate Gudi Padwa and observe prayers during Ramzan at home and avoid crowding at public and religious places. Gudi Padwa will be celebrated today whereas Ramzan is expected to start from April 15. The home department on Monday issued separate advisories for both the communities.“We need to celebrate Gudi Padwa in a simple way between 7am and 8pm. In the backdrop of sharp rise in daily cases, no religious procession or rally be carried at public places and not more than five people should gather at a place. Celebrate the festival only at home,” stated the guidelines.Another advisory state, “Do not gather for regular mass prayers, taraweeh etc. at mosques or public places during the holy month of Ramzan. Strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and not more than five people should gather at a place at one point of time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-51-751-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-since-april-5-101618255897933.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sarpanch’s son, aide held for car robbery||Police on Monday arrested two men, including the son of a sitting sarpanch owing allegiance to the ruling Congress, in connection with robbery of a car belonging to a Mohali-based man, outside a private hospital in Amritsar on Sunday. The arrested accused have been identified as Harmit Singh alias Hira and Rashpal Singh of Algon Kalan village falling under the Bhikhiwind sub-division. Hira’s father Sukhpal Singh is the village’s sarpanch. Police have also identified two more accused nominated in the case as Malkit Singh of Bhai Ladhu village and Bony of Beharwal village in Tarn Taran. Police said Hira and Rashpal, who were arrested from Bhikhiwind, have already been facing cases under the NDPS Act. Both the accused were presented before a Patti court on Monday. Some unidentified miscreants had looted a car after assaulting its owner with sharp-edged weapons outside a private hospital on the Circular Road during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. There were two mobile phones and some cash in the car, the victim had claimed. The police have also recovered the stolen car. Bhikhiwind station house officer Sarabjit Singh said after robbing the car, the accused had also changed its number plate. A case under section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) has been registered against all the accused at Bhikhiwind police station. Earlier on Sunday, a case under section 379-B (theft by force) was registered against the accused in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarpanchs-son-aide-held-for-car-robbery-101618255838490.html
13-04-2021||Other||Relief for MBBS students in Maharashtra||Thousands of undergraduate medical students in Maharashtra will benefit from the National Medical Commission’s (NMC) decision to let MBBS students across the country complete their internship training at nearby medical colleges, that too without paying fee. The Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC took the decision following several representations by students citing the crisis created due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision brings relief to many students – who have been studying virtually from their hometowns and find it difficult to return to their institutes – to complete the mandatory internship. “Considering the representations and the existing regulatory provisions, it is mandatory that internship should be completed in the teaching hospital affiliated to the medical institute the student is enrolled in. However, in the event of any difficulty due to the current pandemic situation, this internship can be completed at another NMC-approved medical college hospital,” said a statement by the education board. The NMC board statement also highlights that the relaxation is subject to the approval of the college authorities and the university concerned, where the student is enrolled for MBBS training. The board also clarified that this provision, referred to as externship, usually chargeable by the institute, will be without any charges this time. “Every year, hundreds of students wish to come back to their hometowns to complete their internship but are instead burdened with overhead fees in order to be accepted by a hospital of their choice. This year, due to the pandemic, several students are already far from their teaching hospital. So it’s only fair to allow them to continue internships without levying fees,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of a medical student. Over the last year, several MBBS students, including from the final-year batch, have been working as part of the Covid-19 task force in government hospitals across the state. Some of them are also demanding that the board consider the Covid-19 work a part of the internship. “The government as well as NMC should also consider the time students spent working as frontline Covid-19 warriors as part of their internship and allow concession to the actual internship period,” said Anubhav Jain, a third-year MBBS student from a Solapur-based medical institute. There are approximately 35,000 students enrolled in 56 undergraduate medical colleges in Maharashtra and the decision will impact roughly 6,000 students eligible for internships in the state. Medical colleges in the state have been conducting offline classes for undergraduate students since last March after the outbreak of the disease. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with 567,097 active coronavirus cases. It also reported 63,294 cases – the highest daily cases on Sunday – taking the tally to 3,407,245 cases and fatalities to 57,987.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relief-for-mbbs-students-in-maharashtra-101618255838967.html
13-04-2021||Other||Covid casts it shadow on Navratri, Baisakhi celebrations in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The second wave of Covid has cast its shadow on Navratri and Baisakhi celebrations. The annual fairs (melas) in front of Maa Durga Temple in Khajua area, Maa Chandrika Devi temple in Bakshi Ka Talab and Maa Kali Temple in Chowk have been cancelled by the managements of these temples in compliance with Covid protocols.Only five devotees at a time will be allowed in the temples, and that too with face masks and after sanitising their hands. ‘Jagrans’ cannot be organized without permission of district administration and police, said officials.Commissioner of police DK Thakur said it would be ensured that only permitted number of people are allowed to enter religious places.Gurudwaras will also follow the norm of allowing entry to only five devotees at a time. Devotees will be encouraged to carry the ‘langar’ to their home.“We know that the second wave of corona is on and we cannot compromise on safety. It’s good that restrictions are in place and only five people would be allowed entry into temples at a time. But we are not complaining because all the restrictions are for our safety,” said Jyotsana Tewari of Patel Nagar (Alambagh). While some big yajnas and bhajan programmes scheduled at Mauni Baba temple and Kali Temple have been downsized, a number of jagrans stand cancelled.Shakti Awasthi of Chowk Kali Temple said, “These are special circumstances and we will coordinate with authorities to restrict entry of devotees into the temple. We will also not take any Prasad or give any sort of charanamrit. No one would be allowed to ring the bells.”An office-bearer of Kali Bari temple at Ghasiyari Mandi said, “The next few days are most important in the fight against Covid. By restricting entry into temples we have to contribute in the fight against the virus. However, all the rituals of pooja would be performed inside the temple.”The temples have arranged for online darshan of pooja and other rituals.The festival of Baisakhi would be celebrated on Tuesday by following Covid protocols, said Rajendra Singh Bagga, president of Lucknow Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee. “Devotees in batches of five would be allowed to enter the gurudwara. We will encourage devotees to carry ‘langar’ home so that social distancing is followed in the hall,” he said.Similarly, Muslim clerics also stated that Covid protocols will be followed strictly during the holy month of Ramzan, starting Wednesday. “Muslim brethren should strictly follow Covid-19 protocols during the holy month. They should avoid lavish iftars. Instead, the focus should be on distribution of food among the poor,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam, Eidgah and senior member of All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB). Besides, Sunni clerics issued a detailed advisory, defining the dos and don’ts during Ramzan. It stated that Muslims should avoid lavish iftars.“People should avoid iftar at public places, instead they should organize it at their respective places. This will prevent crowding at eating joints. The faithful should maintain social distancing while offering namaz,” he said.Asked how many people will be allowed to offer namaz at a time, he said as there is no instruction from the government about the total strength of namazis to be allowed in mosques, there is no such restriction on people. However, it will be ensured that social distancing is followed while offering namaz, Farangi Mahali. Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad said: “It is our moral responsibility to get ourselves and our family members vaccinated. Hence people are requested to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest.” He appealed to people to follow Covid protocols, night curfew and organize iftar at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-casts-it-shadow-on-navratri-baisakhi-celebrations-101618255662513.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid drought-like conditions, water crisis looms large over Himachal||The prevailing drought-like conditions in Himachal Pradesh are threatening perennial water sources and affecting around 700 water supply schemes across the hill-state. The water levels of major rivers have declined along with the amount of rain and snow received by the Himalayan state, which logged a 62% rain deficiency in March. The rising temperature has further caused the water levels in rivers and water reservoirs to deplete. There has been a 75% decline in water sources, which is bound to aggravate the water crisis in rain-fed areas. The repercussions will be graver in rural areas. Around 9,526 schemes cater water to 50,566 habitations in Himachal, of which 2,789 habitations have been affected by the arid climatic conditions. Jal shakti dept ready for all contingencies The jal shakti department has chalked out a master plan to the deal with the looming water crisis. “The plans are ready. The schemes will be interlinked with each other to meet the water requirement. If required, we will also opt for water rationing,” Naveen Puri, engineer-in-chief, Jal Shakti department. “The department has taken steps to check water leakages. We are now able to save around 12 lakh liters of water per day, “ he said .There are around 32 water supply schemes in Mandi that are on the verge of drying up and nearly 80% water supply schemes have been impacted in Dharamshala zone.The water levels have dropped to 75 % and in 83 schemes the water levels vary between 25% to 75%. “In all, at least 220 schemes have been impacted by the dry spell. We are adopting adequate measures to meet the deficiency,” said chief engineer (Mandi zone) Dharmender Gill, adding that people were being sensitised to conserve water. The Jal Shakti department had made a presentation regarding the same before the Cabinet. Minister Mahender Singh Thakur has also apprised chief minister Jai Ram Thakur of the prevailing weather conditions and its impact on the schemes. The CM later held a virtual meeting with the officers. The jal shkati department plans to lift water from irrigation schemes if the drought-like conditions persist. Weather to remain dry in April, May: IMD The weather department has predicted that the weather is likely to remain dry in the April and May. “This is not unusual as there are few rain spells between April and May,” said director, regional metrological department, Manmohan Singh. The acute water crisis that had hit Shimla in 2018 had made the global headlines and the shortage had resulted in scattered midnight protests. Angry residents took to roads and blocked the traffic on town’s main circular road. The MC had to resort to rationing and residents were being supplied water after eight days. Residents had sent out fervent appeals on social networking sites asking tourists to desist coming to Shimla and hordes of visitors returned after the water crisis hit town. Shimla needs 45MLD of water daily to meet its demand but water supply in mid-May, 2018, had dropped to 28 MLD per day . The water crisis had become more acute in the last week of May when the supply fell to 2O MLD. The arid climate in Himachal has already caused extensive damage to Rabi crops and delayed the vegetable sowing in the state .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-drought-like-conditions-water-crisis-looms-large-over-himachal-101618255657910.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew clamped in Panchkula from 9pm to 5am||The Panchkula administration on Monday imposed night curfew in the district with immediate effect. Restrictions have been placed on the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities from 9pm to 5am. “This curfew order will come into force with effect from April 12, 2021, and shall remain in force till further orders,” said deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar.The orders came on the day the district reported 224 fresh cases and a death. Night curfew is already in force in the neighbouring Mohali district from 9pm to 5am while it is from 10:30pm to 5am in Chandigarh.The DC said that during the curfew timings, no person is allowed to leave their homes or move on foot or by vehicle on any road or public places.Exemptions“However, people tasked with law and order, emergency and municipal services besides mediapersons with accreditation and government machinery on Covid-19 duties are exempted. They can move around on the production of a valid identity card,” said the DC, adding that people who have been issued a restricted movement curfew pass are also exempted.According to the orders, there will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. Pregnant women and patients are also exempted from the night curfew for getting medical/health services, said the DC. Apart from this, passengers going to or returning from the airport, railway station or bus stand shall be exempted. Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs are allowed to remain open 24X7.The DC said that any person violating these measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the death of a 68-year-old woman from Sector 16 took the district’s toll to 159. Among the 224 fresh cases, 162 were from sectors. The total has reached 15,077. While 13,573 patients have been cured so far, 1,345 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-clamped-in-panchkula-from-9pm-to-5am-101618255541815.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amarnath Yatra: Online registration to start on April 15||Online registration of pilgrims for the annual Amarnath pilgrimage, from the twin tracks of Baltal and Chandanwari, will commence on April 15. This year’s 56-day yatra will commence simultaneously on both routes from June 28 and culminate on Raksha Bandhan, August 22. Pilgrims can register themselves at www.jksasb.nic.in. They will have to fill an online form and attach a photograph and mandatory health certificate from authorised doctors and medical institutions. Only health certificates issued after March 15 will be valid. Devotees can also check the board’s website www.shriamarnathjishrine.com for detailed instructions. Pilgrims will be able to download yatra permits after their applications are duly processed. They must carry an original photo identification and health certificate with them. Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board chief executive officer (CEO) Nitishwar Kumar Kumar further said for security reasons only those pilgrims in possession of a yatra permit, which is valid for a specified date and route, will be allowed to proceed beyond the base camps, and cross the entry gates at Domel and Chandanwari. Those under the age of 13 or above the age of 75 and women who are over six weeks pregnant have been barred. Yatris, who propose to travel by helicopter do not require registration as their helicopter tickets shall suffice. However, they shall be required to produce a health certificate issued by an authorized doctor before they board the helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarnath-yatra-online-registration-to-start-on-april-15-101618255538649.html
13-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana Cycle Valley gets going, Hero launches high-end factory||Five years after the ambitious Cycle Valley project in Dhanansu village was first mooted and less than two years after the Punjab government alloted 100 acre to Hero Group, the company announced the launch of its high-end export-oriented manufacturing plant at the Hero E-Cycle Valley.In the Valley, the Hero E Cycles Factory is housed on 50 acre, with another 50 acre earmarked for a Suppliers’ Park. “With Hero Motor Company’s Research and Development (R&D) facilities in Europe (Germany and UK), Hero E-Cycle Valley has been envisaged as a manufacturing hub to meet rising demand for global exports,” said chairman and managing director, Hero Cycles, Pankaj Munjal. He added that the factory will augment their production capacity to 10 million (one crore) units a year, with a production of four million (40 lakh) premium bicycles and E-Cycles, mostly for global sales.“It is a great moment for us that we are launching this plant on Baisakhi,” said Munjal. An investment of over ₹1,000 crore has been made, over two years, in total outlay to operationalise the E-Cycle Valley and grow Hero International in the EU and UK. The Hero Motor Company (HMC) is spending ₹350 crore on operationalising the E-Cycle Valley, vendors are bringing ₹400 crore. The HMC plans to invest ₹300 crore in R&D and distribution across the EU and the UK.The Suppliers’ Park will localise production of premium components. Premium bicycle parts maker, Spur Technologies, a subsidiary of Hero Motors Company, has set up a manufacturing unit at the Valley. Hero Cycles is in talks for joint ventures with international players for electric motor localisation and for manufacturing international quality alloy frames and suspension in India. The project was first mooted in 2016 and was created as part of the government’s strategy to bolster industrial sector in Punjab and create jobs. In January 2019, Punjab government allotted 100 acre to Hero to develop its own anchor unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cycle-valley-gets-going-hero-launches-high-end-factory-101618255479759.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board extends deadline for removing violations||The Chandigarh Housing Board has extended the temporary exemption from immediate demolition of additional constructions in its dwelling units to December 31, 2021, subject to payment of penal charges. The earlier deadline was July 31. Allottees have been allowed to self-certify the area of additional construction to work out the applicable penal charges. “In case of any complaint, we may check the self-declared area and take further action,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB. The action against such constructions and alterations will be kept pending till December 31. Allottees who do not deposit the penal charges will be issued notices of demolition/cancellation thereafter. Garg said the penalty is imposed in view of the fact that demolition of additional construction at a large scale may eventually be the only alternative. However, the allottees may get some time to rectify these violations in conformity with need-based changes orders, he said.In the latest order, the CHB has rationalised the penalty, and there is only one category instead of two originally.The CHB in 2019 issued a policy to allow residents regularise unauthorised construction in their flats. Originally, the regularisation policy was announced in 2017, but only 40 applications were received even as a CHB survey revealed that 90% of its 60,000-odd dwelling units had massive structural violations. The violations pertain to construction in excess of the allowed covered area. The 40% area left vacant for back and front courtyard, balconies and other common areas were misused for additional construction and even unauthorised floors. Even the government land was encroached upon in extension work. Residents had been demanding regularisation of some of these need-based changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-extends-deadline-for-removing-violations-101618255422326.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 wave hits a new high in Delhi with 11,491 daily cases||The coronavirus disease crisis continued to spiral in the Capital on Monday, as the city recorded its highest single-day tally for the second day in a row, adding 11,491 fresh cases of the infection.The city on Sunday added 10,774 fresh cases, topping the previous peak of 8,593 infections recorded on November 11, during the third wave of infections.The seven-day average of cases in the city, also known as the case trajectory, also touched a new high on Monday. In the seven days ending April 12, Delhi added an average of 8,104 cases a day, up from the previous high of 7,341 logged on November 14. Just a week ago, this number was 3,548, while two weeks ago, it was 1,904.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyMonday’s fresh spike came even as testing dropped significantly on account of the weekend. The test positivity rate, as a result, shot up to a 142-day high of 12.44%. The positivity rate is a vital parameter used to read the scale of infection spread in a region, and the World Health Organization recommends a number below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control in a region.On Monday, the city conducted 92,397 tests as against 114,288 the day before.The number of deaths shot up as well on Monday, with 72 fatalities reported of the infections — the most in a day since December 5. The most Covid deaths were recorded on November 18, when the Capital saw 131 virus-related fatalities.Read more: Why is India seeing Covid-19 second wave? AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria explainsThe surge during the ongoing fourth wave of the pandemic in Delhi has prompted the state government to reintroduce curbs on travel, schools, gatherings, and to enforce a night curfew between 10pm and 5am. The Delhi government on Monday reserved all beds in 14 major private hospitals and six government ones for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in order to ensure the city’s health infrastructure can cope with the additional burden during the present surge.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the situation in Delhi was “very serious”, and asked that people not leave their homes unless it was absolutely necessary.“Looking at the faster spread of the infection, I think it should go down fast too, just like we saw in many other western countries. The peak should happen in the next two weeks,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.Hospital beds have been filling up fast in the city, and Kejriwal, after a review meeting, requested residents to get admitted to hospital only if they had severe symptoms.“Held review meeting. We r taking several steps to increase beds in both pvt and govt sectors. Urge everyone to cooperate. 1. Pl pl follow covid protocols. 2. Don’t rush to hospital unless necessary. 3. Go n vaccinate if u r eligible,” he tweeted.Dr Kishore echoed this view, and also called for early isolation.“Everyone who is symptomatic should just isolate themselves,” he said.Delhi’s fourth wave of infections comes amid a second nationwide surge, which has surpassed the previous peaks recorded at the national level as well as in several states, HT’s Covid-19 dashboard shows. Experts have attributed the rise in infections in the Capital to poor adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, and to mutant variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-wave-hits-a-new-high-in-delhi-with-11-491-daily-cases-101618252985935.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali records 662 Covid cases in biggest single-day spike||From ramping up the vaccination drive to cancellation of leaves, the Mohali administration has taken “emergent measures” as the district recorded its highest single-day surge of 662 Covid-19 cases on Monday. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has set the target of 3,000 vaccinations in each of the subdivisions (Mohali, Dera Bassi and Kharar) to ensure maximum coverage. On Monday, the district-wide figure stood at 4,370, less than half the target of 9,000.The district authorities have even tied up religious institutions to make regular announcements, asking people to get vaccinated on April 13 and 14, as part of the nationwide Tika Utsav. The administration expects a high footfall owing to Baisakhi.Subdivisional magistrates have been directed to appoint supervisors and other staff to survey houses with people above 45 years of age and frontline workers who have not been vaccinated yet.Special vaccination camps are being held in ex-serviceman societies and industrial units to cover a large number of people. Besides public announcements, hoardings will be put up to create awareness . The civil surgeon and district immunisation officer have also been tasked with maintaining an inventory of vaccine stock to monitor its daily use and make the report available by 8pm daily. To ensure that the district has adequate manpower, all leaves of government employees on Covid-19 duty, including on gazetted holidays, have been cancelled. The deputy commissioner has directed all departments to assist with respect to manpower requirements for Covid management when called to do so. Each department head will find the number of eligible people still to be vaccinated in their offices and ensure they get jabbed. Along with this, antigen testing for symptomatic people will be enhanced for timely isolation and contact tracing.Meanwhile, Mohali city continued to report bulk of the cases with 264 surfacing on Monday, followed by 149 in Dhakoli, 143 in Kharar and the remaining spread across the district. The total has reached 32,102, of which 26,628 patients have been cured, including 414 discharged on Monday. With one fatality, the death toll has reached 478 while 4,996 cases remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-records-662-covid-cases-in-biggest-single-day-spike-101618255298926.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Low-key celebrations to mark festivals, albeit with precautions||In view of the steep rise in Covid-19 cases across the national capital, temples, mosques and gurdwaras will observe Navratras, Ramzan and Baisakhi in strict compliance with Covid-19 guidelines, the authorities of these religious groups asserted on Monday.Delhi reported 11,491 cases of Covid-19 — the highest single-day spike in cases registered in a day. Kulbhushan Ahuja, secretary of the popular Jhandewalan Devi Mandir said the temple will remain closed for devotees during Navratras, which begin from Tuesday. The aarti of goddess Durga will be performed daily during the period, he said.Elaborate arrangements have been made at the Kalkaji Mandir. “We will issue e-passes. Devotees will be given a particular day and time to visit the temple. The link will be available on the temple website,” said Mahant Surendra Nath Avdhoot, head priest of the temple, adding that devotees will be stopped about 20-30 metres before the sanctum, and “darshan” will only be through the doors of the temple.Read more: Arvind Kejriwal holds Covid-19 review meeting, tweets 3 requestsDistrict magistrate (south-east) Vishwendra said, “There will be single entry and exit [at the Kalkaji temple]. Not more than 50-60 people will be allowed in a queue for darshan. They will stand on the spots marked on the floor . In case the crowd swells, we have made two holding areas near Ram Pyau, where at least two batches of 50 each can wait till the queue clears.”There will be no special events for Baisakhi at gurdwaras on Tuesday and Wednesday.“Devotees will be allowed to visit gurdwaras with social distancing norms. There will be no entry without masks,” Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, said.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the shahi imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said he has appealed to people to offer Taraweeh (special prayers offered during Ramzan) at home. Ahmed further said they could not bar people from visiting the masjid, in the absence of a government-mandated ban.Read more: Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyAnsar-Ul-Haq, assistant PRO at Jama Masjid, said, “Taraweeh prayers will take place in the masjid with proper distancing and sanitisation.”The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued guidelines that there should be no religious gatherings such as jagrans (prayer meetings) and community feasts (bhandara) anywhere in the city.Delhi Police officers said police personnel will be deployed at popular temples and mosques to ensure due compliance to Covid guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lowkey-celebrations-to-mark-festivals-albeit-with-precautions-101618252744835.html
13-04-2021||Other||Varanasi admn imposes restrictions on entry to ghats; parks to be closed at 4pm||VARANASI To check the spread of Covid, the district administration has imposed restrictions on people’s entry to ghats in Varanasi between 4pm and 6am while all public parks within the limits of the nagar nigam will be closed at 4pm every day.“The general public’s visit to all the ghats of Varanasi is prohibited after 4pm and before 6am (from 4pm to 6am),” said Kaushal Raj Sharma, district magistrate. “Only priests (minimum numbers), Ganga arti organisers, members of families living in houses along the ghats, boatmen and tourists taking a boat ride will be exempted from this restriction,” he said. Sharma said people who perform last rites and those associated with it will also be free from this prohibition. “Tourists who use boats will only use the ghat to board the boat and disembark from it. They will not stop at the ghat,” he added.The DM said all parks, stadiums within the limits of VNN, Varanasi Development Authority and the sports department will be closed at 4pm. Public entry is prohibited between 4pm and 6am.Night curfew is already in force from 9pm to 6am. Therefore, entry of public into religious places is prohibited from 9pm to 6am, added the DM.Everyone should wear a mask and follow social distancing norms in public and comply with other provisions of the Pandemic Act. Violation of norms will incur action and financial penalty.The DM said only 50 people may gather at a time in religious places and social events with the mandatory availability of mask, thermal scanner and sanitiser. Open spaces like grounds can operate at 50% capacity. A maximum of 100 people may gather with mandatory availability of masks, thermal scanner and sanitiser.According to a senior official of the health department, Covid cases increased at an alarming rate in the district in the last 12 days. As a result, the number of active cases swelled to 7,508 on April 12 from 457 on March 31. In wake of fresh guidelines, people have made adjustments in their routine. There were many people who regularly took a holy dip in Ganga at 4am daily and do darshan of Baba Kashi Vishwanath thereafter. They used to leave their home around 3.45am. But now they leave their home at 6am to follow their daily routine. Likewise, many tea stalls, which used to open at 5 am now open at 6am. Mahesh Yadav, a tea stall owner near Dashashwamedh Ghat, said he starts preparing tea at 6am. On Saturday, Kashi Vishwanath Temple administration put a ban on entry of devotees to the sanctum santorum of the temple and also rescheduled Darshan timings due to the rise in Covid cases. Now, the devotees will be able to do darshan from 6am to 9pm. “The decision was taken in view of continuous rise in the number of Covid cases,” said Sunil Verma, chief executive officer of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-admn-imposes-restrictions-on-entry-to-ghats-parks-to-be-closed-at-4pm-101618254877982.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||Some Lucknow schools defer ISC Board practical exams||In view of the rapid rise in Covid cases in the state capital, a few schools here have decided to not hold the ISC (class 12) decided to defer Board practical exams.“St Joseph College, Sitapur road branch, has decided to not hold Board practical exams under the current Covid situation in Lucknow. Keeping students’ safety its top priority, the management has decided to postpone the forthcoming ISC Board science practical exams at its Sitapur road branch,” said Anil Agarwal, managing director, St Joseph Group of Institutions, Lucknow.“The permission to hold practical exams after April 22 has been granted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi, which has lent its full support to the school and its students in these difficult times,” he added. “Parents and students will be duly informed in advance of the new dates of science practical exam,” Agarwal said.Likewise, St Teresa’s Day School has also decided to not conduct Board practical exams of chemistry and physics in all its branches slated to be held from April 15 to 23 because of the surge in Covid cases.“Permission to hold practical exam on a later date has been granted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi,” said principal Geetika Kapoor. The new dates would be conveyed to parents and students, she added. A number of other schools are also likely to defer their Board practical exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/some-lucknow-schools-defer-isc-board-practical-exams-101618254757859.html
13-04-2021||Other||UP Panchayat polls : Prayagraj district administration to provide masks, sanitiser & gloves to poll staff||PRAYAGRAJ: In the preparations for the upcoming panchayat poll on April 15, the district administration has taken special steps for the safety of the staff going to the field as part of polling parties. It has been decided that essential items including facemasks, sanitisers and gloves etc would be given to every staff doing duty in the panchayat poll, said officials. Liquid hand wash will also be made available at polling stations which would be used by the voters coming to vote. Steps are also being taken to see that social distancing is also followed strictly at the polling stations, they added. “These are challenging times and our employees have stood up to the occasion with utmost vigour. To support their efforts, we will ensure that utmost care is taken so that they don’t get infected with the coronavirus for which all norms would be followed as instructed by the state government”, said ADM (finance and revenue) and Panchayat election in-charge, MP Singh. The official informed that all the employees performing duties at the poll would be provided with masks, sanitiser, gloves etc so that they are well protected. Besides, in order to conduct polling properly in the panchayat elections, the officials of district administration have also started meeting candidates in the poll fray, panchayat wise. The candidates are being motivated to urge voters to come out of their houses at different time durations on the polling day (April 15). As this time the election is being held in the corona period, in such a situation, voters are being told to refrain from the habit of leaving their homes with several other voters in groups. The official informed that facemasks, sanitizers, liquid hand wash and gloves will be available at every center on polling day. The candidates have also been told to make the villagers aware that the Covid-19 guidelines should be followed at all costs. Voters would not be allowed to arrive at polling centers without wearing masks from home. Likewise, voters of different panchayats are also made aware about the concept of social distancing which has to be followed while voting and also while waiting for their turn. The voters would be motivated to wash their hands once they arrive at the polling centre. Thermal screening of all the voters would also be done to ensure minimising the threat of spread of the deadly virus, he explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-prayagraj-district-administration-to-provide-masks-sanitiser-gloves-to-poll-staff-101618254637843.html
13-04-2021||Lucknow||UP’s Covid tally crosses 7 lakh mark||With 13,685 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed 7 lakh mark on Monday—roughly two-and-a-half months after it crossed 6 lakh mark. However, the single-day number was less than Sunday’s 15, 353 cases in Uttar Pradesh. While the number of Covid positive cases was 7,05,619, the death toll reached 9,224 with 72 more fatalities, highest in a day this year so far, during the day. Now the total active cases in UP stood at 81,576—a rise by over 500% since April 1 when there were only 11,918 active cases. “Of the total active cases in the state, 44,196 are in home isolation while remaining are at level two and level three Covid facilities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Monday.Uttar Pradesh, which reported its first Covid case on March 2 last year, crossed one lakh mark on August 4, 2020 and two lakh mark on August 26, 2020. On September 12, 2020 the state Covid tally reached 305831 and on October 1, the state crossed 4 lakh mark. The 5 lakh mark was crossed on November 10, 2020. On January 1, 2021 state’s Covid tally crossed 6 lakh mark.Meanwhile, Lucknow reported 3,892 fresh Covid cases on Monday, followed by Prayagraj 1295, Kanpur 716, Varanasi 1417, Ghaziabad 187, Gautam Buddh Nagar 239, Meerut 336, Gorakhpur 474, Bareilly 186, Jhansi 267, Moradabad 173 and Ballia 230.Of the total deaths, Lucknow reported 21, Prayagraj 15, Kanpur 5, Gorakhpur 3, two each in Sonbhadra, Shahjahanpur, Jaunpur, Ayodhya, Barabanki and Muzaffarnagar and one each in Moradabad, Meerut, Ghaziabad and Varanasi districts, said the report from state health department.State has tested 3,69,54,537 Covid samples till now, including 1,93,379 in the past 24 hours, which also included nearly 89,000 RT-PCR samples. “People should take utmost precaution to break the chain of infection whether they are vaccinated or not but following Covid protocol is necessary,” said Prasad.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said in view of the surge in Covid cases, the state health and family welfare department should carry out one lakh RT-PCR sample tests daily.All the state government and private testing laboratories should work with full capacity, he said. At least 30 to 35 people, who have come in contact with an infected person, should be traced for the sample test, the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-covid-tally-crosses-7-lakh-mark-101618254577889.html
13-04-2021||Other||1.5 lakh tonne wheat arrived, 50% procured: Punjab minister||Punjab minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu said on Monday that 1.48 lakh tonne of wheat had arrived in mandis over the past three days since procurement started on April 10. “Of the total arrival of wheat, around 70,000 tonne has been procured,” Ashu said, while launching the procurement process of wheat at Khanna, Asia’s largest grain market.To streamline the procurement process, while also adhering with covid-19 guidelines, the department has de-centralised the token (pass) system. Now, the Arhtiya association will issue tokens to the farmers, he said directing officials to resolve all grievances of commission agents related to receiving the pass. He added that the government was working on plugging the shortage of gunny bags made of jute (bardana). “The shortage occurred as production was less due to covid, secondly the jute crop was also destroyed due to bad weather, which impacted the production. To meet demand, we are procuring plastic gunny bags for storing the crop,” said Ashu, claiming that the payment will be credited to farmers’ accounts within 48 hours. At no stage, the arhtiyas can hold payment of farmers under the direct benefit scheme, Ashua added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-lakh-tonne-wheat-arrived-50-has-been-procured-ashu-101618254518517.html
13-04-2021||Other||Follow Covid protocol at religious places, 5 people at one time: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday reiterated that not more than five people be present at any religious place at any point of time to help check spread of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh (UP). He said Covid protocol should be followed at all religious places. The CM said arrangements should be made to keep corona frontline workers safe from infection. He said frontline workers should mandatorily use masks and gloves. Yogi was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at his official residence here. He said effective screening of passengers should be carried out at bus stations, railway stations and airports and availability of infrared thermometers and pulse oximeters should be ensured there. He said effective arrangements should be maintained for treatment of Covid-19 and sufficient number of beds should remain available in all the Covid hospitals. Yogi said availability of medical personnel, medicines, medical equipment and back up of oxygen should be ensured. He said work on contact tracing should be carried out actively. He said Era Medical College, TS Mishra Medical College and Integrated Medical College should be run effectively as Covid hospitals and arrangement of high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) along with ventilators should be there on every bed. He said Covid beds should be set up at Hind Medical College, Mayo Medical College and other private medical colleges. He said Cancer Institute should be turned into a Covid hospital. Yogi said capacity of RTPCR labs should be increased to ensure that 1.5 lakh RTPCR tests were performed per day in the state and TrueNat machines should also be used for Covid testing. He said UPSRTC buses should be regularly sanitized. He said ambulance services should run without any hindrance. He said people should be consistently educated about measures for protection against coronavirus. He said public address system should be effectively used. He said cleanliness and sanitization drives should be conducted in rural and urban areas and fogging should be carried out as this would help in checking other infections as well as Covid-19. Box ‘Follow covid protocol at wheat procurement centres’ Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said Covid-19 protocol should be followed at all the wheat procurement centres and said it must be ensured that farmers should not face any problem. Yogi was reviewing performance of different departments at a high-level meeting at his official residence here. He said arranging fodder for animals would be easy due to harvesting of wheat crop. He said arrangements should be made for storage of fodder for cows at cow shelter homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/follow-covid-protocol-at-religious-places-5-people-at-one-time-yogi-101618254457854.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Night curfew in Gurugram, traders lament short notice||The Haryana government on Monday evening imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am, prohibiting the movement of people not involved in essential services. The curfew, notified less than two hours before it came into effect, was announced at a time when Gurugram recorded more than 1,000 new Covid infections for a second consecutive day.An order released on Monday evening by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority stated, “…there shall be prohibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9pm to 5am in the state of Haryana. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours. The night curfew will remain in force till further orders.”Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “This trend of increasing cases will continue in the coming days, but we cannot say for sure till when. We have increased testing at all possible fronts, at private and government facilities as well as cluster-based testing for surveillance. Further, night curfew has also been imposed by the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19.”As per the order, hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will be allowed to remain open through the night, and pregnant women and patients going for medical services will be allowed to move throughout the night.Residents and traders said they were dismayed by the order since the chief minister had assured just three days ago that such restrictions will not be enforced in the city.Ramesh Chand, a shopkeeper on Sohna Road, said that the sudden order to impose night curfew will hit his business.Lalit Ahlawat, director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, said that an order was expected as Delhi and other states hasd already imposed curfews. However, he said that less than two hours’ notice was insufficient. “We will abide by the government order, but we should have been given a day’s notice to plan our operations,” he said.The police said that all possible measures will be taken to ensure enforcement of the night curfew. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said, “Teams from all the police stations have been asked to keep a check in their areas. Transport of essential goods will not be affected but commercial establishments will not be allowed to run their operations."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/night-curfew-in-gurugram-traders-lament-short-notice-101618252903885.html
13-04-2021||Other||Haryana’s private school owners protest restriction on physical classes of Class 1-8||Agitated over government’s decision to suspend classes for students of Classes 1 to 8 till April 30 due to rising Covid-19 cases, members of private school association held protests at the district headquarters.They slammed the government’s decision and said that the move will not only affect education of the students but will also have a negative impact on the financial conditions of schools.They demanded that the schools should be opened for all classes as they have made all arrangements for admissions of students.“We were following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government but the state has ordered to suspend classes for junior wing even as leaders of political parties are addressing rallies in poll-bound states without any restrictions,” said a protesting school owner from Kurukshetra.The school owners alleged that they are unable to pay salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff in state.Rajan Lamba, president of the private schools association of Karnal, said that they are ready to follow the safety guidelines but the government should withdraw its decision to suspend classes. They said that it should allow all students to attend physical classes.School owners ended their protests after submitting a memorandum to the deputy commissioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryanas-private-school-owners-protest-restriction-on-physical-classes-of-class-18-101618254099222.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC elections: Direct contest on the cards between groups led by Sirsa, GK||Chandigarh There is a direct fight between groups led by outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa and its former head Manjit Singh GK in the April 25 gurdwara body polls in the national capital. Sirsa leads 46 candidates belonging to the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and GK has fielded candidates under the aegis of his newly launched Jago party which he heads. Also in the fray is group led by Sarna brothers — Paramjit Singh and Harvinder Singh — who too have fielded candidates in all 46 wards. This is the ninth elections of the DSGMC since it came into existence by way an Act of Parliament in 1971. GK had quit the body as president two years ago and Sirsa, who was general secretary of the committee at that time, replaced the former. GK was earlier planning a tie-up with Sarna brothers, who had remained presidents of the gurdwara body from time to time, but the negotiations didn’t work out to seal the tie-up. Sarna brothers have fielded candidates under the aegis of Shiromani Akali Dal Delhi and has the support of former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, who is known for his high-pitched speeches in which he challenges the established leadership in the gurdwara politics. Interestingly, both GK and Sirsa, who are the main protagonists in the upcoming polls, face allegations of mismanaging gurdwara body funds and both are defending themselves in the cases registered against them by the Delhi Police. GK harps on his two terms as DSGMC president from March 2013 to Feb 2017, and from Feb 2017 to Nov 2018, when he represented the SAD (Badal). After that Sirsa took over and remained president until the polls were announced on March 31. GK also has the legacy of his father Jathedar Santokh Singh who helmed the Sikh religio-politics from 1960-81 in the national capital and remained head of the gurdwara body in different capacities. “I have done so much during my tenure of more than five years. The blacklist of the Union home ministry banning travel of a large number Sikhs to India was scraped by the Centre on my intervention. Sajjan Kumar was sent behind bars, 1984 riots memorial was built, Fateh Diwas marking 300 years of Banda Bahadur taking on the Mughals, minority status for DSGMC-run colleges, second language status for Punjabi in Delhi and passports for Afghani Sikhs were some of the works done by the gurdwara body,” said GK. Counting his achievements, Sirsa said the gurdwara body under him supported farmers’ protest and cleared a hi-tech kitchen at gurdwara Bangla Sahib for cooking langar. The gurdwara body served langar to the needy during the pandemic, made available treatment of serious ailments, including dialysis, at DSGMC-run Bala Sahib Hospital, opened a diagnostic centre at gurdwara Bangla Sahib that offers test at a cheaper price, opened a facility for printing Guru Granth Sahib and offered IAS/IPS training.” Paramjit Singh Sarna said, “I think, both GK and Sirsa don’t want to work for the panth but for personal ends. I am sure people of Delhi will understand their designs and vote us back to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-elections-direct-contest-on-the-cards-between-groups-led-by-sirsa-gk-101618253978365.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew in Haryana from today||The Haryana government on Monday ordered imposition of night curfew across state from Monday night in view of the recent surge in Covid cases. The night curfew will remain in force from 9pm to 5am.The state has recorded more than 21,000 active cases in the last nine weeks. The curfew orders came to force with effect from 9pm on April 12 and remain in force until further orders.Additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal, in an order, said that since there has been a surge in number of Covid cases, it is imperative to put in place strict measure of isolation and social distancing to contain spread of the virus.“A lot of non-essential movement of people and vehicles has been reported during night hours,” said the order.Thus, the state government has decided to prohibit movement of individuals for all non-essential activities between 9pm to 5am across state. “No person will leave their homes, move on foot or by vehicles or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the said hours,” the order said.However, movement of officials entrusted with the task of maintaining law and order, emergencies, municipal services including executive magistrates, cops, health, electricity, fire, media persons with accreditation and government machinery tasked with Covid-related duties will be exempted on production of identity card.Those with specially issued restricted movement curfew passes will also be exempted. However, there will be no curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.All vehicle and persons in bona fide transit will be allowed to pass, but only after verification of point of origin and destination.Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will be allowed to remain open round-the-clock. Pregnant women and patients needing medical services will also be exempted. Passengers going to or returning from bus stand, airport or railway station will also be exempted.BOXGATHERING RESTRICTIONS:In indoor spaces: Max 200 personsOutdoors: Max 500 personsFunerals: Max 50 personsSchools (Classes 1-8): Closed till April 30Anganwadis & creches: Closed till April 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-in-haryana-from-today-101618253686281.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sees highest weekly Covid spike||The coronavirus trajectory in Haryana climbed to an apex level last week (April 5-11) with the state registering 18,748 fresh cases.This is the highest number of infections reported in state since March 2020 when the first case was reported.Before this, 17,426 cases reported between November 16 and 22 last year was the highest tally. The state had registered 10,414 cases between March 29 and April 4 and 7,891 cases between March 22 and 28.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the rising number of cases is a cause of concern but the state has ramped up vaccination and sampling to check spread of the virus.“We sampled 2.46 lakh individuals last week. This is the highest number of tests we have done so far. As far as vaccination is concerned, the health department has inoculated 1.79 lakh persons on Monday taking the state vaccination tally to 26.48 lakh,” the ACS said.The number of active cases crossed the 20,000 mark last week and the sample positivity rate climbed to 4.82% from 4.7%. Gurugram with 6,176 active cases, followed by Faridabad (2,238), Karnal (2,208), Ambala (1,468), Panchkula (1,345), Kurukshetra (1,322) and Sonepat (1,170) were the leading districts in terms of active cases.The recovery rate dropped to 91.96% and the case fatality rate was 1.02%.POSITIVITY RATE GOES UPFour districts - Faridabad (8.45%), Gurugram (6.86%), Rewari (6.42%) and Panchkula (6.33%) have a critical positivity rate of more than 6%.Fifteen districts still have a positivity rate in the range of 2.64% to 5.58%. This means it is lower than the critical positivity rate of more than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.However, officials said that the way the infection is spreading again, the positivity rate in Panipat, Ambala and Karnal will soon cross the 6% mark.Three districts - Nuh (0.8%), Charkhi Dadri (1.11%) and Jhajjar (1.8%) continue to have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the past several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sees-highest-weekly-covid-spike-101618253507945.html
13-04-2021||Other||Slow lifting leads to glut-like situation at Haryana mandis||Even as the harvesting of wheat is on peak in Haryana, the slow pace of lifting has created a glut-like situation in most mandis in northern districts of state and forcing the authorities to impose restrictions on arrival of wheat in 18 mandis in these districts for the next 24 hours.A decision in this regard was taken in a review meeting regarding ongoing Rabi procurement season 2021-22 held under the chairmanship of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Heaps of wheat can be seen at the mandis and officials associated with procurement operations said that around 70% of the procured wheat is yet to be lifted, leading space crunch at mandis.With arrivals picking pace with each passing day, farmers are unable to get space to unload their produce at the mandis. Most grains are lying in the open as the sheds at grain markets are turning out to be inadequate.The situation remained worst in Karnal district as out of 2.67 lakh MT wheat procured by the government agencies, only 56,000 MT was lifted so far and over 2 lakh MT is still in the mandis.The situation remains worse in grain markets of Taraori, Indri, Nissing, Assandh in Karnal district; Ladwa, Babain, Ismailabad, Pehowa, Thanesar in Kurukshetra; and Cheeka, Pundri and Kaithal in Kaithal district.As per mandi officials, the government’s decision allowing farmers to bring their produce in mandis without any schedule has led to this situation as most farmers were in a haste to sell their produce.“Most farmers bring their wheat in mandis soon after harvesting as they fear the government may impose restrictions,” said commission agent Mahender Singh, of Karnal.According to Haryana additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department) Anurag Rastogi, instructions have been issued to transport managers to speed up lifting and procurement operations in mandis across state.Deputy commissioners have been authorised to add new transport owners on the portal.Now, procurement agencies have the freedom to select a transporter of any of its added vehicles and lift bags of an arhtiya for quick clearing of procured wheat from mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slow-lifting-leads-to-glut-like-situation-at-haryana-mandis-101618253079005.html
13-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Imams urge Ramzan Taraweeh prayers to be offered at homes||With new guidelines issued and night curfew being implemented from 9pm each day owing to the rising Covid-19 cases in the district, special Taraweeh prayers may not be formally recited by members of the Muslim community like in past years. Many Imams have advised Muslims to complete Taraweeh at their homes while at some mosques the prayers will be held for a shorter time and with limited persons. As per new guidelines, only five persons are allowed inside religious places at a time and that too with facemasks and social distancing. Before the guideline was issued, Imams of some big and spacious mosques had decided to conduct Taraweeh prayers with 50 to 100 persons while following all Covid protocols. It was decided that after night prayers, Taraweeh would be offered and completed before the starting of night curfew at 9pm. However, with new guidelines now issued, Taraweeh prayers do not seem possible as only five persons are allowed inside mosques, say local Imams. ADM City AK Kanaujia said entry inside religious places will only be allowed as per guidelines issued by the government. No more than five persons will be allowed inside religious places at a time and that too with all precautions and following Covid-19 protocols, he added. In a statement, Mufti Saif-ur-Rehman of Wasiabad Mosque urged members of the Muslim community to offer Taraweeh prayers at home as it was not possible to end the special prayers before 9pm. Those who come to offer regular prayers at mosques should wear facemasks and follow other protocols, he added. Jama Masjid managing committee members Mohd Arshad and Mohd Habeeb said prayers at mosques including special Taraweeh prayers will be offered as per new guidelines issued by the government. The further decision in this connection will be taken after sighting of moon and declaration of starting of Ramzan, they added. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said religious leaders, priests and Imams will be made aware of the new guidelines issued in connection with the presence of the number of persons at religious places. The guidelines will be strictly implemented in a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 cases, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-imams-urge-ramzan-taraweeh-prayers-to-be-offered-at-homes-101618253018450.html
13-04-2021||Other||Sheroes Hangout Café in Taj city shut for 10 days||Sheroes Hangout Café downed the shutters on Monday in the Taj city as fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. The café was running with adversely affected revenue generation for the past year and also was leaving the acid attack survivors vulnerable to coronavirus infection, stated Ashish Shukla, the co-founder of Sheroes Hangout Café. “Sheroes Hangout Café was closed during the lockdown in the year 2020 and opened after the lockdown ended. However, the inflow of guests remained affected all through the past year making the revenue model adversely affected,” he said. The café was shifted to a new building last year. “It was getting tough to bear the operational cost which was generated from Café itself. For the last one year, the donations too had fallen, and lesser guests were turning up thus, the decision was taken to shut down the café for at least ten days,” he said. “After ten days we would review the situation and will make the decision accordingly,” said Ashish Shukla who is also director of ‘Chhanv Foundation’, the organization that brought the idea of running the Sheroes Hangout Café as a reality beginning from Agra in the year 2014. The Sheroes Hangout Café is run by acid attack fighters who decided to stand on their own and work at the café and run it on earning it makes. Many VVIP’s and celebrities have visited the café which was inaugurated on December 10, 2014. “However, we would continue with skill management and computer training for these acid attack fighters. The classes for this would continue online,” said Shukla. Another reason for bringing the Sheroes Hangout Café to closure is the reality that half a dozen acid attack fighters running the Café in Agra were also vulnerable to Covid-19 infection more so after going through so many surgeries after an acid attack, these fighters remain prone to the threat of Covid infection. “We are hopeful that the café would not turn the story of past and we aim at reviving activities in better times ahead,” said Ashish Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sheroes-hangout-caf-in-taj-city-shut-for-10-days-101618252898349.html
13-04-2021||Other||‘Haryana to conduct board exams on time’||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has made all preparation to hold Class 10 and 12 board examinations which will start on April 22 and April 20, respectively, amid rise in Covid-19 cases, said board secretary Rajiv Prasad.Prasad said the board has completed all preparations to conduct board exams on time, except if the state government takes any other decision.“We have released admit cards for students and are all set to conduct exams amid the pandemic. We have established 2,544 exam centres for total 6.67 lakh Class 10 and 12 students. The students are advised to carry their own log, trigonometry tables and stencils for drawing maps,” he said.“Calculators and mobile phones are strictly prohibited. The exams will be conducted while following the Covid guidelines. We have made arrangements to conduct board exams in which 3.31 lakh regular students of Class 10, 2.35 lakh students of Class 12, and 94,596 students of open schooling will take the tests,” the board secretary added.He said that the board exam timing has been revised to 11:30am to 2pm instead of 12:30pm to 3pm.The board has decided to adopt a new pattern for examination assessment for board classes. Prasad said they have decided to carry 50% questions in theory papers in objective type and the remaining 50% in subjective type.“Even the exam duration has been curtailed from three hours to two-and-a-half hours. Of this, one hour will be given for objective-type questions and the rest for subjective-type. We have reduced 30% syllabus due to the pandemic,” he said.STUDENTS SEEK ONLINE EXAM OPTIONMany students and their parents demanded that students should be given a hoice to take the exam in online mode.Sanjay Deswal, a resident of Asauda village in Jhajjar, said schools had conducted online classes for students and the board should provide online options for exams as well amid rise in Covid cases.Praveen Kumar, of Rohtak, said the board should conduct the exams on time and make proper safety arrangements.“We don’t want to lose a year. We want the board to hold exams on time. If we can visit schools by wearing a mask, why can’t we appear at exam centres for three hours,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-conduct-board-exams-on-time-101618252838368.html
13-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram lags behind schedule for monsoon preparedness measures||Monsoon preparedness in the city is yet to pick up pace and is lagging behind schedule, even as neighbouring Delhi and other NCR cities started drain cleaning exercise.MCG officials conceded that if their lack of preparedness measures continues, they are likely to face a tough situation this year as well. “The tendering process has only just started. It takes nearly two months for the process to be completed and work to start on ground. Even the tenders that have been floated only cover a fraction of the city, unless tenders are floated on an emergency basis, we will witness a repeat of 2020,” a senior MCG privy to the matter said.In emergency tenders, work is allocated to contractors within two weeks. This process usually takes anywhere between 45 days and two months.While the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is still at the initial stage of the tendering process, to select an agency, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is nearing completion of the tendering process, with monsoon preparedness work expected to start by the month-end.The GMDA looks after all master drains in the city that carry stormwater or sewerage from more than two residential sectors, while the MCG is responsible for all arterial drains, those passing through a sector internally, in Gurugram.Last year, due to the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent labour shortage as workers returned home due to the lockdown, monsoon preparedness measures were initiated nearly two months later than usual, which resulted in the city being heavily underprepared to deal with waterlogging.The situation was so severe that on two consecutive days in August 2020, seven of the city’s 11 underpasses were inundated along with most major roads. Rainwater also entered houses across the city.MCG’s chief engineer TL Sharma said that the civic body has started the tendering process and expects monsoon preparedness measures to start by May-end. “Tender process usually takes around 6-7 weeks to complete and by May-end, on-ground work such as de-silting and clearing of stormwater and sewerage drains should commence. We have internally set a deadline of June-end to complete the work,” said Sharma, adding that the civic body has started work on cleaning of open drains.Usually, pre-monsoon showers arrive in the city by mid-June.GMDA’s monsoon preparedness measures are slightly better than the MCG, as the authority floated its first set of tenders for cleaning and de-silting drains in February-end. “For most areas, especially waterlogging-prone points, tenders have already been allocated to contractors or nearing it. In six-seven such areas, on-ground work should commence within the next two weeks,” said Rajesh Bansal, superintending engineer, GMDA.Citing an example of GMDA’s better preparedness scenario in comparison to 2020, Bansal said that at this stage last year, only the estimates for GMDA’s flood control room had been compiled, while this year, tenders have already been allocated.Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA, stated that the authority identified 20 major points where monsoon preparedness measures need to be initiated on priority and also stated that tenders for most of them were already allocated. “Across all master roads, we are lowering the level of green belts by a foot so that due to the depression, it serves as a catchment area when rainwater collects, instead of overflowing onto the main carriageway. We are also in the process of creating embankments at all waterlogging-prone points located on a slope and channelling the rainwater to the closest water body,” said Rajpal.In January, the GMDA directed its officials to clean all 20-waterlogging points and set a deadline of May 31 to complete the work. Over the past week, north and south municipal corporations in Delhi as well as the Public Works Department (PWD) started cleaning drains alongside roads in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-lags-behind-schedule-for-monsoon-preparedness-measures-101618251039471.html
13-04-2021||Delhi||Tihar on high alert after 52 inmates test positive for Covid-19||Delhi’s Tihar jail is on high alert after at least 52 inmates have tested Covid-19 positive, of which 35 are admitted in three different hospitals, senior prison officers said, adding that seven jail officers, including the prison doctor, have also contracted the infection.Until April 6, the jail had only 19 Covid positive prisoners and no jail staff was affected by the viral disease. Prison officers said the infection has spread swiftly as the administration was trying to create isolation spaces inside the country’s most populated prison complex. Currently, the jail has over 20,000 inmates, double its capacity of a little over 10,000.A prison officer who did not wish to be named said, “Three prisoners were critical and had to be admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital; 32 prisoners have been admitted as a precautionary measure at two different hospitals; 17 others are in self isolation in the jail. The seven jail employees are isolating outside.”Read more: 14 private, 6 state govt hospitals dedicated for 100% Covid-19 treatmentA second officer who also spoke on the condition of anonymity said with the jail packed to double its capacity, it was getting difficult to find spaces for prisoners to isolate and ensure social distancing. “Today, more than 20,000 prisoners are in Tihar. The sanctioned capacity is only 10,026. In the last one week, more than 40 cases have been reported. We are finding ways to ensure social distancing, but it is a challenge. We fear the infection will spread more quickly than last time.”Tihar’s director general Sandeep Goel said most of the prisoners were hospitalised as a precautionary measure. “We are creating isolation spaces within the prison. The bi-weekly visit by families from outside has been suspended. Prisoners are being produced in courts only virtually,” he said.Experts such as former Tihar law officer Sunil Gupta and advocate Ajay Verma last week suggested that the administration should not take any chances and release prisoners who have maintained a good conduct and surrendered well on time after being released at the start of the pandemic last year.Gupta had also suggested that the state government may use school buildings, which have open spaces as temporary prisons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tihar-on-high-alert-as-covid-cases-cross-50-101618248877567.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Monday’s rainfall in Pune second-heaviest 24-hour spell in April since 2008||Pune on Monday reported 19 millimeters of rainfall in two hours, paralysing normal life, as people were hurrying to return home before 6 pm, when the night curfew comes into effect.Monday’s rainfall in Pune was the second-heaviest 24-hour spell in April since 2008, according to IMD. In the past, 25.6 mm rainfall was reported in 24 hours in April 2011. The all-time record, as per IMD, remains that of 51.1 mm rainfall in 24 hours, in April of 1896.Many parts of the city, including Aundh, Baner, Shivajinagar, Lohegaon, Vishrantwadi, Sinhgad Road, Kothrud, Kondhwa, and Yerawada witnessed heavy rains in a short span of time, with gusty winds. Major streets such as Pune-Satara road and NIBM road witnessed waterlogging.India Meteorological Department said Shivajinagar reported 19.04 mm rainfall while Lohegaon reported 0.7 mm rainfall.According to fire brigade department, over 15 incidents of trees falling were reported in the city, mainly at Kothrud, Yerwada and Kondhwa. The maximum temperature was reported at 37 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 22.3 degrees Celsius, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). As per forecasts made by IMD, Pune may continue to report day temperaturesaround 37 degrees Celsius with night temperatures at 22 degrees Celsius in the next few days.“Cloudy weather along with thunderstorms, lightning and light rains are likely in the city till April 14. Similar weather is expected in Vidarbha, Marathwada, Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa till April 14,” said an IMD official.The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra reported, was 40.1 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri on Monday. The lowest minimum temperature reported was 18.1 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.Mahabaleshwar reported 8 millimetres of rainfall and Satara reported 0.3 millimetres of rainfall on Monday.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting , IMD Pune, said that multiple weather systems are active over the state due to which Pune also received rainfall on Monday, as forecasted by IMD earlier. “There is a trough line from Vidarbha and wind discontinuity which is creating instability through the central part of the state. As a result of this, there will be thundery activity with lightning from April 11, as earlier forecasted. The rainfall on Monday was due to multiple weather systems over the state,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mondays-rainfall-in-pune-second-heaviest-24-hour-spell-in-april-since-2008-101618241497305.html
13-04-2021||Pune||Protest at Pune medical store over Remdesivir shortage||Pune: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh’s order banning over-the-counter sale of anti-viral drug Remdesivir has failed to stop relatives and friends of Covid patients from crowding medical shops as hospitals claim they still have not received the stock. The order issued by Deshmukh on Saturday states that the anti-viral drug would be available only at Covid hospitals. Crowd was seen in front of medical stores, including Central Drugs store at Shukrawar peth, on Monday. Many had to return frustrated, leading to anger that resulted in protest during the morning. By evening, the administration claimed that Pune has received 6,000 doses of Remdesivir and it is distributed among hospitals as per requirements of patients. Dinesh Khivasara, assistant commissioner, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said, “We have distributed 6,000 doses of Remdesivir received on Monday. Each district in Maharashtra gets its share from the state according to hospitalised patients. Pune gets about 13-14% of the injections which the state gets.” During the day, some hospitals claimed they have enough stock for the next few days, but relatives of patients admitted in small hospitals were left in the lurch. Small medical treatment facilities and even PMC’s Covid care centres continued to prescribe drugs and asked the relatives to get the injection from outside, despite the collector’s order on April 10 asking hospitals to procure the drugs from the administration instead of asking the relatives to get the drugs. Resident Madhuri Karanjkar was waiting in queue in front of Central Drug store Gadikhana since 6 am as her father-in-law was admitted to the Baner Covid centre. She said, “My father-in-law is admitted at a centre and the hospital made him call us and asked us to get the drug. I came here early morning and at around 10 am they put out a notice saying that no drugs would be provided here. There are only two helplines for the entire district and they are engaged all the time.” Another woman who was also protesting at the drug store due to the drug unavailability said, “There are no drugs available in small hospitals. One of my relative is admitted in a 15-bed hospital and they asked us to get the drug from outside since they do not have it. Major hospitals are getting the stock.” After waiting outside the drug store for hours, the residents staged a protest and left the store without getting the injections. At PMC-run COEP jumbo care centre, patients were asked to get it from outside. After one such patient’s relative was found to be looking for the drug outside the centre, Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, the agency that runs the centre said, “We have not asked the patient’s relatives, but they sometimes volunteer to get it because of their own concerns. Since the relatives need the prescription to get the drugs, so we give them.” Dr Nitin Lohakare, medical director of Mahesh Smruti multi-speciality hospital said, “We are a 50-bed Covid hospital where we have 48 positive patients and almost 45 patients need Remdesivir. However, we have not yet got any stock of the injection yet. Remdesivir is a potent drug for those with high grade fever and also hypoxia for those with comorbidities.” Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Indian Medical Association (IMA) president for Maharashtra said, “The government is unnecessarily blaming doctors for the injection shortage by claiming that the latter are prescribing it without assessment. The drug has been proven to work across the country. It has to be given at the earlier stage for patients with mild and moderate symptoms. It has also proven to work in other viral epidemics. It basically prevents the replication of the virus and spread of the diseases which stops the patients from becoming serious. While earlier doctors were prescribing about 10 doses for each patient, now we prescribe only 6 doses as per protocol, which is two doses on day one and then four injections for the next four days. The drug works on patients which diagnosis of a chest computed tomography (CT) score of seven or more and also when the viral load is not high. If the patient is severe then the drug will not work. The shortage is because of the drastic rise in demand which could not be met. The health minister has assured that there would be ample supply of the drug after April 15.” A senior FDA official said, “The shortage is in private hospitals because about 78% of the hospitalised patients are being prescribed Remdesivir which was earlier about 10-15%. The administration has also formed a team to ensure that the drug is prescribed appropriately. We are hoping to get a fresh stock again on Tuesday but are yet to know the numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/protest-at-medical-store-over-remdesivir-shortage-pune-gets-6k-doses-in-the-evening-101618239397240.html
13-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amarjeet Singh Sidhu elected Mohali mayor||Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, 48, a first-time councillor and the brother of Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, was elected the mayor of Mohali on Monday morning. Amrik Singh Somal, a two-time councillor who defeated former mayor and Azad group head Kulwant Singh, was elected the senior deputy mayor while three-time councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi was elected the deputy mayor during the first meeting of the new General House of the municipal corporation.Though the mayor’s term is for five years, the three have been elected for just two-and-a-half years, said Balbir Singh Sidhu. “We have declared that Rishiv Jain will be the mayor after two-and-a-half years, while Narpinder Singh Rangi will be the senior deputy mayor. We will take the decision on the deputy mayor later,” he said, adding that it is an attempt to maintain balance within the party and the names have been decided by the high command. Earlier, Rishiv Jain, who is a three-time councillor and former senior deputy mayor, and his wife Raj Rani Jain, a four-time councillor, boycotted the election and left after taking the oath. They alleged the Congress had failed to follow the seniority principle while selecting its mayoral candidate. Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was present as an observer in the meeting. In the civic body elections held for 50 wards in February, the Congress won 37 seats, while the Azad Group got 10 and three went to Independents. From liquor, real estate business to politics Amarjeet, a political greenhorn, won from ward number 10. Popularly known as Jeeti Sidhu, he completed Class 12 from a local school and is looking after his family’s liquor and real estate business in Mohali. He is also a director of the SAS Nagar Central Cooperative Bank Limited. Amarjeet ran into trouble a decade ago after his name figured in a murder case following a group clash in Balongi in 2010. The case was later handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation, and the trial is still on. Opposition councillors boycott elections All the opposition councillors boycotted the meeting stating that the elections are unconstitutional. In a sign of unity, they entered the House together and soon after taking oath, they walked out. Independent councillor Manjit Singh Sethi said though the state government has reserved 50% seats for women, not a single mayoral post was given to women. Stating that Amarjeet is a “controversial” person already named in a murder FIR, Sethi said: “How can the city develop under a tainted person?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarjeet-singh-sidhu-elected-mohali-mayor-101618208016522.html
