14-04-2021||Noida||Noida reports highest single day spike of 483 cases, to increase bed strength to 4,000||NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 483 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest spike in a single day ever since the outbreak of the viral infection in March last year, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. With this, the overall tally of the district has mounted to 28,439 cases, including 2,027 active cases. The previous highest for the district was 327 cases reported on July 18 last year, officials said. To deal with the sudden spike in positive cases this month, the district administration has decided to increase the number of Covid beds in different hospitals from around 2,500 to about 4,000, the officials said. On Tuesday, the district had reported four deaths due to Covid-19, taking the district’s toll to 97, the health bulletin showed.  In a meeting with heads of different cells of the integrated Covid-19 command centre in sector 59, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that it is the need of the hour to increase the number of dedicated beds to 4,000 in different hospitals. “At present, the district has around 2,500 dedicated Covid-19 beds, including 528 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, in different facilities. But keeping in mind that as many as 2,339 cases have been detected in first 14 days of April, it is needed to have additional beds ready in the hospitals,” he said. While Sharda hospital has been asked to increase its capacity to 720 from 380 beds, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) will now have 300 beds (earlier 200). Similarly, Noida Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) has been asked to increase its capacity to 300 from 200 beds and Jaypee hospital from 40 to 240, the DM said.The district at present has 10 Covid-dedicated hospitals, which include eight private facilities, the officials said.Suhas further said that the rise in active cases has badly affected the vaccination, testing and contact tracing activities in the district. He said that the hospitals have also shown their keen interest in developing exclusive facilities for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “All the private and government hospitals have been asked to ensure that all patients must be treated without any delay. The standard protocol for Covid-19 will be followed at every step by all these hospitals,” he said. Replying to a query on patients coming from other districts, the DM said that since it’s a matter of lives of the patients, they can’t be denied treatment. “But, we are planning to issue directions for other hospitals in neighbouring districts to first co-ordinate with the Covid-dedicated facilities here regarding the availability of beds, before referring their patients,” he said. Echoing similar views, Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the private Covid-19 facilities have been categorically asked to admit the referred patients from other districts, only if they are having adequate beds. “The health department officials have been asked to take stock of patients from other districts being treated in GB Nagar hospitals,” he said. When contacted, Dr NK Sharma, president of Noida chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that since the new strain of infection is more lethal, the district administration must notify smaller clinics and hospitals as Covid-dedicated facilities. “Since there is an apparent rush for the beds in government hospitals and people belonging to lower income groups can’t afford their treatment in corporate hospitals, it is always feasible to notify smaller private hospitals and clinics for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-483-cases-to-increase-bed-strength-to-4000-101618424872596.html
14-04-2021||Other||Free online coaching for aspiring teachers to begin from April 15||The Uttar Pradesh government will start free online coaching for TET, DLED and B.Ed candidates, on the pattern of Abhyudaya coaching, to help them get the required assistance to clear the competitive examinations.The Basic Education department in the state announced that free online coaching will be provided to the candidates at the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET).Pawan Sachan, principal of DIET, will upload the first video related to the Basic Education examination on the official Youtube channel of DIET on April 15. The online classes will run on a regular basis from Thursday.Pawan Sachan said, “Earlier, we decided to conduct free offline classes for TET candidates but in view of the COVID-19 surge, online classes will be run via Youtube and Google Meet.”He said that on the orientation day on April 13, over 500 candidates applied to join the classes via Google Meet. “But because over 100 people cannot be added to Google Meet, the video was uploaded on YouTube,” he said.As many as six experts will teach students how to better prepare for the examinations. This will be of great help to the candidates preparing for TET.Videos created by subject matter experts will be also uploaded on the channel from Thursday onwards. Sachan said every 15 days, a model test will be conducted which will be based on TET pattern. This will help candidates to prepare for the exam along with the studies.The motive behind starting online coaching is to provide assistance to the students who want to prepare for teaching examinations but are unable to do it due to financial restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-online-coaching-for-aspiring-teachers-to-begin-from-april-15-101618424752526.html
14-04-2021||Other||UP Panchayat polls: Voting for first phase today||People in 18 districts, including Kanpur Nagar and Prayagraj, will cast their vote for the three-tier panchayat elections in the first phase on Thursday amid the demand from some quarters for deferment of the rural polls in view of the raging pandemic in the state.The 18 districts going to poll in the first phase are Saharanpur, Ghaziabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Hathras, Agra, Kanpur Nagar, Jhansi, Mahoba, Prayagraj, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Ayodhya, Shravasti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Bhadohi.Counting of votes in all the 75 districts will be held simultaneously on May 2 after the voting to the last phase is completed on April 29.As many as 69,541 village panchayat members, 85 village pradhans, 550 kshetra panchayat members and one zila panchayat member have already been elected unopposed in the 18 districts in the first phase.According to a state election commission (SEC) spokesman around 3 lakh candidates are finally in the fray for the four posts in the first phase. As many as 1,08,562 candidates are running for the post of village pradhan in 14,789 village panchayats.Meanwhile, some politicians, traders and others have demanded the government to defer the panchayat polls for some time considering the way the Covid-19 has gone out of control in many districts. including Lucknow.After Bharatiya Janata Party (MP) from Mohanlalganj, Kaushal Kishore demanded the SEC to defer panchayat polls by a month in view of the pandemic, UP Adarsh Vyapar Mandal chief Sanjay Gupta on Wednesday demanded the government to defer polls and also clamp complete lockdown for a week in Lucknow.“I spoke to defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma here today and impressed upon them the need for postponement of the panchayat polls in the state and a complete lockdown for a week or so in Lucknow to break the chain of the virus,” Gupta said.Samajwadi Party, however said, it did not favour the idea of deferment of polls at this stage. “Deferment of polls now when the voting for first poll is already scheduled to be held on Thursday may not be a practical thing,” SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said. “But the election commission must ensure that voting take place amid full Covid protocol,” he added.Government has made it clear that panchayat polls will be held as per the schedule. “The government has no plan to propose deferment of polls anywhere in the state, including Lucknow despite demands from certain quarters,” additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-voting-for-first-phase-today-101618424632579.html
14-04-2021||Other||Vax, checking drive for prisoners ramped up to curb Covid-19 spread in jails||The UP prisons administration and reform services department has again ramped up testing of prisoners showing symptoms. Besides, vaccination of inmates above 45 years of age lodged in the 73 jails across the state, has also been speeded up, senior prison officials said.Director general, prisons, Anand Kumar, said that the prison administration is carrying out a special drive to vaccinate as many 23,432 prisoners above 45 years. He said at least 16,144 prisoners above 45 years of age had been vaccinated till Tuesday, while the process for others is still on.“Besides, strict directives have been issued for proper scanning of inmates before allowing them inside the prison and keeping them in isolated barracks for a certain period to ensure that he is free from coronavirus,” Kumar said.He said the directions have been issued to jail superintendents and jailors to maintain proper cleanliness and social distancing inside prisons to curb the contagion among prisoners as it was done earlier during the first wave in 2020.The DG said the production of sanitiser, masks and PPE kits have also been reordered so that the prisoners do not have shortage of these things. He said the prisoners earlier prepared hand sanitisers in 16 prisons for self-use and excess was supplied to other departments. He said the prisoners had even prepared PPE kits, full face shield masks especially for doctors and health workers and full bodysuits for sanitation workers.A senior jail official said the jail authorities are again thinking of setting up temporary jails to keep new prisoners in 14-day isolation before allowing him inside the jail premises. He said this has been considered in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 spread which seems to be more contagious than the first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vax-checking-drive-for-prisoners-ramped-up-to-curb-covid-19-spread-in-jails-101618424332508.html
14-04-2021||Other||UP Board exam to be reviewed: Dy CM||Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday said the UP Board will review the upcoming high school and intermediate exam keeping in mind the welfare of students following a surge in Covid-19 cases. Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 10 exams have been cancelled and the class 12 exam postponed earlier in the day in view of the Covid-19 situation. Hailing the decision taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on the CBSE examinations, Sharma said, “We will also review the upcoming UP board exams for high school and intermediate especially in the wake of Covid-19 cases in the state. The safety of students is paramount and will take a call soon.”He also said, “Currently, additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla and several other senior officials of secondary education have tested positive for Covid-19. Once they resume their official work, we will hold a review meeting in the light of decision taken by the CBSE board.”More than 56 lakh students are registered to appear in UP board exams, which have already been postponed once because of the panchayat elections. Recently, the UP Board High School (Class 10) and Intermediate (Class 12) examinations had been postponed till May 8. Earlier, the exams were scheduled to begin on April 24. The decision to reschedule the exams was taken view of the panchayat elections in the state.The class 10 exams are supposed go on for 12 working days and conclude on May 25. Likewise, the class 12 exams will be completed in 15 working days and end on May 28, an official said earlier. Hindi and Elementary Hindi will be the first exam for high school students while Hindi and General Hindi will be the first papers for Intermediate (class 12) students on May 8. The last paper of high school will be Mathematics on May 25. For intermediate, it will be civics scheduled on May 28, according to the revised date sheet. This year, 29,94,312 examinees, including 16,74,022 boys and 13,20,290 girls, are registered for the high school examination. Similarly, 26,09,501 examinees, including 14,73,771 boys and 11,35,730 girls, are registered for the intermediate exam. Last year, the UP Board exams began on February 18 and concluded in the first week of March before the lockdown. This year, the exam was delayed by nearly two months as schools remained closed for months in wake of the Covid pandemic. Classes from 9 to 12 began in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-exam-to-be-reviewed-dy-cm-101618424152511.html
14-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 infects over 100 in AU, constituent colleges||In the past one week, Coronavirus has infected several teachers, administrative officials and non-teaching staff of the Allahabad University and its constituent colleges as well. Chitranjan Kumar, public relations officer, AU, said that more than 100 teachers and non-teaching staff and their family members in AU and constituent colleges are reported to be Covid-19-positive. Pankaj Kumar, professor of political science and dean (CDC) and his wife, Anuradha Aggarwal, have become corona positive in the last few days. So has the AU proctor Harsh Kumar, who is currently admitted at Medanta (Gurugram) for better treatment, he added.He added that Hrishikant Pandey of the department of Philosophy of AU is also Covid-19 positive and admitted to a hospital in Noida for better treatment for the last one week. Likewise, public relations officer Jaya Kapoor and more than four assistant registrars of AU are also corona-infected.Family members of finance officer Sunilkant Mishra are also infected too due to which he is isolated at home. Several teachers, including S Lalit, Bhumika Kar, Ashish Khare, Pratima, Amarendra Tripathi and Lakshman Gupta have recently become Corona positiveThe assistant PRO added that during the last few days, AU has lost some of its former faculty members and their family members too, to the infection. The wife and son of retired professor Chandra Dev Pandey, father of Neetu Mishra, present head of the home science department, also died due to Corona. Recently, former CMP Degree College teacher and noted academician Hemlata Srivastava too died despite the fact that she had tested Covid-19 negative just a day earlier.In view of the seriousness of the infection, AU has been closed till April 21. Along with AU, the infection has also spread rapidly to colleges. Lalima Singh, principal of SS Khanna Girls Degree College informed that nine teachers of her college were corona positive. Principal of Iswar Saran College, Anand Shankar Singh, said that nine people including Suman Aggarwal, Anjana Shrivastava, Vivekananda Tripathi, Rachna Singh are in the grip of the Coronavirus.Principal of Arya Kanya, Rama Singh, said that six teachers including Kalpana Verma, Mudita Tiwari, Mamta Gupta have tested corona positive in her college. Five teachers, including principal of Jagat Taran Girls Degree College, Kamla Dubey, are also suffering from Corona infection. However, according to Atul Singh, principal of Allahabad Degree College, no one is currently corona positive in his college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-infects-over-100-in-au-constituent-colleges-101618423972476.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to issue notices for building violations in Sushant Lok-1||An enforcement team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Wednesday identified several plots in Sushant Lok Block-C, a residential area, where commercial activities were being carried out in violation of norms.RS Bhath, the district town planner, said that many owners make changes to the structures after obtaining an occupancy certificate, which is against the rules. “We will issue notices to these property owners and initiate a demolition drive if the violations are not undone,” said Bhath.The enforcement team also cleared an illegal colony being developed in Sadhrana village. “The boundary walls and structures were demolished by the enforcement team,” said Ashish Sharma, an assistant town planner.Earlier, on Tuesday evening, an enforcement team of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), led by Bhath, carried out an anti-encroachment drive on Old Railway Road.Officials said that they received complaints regarding encroachments by cycle cart owners, illegal vends and shopkeepers who had encroached upon footpaths and open areas in front of their shops, causing problems to pedestrians.Bhath said that while vendors and cycle cart owners listened to them, the staff of Harish Bakery, a popular eatery, refused to clear the encroached spaces. “We repeatedly asked them to clear the encroached spaces and not to obstruct government work but they refused. The employees also resisted us and so, we decided to register a complaint with the police after which the local councillors intervened and the bakery management agreed to remove the encroachments,” he said.Yogendra Kumar Sharma, manager, Harish Bakery, said that the incident happened due to miscommunication as the enforcement team started action without any prior information. “We have assured the authorities that we will work only inside our premises. A water cooler was installed outside and all other activities have been curtailed,” said Sharma.The enforcement officials said that they have decided to conduct regular anti-encroachment drives on Old Railway Road and other prominent roads in this part of the city as residents have been regularly complaining about encroachments on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-issue-notices-for-building-violations-in-sushant-lok1-101618423852498.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Dhaba owner, cook arrested for spitting on bread||The owner of a dhaba in Sector 12 and a cook employed by him were arrested on Wednesday, after a video in which the cook could be seen spitting on rotis (bread) before putting them in a tandoor, the police said. The incident was recorded on Tuesday and a case filed after a local news reporter lodged a complaint, the police said.Satyander Singh, station house officer of Sector 14 police station, said that they received the complaint along with a video in which the cook could be seen spitting on the rotis, with the owner standing right next to him. “Both have been arrested from Al Sofa hotel in Sector 12 and they did not give any clarification why they were doing this. They were produced before the district court and sent to 14-day judicial custody,” he said. The cook has been identified as Usman Malik, of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, and the owner as Mohammad Ibrahim, of Delhi. The local news reported, who filed a complaint, said, “I showed him the video which was shared on social media but he denied the allegation and said he was close to the rotis but never spat on them. When I asked the owner, he feigned ignorance.” A case under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 295 A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief) and 114 (abettor present when offence is committed) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, was registered at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dhaba-owner-cook-arrested-for-spitting-on-bread-101618423853020.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Illegal call centre busted, seven arrested||An illegal call centre that was operating from a commercial building in Palam Vihar was busted on Wednesday morning and seven persons were arrested for allegedly duping US citizens of money over the last four months, the police said.Callers posed as officials of law enforcement agencies and threatened to cancel their social security numbers (SSN) if they did not pay a fine, officials said. Data of US citizens, one laptop, one hard disk and ₹1.90 lakh were recovered from their possession. The police said that at least 2,000 people based in the US were targeted.A case was registered on Wednesday at Cyber police station under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act.The suspects were identified as Akshay Dalal (32) of Madhya Pradesh, the kingpin, who lived in a society on Sohna Road, while the others were Naganginaliy Hangal (27), Siminlal Tuthang (28), Skuyuravasi (26), Vikato Achoomi (24), Imlong (26) and Mangacha Baithe (30), who belong to Nagaland and Manipur, said police.They were produced before the district and sessions court on Wednesday and lodged in judicial custody.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said that they received a tip-off late Monday. “The kingpin, Dalal, had taken up an office on rent in Ansal Corporate Plaza on the first floor and was paying ₹65,000 a month. The call centre was operational since January this year. These suspects were duping US nationals and were taking money through gift cards and Pay Pal,” he said.Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that they conducted a reconnaissance of the area on Tuesday. “There were six men and three women making calls in the room. They all were graduates who had work experience at other call centres. There were around 15 workstations and training was given to the employees before hitting the floor. They also set up a toll-free number, to which they received calls from their targets,” he said.The police said the suspects had developed several fake websites, which would direct the victims to call the toll-free number for assistance. The police estimate that they made over ₹2 crore in the last three months as the workers were paid ₹15,000 to ₹25,000 per month.The police said the confiscated hardware will be sent to a laboratory in Madhuban, Karnal, for forensic examination. “Payment was generally done through virtual gateways, credit and debit cards, gift cards, iTunes cards,” said Yadav, adding that the call centre used to earn nearly ₹3 lakh a day.The police said the exact number of victims and the amount of money siphoned may be higher than anticipated. “We are also getting a forensic audit of the seized property,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-call-centre-busted-seven-arrested-101618423733353.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to repair Basai rail overbridge before monsoon||To provide a smooth commute to residents, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is likely to repair the road surface of Basai railway overbridge (ROB) next month, officials privy to the matter said on Thursday, as the 1,200-metre ROB is an important link between Hero Honda Chowk and Dwarka Expressway.GMDA officials said that a section of the carriageway may be closed during the repair work. “We realise the importance of the Basai ROB, especially for those living near the Dwarka Expressway. Hence, we have floated a tender for repairing the road surface of the ROB. We are aiming to start work on the infrastructure from next month,” said Jitender Mittal, chief engineer, GMDA.The ROB was constructed in May 2017 and less than a year after it opened, the surface started developing cracks. In January 2019, a retaining wall of the ROB collapsed, leading to one carriageway being closed for nearly two months. At present, there is heavy silt deposition to the leftmost and rightmost lanes of each carriageway. The approach road, especially from the Dwarka Expressway, remains heavily potholed.According to GMDA officials, the entire repair work is expected to cost around ₹31 lakh, and the contractor will have a maximum of three months to complete the work. “The entire road surface will be repaired and since it primarily involves bitumen related work, the aim is to complete it before mid-June, prior to the beginning of monsoon. Once the road is repaired, the contractor will also paint thermoplastic road markings, to help drivers with lane driving in the dark,” a senior GMDA official privy to the matter said.Officials said they might close the entire carriageway for a maximum of two-three days only if the need arises.Before the ROB’s construction, commuters travelled through Basai-Dhankot Road towards Pataudi Chowk and took a right turn to head towards Dwarka Expressway, a route that was nearly five kilometres longer.“For safety reasons, the repairing of ROB is crucial and an urgent requirement. GMDA, however, needs to ensure that the carriageways are only partially closed and continue to remain accessible to motorists even in a limited capacity. Otherwise, the entire diverted route is extremely long and will further clog the already severely congested Pataudi Chowk. It will result in commuters taking 30-40 minutes extra time to reach their destination during peak traffic hours,” said Yashesh Yadav, president, Dwarka Expressway (DXP) Welfare Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-repair-basai-rail-overbridge-before-monsoon-101618423732491.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Factory owners directed to seek passes for movement of workers||The Haryana government directed all industries to apply for passes, to facilitate the movement of their workers at night during the curfew hours, with the Saral Haryana portal, as per an order on exemptions.Officials of the district administration said that employees of industrial units are being allowed to move at night on the basis of their identity cards and that the passes must be secured within a week.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said, “This (permissions based on ID cards) is purely a temporary measure to avoid any halt in production of essential goods and services, and to prevent labour unrest. All permitted establishments and industries are further directed to get their passes issued within next seven days.”The state government ordered a night curfew in the state on Monday, with restrictions on public movement between 10pm and 5am, to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections.JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association, said that although the government has asked the industry to register with the Saral Haryana portal, they have asked the district administration to consider identity cards as passes. “It will be difficult to secure passes for each worker. So, it would be easier if the identity cards are considered for movement,” said Mangla.Large industries in Manesar, on the other hand, said that they have tweaked their shift timings to ensure that workers in the evening shift reach home by 10pm, while those working the night shift reach the premises before 9pm. “It is difficult to get passes and seek permissions. Most of us have, instead, changed shift timings. The authorities should have discussed the matter with industry and given few days before imposing night curfew,” said Manmohan Gaind, a factory owner and the vice-president of the Manesar Industries Welfare Association.Under the exemptions, the government has allowed the movement of passengers from airports, railway stations and interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) during curfew hours.Also, personnel of police and paramilitary engaged in maintaining law and order, and those engaged in municipal, health, electricity and other essential services are exempted from restrictions. There shall also be no curbs on manufacture and movement of essential goods, as well as on the interstate and intrastate movement of non-essential goods, the order stated.There are also no curbs on the movement of healthcare and medical staff of private and government establishments, as well on the operation of hospitals, clinics and pharma shops, as per the order.Among other services to be exempted from the curbs were telecom, IT and ITes sectors, delivery of essentials such as food, pharmaceutical and similar items, operation of petrol pumps, and power generation and distribution services.The government also directed the deputy commissioners to appoint incident commanders to enforce these guidelines in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/factory-owners-directed-to-seek-passes-for-movement-of-workers-101618423680614.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||No lockdown plans, curfew only to break virus chain: Chautala||The Haryana government has no plans to impose a lockdown in the state and the night curfew, which was implemented on Monday evening, is an attempt to break the chain of rising Covid-19 infections, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday.Interacting with media persons after flagging off a cardiac ambulance at Artemis Hospital in the city, Chautala asked the industry, trade and business in the state not to panic as there was no plan to impose a lockdown. “I want to assure every person who works in Haryana that measures have been taken to curb Covid infection and night curfew was a step in this direction. There is no plan for a lockdown,” he said.Referring to a recent meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers, Chautala said that directions were clear that the focus was on curbing infection and not a lockdown. “Under the night curfew, there are no restraints on economic activities but only the movement of people has been curbed to break the chain of Covid-19,” he said.Last week, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also said that there would not be a lockdown in Haryana. He also discounted the possibility of a night curfew. However, the government announced one three days later, with restrictions on non-essential movement between 10pm and 5am.When asked about the reverse migration of workers due to fear of the lockdown, the deputy CM said that there were no reports that workers were going home. He said that during last year’s lockdown, Haryana was the only state where the industry was able to operate even with severe restrictions. Chautala said that permission for workers in industries will be granted, in case it is required.He also said that because of rising Covid-19 infections among farmers, he will suggest the Prime Minister involves senior leaders in discussions and resolve the issues raised by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-lockdown-plans-curfew-only-to-break-virus-chain-chautala-101618423680004.html
14-04-2021||Other||Labour dept probing appointment of 11 enforcement officers in 2017||The Punjab labour department has launched a probe to check the authenticity of experience certificates of all labour enforcement officers appointed in 2017. Eleven labour enforcement officers (grade 1) have used forged experience certificates to get the job, the department suspects. An official, familiar with the probe said, “The probe was initiated after a Ludhiana resident, Harsimran Saini, filled a detailed affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court, alleging that most of these officials had forged experience certificates to complete the minimum qualification for the job. Saini had not been appointed. The department has to file its reply in the high court.” Saini had collected all information through a Right to Information (RTI) Act. The department has directed its deputy directors (factories) to conduct a probe into experience certificates of labour enforcement officers deployed at these districts and send a report. A copy of the order is with HT. According to Saini, some of these labour enforcement officers had submitted experience certificates of those institutions or factories, which were not operational, did not even exist and were not registered under the Factory Act and the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishment Act. Some experience certificates did not have signatures of authorised signatories. Besides, dates and designation of experience certificates and offer letters do not match. Saini has claimed that these officers filed experience certificates of sales executives and accountant managers, which were irrelevant to labour laws. The state government had sought a minimum two-year experience of practical working of labour laws of government or private undertaking. “The lawfully laid down procedure for verification of experience certificates of the selected candidates was not followed,” his affidavit says. A labour commissioner letter from August 7, 1996, says, that there should be verification of experience certificates by labour inspectors by verifying relevant records. Physical verification of institutions is needed. Principal secretary, labour, VK Janjua, did not respond to repeated calls. Pawan Kumar Thind, labour commissioner, Punjab, said he was on leave. Officiating labour commissioner, DPS Kharbanda said, “Appropriate action will be taken as per the law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labour-dept-probing-appointment-of-11-enforcement-officers-in-2017-101618423679513.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid cases hit new high, active cases past 7,000||The district on Wednesday reported 1,151 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike so far this year, and one Covid-related death, taking the active cases past the 7,000 mark, as per the district health department data.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that to contain the infection spread, they increased testing, expanded vaccine outreach and also increased the number of containment zones. “On average 10,000 tests are being conducted daily to identify and contain the local spread. Vaccinations are being taken to doorsteps of residents, with two vaccination buses having been introduced for this purpose,” said Yadav, adding that health teams are working to bring down the positivity rate, which is at 10% at present, to lower than 5%. On Tuesday, the district recorded 998 cases but the Covid-19 infections breached the 1,000 mark again on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 73,422. There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city since March 15 and this is the third time this year that cases have breached the 1,000 mark in a day, all over the past week, said health officials. Gurugram has also reported 10 Covid-related deaths since March 15, taking the total number of deaths to 371. Health officials said that despite the rise in cases, the number of fatalities has remained low. On Wednesday, the department said that 580 patients recovered from infection and the recovery rate was at 91.5%. With the recent spike in infections, the total active cases in the district stood at 7,030, but a majority of the patients, 6,657, are in home isolation, as per the health department data. Sixty Covid-positive persons were also sent to institutional quarantine on Wednesday, as they were unable to isolate themselves at their residences. Officials said that the infections reduced during the winter months of December, January and February, following which it started spiking from mid-March. According to the health department data, 10,007 samples were collected for testing on Wednesday, taking the total number of samples tested to 1,041,182. As many as 17,757 people in the prioritised age groups were also vaccinated at 220 session sites, including private and government facilities. Dr Yadav said that 292,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district of the total eligible population of 428,000 people. “We have achieved the target given under tika utsav, which was 64,000, as we managed to vaccinate 64,102 beneficiaries between April 11 and April 14,” he said, adding that efforts to increase the vaccination outreach will be intensified further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-cases-hit-new-high-active-cases-past-7000-101618423613121.html
14-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana trader duped of ₹4.5 lakh in currency exchange deal||Lured by a deal to exchange $16,000 for just ₹4.5 lakh left a currency exchange trader with just a bundle of fake notes.The trader, Ankit Kharbanda, a resident of Azad Nagar, Shimlapuri, told the police that on April 11, a youth named, Surjit Singh, visited his shop to exchange of $16,000 for Indian Rupees.While the exchange amount came out to be over ₹12 lakh, Surjit said he needed the money urgently and settled for ₹4.54 lakh.Ankit said Surjit took him to Harcharan Nagar, saying his NRI aunt lived there and had the $16,000. Surjit then asked him to bring the Indian currency notes to a liquor vend at Kashmir Nagar on GT Road. On reaching the spot, Surjit took the money and handed him a bag containing $16,000.But on opening the bag, Ankit said, he was shocked to find shredded paper and fake currency notes in it.He raised the alarm and tried to chase Surjit, but he managed to escape on his Honda Activa (PB10-EU 3292).Police later found the scooter abandoned on a road and discovered that it had been sold multiple times.They also raided the house in Harcharan Nagar, but learnt that no NRI woman lived there.Investigating officer Gurjeet Singh said they had booked Surjit and his five accomplices for cheating and criminal conspiracy, and raids were on to nab the accused. “We are scanning the CCTV cameras in the areas that Ankit visited with the accused to trace him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-trader-duped-of-4-5-lakh-in-currency-exchange-deal-101618423612450.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in West Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, 10 fire tenders rushed to the spot||A fire broke out in a slum cluster on Wednesday evening in Punjabi Bagh’s Paschim Puri neighborhood in West Delhi. Ten fire tenders were rushed to the spot to bring the fire under control. No casualties have been reported so far and fire has been brought under control, senior officials present at the spot said.“Senior police officers are at the spot and the fire is under control. There are no casualties so far,” said an official present at the spot. It is still unclear how many houses were affected. The reason behind the fire has not been known yet.(with inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-west-delhi-s-punjabi-bagh-10-fire-tenders-rushed-to-the-spot-101618423240690.html
14-04-2021||Other||Armyman among three held with 2kg opium in Ludhiana||The crime investigation agency (CIA- 1) of Ludhiana police and PCR Tango-29 arrested three men, including an army naik, with 2kg opium on Tuesday.The accused are Dharminder Kumar Fauji, 33, an army naik, his brother, Ravipal, 36, both from Akhara village in Jalandhar, and Ramandeep Singh, 32, of Mullanpur Dakha.Sub-inspector Avatar Singh, in-charge, CIA-1, said the accused were arrested near Jhammat Canal Bridge following a tip-off.Dharminder, who is deployed in Manipur, had brought the opium from there on April 5. On Tuesday, he, along with Ravipal, came from Jalandhar to Ludhiana to deliver 2kg opium to one Gurjant in Mullanpur Dakha. But, they were nabbed en route.“Gurjant had sent Ramandeep to collect the consignment. He was also arrested along with the two brothers, and a pick-up truck and a motorcycle belonging to them were impounded,” the SI said.A case under Sections 18-B, 18/61/85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the four accused, and a manhunt has been launched to arrest Gurjant.The three arrested men were presented before a court on Wednesday and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/armyman-among-three-held-with-2kg-opium-in-ludhiana-101618423433202.html
14-04-2021||Other||Joint teams on job to overcome wheat smuggling challenge||Punjab is facing challenges in checking wheat transportation into its border through other states. Joint teams of police, vigilance wing of the state food department and mandi board are keeping watch on 200 roller mills, flour mills and private godowns to stop them from bringing wheat from other states, especially during procurement. “We get cheaper wheat from states outside Punjab and stock keeps coming in throughout the year, because we cannot store in huge quantity. Now, our stocks are stuck at inter-state borders. My request to the government is to release our stocks, which have been held at borders. Otherwise, we would incur losses,” said Naresh Ghai, president, an association of roller flour mills. Privately-run flour mills process at least 12 lakh tonne of wheat a year.“We have asked them (traders) to bring their raw material (wheat) after procurement gets over in Punjab by the middle of May,” said an officer of the state food department, adding that there were unconfirmed reports that wheat stock bought from outside, at lower cost, is mixed with freshly harvested wheat for more profit. These stocks from outside the state are purchased between ₹1,500 and ₹1,600 a quintal, and get sold in Punjab at a minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,975 a quintal, earning profit of over ₹300 a quintal. The officer adds the practise of bringing wheat and paddy stocks from outside states started a few years ago, especially when the MSP witnessed a sharp rise. In states other than Punjab and Haryana, foodgrain is procured from the local farmer at a cheaper price. Last week, the food department seized huge stock of wheat from three godowns in Bathinda, Ferozpur and Barnala registered forgery cases against the owners of the godowns. This was after they could not give a convincing reason for the presence of 37,000 bags of wheat from other states in their godowns. Traders buy wheat stock from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Surveillance teams have increased checks on inter-state border. According to assistant director general of police (ADGP) for provisioning Naresh Arora, joint teams are stationed at entry points from other states. There are a large number of private godowns, where movement of wheat stocks is monitored regularly. “We don’t have the exact number of such godowns. There are a large number of traders in the state, who keep personal stocks. We are verifying stocks in these godowns also,” added an officer in food department. Rakesh Singla, deputy director, Punjab food department who heads the vigilance wing, said checks were on across the state. Principal secretary, food and civil supplies, has written to all district chiefs in his department to check transportation of wheat stock. 5.12 lakh tonne wheat procured on Day 5 Government agencies on Wednesday procured 5.12 lakh tonne of wheat in the state on the fifth day of procurement. A spokesperson said Pungrain procured around 1.35 lakh tonne, Markfed; 1.18 lakh tonne; Punsup 1.32 tonne and Punjab State Warehousing Corporation 70,873 tonne. The central agency, FCI has procured 19,913 tonne of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/joint-teams-on-job-to-overcome-wheat-smuggling-challenge-101618423253883.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab makes negative RT-PCR test mandatory for air travellers||The Punjab government on Wednesday announced new restrictions on incoming air travellers in a bid to contain the rising number of Covid-19 cases. From now on, all air travellers will be required to produce a negative RT-PCR report 72 hours prior to the arrival in the said. International passengers who have a valid RT-PCR report will be exempted from institutional quarantine, the government ruled.All international passengers will be tested for Covid-19 and — if found positive — they will have to remain under home quarantine for seven days or will be sent to institutional quarantine. The passengers are also advised to register themselves on COVA Punjab App before commencing their journey.International passengers have been advised to fill self-declaration form on www.newdelhiairport.in. The passengers who are travelling from the UK, Europe or the Middle East will be mandatorily subjected to self-paid confirmatory molecular tests on arrival. Domestic passengers will be screened as well if they do not have a negative Covid-19 negative RT-PCR report. Airlines have also been asked to inform international passengers of Rapid Test when they do not have a negative RT-PCR report.The statement also says that domestic passengers do not have to remain under institutional quarantine but asymptomatic passengers will be asked to remain under home quarantine for five days. Frequent travellers and people who will leave the state in 72 hours will be exempt from quarantine. The boarding pass will be considered as an e-pass during the curfew period for all passengers for movement to and from the airport.Punjab on Wednesday recorded 3,329 cases of Covid-19 which took the state tally to 282,505. The death toll in the state reached 7,672 with 63 fresh fatalities. Punjab currently has 28,250 active cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-makes-negative-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-air-travellers-101618421216500.html
14-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Noida sees record single-day spike of 483 new cases, active caseload crosses 2,000-mark||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day spike of 483 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district's overall infection tally to 28,439, official data showed.The active caseload also crossed the 2,000-mark to reach 2,027, according to the figures released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Fifty-seven more patients were discharged from hospitals during this period, taking the number of overall recoveries to 26,315 in the district, the fifth-highest in the state, it showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded a death toll of 97, with a mortality rate of 0.34 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached 92.53 per cent on Tuesday, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 1,11,835 from 95,980 on Tuesday, while the overall recoveries climbed to 6,22,810 and the death toll to 9,376 on Wednesday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-483-new-cases-active-caseload-crosses-2000mark-101618421108195.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Hard to list static essentials, allow delivery of all items: Amazon tells Maharashtra govt||E-commerce major Amazon on Wednesday urged the Maharashtra government to allow deliveries of all products to customers amid new restrictions to curb coronavirus infections, saying it was challenging to define a static essentials list.Currently, it is enabling deliveries of only essential products in Maharashtra in line with the new guidelines set by the state government."Customers trust Amazon.in to safely deliver all products according to their respective needs. Currently, we are enabling deliveries of essential products in the state of Maharashtra in line with new guidelines set by the government," an Amazon India spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that learning from the last year showed that urgent customer needs vary across households and it is challenging to define a static essentials list."...therefore we request the government to allow delivery of all products as soon as possible. E-commerce is the safest way to serve consumers' needs while supporting livelihoods of lakhs of small & medium businesses including the local shops,” the spokesperson said.According to a senior industry executive, industry representatives have approached the Maharashtra government, Home Ministry and DPIIT to request that allow delivery of all items via e-commerce in the state."Our delivery in Maharashtra will be restricted to essentials, as mandated by the government. However, users will be able to order from the entire catalogue and delivery of non-essentials will happen when that is permitted," a Snapdeal spokesperson said.The spokesperson expressed hope that the government - as part of its dynamic review of the situation - will consider allowing e-commerce companies to cater to the complete range of user requirements."Enabling users to shop from the safety of their homes is a crucial advantage that e-commerce offers. It also helps reduce the impact of economic disruption on lakhs of online sellers and those associated with such businesses," the spokesperson elaborated.According to the health ministry data, till 8 am on Wednesday, Maharashtra had 5,94,585 active cases, up 28,307 from the previous day.Industry estimates suggest that Maharashtra makes a double-digit contribution to e-commerce sales in the country and is a major market, along with geographies like Delhi-NCR and Karnataka.As per reports, other platforms like Flipkart and JioMart have also stopped taking orders for non-essential items from customers in the state.Flipkart did not respond to queries.Lockdowns are not a new phenomenon for e-commerce companies in the country. Last year in March, as the pandemic broke out, a nationwide lockdown was imposed that brought transportation of goods and movement of personnel to a grinding halt.However, the e-commerce sector has also been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the pandemic, as containment measures introduced millions to the convenience of online shopping, and prompted seasoned online shoppers to buy more.There were initial hiccups and e-commerce companies struggled to complete deliveries even as orders pile up. During the first two phases of the lockdown, e-commerce companies were allowed to sell only essential items like grocery, healthcare and pharmaceutical products. In the following phases (starting May 4), the restrictions were gradually lifted.With the second wave of COVID cases now touching record highs, states may look at enforcing stricter guidelines around the movement to control the spread. E-commerce players will bank on last year's experience to manage the situation better this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hard-to-list-static-essentials-allow-delivery-of-all-items-amazon-101618420124730.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Small hospitals in Pune struggle to make ends meet||PUNE As major hospitals in Pune struggle to cope with rising Covid cases, citizens resort to smaller hospitals. In some cases, these hospitals are unable to provide proper treatment to patients. In two such incidents, it was found that while these smaller hospitals admitted patients who had severe Covid symptoms, but allegedly failed to provide proper treatment.Sana Hospital located in Kondhwa, came under heavy fire on social media after a video made by the deceased patient’s father went viral. In the video, the father of Atikh Sayed, Abdul Sayyed alleged that the hospital made him buy expensive medicines costing ₹14,000 daily for almost a week. The video spread on social media and the hospital had to face violent threats from relatives of patients.Dr Suhel Khan who runs the hospital said, “We have treated over 800 OPD patients of Covid who were in home isolation and above 180 in patients in our hospitals since the last wave and we have a recovery rate of over 90 per cent. After a patient does not get a bed in any of the major hospitals they come to us and we try to accommodate them. In smaller hospitals, the relatives have access to the doctor and so they try to get violent sometimes. In this particular case, I filed a complaint with the local police to provide us protection.”In another case, a senior citizen was forced to be admitted at Welfare Hospital where the relative who himself was Covid positive had to cater to the patient’s needs as the entire family was quarantined. The relative requesting anonymity said, “My mother is a diabetic and she did not get breakfast in the hospital. I had to get it from outside. she did not even get hot water to drink. We got admitted late last night and throughout the night there were no doctors available to start the treatment.”In response to the allegations Dr Sadik Khan, who is one of the medical directors, said, “We have an extreme shortage of manpower. We do not have catering facilities at our hospital and we ask the relatives to get food for the patient. In some cases, we have certain locals who provide tiffin services if needed. At smaller hospitals, the issue is that there is no space to provide isolation between relatives and patients.”Dr Sanjay Patil, hospital board chairperson, Pune, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “Most of the smaller hospitals are run by single doctors or by couple doctors. They have to single-handedly manage oxygen supply, medicines and do clerical work for medical insurance. The doctors also have to simultaneously manage OPD and hospitalised patients too. Since they have limited beds, they do not have any step-down or step-up facility wherein they have reserve beds to transfer a patient from ICU to oxygen bed or oxygen to ICU beds. Catering and manpower are crucial issues in these hospitals which is not the case with major hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/small-hospitals-in-pune-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-101618419652193.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: Covid negative reports must for people flying in from worst-hit states||In view of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, people coming on flights from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala will now have to produce a negative RT-PCR report at Jayprakash Narayan International Airport in Patna.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh has sent a letter to the director of Patna airport to ensure mandatory checking of Covid-19 test reports on passengers’ arrival. “Passengers coming from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala are supposed to show a negative test report, issued not late than 72 hours before one’s journey. As these states have witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases recently, we are keeping a strict vigil on passengers coming from there to curb the spread of Covid-19 spread. Those who fail to produce RT-PCR test will have to undergo Covid-19 test at the airport and they will be allowed to leave only after testing negative. Airlines have also been directed to inform flyers to go for 10 days of home quarantine after arrival,” he said.At present, Patna airport operates around 85 domestic flights daily, ferrying more than 10,000 passengers on an average. Patna airport’s director B C H Negi said the order has already been implemented and passengers coming to Patna from these states are being home quarantined for 10 days. He said all Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed at the airport and outbound passengers were being screened.“As per guidelines issued by Airports Authority of India, all passengers are undergoing rapid antigen test upon arrival. In case, any passenger travelling from the above-mentioned states fails to furnish negative Covid-19 report, they undergo rapid antigen test at the airport. If positive, they are being sent to institutional quarantine and further medical care is being provided to them,” said an official of Patna airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharcovid-negative-reports-must-for-people-flying-in-from-worst-hit-states-101618419592200.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19: DRDO team visits to reactivate Bihta facility||A two-member team from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) was here on Wednesday to assess the state’s preparedness to fully operationalise the Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital at Bihta in Patna for treatment of Covid-19 patients, as Bihar reported 21 deaths with 4,786 new cases — the highest in a single day so far. Patna accounted for 1,483 cases and four deaths. Among those infected were three senior IAS officers, including an officer in the rank of chief secretary, other of the home department and an IPS officer. A minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet had also tested positive. Several senior officers in the home department, public health and engineering department, finance and the Information and Public Relations Department had also gone in home isolation. A senior officer of the home department was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday. The DRDO team has agreed to extend help to the state government by providing 50 doctors to fully operationalise the 500-bed ESI hospital, said top sources in the state health department. The Bihar government had on Tuesday sought assistance from the army in providing doctors to fully operationalise the ESI hospital. In a letter to defence secretary, Bihar’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit requested the defence secretary to send 50 doctors from the Armed Forces Medical Corps (AFMC) so that the ESI hospital could be utilised properly. “We will depute requisite number of nurses and other para-medical staff and have requested the defence ministry to send 50 doctors from the armed forces so that the 500-bed hospital can be utilised properly like last year,” said Amrit. “Presently, the facilities exist but in light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, particularly in Patna, it is of urgent necessity to utilise the existing facilities of ESI hospital, Bihta. At present, we are using only 50 beds in this hospital with the services of a few doctors and other support from the state government,” Amrit added. Executive director, State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, said, “We will work on a warfooting to operationalsie the facility after a team from the DRDO visited Bihta today and later held discussions with our principal secretary.” The 500-bed Covid care facility at ESI Bihta was set up last year under the PM Care Fund. Meanwhile, the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) will operationalise 100 IU beds for Covid-19 patients on Thursday, said Kumar. The Patna district administration had on Wednesday earmarked 14 more private hospitals in Patna for treatment of Covid-19 patients, increasing the bed strength by 199, said Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. With this altogether 47 private facilities, having cumulative 985 beds, had been identified in the district for treatment of Covid-19 cases, he added. The health department was also keeping tabs on oxygen generation plants in the state to ensure there was no hoarding or blackmarketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19drdoteam-visits-to-reactivate-bihta-facility-101618419532710.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Modi, Naidu, Shah urge Governors to create mass movement against pandemic||In a first meeting of its kind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and health minister Harshvardhan interacted with Governors, including Bihar governor Phagu Chouhan, on the Covid-19 pandemic situation on Wednesday and the need to involve all in the crucial fight against the surging virus. The PM and the Vice President underlined the need for Governors to take initiatives at their level to increase people participation to create a mass movement against the pandemic. They urged the Governors to include universities under them as well as Red Cross and other voluntary organisations for the purpose, said an official of the Raj Bhawan. During the presentation, the Governors were informed how India, with 11.11-crore vaccinations, is ranked first in vaccinating its people. The Governors were told to also involve spiritual leaders in creating the mass movement. The virtual meeting last two hours from 6.30 pm to 8.30 pm. Bihar governor Phagu Chouhan later told his principal secretary Rober L CHongthu to make preparations for the April 17 all-party meeting. “All the suggestions and feedbacks received at the meeting will be worked upon, while the state government is already taking necessary steps to contain pandemic,” the official quoting Governor said. The Governor is also likely to interact with vice chancellors soon to involve the universities in creating awareness about vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour in their respective jurisdictions to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases in the last couple of weeks in Bihar, especially since Holi. Last week, chief minister Nitish Kumar had said that the government would soon contact the Governor to request him to call an all-party meeting, as suggest by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an interaction with chief ministers. During an interaction with chief ministers on March 8, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked the CMs to make the ‘maximum use’ of the office of the Governor to put up a united fight against the pandemic. It was in this backdrop that Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and the PM interacted with the Governors. Soon after the outbreak of pandemic last year, President Ram Nath Kovind had interacted with the Governors in March 2020 and urged them to take initiatives for mobilizing non-government organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/modi-naidu-shah-urge-governors-to-create-mass-movement-against-pandemic-101618419532051.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 9,900 new Covid-19 cases, 54 deaths; active caseload jumps by over 500 cases||Mumbai on Wednesday reported 9,925 new Covid-19 cases, a significant increase from the 7,898 new cases reported on Tuesday, a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. This took the city’s tally to 535,017 cases so far.#CoronavirusUpdates14-Apr, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/czANIHvZiRA total of 54 patients succumbed to the infection on Wednesday and the death toll for the coronavirus disease reached 12,140. There are 87,443 active cases in the city as per the latest data, an increase of 577 cases from the 86,866 reported on the previous day. Also, 9,273 patients recovered on the day and the total recoveries reached 444,214, the bulletin showed. The recovery rate in the financial hub currently stands at 81 per cent.Data from the bulletin also showed that the doubling rate of the disease in Mumbai is currently 40 days and the overall growth rate of Covid-19 infections between April 7 and 13 stands at 1.71 per cent.Also read | Maharashtra janta curfew: Will you require a movement pass? DGP answersAs many as 56,266 samples were tested on the day for Covid-19, which took the overall tests conducted to 4,755,733, the bulletin showed. This is higher than the 49,320 tests conducted on Tuesday and the 39,398 tests conducted on Monday.Apart from Mumbai, Pune with 1.12,213 cases, Thane with 84,098 cases, Nagpur with 65,368 cases and Nashik with 44,880 cases contribute the maximum to Maharashtra’s active caseload tally, according to a bulletin from the state government. Also, on Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 58,952 new Covid-19 cases and 278 related fatalities.Also read | Maharashtra registers marginal drop in Covid-19 casesThe fresh spike in Maharashtra’s capital city comes a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray imposed fresh restrictions across the state owing to the worsening Covid-19 situation. In his address to the state on Tuesday night, Thackeray announced that Section 144 would be imposed across the entire state beginning on Wednesday. “We are imposing strict restrictions… Section 144 to be imposed in the entire state from tomorrow. I will not term this as lockdown,” he said. “People have to decide whether they want to help corona or the government that is working to curb it,” he further added. However, essential services have been exempted from the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-over-9-900-new-covid-19-cases-54-deaths-active-caseload-jumps-by-over-500-cases-101618416661783.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Migrant labourers continue to leave Pune city after new restrictions||PUNE Major chaos was witnessed at the Pune railway station on Wednesday, as migrant labourers rushed to leave the city after the strict restrictions were announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday.The police had already barricaded the entry for vehicles into the railway station premises causing many to walk a distance towards the main entrance.“We are allowing only those with confirmed tickets and no one on the waiting list are allowed,” said Deepali Farad, ticket checker.“Most of the crowd is for the long-distance special trains like that going to Gorakhpur, Guwahati, Danapaur,” she said.Manoj Jhawar, railway public relations officer (PRO), said, “The railways have made special provisions for migrant labourers, and announced more long-distance trains to Danapur which covers Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, then a train to Gorakhpur, Bhagalpur and Lucknow. To streamline the process this year, the Railways have allowed only confirmed ticket travellers, there are no general tickets and people have to be at the station 90 minutes before the train journey so that there is no panic situation.”The train to Patna at 9 pm is in demand and some of the passengers have reached as early as 4pm. Kisan Kumar is travelling to Patna, but he reached the station at 4 pm from Talegoan.“I have managed to get a ticket and didn’t want to risk getting stuck in curfew hence reached early only to find out that I am not allowed on to the platform hence I am sitting here outside on the footpath,” said Kisan.Suraj Yadav, a machine welder, is waiting to go to Satna in Jabalpur. “I came from my village about a month ago, when my contractor called me and now I am going back as there is no work and my contractor has no money to pay me.”Sakina Sheikh is travelling with four children to Jhansi. “My husband was working in a hotel, but with this lockdown announcement, we are all going back to my hometown, my husband did not get a ticket, so he will come by another train.”Many of the passengers have been found staying within the premises for two days, waiting until their ticket gets confirmed. Some go without food, but few people managing the two-wheeler stand and rickshaw drivers bring them food. “We find it difficult to see young kids and families all waiting for confirmation at the station, so we help out with food for the night, although the police don’t allow them to be there for long,” said one of the workers at the stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/migrant-labourers-continue-to-leave-pune-city-after-new-restrictions-101618417131867.html
14-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan postpones exams for class 10, 12; promotes students of class 8, 9, 11||The Rajasthan education ministry on Wednesday postponed the exams for classes 10 and 12 owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The state education department said that the decision was taken at a meeting between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and the education minister Govind Dotasra. The students of classes 8,9 and 11 will also be promoted without any examination.“Honorable chief minister @ashokgehlot51 and minister of education @GovindDotasra held a discussion and decided to postpone the examinations of Class 10 and 12 of the Board of Secondary Education and also promote the students of classes 8, 9 and 11 to the next class,” Rajasthan’s department of education said in a tweet.This comes as CBSE class 10 exams have been cancelled and exams for class 12 have been put on hold — at a review meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Rajasthan government has already announced that the students of classes 6 and 7 will be promoted without any examination as the state is seeing an uptick in the number of daily infections. Apart from Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are witnessing an upward trend in the number of new daily cases.The Rajasthan chief minister on Tuesday said the state government feels it is important to take stringent measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. He said the strict enforcement of measures akin to lockdown must be taken and directed officials to take steps in this regard. “It is necessary to take drastic steps. The general public may suffer a bit from this, but saving lives is important,” Gehlot was quoted by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-postpones-exams-for-class-10-12-promotes-students-of-class-8-9-11-101618409537180.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra registers marginal drop in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported a slight dip in the number of Covid-19 cases as the state recorded 58,952 cases pushing the tally to 3,578,160. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases dropped by 1,260 on Wednesday as the state had recorded 60,212 cases on Tuesday. The drop in the number of cases was registered though the state conducted 242,149 tests on Wednesday, which is 4,491 more than the number of tests conducted between April 12 and April 13. The state currently has 612,070 active cases of Covid-19.The state reported 278 deaths on Wednesday taking the death toll to 58,804. Financial hub Mumbai on Wednesday reported 9,931 cases, registering a spike of 2,058 fresh cases. The daily death toll also saw a spike of 27 as the city reported 54 fresh fatalities taking the tally to 12,147. Mumbai has recorded 545,195 cases of Covid-19 so far.Maharashtra’s recovery rate stood at 81.28% as 39,624 people recovered from the disease pushing the tally of recovered people to 2,905,721. Pune and Mumbai have the highest number of active cases in the state — 112,213 and 86,635, respectively. Among other districts reporting a high number of active cases are Thane (86,635), Nashik (44,080), Nagpur (65,368) and Aurangabad (14,680 cases).The Maharashtra government has imposed curfew-like restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days all over the state. The restrictions which have come into force from 8pm on April 14 will remain in force till 7am, May 1. Section 144 of the CrPC, which bans assembly of more than five or more people at one place, has been imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-registers-marginal-drop-in-covid-19-cases-101618416049022.html
14-04-2021||Other||Converting big medical instts into Covid centres solution to bed crisis, suggest Lucknow docs||LUCKNOW There is a doable solution to the bed crisis being faced by Covid patients in the city – convert big medical institutions into dedicated Covid centres instead of having small and scattered Covid facilities at different places. A centralised system can also take the bed strength beyond 10,000 in Lucknow, suggest doctors. “The number of Covid beds can be increased manifold, if institutions like KGMU, RMLIMS, SGPGI and big ones in the private sector are made dedicated Covid centres. Right from isolation, to high dependency (HDU) and ICU beds, the shortage can be reduced considerably,” said Dr Vaibhav Khanna, director, Healthcity hospital. At the moment, Lucknow has 31,687 active cases and there are some 3,000 beds for Covid patients in 32 hospitals. In the past three days, 13,718 new cases have been added to Lucknow’s Covid tally. Majority of these patients remain in home isolation, but many need hospitalisation with oxygen/ventilator support. Doctors said the need of the hour is to make big hubs for level 1, level 2 and level 3 Covid facilities, instead of a scattered system contributing a handful of beds at different places. The KGMU has about 5,000 beds (333 for Covid patients at the moment). Doctors said the emergency (trauma), gynaecology and cardiology, along with some other necessary wings can be left out and the remaining beds on the campus can be allotted for Covid patients. In case, the KGMU becomes a dedicated Covid facility, emergency services at trauma centre can still run along with gynaecology and cardiology wings as these facilities are in buildings on the roadside, while Covid facilities can come up in Shatabdi Hospital, Gandhi Memorial and the Associated Hospital wing. KGMU V-C Lt Gen Dr Bipin Puri said, “We are planning expansion of Covid facilities.” Similarly, Lohia institute that runs over 250 Covid beds has the entire hospital block for expanding Covid facility. “With OPD closed and only emergency operations being done, the occupancy in wards has come down,” said a senior faculty at the KGMU. “A patient’s search for a bed goes on for hours from one hospital to another… but if major campuses are made Covid centres, the search can be completed in minutes and patient can be shifted in an hour only,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, Indian Medical Association, Lucknow. “Delay in admission, health complexities and fatality have a direct connect. Hence, if admission is smooth and fast, mortality rate among Covid cases will come down,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The Covid Command Centre usually takes over two hours to get bed availability cross-checked and allot the same to a Covid patient while the process of allotting ambulance and shifting takes another four hours. And with the rise in cases, several patients have to wait for over a day before they are shifted, said attendants of Covid patients. “Medical colleges have liquid oxygen and their ICUs have ventilators with trained staff. If such campuses are made Covid centres, we can also get speedy recovery with speedy admissions,” said Dr Khanna. “An option should also be given to big private hospitals to run as dedicated covid centres. Not 20 or 70 beds, but the entire hospital as a Covid centre so that the private sector too is fully involved,” said Dr Gupta. WHY THESE COLLEGES? “The KGMU has separate buildings with proper ventilation. Besides, operating theatres (OTs) here can be dedicated for Covid care as routine operations have been cancelled. The idea is to increase beds in equipped campuses where staff is trained and not where standards are not as per the national medical commission norms,” said Dr Khanna. Apart from the KGMU, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences with over 1,000 (200 beds for Covid patients at the moment), SGPGI with 3,500 beds (250 Covid beds currently), Homeopathy College in Gomti Nagar and Ayurveda College in Tudiyaganj can help increase bed strength to over 10,000, said health experts. “While KGMU, SGPGI, RMLIMS can be made Level 3 hospitals, Homeopathy and Ayurved colleges can be Level 2 hospitals,” said Dr Khanna. WHAT ABOUT STAFF CRISIS? Asked if big Covid centres face staff crisis in case health workers test positive in large numbers, doctors said in such a case reserve staff can be deployed from nearby government or even private hospitals. “Ten nursing/paramedical staff from private hospitals should be kept in reserve and called on 24-hour notice to big Covid centes. This will give cushion to medical colleges (that run as Covid centres) in case of staff crisis,” he added. BOX How making a dedicated unit helps Era’s Medical College, which had 220 beds, was declared as a dedicated Covid facility and now has 300 beds. The bed strength would be raised to 500 shortly. The hospital administration has been asked by the state government to enhance bed strength up to 700. Similarly, Integral University as a dedicated Covid centre will have 400 beds and TS Mishra Medical College 500 beds. The rise in number of beds was announced after these institutions were declared as dedicated Covid centres. In the past 24 hours, 121 HDU/ICU beds have been added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/converting-big-medical-instts-into-covid-centres-solution-to-bed-crisis-suggest-lucknow-docs-101618416111778.html
14-04-2021||Other||Admn urges people to not visit Kashi this month||VARANASI: Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma have appealed to people to avoid visiting Kashi in April in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. “People from adjoining regions should avoid visiting Varanasi in view of surge in Covid cases. They should stay at home and visit Kashi only when there is very urgent work,”Agarwal said. The district magistrate made a similar appeal to people not only in different parts of India but also abroad to shelve all plans of a Kashi visit in April. An advisory has also been issued due to the present situation. The DM said that travellers coming to Kashi from other states would have to show their Covid negative report for their stay in hotels. This would be made mandatory soon. Meanwhile, the RTPCR report has become a must for entry to temples . Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said on Wednesday that three-day old Covid negative RTPCR report had been made mandatory for entry to Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Maa Annapurna Temple and Sankatmohan Temple from April 14. Aggarwal said that it was compulsory to show this report, else the devotees would not be given entry to the temples. District magistrate Kaushal raj Sharma said sans Covid negative report, entry would not be given to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. There are 9,607 active cases in Varanasi at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admn-urges-people-to-not-visit-kashi-this-month-101618415511681.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Retired cop arrested for murder||Pune police, on Wednesday, arrested a retired police officer for the murder of a notorious criminal from the Bopodi area. Anant Tulshiram Ohal (61), a resident of Bopodi retired as assistant police inspector from the Railway police force. The deceased has been identified as Manish Kaluram Bhosale (20), also a resident of Bopodi. According to police, the accused and deceased both knew each other and Bhosale had five criminal cases registered against him. When Ohal was passing from Anandnagar area to collect his tiffin, Bhosale him and started an argument. After a heated argument, both started beating-up each other after which Bhosale died. Police arrested Ohal and filed a complaint against him. Khadki police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-cop-arrested-for-murder-101618415451733.html
14-04-2021||Other||Ensure there’s no shortage of Covid beds, oxygen, Yogi tells officials||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday told officials that there should be no shortage of Covid beds and oxygen in any district of Uttar Pradesh.“Arrangements for 840 additional beds should be made in Lucknow and effective action should be taken to further increase the number of beds in the state capital,” he said. Sufficient number of ICU beds should be made available in districts with high number of active Covid cases that include Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur and Jhansi, added the CM. Yogi, who was in self-isolation after testing positive for Covid, was reviewing the Covid situation virtually with Team-11 members. He said uninterrupted supply of oxygen should be ensured in Covid hospitals and oxygen cylinders should be regularly replaced in all districts while dialysis machines should be arranged for Covid-19 patients suffering from kidney ailments. He said the chief minister’s office, chief secretary’s office, additional chief secretary (health) and principal secretary (medical education) should regularly monitor arrangements. The CM said the campaign to contain Covid should continue keeping ‘test, trace and treat’ in focus. “Arrangements for additional medical personnel and equipment should be made in private medical colleges being used as Covid hospitals,” emphasized Yogi. He said the state government had sent a special plane to Ahmedabad to get 25,000 Remdesivir injections for the treatment of Covid patients in UP. The medicine would reach the state by Wednesday evening. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the health department to urgently get 25,000 Remdesivir injections from Ahmedabad. As per orders of CM, officers of health department are going to get Remdesivir injections by state government plane from Ahmedabad,” said a tweet from the chief minister’s office. He said testing capacity of laboratories of central institutes should be used and the number of RT-PCR tests be increased in the state. The use of TruNat machines should immediately begin for Covid tests and smooth supply of home isolation kits for Covid patients should be ensured in the state, added Yogi. He said regular communication should be maintained to know about the condition of patients in home isolation and appropriate guidance be given to them. Yogi Adityanath said the use of chief minister’s helpline 1076 should also be made for the purpose while integrated command and control centres should have information about the availability of beds and ambulance services. The CM said quarantine centres should be set up in every district keeping in view arrival of large number of migrants in UP from other states, adding that arrangements for screening, testing and food be made at these centres. “Provisions for containment zones should be strictly implemented. Covid help desks should be run effectively in all government, non-government offices and industrial establishments,” added Yogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-there-s-no-shortage-of-covid-beds-oxygen-yogi-tells-officials-101618415393381.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Long queues across Pune hours before 15-day lockdown||On Wednesday, hours before the 15-day restrictions kicked in, a large number of people could be seen waiting in queues for essential groceries outside supermarkets in Aundh, while those living in Ambedkar Vasahat and Indira Gandhi Nagar could be seen making a beeline for the whole sale stores in their area. People were willing to wait in queues as long as there were enough groceries to last for a month. “I want to take no chances even if the chief minister has announced 15 days of lockdown. Last year, we couldn’t get enough groceries to feed a family of six, hence this time I am not taking any chances and stocking up on essentials like oil, flours, rice,” said Minal Patil, who came as early as 7 am to D-Mart to buy her essentials. However, not everyone is lucky, and some are still not sure how will they make it through the 15-day curfew. Chandrakant Koli, owner of Jai Malhar auto garage is still not sure whether he should keep his shop open or not. He called one of his helpers back to work just a week ago. The helper, Chetan Koli who travelled from Karnataka is wondering if he should go back again. “I just came back a week ago and now with this announcement I haven’t really made enough money to send home, how will I go back? If I stay here, I will have to find a way to find food if there is no work,” said Chetan Koli. CM Uddhav Thackeray in a televised address on Tuesday night announced that his government will spend ₹5,400 crore to support people of the state during the 15-day long state-wide curfew, however most are waiting for officials to tell them where to get the free rations. At Kamgar Putla in Pune where most of the people work in the business of junk and scrap dealers are not aware of whether they are in the register to get the cash transfer scheme that the CM announced. The chief minister had announced a cash transfer scheme for registered construction workers, where ₹1,500 will be deposited in each bank account. “We work on construction sites, to pick up scrap and our wives help with brick and cement work, are we going to get the money?” asked Rajeev Manjrekar, a part-time construction worker. Rekha his wife was keen on knowing when the free rations of three kilogram of wheat and two kilogram of rice will be distributed. Kusum Bengade is a widow and works as a scrap collector said, “I can’t work anymore nor do I have any pension, how will I earn? I am happy to know that CM is giving us wheat and rice but that is not enough. We need oil, masalas, and other ingredients to survive, will someone be providing those too?” Mohammad Kasim who worked at a bag manufactured was caught sitting idle outside his home in Zuna Bazaar in Pune. “Ever since the announcement of lockdown, the owner of the bag manufacturer in the bazaar has shut shop and told us to go home and there is no payment as there is no business, so all this lockdown is doing is making the poor suffer. We had just begun work of stitching bags,” said Kasim. Sheikh Dawood also shut down his tailoring shop.“With people hardly earning any money, I haven’t got orders, and this is the month of Ramzan where people buy or stitch new clothes, but this year, is yet another setback.” Even the handicapped and senior citizens are wondering how to go about for these 15 days. Rekha Kale is handicapped and is taken care by her niece who works as a maid but with restrictions on work and getting tests done every 15 days seems to be an expensive thing.“We would rather wait for free rations and see how things go instead of trying to spend money on Covid-19 tests,” said Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/long-queues-across-pune-hours-before-15-day-lockdown-101618415331696.html
14-04-2021||Pune||First day of Ramzan observed under the shadow of Covid restrictions||On Wednesday, Muslims observed the first day of the fast for Ramzan, it was also the day when the 15-day lockdown announced by the state government ushered in. In light of the restrictions imposed by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, many Muslims chose to offer their prayers at home following an advisory from the Indian Muslims for Progress and Reforms (IMPAR). IMPAR has issued an advisory to the Muslim community for strict adherence to the safety precautions against the Covid -19 pandemic. Social distancing and wearing a mask are a must but there are other precautions that they must follow like following the night curfew, avoiding crowding during iftar ( breaking of fast ) time, avoiding use of loudspeakers during Sahri ( predawn meal).IMPAR also suggests offering prayers and Taraweeh Namaz in their respective homes instead of mosques. It specifies that people should avoid holding lavish iftar parties and instead help the poor and needy as Ramzan is the month of charity, they also list maintaining cleanliness, sanitation and harmonious atmosphere in the neighbourhood. Anjum Inamdar from the Mul Nivasi Muslim Manch said, “We have received the directives and usually on the first few days, people generally avoid going out, for it takes time to get used to the fasting. This year too, we are planning to celebrate Ramzan at home with family and follow all the regulations in place, for we want to help break the chain too and wish for Covid-19 to go away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-day-of-ramzan-observed-under-the-shadow-of-covid-restrictions-101618415272228.html
14-04-2021||Other||‘Covid norms with special kids impossible’||LUCKNOW: Social distancing norms and 50 per cent cut in staff have added to the woes of the shelter homes dealing with special children. Those who run these homes say maintaining social distance is impossible while dealing with special children. Some NGOs that are running shelter homes for special children, have also approached the women and child welfare department demanding exemption. “The city has many shelter homes. But ours is one that deals with special children. Maintaining social distance while handling special children is next to impossible,” said SS Dhapola, owner of Nirvan shelter home. Dhapola said the special children solely depended upon the staff for their daily chores, be it changing of clothes, feeding or any other day to day activity. “The government’s 50 per cent cut in staff order too is adding to our woes as in such a situation we cannot afford to reduce our staff, especially in times of pandemic,” Dhapola added. The situation is no different at Drishti—another shelter home dealing with special children. Officials here said that maintaining social distancing was an impossible task while caring for special children. But they said that in such a case, they were ensuring that 20 of their regular staff stayed at the shelter home itself, in order to avoid any contact with the outsiders. However, the women and child development department (WCD) that governs all the shelter homes is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring strict implementation of Covid 19 guidelines at the shelter homes in UP. As per the records with the district administration, the city has around 31 homes in the city, including observation homes and women shelter homes. “The number includes 8 government run shelter homes and 23 private ones. In all the homes there are around more than 90 employees,” an official said. Jai Pal Verma, who has the charge of the district probation officer (DPO) said they were strictly following WCD orders. “We have curtailed the staff, restricted entry of the outsiders, imposed restriction on routine inspections, made masks compulsory for the inmates and have made the roster for the regular staff,” said Verma. He said they were also conducting regular Covid check-ups of the shelter home staff and children. Last year, a Kanpur shelter home hogged the headline, with a Covid-19 positive employee reportedly passing on the infection to other 57 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-norms-with-special-kids-impossible-101618415271672.html
14-04-2021||Other||Number of daily Covid tests in Meerut insufficient: Experts||MEERUT Amid the Covid-19 surge, the state government has given a daily target of 5,500 tests to be conducted in the district for a population of over 34 lakhs. Medical experts opined that the number of tests fixed by the state government for the district was very small which should be increased to fight effectively with rising cases. The district witnessed 299 positive cases of Covid 19 and two deaths on Tuesday and in the past 12 days, 1580 people have tested positive. Six died during treatment. Medical experts insist on 3 T formula to contain the virus: Tests, Tracking and Treatment’. Dr Anil Nausran, a senior pathologist and former secretary of the Indian Medical Association ( IMA), Meerut unit, explained that testing, tracking and treatment should be done in a massive way to control the virus but unfortunately low number of tests were being carried out, so the actual condition of the pandemic could not be predicted and analysed. Dr Nausran claimed that private labs were charging very high fees for Covid tests and health officials had turned a deaf ear to the issue. “I have filed an RTI to enquire about the fees fixed for private labs for Covid tests but have not received any information yet”, said Dr Nausran who insisted on setting up sample collection centres at all primary and community health centres and at various private hospitals for RT PCR tests, instead of leaving it in the hands of a few private and government labs. District surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan said that the health department had been given a target of conducting 3,500 Rapid Antigen and 2000 RT PCR tests in the district every day. He claimed to be conducting 6,000 to 7,000 tests daily, more than the target. Dr Taliyan said that they were following the guidelines of the central and state governments along with the orders of the high court. Medical experts believe that 5,500 daily tests for a population of over 34 lakhs won’t do much in breaking the chain of the virus, especially when the number of positive cases is on the rise every day. Dr Nausran questioned the methodology on the basis of which the state government fixed the number of tests to be conducted in a district. He said, “ A real situation of the medical emergency would come out only after conducting tests in large numbers”. The health department bulletin claims that 7,312 samples were tested on Tuesday and 299 were found positive. The department has so far sent 1111483 samples for testing so far since the onset of Covid in the district in March last year. This shows that on average, approximately 3,000 samples were tested every day for a population of over 34 lakh in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-daily-tests-in-meerut-insufficient-experts-101618415151621.html
14-04-2021||Pune||CBSE: Relief for Class 10, stress for Class 12, students say||On Wednesday, the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed the Class 12 exams and cancelled the Class 10 exams in light of the rising Covid-19 cases across India. The result for Class 10 will be prepared as per an objective criterion developed by the board. City-based students feel that the decision offers relief to Class 10 students, however, puts Class 12 students in a fix. Roshan Agarwal, a city-based Class 12 student said that the postponement of exams may affect the preparation for competitive exams. “There is a chance that the exams may clash with my competitive exams. Also, unlike Class 10, students have to keep revising for offline exams which divides their concentration. As the Covid cases are increasing, there is a very real possibility that the situation may not improve until May. This will cause more stress to 12th standard students,” said Agarwal. Samruddhi Joshi, a student of Class 12 said that the decision is welcomed, but it puts the Class 12 students under tremendous stress. “We have completed one whole year through online education which in itself was a challenge and now the exams are postponed, it has put a lot of stress on us. We have been studying for exams since the last few days. If the board exam was to get over, we would have finally got some time to relax and then start preparing for competitive exams,” said Joshi. She added that it is becoming stressful and uncertain what will happen when the exams are conducted. “I am trying to stay focused but like most of my classmates I am also much stressed. The exams should be cancelled rather than postponing. It is like testing our patience,” added Joshi. Neha Sharma, a student of Class 10 noted that she is happy with the decision of the board. “The decision is welcomed as students were under a lot of stress due to the Covid-19 situation. Also, the whole year has been a little difficult for us due to online classes but the decision to cancel final board exam is welcome,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cbserelief-for-class-10-stress-for-class-12-students-say-101618415152302.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Thunderstorm, rainfall in parts of city on Wednesday||On Wednesday, Pune city witnessed thundery activity and rainfall in some parts of the city. The city experienced cloudy weather until 6 pm, after which thunderstorms and lightning along with rainfall was reported in many parts of the city. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune city reported the day temperature at 36.2 degrees Celsius which was 1.3 degrees Celsius cooler than normal temperature. Also, the night temperature was reported to be at 19.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. “A partly cloudy sky towards the evening is forecasted on April 15 as well. However, after that the sky will remain clear and no rainfall is forecasted in Pune city,” said IMD officials. Weather department officials also added that the day temperature in the city will not increase more than 38 degrees Celsius in the next few days and the night temperature will be around 19 degrees Celsius. Along with Pune city, other parts of Central Maharashtra also experienced rainfall on Wednesday. As per IMD, Mahabaleshwar reported 1 mm of rainfall and Nashik reported 2 mm of rainfall on Wednesday. Satara reported traces of rainfall on Wednesday as per the weather department. Parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada also reported cloudy weather followed by rainfall at Aurangabad and Akola. “Cloudy weather and rainfall are forecasted until April 15 in Marathwada and Central Maharashtra and rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning is forecasted in Vidarbha until April 16. After that, the state will have dry weather until April 18,” said IMD officials. On Wednesday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 40.1 degrees Celsius at Akola and the lowest minimum temperature in the state was reported at 15.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/thunderstorm-rainfall-in-parts-of-city-on-wednesday-101618415091675.html
14-04-2021||City||Rajasthan imposes night curfew from 6 pm to 6am in all cities from April 16-30||Rajasthan on Wednesday announced a 12-hour night curfew from 6pm to 6am in all cities in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Earlier, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had imposed a night curfew in nine cities of the state with effect from April 10 till April 30.As per the order by the Rajasthan government, the night curfew will be imposed in nine cities-Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Abu Road starting from 8pm to 6am, till April 30. "In Udaipur, the night curfew will start from 6 pm to 6 am", the order said.The state government will be forced to impose stricter measures in Rajasthan if people neglect Covid-19 safety protocols, Gehlot said earlier. He said the second wave of the coronavirus disease and the rising number of cases in the state is a matter of great concern.The government has also decided to postpone the state education board examinations for classes 10 and 12. The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, Ajmer was also directed to promote the students of classes 8, 9 and 10 to the next classes. The decisions were taken by Gehlot after discussions with state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra.Gehlot had earlier held interactions with experts, doctors, leaders of political parties, religious leaders and social workers on the spread of the coronavirus infection in the state and sought their suggestions to handle the situation.Rajasthan on Wednesday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 6,200 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rajasthan-imposes-night-curfew-from-6pm-to-6am-in-all-cities-from-april-1630-101618412021424.html
14-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports highest single-day jump of 11,265 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru Urban contributes 72%||Karnataka on Wednesday reported over 11,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (11,265 to be exact) in its highest-ever, single-day spike, taking the state’s tally to 1,094,912 cases, a bulletin from the state government showed. Also, 38 patients succumbed to the disease and the death toll reached 13,046.Meanwhile, 4,364 patients recovered from the disease on the day. With this, the overall recoveries reached 996,367 and the recovery rate currently stands at 90.99 per cent, according to the latest data.The active caseload also witnessed a significant increase of 6,863 cases and currently stands at 85,480 from the 78,617 reported on the previous day.Today's Media Bulletin 14/04/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/l3xlt3aGUY@mla_sudhakar @PriyankKharge @BelladArvind @kiranshaw @WFRising @BangaloreBuzz @RCBTweets @NammaKarnataka_@ADinfodeptBIDAR @MangaloreCity @allaboutbelgaum @mysuruvarthe pic.twitter.com/FCZwEOECfKThe Covid-19 situation in the state seems to be deteriorating without any respite since the beginning of the second wave of the pandemic in India. Earlier on April 11 (Sunday), the state had registered 10,250 new cases, its highest single-day rise this year previously. Also, the daily new cases breached the 5,000-mark on April 5 (5,279 cases), the 6,000-mark on April 6 (6,150 cases) and the 7,000-mark on April 9 (7,955 cases), all within a span of seven days.Also read | Karnataka issues Covid-19 related guidelines for Ramadan, no large gatheringsWith 8,155 new cases on Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban district alone contributed to nearly 72.4 per cent of the new cases in the state, data from the bulletin showed. The district remains the worst-affected in terms of total confirmed cases reported (502,024) as well as the active caseload (63,167). The district also accounts for 45.85 per cent of the overall cases in the state. However, it leads the list of districts with maximum vaccination coverage, with 1,021,664 doses of the vaccine administered till date, the bulletin showed. Also, 433,923 patients have recovered so far in Bengaluru Urban which is the highest of all districts in Karnataka.Among other districts, Tumakuru with 2,408 cases, Mysuru with 2,385 cases, Kalaburagi with 2,232 cases and Bidar with 2,144 cases contribute the maximum to the state’s active caseload tally.As many as 6,126,622 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the state as of 3.30pm and no severe or serious incidents of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) were reported, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-highest-single-day-jump-of-11-265-new-covid-19-cases-bengaluru-urban-contributes-72-101618411846011.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Non-Covid patients face various challenges due to unavailability of beds||PUNE Amid the surge in Covid cases, non-Covid patients are facing various challenges due to the non-availability of beds and the threat of getting infected.Several hospitals have postponed their planned surgeries, and many patients are left with no option, but to delay their treatment.Maya Gaikwad said that recently her husband had an accident. “His right leg was fractured. We did his preliminary check-up and X-ray at a local doctor. But the doctor said he will need an operation to put a rod in his broken leg. However, after seeing the rush at the government hospital, we decided to take him to another hospital. His operation was done at another private hospital. But the threat continued, what if I test positive for Covid,” said Gaikwad.She further added that due to the ongoing surge in Covid cases, her husband was sceptical of going to the hospital for treatment because of the fear of testing positive. “I have three daughters at home and I work as a house help. If I test positive, I put the lives of my family members at risk,” said Gaikwad.However, hospitals claim they are trying their best to segregate non-Covid patients and treat them on time.Abrarali Dalal, chief operating officer, Sahyadri Hospitals, said that with the number of Covid patients increasing in the last few weeks, there is a challenge to ensure that non- Covid patients do not suffer.“However, with our focus on prioritising critical admissions of non-Covid patients, proper segregation, stricter norms we have been able to deliver proper care especially where there is an emergency or where continuity of treatment is paramount. These include accident victims, heart patients, cancer patients amongst others,” said Dalal.Talking about planned surgeries, Dr Mahesh Lakhe, consultant - internal medicine and infectious diseases, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said that due to a surge in the number of Covid patients in Pune, authorities have directed us to allocate more beds for such patients.“We are doing the rapid test to segregate Covid from non-Covid patients and prevent further spread of the disease. Emergency surgeries for non-Covid patients are going on as per schedule, but planned surgeries which can be done later have been postponed,” said Lakhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noncovid-patients-face-various-challenges-due-to-unavailability-of-beds-101618412091973.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Pune city likely to face shortage of oxygen beds||PUNE Even as patients struggle to get ventilator beds, beds equipped with oxygen supply are rapidly getting occupied and experts fear that Pune may soon face a shortage of oxygenated beds.On Wednesday evening (at 7.15 pm), 46 beds were vacant out of 5,462 allocated oxygen beds in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, according to the numbers on the Pune division Covid dashboard. The city has reported multiple cases wherein people had to struggle to get a bed equipped with an oxygen supply. Roopesh Pitale, who struggled to get his father admitted, said, “My father’s oxygen level dropped on Tuesday. But we struggled to get a bed for him. Finally, after many hours a bed was arranged in Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and I admitted him there.”Hemant Chikhale, a resident of Kharadi shared a similar experience. “My friend’s father was in home isolation, but later due to breathlessness doctors advised us to get him admitted. Even after several hours, we couldn’t get him admitted. My friend had to make alternate arrangements.”Meanwhile, the daily covid report shared by the PMC also indicates that there has been an exponential increase in the number of patients on oxygen support in the last five days. On April 9, at least 4,662 patients were on oxygen support and 1,003 patients were critical. Whereas on April 13, at least 5,181 patients were on oxygen support and 1,086 were critical. So the number of patients who are on oxygen support has increased by 519.PMC officials claimed that they have been trying to increase the availability of oxygenated beds. “Every day we have been adding oxygen beds to the existing capacity. On Wednesday we made oxygen beds available in ESI hospitals. We will add more,” said Dr Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer, PMC. Dr Avinash Bhondave, immediate past president, (Maharashtra) Indian Medical Association, said, “Infection has been growing among comorbid and elderly patients and so the need for oxygen is growing.”“Some people ignore the early symptoms like mild cough, tiredness and take medicine without consulting doctors. They don’t even monitor oxygen level. When they feel severe breathlessness then they come to the doctors. If they consult doctors early then the infection could be managed without oxygen support,” he said.“Another reason is that some are getting CT scans without consulting doctors. When the CT score comes they pressurise doctors to admit them. Also, there is a flawed implementation of home isolation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-likely-to-face-shortage-of-oxygen-beds-101618412091353.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Around 400 from Delhi's Kalyanpuri fall ill after eating adulterated kuttu atta||Around 400 people from Kalyanpuri area of Delhi were hospitalised at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital late on Tuesday night with complaints of stomach ache, diarrhea and vomiting.All the patients, who were admitted to the hospital, are suspected to have consumed adulterated buckwheat (kuttu atta) in dinner."I ate 'kuttu atta' for dinner and started feeling dizzy, after that I vomited. I came here as my stomach ache continued," said one of the admitted patients."Many others admitted here have the same issue," he added.The doctor of the hospital said that the process of bringing these patients started after 11 pm."Many patients that arrived here had common complaints of stomach ache and vomiting. We have admitted all of them and giving them medical assistance," said a doctor of LBS hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/around-400-from-delhi-s-kalyanpuri-fall-ill-after-eating-adulterated-kuttu-atta-101618410920381.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Hotels to be linked with hospitals amid Covid-19 surge: Delhi govt||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government on Wednesday linked some hotels to hospitals, converting them into extended Covid hospitals. "In view of surge in Covid-19 cases and in order to augment Covid hospital bed capacity, these hotels are to be linked to hospitals mentioned against their names for converting them into extended Covid hospitals," the Delhi government said, according to news agency ANI.Some of the hotels that are to be linked include Fraser Suites, Mayur Vihar, Caspia Hotel, Seven Seas Hotel and Banquet Hall and Crowne Plaza Hotel.In view of surge in #COVID19 cases & in order to augment COVID hospital bed capacity, these hotels are to be linked to hospitals mentioned against their names for converting them into extended COVID hospitals: Delhi Govt pic.twitter.com/nUnzzFtfaPEarlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said that the national capital is in talks to add more Covid beds. He also stated the plans to include banquets and hotels as Covid centres."We have 13,000 beds, there's no shortage of ventilators. Patients from Delhi and other states are being admitted. Centre has provided 1,100 beds, talks on (to add more). 286 out of 5,525 Covid care centres are occupied. Banquets, hotels to be included soon,'' Jain said.''Covid cases are rapidly increasing, there's no slowdown. We appeal to people to go out only if necessary. Beds' data is being revised twice a day in the app. People should visit hospitals only after going through the app'', he added.Delhi on Tuesday reported as many as 13,468 new Covid-19 cases in the span of 24 hours, the highest single day spike since the pandemic.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that several steps are being taken to increase the number of beds in both private and government hospitals in the national capital.In view of the rapid increase in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has imposed a night curfew in the national capital from 10pm to 5am on April 6 till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hotels-to-be-linked-with-hospitals-amid-covid-19-surge-delhi-govt-101618409415232.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid vaccine at the comfort of condos: NCR residents say happy to ditch hospital visit||For Monalika Sabharwal, a moderator of Gurgaon Moms and resident of Orchid Petals in Gurugram, it hasn’t been easy to come to terms with life after she lost her father to Covid three months back. “Since the Covid cases are again on the rise, I wanted to get my mother vaccinated, but was very apprehensive to take her to any hospital. I knew it was important for her to get the jab. So when I was informed in advance about a hospital putting up a camp for vaccination, every week or 10 days, in our condo, I decided to take up a slot as it was nothing short of a blessing for us. They kept every patient under observation before going ahead.... and in a day, more than 100 people got vaccinated!”Many societies in Gurgram have been organising such vaccination drives in the condominiums. Many residents feel that these have eased their stress of planning to go afar to get the jab, and RWAs say they are trying to encourage more people to feel comfortable with the vaccination. Priti Anand, secretary, Westend Heights RWA, Gurugram, says, “People were really happy with the drive at their doorstep. The vaccination drive in our condo was conducted last Wednesday, and over 100 people, mostly in the age group of 45 to 60, got their first shot! We are very happy that half the condo has got one dose at least.”Anshu Bhatia, a resident of Sushant Estate, sector 52, Gurugram, is now looking forward to second such drive. “These drives are such a boon,” he says, adding, “One hospital’s team visited our community centre to vaccinate those above 45. It’s a big boon for senior citizens, as they are not comfortable going to the hospital. Some are scared too! But, when they see more people getting it done in their neighbourhood, they tend to get the courage to make up their mind and get themselves vaccinated. Now, I’m waiting for another two weeks to get my mom, who is a cancer patient, vaccinated with the second dose.” Some RWAs in Faridabad have also organised such vaccination drives, which have made RWAs in Delhi and Noida feel the need to emulate them. Rajiva Lochan Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA) hopes to have such drives at the societies in Noida. He says, “With the rise in Covid positive cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar, it has become important that people use masks all the time and get vaccinated at the earliest possible... And to scale up vaccination, we need to reach out to housing societies or high rises. Club houses or baraat ghar (wedding venue) infrastructure can be use for such vaccination camps in Noida as well. This would be quicker as all eligible family members can come in one go to get vaccinated.”“I am senior citizen and we did as a our duty. It is for our own safety. Our society compromises of more senior citizens and we have to take the best care as possible. We had Covid testing and the vaccination drive as well. The response has been good, and the first dose has been given to above 350. It has been very useful for everyone. Now my second dose is due,” says, an RWA member, from Westeng Heights, Gurugram.Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-vaccine-at-the-comfort-of-condos-ncr-residents-say-happy-to-ditch-hospital-visit-101618410713181.html
14-04-2021||Noida||Three feared drowned in canal in Noida||Three people, including a teenager, were feared drowned in a canal in Greater Noida on Wednesday, according to police.The incident took place in the afternoon when the trio had gone for a bath to the canal near Pyavali Tajpur village under the Jarcha police station limits, they said.“All three aged 18, 30 and 32 drowned in the canal while bathing but their bodies are yet to be found. A team of divers is searching the bodies while the local police are overseeing the operations,” a police spokesperson said.Two of the three hailed from Muradnagar in Ghaziabad district while the third was from Kankarkheda in Meerut district, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-feared-drowned-in-canal-in-noida-101618408055003.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Minor girl raped inside her house in Katraj||A man is accused of raping a minor girl in her house in the Sukhsagarnagar area of Katraj on Tuesday. Akshay Sable, a resident of Duttnagar, Katraj, is the accused and the victim’s mother has lodged a complaint at the Bibwewadi police station. According to police, the victim and the accused knew each other. Taking advantage of this, he entered the victim’s house on Tuesday afternoon when the girl was alone at home, and raped her. The victim then informed her mother about the incident. The mother rushed to the police station and lodged a complaint. Bibwewadi police are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-girl-raped-inside-her-house-in-katraj-101618407891034.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Minor driving goods vehicle dies in road accident||A 16-year-old boy driving a goods vehicle on Bopdev ghat met with an accident and lost his life. Three others, also all minors, have been seriously injured in the accident. The boy lost control after trying to overtake and died on the spot. A case has been registered at the Kondhwa police station. All the four are friends, according to police, aged between 16 and 17 years. One of the minors had access to the vehicle at his home and all planned to visit Kanifnath on Monday in the vehicle. On their way back, they stopped to eat vada pav on Bapdev ghat. After this, Omkar was driving the tempo and he tried to overtake another vehicle, but lost control and collided with the vehicle. Two of the four are critically injured and undergoing treatment in hospital. Another unidentified young man is slightly injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-driving-goods-vehicle-dies-in-road-accident-101618407830984.html
14-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 20,510 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest single-day surge since onset of pandemic||Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported its highest single-day surge since the onset of the pandemic with 20,510 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases pushing the tally to 744,021. The death toll in the state also rose to 9,376 with 67 fresh fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours.Uttar Pradesh reported 4,517 recoveries in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally of recoveries to 622,810. Uttar Pradesh's additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, "In the last 24 hours, 20,510 fresh cases were reported while 4,517 people were discharged in this period."The current number of active cases in the state has crossed the one lakh-mark with 111,835 cases. Capital Lucknow, with 31,687 cases, has the highest number of active cases in the state. Lucknow has also registered 5,433 cases in the last 24 hours. Prayagraj and Varanasi also have more than 10,000 active cases of Covid-19. Prayagraj which recorded 1,702 cases in the last 24 hours currently has 11,902 active cases while Varanasi reported 1,585 cases, taking the tally of its active cases to 10,206.Gautam Budh Nagar reported a surge in cases as it recorded 483 cases of Covid-19. The total number of active cases in the Gautam Budh Nagar has now risen to 2,027. Other districts in Uttar Pradesh that have been reporting a surge in daily cases are Kanpur (1,221 cases), Gorakhpur (591 cases), Jhansi (646 cases), Bareilly (405 cases) and Meerut (412 cases).The chief secretary also said that Uttar Pradesh tested 2.10 lakh samples taking the total to over 3.73 crore, while 83 lakh people have been vaccinated so far. Uttar Pradesh along with Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala account for 82.04% of the new Covid-19 cases reported nationwide in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-20-510-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-highest-single-day-surge-101618406926831.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Industries seek more clarity, exemptions on lockdown guidelines||After the state government allowed manufacturing units in the city that are needed by essential services to remain open during the 15-day lockdown, industrialists have sought keeping the units needed to fulfil export obligations functional. There is confusion among industrialists regarding which manufacturing units will be allowed during the 15-day lockdown announced by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday night. In the meeting which was organised by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), Sadashiv Survase, joint director of industries, Pune Region said, “Those units which were regarded as essential and permitted to operate in the first phase of lockdown shall continue to operate. However, these units need to take care to minimise the movement of employees in an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus and should try to operate with minimum manpower.” He stated that the export-oriented units will be permitted to operate subject to the guidelines that need to be followed. The industries department will issue detailed guidelines later. “With 100 per cent supply reserved for medicinal use, few manufacturing units will remain non-functional,” added Survase. As per orders, all units that provide accommodation to the labours, working either in the same campus or in isolated facility from where movement may happen in an isolated bubble with only 10 per cent of managerial staff coming from outside may continue to work. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Following Covid appropriate behaviour by industrialists is a must. It should not be only on paper but to be followed promptly. Industries can hire a service of PMPML or private bus to bring employees to their premises.” Traders’ body unhappy Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) were unhappy with the new order as there was no relaxation for non-essential shops. “Traders are completely disappointed as there has been no relaxation given. This order will bring more burden as traders are already facing many issues for paying bills and the rent of shops,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of FTAP. Sunil Singh, owner of Delight footwear said, “There are many small traders on Laxmi road and they will be impacted badly as their savings have already been consumed during the 2020 lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/industries-seek-more-clarity-exemptions-on-lockdown-guidelines-101618406631031.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Searching for a plasma donor? Delhi Police to the rescue||During the Covid-19 pandemic, the efforts of Delhi Police in curbing the spread of virus have been widely appreciated. And a group of constables from the force has been burning the midnight oil, to provide blood, plasma and platelets, to patients from various parts of the nation. Delhi Police Jivendayani (8800660677) — a Facebook page that connects people in need to police officers who can donate blood or plasma — is the brainchild of constables Ravinder Dhariwal and Amit Phogat, who are posted in the sixth battalion and outer district respectively. “We have been coordinating for blood and platelet donors since 2017... But during the pandemic, our work became even more pronounced since many people couldn’t go out to donate. So we arranged for platelet donation for cancer patients, plasma for Covid patients and blood for accident patients as per the requirement,” says Dhariwal, who has himself donated blood 61 times, so far. Going beyond their call of duty, do they end up making their families feel worried about their health? Probably yes, but it’s the thought of serving the human kind that often echoes in their conscious. Phogat recalls, “Pandemic mein families bolti thi ki jab koi bahar nahi ja raha, toh tumhe kya zarurat hai. But main yehi bolta tha ki yeh toh farz hai hum Police walon ka, logon ki madad karna!” The duo has successfully connected hundreds of police personnel around the city. “We have been doing this for a while, so blood banks, hospitals often have our numbers, and they provide our contact to those in need. Then we circulate the message among our colleagues, who go and donate whatever is required,” says Phogat, who has donated blood and platelets 73 times, a recent donation being the one to a cancer patient. The Police personnel associated with this group, provide donations free of charge. “We have arranged for donation of 200 units of plasma and over 800 units of blood in the Covid year. Yeh kaam toh hum bas apni responsibility samajh ke kar rahe hain. Kisi ki madad kar payein, isse bada sukh kya hai,” adds Dhariwal. Commando Ashish Dahiya, of Delhi Police, is another inspiring cop, who has donated his blood 99 times! He shares how his entire family cautioned him against donating blood initially, but are now big supporters of this cause. Helping people from other states, who are in the Capital for medical help, alongside dispelling rumours about blood donation, he says, “I once saw a young man die due to unavailability of blood at a hospital. It stayed with me, and made me learn more about donating blood. Ever since then, my primary aim has been to help patients who come here from other cities and may not have any contacts for help... People often believe that donating blood can cause weakness in them, and in the pandemic many didn’t venture out to help others. So we tried to make them aware about how safe it is to donate blood.” Dahiya’s work inspired Shankar Lal Rar, Head Constable, Delhi Police, presently posted in outer district’s Narela Police Station. “Ashish was the one who explained the concept of blood donation to me, and even in the pandemic, we have gone out to help anyone who needed it, especially during the lockdown. I recently donated platelets, for the thirty sixth time, and many from Delhi Police, who had recovered from Covid, donated plasma multiple times to others; even if it means travelling long distances after their shift,” says Rar, confessing, “We’ve full support of our seniors, but we aren’t part of this to seek praises. We do this, out of humanity!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-searching-for-a-plasma-donor-delhi-police-to-the-rescue-101618406268289.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai doctor, 2 others arrested for selling Remdesivir in black market||Three men including a doctor were arrested on Tuesday on charges of selling Remdesivir injection in Mumbai’s fast-growing black market for the key antiviral drug for Covid-19 patients that is in short supply, the Mumbai police said on Wednesday.The three allegedly overcharged people prescribed the injection in violation of the law, a Malwani police officer said.The Malwani police had received a tip-off that two people were hoarding injections bought from chemist shops to sell them at a markup to people desperate for the antiviral drug. A decoy customer was sent to the men for buying the injection administered by hospitals to adults with severe complications.Two men, Siddharth Yadav (21) and Rizwan Mansuri (32), a doctor, were arrested a little after 7.30 pm on Tuesday when they turned up at Mumbai’s Charkop Naka to deliver the injections.Shekhar Bhalerao, senior police inspector of Malwani police station, said the two were questioned about their source for the injections. The two men allegedly told the police that a medical representative, Chiranjiv Vishwakarma, arranged for the injections and was expected to meet them soon to pick up the money from their sale.Vishwakarma showed up and was also arrested.Vishwakarma allegedly told the police that he had bought the injections from the Hayaat hospital medical shop.The gang had offered three injections for total price of Rs. 59,000 as against the retail price of about Rs. 1,400 per injection.There have been reports of shortage of the injection from several states including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Jharkhand over the last few days and weeks. The Centre has insisted that there was overall no shortage of the drug but advocated its rational use.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul on Tuesday said it should not be used for patients at home. “The patient has to be on oxygen therapy, and the drug is supposed to be supplied only to hospitals and not to be sold in retail… It is not meant for everyone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctor-2-others-arrested-for-selling-covid-19-drug-remdesivir-in-black-market-101618404105729.html
14-04-2021||Kolkata||Air passengers to Bengal asked to undergo RT-PCR test 72 hours before departure||The West Bengal government on Wednesday issued a directive to air passengers coming to the state from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Telegana to carry reports of their RT-PCR negative status conducted 72 hours before boarding the flights, a senior official said.The directive was given in view of the surge in coronavirus cases in the country, mostly in the four states, he added."The test has to be carried out 72 hours prior to the passenger's departure for Bengal. There is no provision of getting the test done on arrival. The rule also applies for flights departing from the four states mentioned and are bound for Bagdogra and Andal (both in West Beengal) ," he added.Bengal joins 10 other states that have imposed similar restriction, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/air-passengers-to-bengal-asked-to-undergo-rt-pcr-test-72-hours-before-departure-101618403889470.html
14-04-2021||Bangalore||No dearth of Covid-19 vaccine, medicine in Karnataka: Health minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday said there is no dearth of either Covid-19 vaccines or medicines in the state."I am reiterating there is no dearth of Covid-19 medicine or vaccines in Karnataka. Luckily, all the three companies manufacturing Remedisivir are in Karnataka and they have assured me the supplies," Sudhakar told media."Government will procure the medicine not only for its own stock but also for private hospitals," the Health Minister added.Earlier, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai ruled out the possibility of lockdown following a surge in coronavirus cases and said that an all-party meeting has been called along with a technical advisory committee to review the Covid situation in the state.The meeting will be conducted on April 18 and the committee will suggest the measures needed to be taken to curb the coronavirus situation in the state.Karnataka reported 2,632 new Covid-19 cases, 6,079 discharges, and 67 deaths on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-dearth-of-covid-19-vaccine-medicine-in-karnataka-health-minister-101618403163017.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai restrictions: Will maids be allowed? Are home deliveries permitted?||During the stricter lockdown period in Mumbai that is all set to kick in from 8pm from Wednesday and will go on till till May 1, house-helps would be allowed to work, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner IS Chahal has said. However, there might be some restrictions, which will be clarified in detailed guidelines, the BMC chief said.In the order of Section 144 and night curfew, the government said the decision regarding inclusion of domestic help/drivers/attendants to work in the 'exceptions' category will be taken by local authorities based on local conditions.New restrictions in Maharashtra from today. Here’s what’s allowedIn these 15 days of stricter restrictions, only essential services will be allowed to function during the day time. The BMC has categorised e-commerce as an essential service but has emphasised that people engaged in home deliveries should be get vaccinated as fast as possible, according to the vaccine guideline of the Centre i.e. delivery personnel above 45 years have been asked to get vaccinated.Since residential apartments in Mumbai have emerged as hotspots, the BMC has tightened delivery rules for highrises. All home deliveries to buildings with more than one family will have to be restricted to the entrance of the building. From the entrance, apartment staff will ensure doorstep delivery. The civic body has also drawn up a provision to penalise the delivery personnel in case Covid-19 guidelines are not followed.The Maharashtra government has imposed a lockdown-like situation in the entire state to break the chain of the transmission which has recorded its highest spike in April. Instead of imposing a complete lockdown, the government has orders a strict imposition of section 144 in the entire state, banning the assembly of five or more people. According to the government order, all non-essential activities will remain suspended during this time. Public transport, on the other hand, will remain in operation with some restrictions.Before Section 144, the government imposed night curfew and weekend lockdown in the state but, with little result, resorted to stricter norms.Under BMC area, there are 90 active Covid-19 containment zones, which mostly comprises slums and chawls. Apart from these, there are 995 active sealed buildings, which are residential societies and highrises. The D ward, comprising Malabar Hill, Girgaon, Tardeo, Grant Roadm napean Sea Road, Khetwadi, has emerged as the hotbed of the infection with 218 sealed buildings. The KW ward, including Juhu, Versova, Andheri West, has 214 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lockdown-will-maids-be-allowed-are-home-deliveries-permitted-101618402789811.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Railways stations, shops in Mumbai see crowding as Maharashtra imposes curfew to curb Covid-19||A day after the Maharashtra government announced curfew-like restrictions on public movement for the next 15 days across the state, to check the spread of the rising cases of coronavirus disease, a large crowd gathered at Mumbai's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) station in Mumbai on Wednesday even as the personnel of the Central Railway appealed to the people not to panic and avoid crowding.Those who had gathered had gone to the station in a bid to leave the city, amid fear of a prolonged lockdown that the country witnessed last year when the suburban train services across the city were suspended at midnight of March 22 and gradually resumed from June 15.Many people had gathered at major departmental stores and groceries to stock up on essentials even. Shops and stores selling essential goods have been kept outside the purview of the curfew.Reeling under an unprecedented Covid-19 wave, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced severe, curfew-like restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days across the state.WATCH| Covid update: India fast tracks vaccine approval; US calls for J&J vaccine pauseThe restrictions, however, exclude essential services and will come into effect from 8pm on Wednesday and remain in force till 7am on May 1.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), prohibiting the assembly of more than five people, will be in force during the period.As per the order issued by the Mumbai police, all establishments, public places, activities, services, shall remain closed and nobody will visit public places without a valid reason.The services and activities mentioned in the essential category are exempted from the order during the period. They are also exempted from 7am to 8pm on working days and their movement and operations will remain unrestricted, the order stated.People have been asked to follow the social distancing norms, use a face mask and observe the directions of the state government issued to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Maharashtra reported its second-highest single-day infection spike on Tuesday with 60,212 cases, taking the tally to 3,519,208. The death toll from the pandemic touched 58,526, with 281 reported deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-stations-shops-in-mumbai-see-crowding-as-maharashtra-imposes-curfew-to-curb-covid19-101618396871303.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal urges Centre to vaccinate journalists against Covid-19 on priority||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said journalists should be treated as frontline workers and allowed vaccinations on priority, adding that the Delhi government is writing to the Centre in this regard. "Journalists are reporting from most adverse situations. They should be treated as frontline workers and should be allowed vaccination on priority. Delhi govt is writing to centre in this regard," Kejriwal told news agency ANI.Delhi on Tuesday recorded the highest-ever spike of 13,468 cases and 81 deaths due to the coronavirus infection. According to the health department bulletin released on Tuesday evening, the total number of active cases in the city has gone up to 43,510.As the coronavirus disease continued to spike, Kejriwal said plasma stocks to treat Covid-19 patients are running very low and appealed to those who have recovered from the infection to be proactive in donating it."This (fourth) wave is very dangerous. According to data of last 10-15 days, 65 per cent of patients are below 45 years of age. Your health and life are very important to us. So, I would like to appeal to the youth to step out of the house only when it is necessary and follow all Covid protocols," Kejriwal said yesterday.He also appealed to people whose condition improves to shift to home isolation so beds can be utilised for patients in severe condition.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain has said that there are enough hospital beds available for coronavirus patients. Jain said, "Currently we have 13,000 beds and there is no shortage of ventilators. Patients from Delhi and other states are being admitted."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-urges-centre-to-vaccinate-journalists-against-covid-19-on-priority-101618400604056.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Low-key Navratri celebrations begin in Bihar, temples shut down amid Covid-19 spike||Amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, devotees in Patna held low-key Navratri celebrations which began on Tuesday. The nine-day festival will conclude on April 21.Scaling down the celebrations in view of social distancing, a majority of devotees offered prayers at their homes while some opted for indoor ‘Kalash Sthapana’. Prominent temples in the city shut down to prevent large congregations following the Bihar government’s instructions for closure of religious places till April 30.Despite the closure of temples, hundreds of devotees were spotted near the Mahavir Mandir, Patan Devi Mandir, Shitila Mandir and Durga Sthan to offer prayers from beyond the gate.Considering religious sentiments of devotees, a few temples resorted to virtual platforms for live darshan, donation, and online booking for ‘prasad’. Mahavir Mandir near Station Road has started online booking for Naivedyam ladoo during Navratri.Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Mahavir Mandir Trust said, “Following Covid-19 guidelines, we have restricted entry of devotees. However, puja rituals are being performed by the priest will full religious fervour and gaiety. Devotees can book ‘prasad’ online and we also have provisions of live ‘aarti’ darshan for devotees.”“More than 50,000 devotees visit the temple on Tuesdays and Thursdays while the footfall of devotees increases manifold during festivals. In the 300-year history of the temple, entry of devotees has been restricted for the second time owing to the outbreak of Covid-19,” he claimed.Sharing details about online booking, a trust member said, “Devotees can now book prasad online through an order request on mahavirnaivedyam@gmail.com or WhatsApp number 9334468400. We ensure same day delivery for bookings received before 4pm.”Similarly, Chhoti Patan Devi Temple has also resorted to online platforms for puja and darshan. The temple’s priest, Acharya Vivek Dwivedi, said, “Entry of devotees have been restricted to prevent mass gathering. We have provision for live streaming of ‘aarti’ and ‘havan’ via social media platforms. Those devotees who wish to perform puja can send their details and donations on WhatsApp number 7250901265. Our priest will perform puja with their names.”Devotees, however, rued that closure of temples had dampened the festive spirit. Pratima Mishra (65), a resident of Kankarbagh, said, “I wanted to visit Badi and Chhoti Patan Devi to seek blessings as I go there every year during Navratri. Religious places should have not closed completely and 50% visitors should have been allowed to enter at a time.”Small vendors selling puja articles near temples shared that they were suffering losses due to the closure of temples. Soni Kumari, a flower seller near Station Road, said, “Sale of flowers, leaves , garlands and other articles have declines by 80%. At least, 100 customers used to visit my stall on a daily basis in a normal situation. Usually, sales increase during festivals but we are suffering losses this time due to the sudden closure of temples.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lowkey-navratri-celebrations-begin-in-bihar-temples-shut-down-amid-covid-19-spike-101618402185720.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's 69 out of 94 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators fully occupied||Amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital, COVID-19 ICU beds with ventilators are fully occupied in 69 of 94 hospitals with such facilities and only 79 beds are vacant, according to data shared on an official app on Wednesday.According to the Delhi Corona App till about 2 PM, in 75 of the 110 hospitals, all COVID-19 ICU beds without ventilators had patients.Out of 1,177 COVID ICU beds with ventilators, only 79 were vacant, while 348 out of 2,130 COVID ICU beds without ventilators were vacant, according to the app.Also, out of the total 13,680 beds, 9,041 were occupied.Reeling under the fourth wave of COVID-19, the national capital on Tuesday recorded the highest-ever spike of 13,468 cases and 81 deaths due to the infection, giving it the dubious distinction of being the worst-affected city in the county.The highest single-day spike till now was in Mumbai at 9,986 cases, followed by Bengaluru (6,387 cases), Chennai (2,105 cases) and Kolkata ( 1,271 cases).On Tuesday, the positivity rate rose to 13.14 percent from 12.44 percent a day ago.The 81 deaths in Delhi were the highest since December 3 when 82 deaths were recorded. The national capital had recorded 131 COVID-19 deaths on November 18, the highest single-day fatality count.From April 4 to April 13, Delhi has recorded 77,775 COVID-19 cases, witnessing a massive rise of 234 percent. During the same period, 376 people have died due to the disease.As per the Delhi Corona App, 69 hospitals where no COVID ICU beds with ventilators were vacant included Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (100 such beds in total), Safdarjung Hospital (50), BSA Hospital (30) and Max hospital at Patparganj (10).Also, Apollo hospital (8) and Fortis hospital at Shalimar Bagh (5 such beds in total) were fully occupied, as per the app.The 75 hospitals, where COVID-19 ICU beds without ventilators were fully used by patients, included LNJP Hospital (100 such beds in total), GTB Hospital (100), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (55) and Max hospital at Patparganj (44 such beds in total).In Delhi, the cumulative coronavirus case count stands at 7,50,156, and the death toll is now 11,436, according to the Tuesday health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-69-out-of-94-covid-19-icu-beds-with-ventilators-fully-occupied-101618400014162.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid rush, hospitals seek HP govt help to increase capacity||The surge in Covid-19 cases is pushing pressure on the state’s health infrastructure with the two main hospitals, Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla, and Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, working on full capacity. The hospital managements have sought help from the government to increase the number of beds. The IGMC has a total bed capacity of 100 and it is almost full. “We are making arrangements to increase the capacity in the hospital. The patient rush is increasing by the day,” said senior medical superintendent Janak Raj Pakhretia. Also read: Over 1,000 test positive for Covid-19 at Kumbh Mela in 48 hoursThe IGMC is also facing problems in handling bodies “On Tuesday evening, three patients died, and we can only keep four bodies in a mortuary at a time,” he said. The five medical colleges in the state have a total capacity of 300 beds. To help cope with the patient load, Deen Dayal Hospital in Shimla will be turned into a Covid care centre. “We have the facilities to do so when the need arises,” Shimla chief medical officer Surekha Chopra said. At present, the bodies of Covid patients are being cremated at the Kanlog crematorium, which is also used for cremating non-Covid dead. In November-end last year, the crematorium staff was overwhelmed due to the spurt in Covid-19 deaths and the government had initiated a move to create another ground for the last rites of the Covid dead. The chief minister’s office had asked the urban development department to develop a facility in Sanjauli for Covid fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-rush-hospitals-seek-hp-govt-help-to-increase-capacity-101618399125546.html
14-04-2021||Jaipur||Political appointments, Cabinet shuffle will be done without delay: Pilot||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Wednesday expressed confidence that the party will win all the three Rajasthan assembly seats going for bypolls on April 17. Addressing media at the state party office, Pilot also said that political appointments and Cabinet reshuffle will be done without delay. “I believe Congress will win on all three assembly seats [Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand]. We have taken the government works and achievements to the public. People are unhappy with the divide and clashes there in the BJP – they have failed in fulfilling the role of strong Opposition,” said Pilot. He added that the Centre too had failed on all fronts -- such as inflation and agriculture laws – and people were watching this. On political appointments, he said, “Our government has completed 2-1/2 years and has fulfilled many of the promises. The remaining ones need to be fulfilled swiftly, which include political appointments, Cabinet reshuffle.” Pilot also said a committee, to address grievances within the party, was constituted but veteran leader Ahmed Patel passed away. “I have full faith that there will be no more delay, and whatever issues were raised, and consensus was built – immediate action will be and should be taken.” “I have faith on AICC chief Sonia Gandhi as the committee was formed on her directions. The committee now has two members. The bypolls will be soon over and even the assembly election in some states – I don’t think there should be any further delay in implementing the decisions of the committee,” said the former deputy chief minister. In response to Pilot’s assertion that his party will win all the three seats, BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said people will vote against the 2.5 years of the state government. The government has failed in fulfilling the promises. The law and order situation is deteriorating. BJP is united and it’s the Congress which is a divided house, he said. Meanwhile, the BJP also sought the deployment of Central paramilitary forces for the bypolls, accusing the ruling Congress of misusing government machinery and threatening voters.A delegation of BJP leaders met Governor Kalraj Mishra and requested him to apprise the Election Commission of the issues raised by them in a representation handed over to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/political-appointments-cabinet-shuffle-will-be-done-without-delay-pilot-101618398945484.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Man demands sexual favours from Covid-19 patient in Mumbai, arrested||A medical coordinator has been arrested for allegedly outraging the modesty of a Covid-19 patient quarantined at a hotel in suburban Andheri here, police said on Wednesday.The matter came to light on Monday when the victim called the police control room and lodged a complaint, an official said.According to the police, the woman was quarantined at a hotel in Andheri MIDC area after she tested positive for coronavirus.The accused allegedly accosted the victim, tried to molest her and demanded sexual favours, he said.Based on the victim's complaint, a case under section 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman) of the IPC was registered against the accused, who has been sent to 14 days in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-demands-sexual-favours-from-covid-19-patient-in-mumbai-arrested-101618395240718.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Enough hospital beds available for Covid-19 patients, assures Satyendar Jain||Amid a surge in Delhi's Covid-19 cases, Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that there are enough hospital beds available for coronavirus patients.Speaking to the media, Jain said, "Currently we have 13,000 beds and there is no shortage of ventilators. Patients from Delhi and other states are being admitted."Elaborating on the arrangements that have been made, the Health Minister said the Central government has provided 1,100 beds and talks are going on to add more hospital beds.He said that 286 out of 5,525 Covid Care Centres are occupied in Delhi. To set up more centres, banquets halls and hotels will be included soon, he added.The Health Minister said that there is no slowdown in Covid cases, the numbers of coronavirus cases are rapidly increasing and appealed to people to stay home."The numbers of hospital beds (for availability) is being revised twice a day on the Delhi Corona App," he said adding that people should visit hospitals only after going through the app.A new surge of 13,468 Covid-19 cases -- the highest single-day spike so far -- and 81 deaths were reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours. According to the health department bulletin released on Tuesday evening, the total number of active cases in the city has gone up to 43,510.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/enough-hospital-beds-available-for-covid-19-patients-assures-satyendar-jain-101618396531969.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Ramadan 2021: Bombay HC denies permission for mass prayers at Mumbai mosque||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday refused permission to a city-based trust to allow people to offer Namaz at its mosque in south Mumbai during the Ramadan period, saying the COVID-19 situation was "serious and critical" and the safety of citizens was more importance.A vacation bench of Justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht noted that the Maharashtra government found it expedient to impose restrictions to break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus."The right to celebrate or follow a religious practice is important, but what is more paramount and of importance is public order and the safety of citizens," the court said.It was hearing a petition filed by the Juma Masjid Mosque Trust, seeking permission to allow people from the Muslim community to offer the prayers five times a day at its mosque in south Mumbai.The petitioner said the mosque is spread over an acre and around 7,000 people can assemble at a time.However, considering the COVID-19 situation, only 50 persons would be allowed at a time to offer prayers during the Ramadan period and all safety precautions would be followed, it said.Additional Government Pleader Jyoti Chavan, appearing for the Maharashtra government, opposed the plea and said the situation in Mumbai and Maharashtra is alarming."We cannot make an exception to any religion, especially in this 15-day period. We cannot take a risk at this stage and all citizens should cooperate," Chavan said.She said the government was not prohibiting any person from practising his/her religion, but they should do it in their homes.The court while dismissing the plea said it cannot consider the petitioner's request in view of the COVID-19 situation which is "serious and critical in nature"."In our view, the restrictions imposed by the state government are due to the COVID-19 circumstances. Considering the prevailing situation and ground reality in Maharashtra, we cannot permit the petitioner to perform prayers at the mosque," the HC said.The government's order of restrictions is in public interest and for the safety of all residents of Maharashtra, it said.The bench noted that in the past, several courts across the country refused permission to many other religious congregations due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Reeling under an unprecedented COVID-19 wave, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced severe restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days across the state.As part of the curbs, all religious places and malls shall remain shut.The restrictions, which exclude essential services, will come into effect from 8 pm on Wednesday and remain in force till 7 am on May 1.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot, will be in force during this period, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ramadan-2021-bombay-hc-denies-permission-for-mass-prayers-at-mumbai-mosque-101618394226668.html
14-04-2021||Jaipur||BJP seeks deployment of para forces for Assembly bypolls in Rajasthan||The BJP on Wednesday sought the deployment of central paramilitary forces for the bypolls to three Assembly seats in Rajasthan, accusing the ruling Congress of misusing government machinery and threatening voters.A delegation of BJP leader met Governor Kalraj Mishra and requested him to apprise the Election Commission of India of the issues raised by them in a representation handed over to him.The bypolls to the Assembly constituencies of Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand are scheduled for April 17.In the representation given to the governor, state BJP president Satish Poonia and other leaders accused the Congress of misusing government machinery in the Assembly constituencies.They alleged that the state government is threatening and pressuring voters to vote for the Congress in the elections.They requested Mishra to get the paramilitary forces deployed for the bypolls.The delegation also gave another representation to the governor, demanding an impartial probe by a sitting high court judge into the communal violence in Baran district's Chhabra town on Sunday.Poonia said the main accused involved in the violence have not been arrested as the Congress government is following the policy of appeasement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-seeks-deployment-of-para-forces-for-assembly-bypolls-in-rajasthan-101618394136733.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dalit to be Punjab deputy CM if SAD voted to power: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday announced that if his party was voted to power in 2022, the deputy chief minister would be a Dalit. Addressing a gathering after paying tributes to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary, the former deputy chief minister announced that the SAD will set up a university in Doaba named after the architect of the Constitution. He was accompanied by the SAD Nakodar MLA Gurpratap Singh Wadala and his Adampur counterpart Pawan Kumar Tinu. Dalits constitute 32% of the state’s population and are concentrated in Punjab’s Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. A majority of them belong to the Ravidasia community. “The Akali Dal is proud to follow the ideals of Dr BR Ambedkar. We are committed to working for the weak and downtrodden. Once the SAD forms the government in Punjab in 2022, the deputy CM will be from the Dalit bhaichara. We will also establish a university in Doaba in Babasaheb’s name,” Sukhbir tweeted. On an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Ferozepur member of Parliament said: “We have been in talks but will make an announcement once a tie-up is finalised.” All parties wooing Dalit votebank The Congress, BJP, Akalis and the Aam Aadmi Party have been going all out to woo Dalits in the state. In March, the Punjab government proposed to spend ₹100 crore on a BR Ambedkar Museum at Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University in Kapurthala during the budget session of the assembly. “The museum will be on the lines of the Statue of Unity in Gujarat,” said finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. He also proposed a BR Ambedkar Institute of Management at IKGPTU, Kapurthala. In Februray, the BJP appointed Dalit leader and former Hoshiarpur MP Vijay Sampla as the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. In 2016, before the Punjab assembly elections, the Aam Aadmi Party also promised a Dalit deputy chief minister if voted to power. During Wednesday’s function of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Covid-19 guidelines were given the go-by. Poll optics, says Amarinder In Chandigarh, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh trashed Sukhbir’s statement as nothing but ridiculous poll optics. The Congress leader said the SAD and the BJP had failed to ensure the welfare of Dalits in the state for 10 years and were now resorting to political gimmickry to woo the community with an eye on the 2022 elections. “Sukhbir Badal is now promising a deputy chief minister but has nothing to show what he or his party, in alliance with the BJP ever did for the community,” the chief minister said, terming it a political antic aimed at misleading the people with an eye on votes. “It was ridiculous the way the BJP had also quickly jumped on to the wagon to promise a Dalit chief minister if it is elected by the people of Punjab,” he said, adding that given the angst against the party in the state over the farmers’ issue, even finding one winnable candidate would be a challenge for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalit-to-be-punjab-deputy-cm-if-sad-voted-to-power-sukhbir-101618393845406.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: Navratri festival starts on a low-key note in Patna amid Covid curbs||The nine-day long Navratri festival started on a low-key note in Bihar’s capital of Patna on Tuesday. Most of the devotees offered prayers indoors since religious places were shut down by the state government till April 30 in view of the rapidly climbing Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic.However a few hundred disciples still gathered outside some famous temples ignoring administration’s appeals. Bihar reported 4,157 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday with Patna adding 1,205 new infections- the highest single-day spike, taking the active Covid-19 cases in the state to 20,148, as per official data.Devotees were spotted offering prayers near the gates of Mahavir Mandir, Patan Devi Mandir, Shitila Mandir and Durga Sthan.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said a dedicated team was ensuring adherence to restrictions imposed on religious gatherings. “Police patrolling team is also keeping a strict vigil on crowded places to disperse crowds at public places. Besides, we are carrying out awareness drives through loudspeakers to sensitise people for maintaining social distancing,” he added.Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, a former superintendent of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) said incidents of crowding during festivals posed a grave health risk.“While administration has to make sure people do not gather in and around temples, the priests should also discourage devotees to come to the temples during the festival days,” he said and add, “The same should also be followed during the four-day long Chhath festival in the state.”Few temples had made arrangements for virtual live darshan, online donation and booking for ‘prasad’. Mahavir Mandir near the Station Road has started live aarti darshan and online booking for Naivedyam ladoo.“Following the Covid-19 guidelines, we have restricted entry of devotees. However, puja rituals are being performed by the priest with full religious fervour and gaiety. Devotees can online book ‘prasad’ and we also have provision of live ‘arti’ darshan for devotees,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Mahavir Mandir Trust.“More than 50,000 devotees visit the temple on Tuesdays and Thursdays while footfall of devotees increases manifold during festivals. Entry of devotees has been restricted for the second time owing to Covid-19 outbreak,” he claimed.Similarly, Chhoti Patan Devi Temple has also resorted to online platforms for puja and darshan. Temple’s priest Acharya Vivek Dwivedi, said, “Entry of devotees has been restricted to prevent mass gathering. We have provision for live streaming of ‘aarti’ and ‘havan’ via social media platforms. Those devotees who wish to perform puja can send their details and donations on WhatsApp number. Our priest will perform puja in their names.”Meanwhile, small vendors selling puja articles near temples said the closure of temples was causing them a big loss. “Sale of flowers, leaves, garlands and other articles have decreased by 80%. At least 100 customers visit my stall on a daily basis in normal situations. Usually, sales go up during festivals but we are suffering loss this time due to the closure of temples,” said Soni Kumari, a flower seller near Station Road.Some devotees rued that closure of temples dampened the festive spirit. “I wished to visit Badi and Chhoti Patan Devi for seeking blessings as I visit there every year during Navratri. Religious places should have not been closed completely and 50% devotees should have been allowed to enter at a time,” said Pratima Mishra (65), a resident of Kankarbagh area in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-navratri-festival-starts-on-a-low-key-note-in-patna-amid-covid-curbs-101618393305237.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Leopard cub rescued from feral dogs in Pune district||A two-month-old leopard cub was saved from feral dogs that were chasing it by the residents of Pune’s Papalwadi village before getting reunited with his mother early Tuesday in Khed taluka of the district by the forest officials.The leopard was found unhurt in the medical examination at the Wildlife SOS leopard rescue centre at Junnar taluka, where it was brought by the forest department officials after its rescue from the village.“The cub is a male, estimated to be 2-months-old. Luckily, he did not sustain any injuries and was able to recover quickly from the stressful ordeal. We thank the people of Papalwadi village for their compassion and for saving the cub’s life,” said Dr. Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS.Pradeep Kasare, a range forest officer in Khed, also thanked the residents of Papalwadi for acting swiftly to save the baby leopard.The next day, the cub was put inside a small enclosure in a sugarcane field close to where he was first seen by the villagers, and remote-controlled camera traps were installed to photograph the cub’s reunion with its mother, which happened in the very first attempt, said officials. The cub was excited to spot his mother emerging from the field. She rushed to him, sniffed curiously around the box before pushing it open to fetch her child and vanished into the wild.“Over the years, the wild cats of Maharashtra have suitably adapted to habitat modification and have moved out of the shrinking forests, and into the dense sugarcane fields. Female leopards often leave their young under the cover of the sugarcane fields while they go hunting. However, these cubs face the risk of being exposed because farmers move around the fields, especially during the harvest season,” Wildlife SOS said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-cub-rescued-from-feral-dogs-in-pune-district-101618392705802.html
14-04-2021||Lucknow||Alarmed by rising cases, Priyanka Gandhi holds meeting with Cong UP leaders||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday held a virtual meeting with party leaders of Uttar Pradesh to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, Priyanka Gandhi and other party leaders discussed the deteriorating situation of coronavirus in the state.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh reported 18,021 new Covid-19 cases and 85 deaths Tuesday as India reported the highest-ever one-day spike with over 1.8 lakh Covid-19 cases, 1,027 deaths on Tuesday, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Also, in view of the shortage of Remdesivir in Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed the state health department to acquire 25,000 injections of Remdesivir from Gujarat's Ahmedabad on an urgent basis.According to the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), the officers of the Health Department left for Ahmedabad to get 25,000 Remdesivir injections at 10.40 am today.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug to fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/alarmed-by-rising-cases-priyanka-gandhi-holds-meeting-with-cong-up-leaders-101618389710563.html
14-04-2021||Ranchi||Record 29 single-day deaths push Jharkhand's Covid-19 toll to 1,261||Jharkhand reported a record 29 Covid-19 deaths in a single day, pushing the toll to 1,261, while the tally climbed to 1,44,594 with 2,844 fresh cases, a health department official said on Wednesday.The state now has 17,155 active cases following the recovery of 1,26,178 patients, he said.State capital Ranchi reported the highest number of single-day deaths as well as new infections - 6 and 1,049, respectively.Altogether, 34,155 samples have so far been tested for Cov-19, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/record-29-single-day-deaths-push-jharkhand-s-covid-19-toll-to-1261-101618389911029.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 4 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses from Centre, sufficient till April 15||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said that the state demanded 15 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses from the Centre but received only 4 lakh doses which are sufficient for vaccination till April 15."We had demanded 15 lakh vaccine doses in meeting with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan but received only 4 lakh doses on April 11, which is sufficient for vaccination till April 15," Sidhu said.Earlier on April 10, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said that the state has only five days of Covid-19 vaccines left.He took part in a meeting convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi of Congress-ruled states and Congress ministers from alliance states to review the efforts to fight Covid-19 including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators."Punjab is left with only five days of supply (5.7 lakh Covid vaccine doses) at the current levels of vaccinating 85000-90000 persons a day. If the state is able to meet its target of 2 lakh vaccines a day, then its current supplies will last only 3 days," the Punjab CM had said during the meeting held through video conference.The Punjab Health Minister further informed that his teams are working round the clock to control the surge in Covid-19 infections in the state.He added that the number of testing has increased from 100 per day since the pandemic started to 50,000 per day.Punjab on Tuesday reported 3,003 new Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths, as per the state health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-gets-4-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-from-centre-sufficient-till-april-15-101618389658953.html
14-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to procure 25,000 Remdesivir injections from Gujarat||Uttar Pradesh health officials were on Wednesday sent to Ahmedabad to procure 25,000 Remdesivir injections on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's directions.Remdesivir is considered a key antiviral drug in fight against Covid-19, especially among adults with severe complications."CM has directed Health department for urgent procurement of 25,000 Remdesivir from Ahmedabad. For this, directors and officials of the department are going to Ahemdabad on a state plane today itself," a tweet by the Chief Minister's Office said.Amid acute shortage of the medicine, the Centre has prohibited the export of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-procure-25-000-remdesivir-injections-from-gujarat-101618389001988.html
14-04-2021||Patna||Danapur-Bhagalupr Intercity Express looted, several injured||Valuables worth ₹5 lakh were robbed from D6 and D8 coaches of Danapur-Bhagalpur bound Intercity Express (03402) on Tuesday night in Bihar’s Munger district between the Jamalpur--Sultanganj section of the Indian Railways. The dacoits, said to be more than 15 in number, also broke the windows of the train’s air conditioned compartments, injuring at least six passengers before escaping to the nearby forests in the dark, said railway officials.More than 15 robbers entered the D6 and D8 compartments after the train was stopped by pulling the chain near Rishikund Halt, 15 kilometres from Jamalpur Junction at 10.15pm. Cell phones, cash and ornaments worth ₹5 lakh were looted in about 20 minutes, during which the dacoits also tried unsuccessfully to enter the A/C compartments. In frustration, they pelted stones and broke a few windows, injuring some passengers. Two police personnel were also injured, officials added.“The train stopped in a dense forest. Within minutes, I felt my chain [was] being pulled by someone,” said a passenger Ritesh Raj. When he raised an alarm, he was beaten up by the gang, he said.Some injured passengers alleged that the escort team, travelling in the AC compartment, did not intervene when passengers in D-6, D-8 compartments were being looted. However, railway officials claimed the security escort thwarted robbers’ attempts to enter the A/C compartments.The area of the incident is said to be a Maoist stronghold. According to Jamalpur Rail superintendent of police (SP) Amir Javed, the General Railway Police (GRP) and district police officials picked up clues from the dacoity spot. “The Munger district police picked up certain clues and assured that the gang will be caught soon,” said Javed. A complaint was lodged with the Bhagalpur GRP on the basis of the statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/danapurbhagalupr-intercity-express-looted-several-injured-101618386164946.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||5,056 new Covid-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra's Thane||Thane has reported 5,056 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 3,90,124, an official said on Wednesday.These new cases were recorded on Tuesday, he said.The virus also claimed the lives of 27 more people, pushing the death toll in Thane to 6,760, he said, adding that the Covid-19 mortality rate in the district is 1.73 per cent.So far, 3,25,669 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 83.48 per cent.There are 57,695 active Covid-19 cases in the district at present, the official said.In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 60,665 and the death toll at 1,269, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5056-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101618382558368.html
14-04-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh sees record spike of 8,998 Covid-19 cases; 40 more die||Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday saw its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases after 8,998 people were detected with the infection, taking the state's tally to 3,53,632, an official said.The day also saw 40 deaths, taking the toll to 4,261, and 4,070 people got discharged from hospitals, which increased the recovery count to 3,05,832, he added.Underlining the severity of the surge, the official said MP had recorded 58,121 cases and 275 fatalities in April so far, leaving the state currently with an active caseload of 43,539."With 1,552 new cases, Indore's caseload reached 80,986. Bhopal's tally rose by 1,456 and stands at 60,407. Indore reported six deaths during the day, taking its toll to 1,011, while Bhopal saw five deaths, which took the toll to 654. Indore has 8,384 active cases and Bhopal has 5,903," the official informed.With 46,526 samples being examined on Tuesday, the overall number of tests in MP crossed 68.28 lakh.Coronavirus figures in MP are: Total cases 3,53,632, new cases 8998, death toll 4,261, recovered 3,05,832, active cases 43,539, number of tests so far 68,28,054.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-sees-record-spike-of-8-998-covid-19-cases-40-more-die-101618382200380.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh reaches Mumbai’s DRDO guest house for questioning by CBI||Anil Deshmukh, former home minister of Maharashtra, reached the defence research and development organisation (DRDO) guest house in Santacruz (East) around 10am on Wednesday for questioning regarding an allegation of corruption made against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Deshmukh was summoned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 12 as part of the preliminary enquiry (PE) which was registered on April 6, a day after the Bombay high court directed the agency to probe the allegations. Deshmukh resigned from his position on April 5 after the high court order.The CBI has questioned Deshmukh’s two personal assistants (PAs) Sanjeev Palande, Kundan Shinde, former commissioner Param Bir Singh, deputy commissioner police Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police, Sanjay Patil, former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and his two drivers till now. The federal agency has also questioned a few bar owners in connection with the alleged corruption case.Also Read | CBI quizzes staff of Anil Deshmukh and former Mumbai cop Sachin VazeSingh accused Deshmukh in his letter to the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, stating that he asked Vaze and few other police officials to collect ₹100 crore per month from bars and restaurants, hotels in the city.Singh was shunted out by Deshmukh from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on March 17 and posted as director general of the Home Guards after the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Antilia bomb scare case as well as Thane0based businessman Mansukh Hiran murder, arrested Vaze for allegedly planting an explosive-laden vehicle near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 with a threat letter. Vaze was reinstated in the police force after 17 years and was made in-charge of the crime intelligence unit by Singh.Soon after the Antilia bomb scare case, Singh transferred the case to CIU and made Vaze the investigating officer. During the investigation, the agency allegedly found Vaze’s involvement in both the incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-reaches-mumbai-s-drdo-guest-house-for-questioning-by-cbi-101618381184814.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Taxi owners, drivers seek deferment of EMIs as amid curbs in Maharashtra||Taxi owners and drivers in Aurangabad have demanded that the EMIs on their vehicle loans be deferred in the wake of strict restrictions enforced in Maharashtra to check the spread of Covid-19.The Jay Sangharsh Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, an umbrella body of taxi owners and drivers here, in a memorandum to Aurangabad collector on Tuesday said tourist and religious places in the state have been shut in the wake of the pandemic and this has adversely affected their earnings."We are already facing problems because of the negative impact on our income. We have taken loans to buy our vehicles and banks are demanding its repayment, due to which we are under stress," the association said in its plea.Hence, the taxi owners and drivers want that their EMIs be deferred till the situation normalises, the association's president, Sanjay Halnor, said."The banks should not impose a fine on us during the period of Covid-19-related restrictions," he said.Reeling under an unprecedented Covid-19 wave, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced severe restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days across the state.The restrictions, which exclude essential services, will come into effect from 8 pm on Wednesday and remain in force till 7 am on May 1.Section 144 of the CrPC, prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot, will be in force during the period, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/taxi-owners-drivers-seek-deferment-of-emis-as-amid-curbs-in-maharashtra-101618373256380.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will continue to serve society, but not as IPS: Kunwar Vijay Pratap||Hours after Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh rejected his resignation, inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who headed the special investigation team probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases, reiterated his decision to retire early. “I will continue to serve society in the best possible manner. Not as IPS,” the 1998-batch Indian Police Service officer posted on Facebook, showing he is in no mood to relent. He added the words, Not as IPS, to his original post around 10.30pm. Also read: SIT head Kunwar Vijay seeks early retirement, Amarinder says noKunwar, who was otherwise to retire in 2029, sent his application for voluntary retirement to Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan through DGP Dinkar Gupta’s office on April 11, a day after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the findings of the SIT report headed by him and told the state government that it can constitute a fresh team to probe the case but without Kunwar. “I voluntary submit this application seeking retirement from service from April 15, 2021. It is requested to relax the three-month notice period in public interest,” he said in his resignation letter. CM showers praise, says state needs officer’s services Earlier on Tuesday, the chief minister issued a statement, rejecting his resignation. “He is a highly competent and efficient officer whose services are needed in the border state, especially at a time when Punjab is faced with internal and external security threats. The state needs the expertise and experience of the officer, who has contributed exceptional service to Punjab Police in important positions,” Capt Amarinder Singh said, describing him as a skilled, capable and courageous officer with an exemplary track record. In this FB post, Kunwar quoted a revolutionary song on serving the nation by martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha: “Sewa desh di jinddhiye badhi aukhi, gallan karnia dher sukhalliyan ne, jinha desh sewa ’ch pair paya, ohna lakh museebtan jhalliyan.” He wrote, “I did my part. No regrets. I request everybody not to glamourise or politicise the issue. Each and every sentence of my report and chargesheet is an evidence in itself. It can’t be negated in any manner. A guilty mind can’t dare to face the mirror of truth.” He said he has filed an appeal “in the court of Guru Gobind Singh Ji for final verdict, the most superior court as per my wisdom the knowledge of law.” Upset with handling of sacrilege cases The officer was said to be upset with the handling of the sacrilege cases of 2015 by the state government and had expressed his disappointment in interviews to local web channels. In one such interview, he claimed that he had to face tasshaddat (a turbulent state) while carrying out the probe because of the involvement of high-profile persons and was humiliated on a number of occasions to stop him from conducting the probe in an impartial manner. However, there is no mention of the issue in the resignation letter. “I’m fully satisfied with my 22-year service with the Government of Punjab,” he wrote in his application or voluntary retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-continue-to-serve-society-but-not-as-ips-kunwar-vijay-pratap-101618374705053.html
14-04-2021||Ranchi||No shortage of Remdesivir injection in Jharkhand: Health minister Gupta||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday said that there is no shortage of Remdesivir injection in the state.Gupta, while on his visit to the Covid-19 ward at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, told the media personnel, "There is no shortage of Remdesivir injection in the state. We have received 1,500 injections on Tuesday."The state health minister further said, "We have written to the Central government for more ventilators. We are increasing the number of ventilators.""Some patients have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic who has been admitted in the hospital. They are being sent to home isolation," he added.During his visit to the Sadar Hospital, Gupta was seen interacting with Covid patients and the doctors and staff serving at the ward.According to the Jharkhand Health Department, the state has 17,155 active Covid-19 cases."The state recorded 2,844 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths in last 24 hours," the health department said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/no-shortage-of-remdesivir-injection-in-jharkhand-health-minister-gupta-101618371255953.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic diverted||Tikri and Singhu borders, connecting Delhi and Haryana, remained closed on Wednesday as farmers continued their agitation against the three farm laws. Vehicular movement at Ghazipur border, however, was allowed on one carriageway, for those heading Ghaziabad from Delhi, as the farmer groups continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws since November 2020.The Delhi traffic police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The Delhi - Noida Chilla border is also open for commute on both carriageways.Also Read | Glut-like situation in Haryana mandis: Farmers block state highway for over five hoursThe entry and exit points between the national capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh -- continued to remain closed on Wednesday.The traffic police also advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-diverted-101618370144255.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi; mercury to rise by a few notches today: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 20 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 18°C, and maximum temperature was 39°C -- three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 223. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 231, which is at the higher-end of the moderate category.Also Read | Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayan region from todayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.Earlier, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and westerly. Air quality is expected to marginally deteriorate and stay in moderate to poor category for the next three days. The PM10 (coarse dust particles) continues to remain as the prominent lead pollutant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-mercury-to-rise-by-a-few-notches-todayimd-101618369544256.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh to be questioned by CBI today over extortion claims by Param Bir Singh||Anil Deshmukh, former home minister of Maharashtra, has been summoned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday over corruption allegations levelled against him by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Param Bir Singh, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, stated that Anil Deshmukh told now suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources in Mumbai.“Anil Deshmukh is the primary suspect in this enquiry. He needs to be questioned regarding the claims that he wanted Vaze to collect this scale of money every month. He will be confronted with the statements of Vaze, Param Bir Singh and his staff,” an official, who said that the former minister will appear before the central investigation agency, told HT.As part of its preliminary enquiry, the CBI has so far quizzed Anil Deshmukh’s personal assistants (PAs), Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde, and former cop Sachin Vaze’s two drivers in connection with the alleged corruption case. The federal agency has also questioned bar owners, Mumbai Police officers, and people close to the former minister.The CBI investigation into the matter was ordered by the Bombay high court on April 5 ruling out a police probe as the department reported to him. Anil Deshmukh resigned as home minister the same day.Anil Deshmukh, who has denied the allegations, and his party Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) also approached the Supreme Court to challenge the high court order but their petitions were turned down by the top court citing “serious allegations” that must be probed by the CBI.The party, however, said that Deshmukh will cooperate with the agency in the inquiry. “If CBI has summoned him then he (Anil Deshmukh) will respond and cooperate accordingly. He made no mistake and we are sure he will come out clean in the CBI inquiry,” said Nawab Malik, the party’s chief spokesperson.People familiar with the CBI’s PE procedure told HT that though they have just nine more days to conclude the inquiry, finding a “prime facie” offence would not be difficult.The central probing agency has also analysed several documents obtained by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Antilia bomb scare case and the murder of Mansukh Hiran, the Thane-based auto parts dealer who claimed ownership of the explosives-laden vehicle found outside billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in Mumbai in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-to-be-questioned-by-cbi-today-over-extortion-claims-by-param-bir-singh-101618365218237.html
14-04-2021||Other||Body in sack: Delhi man held for bludgeoning sorcerer to death||Nearly two months after a body was found stuffed in a sack at a nullah near Grewal Colony, Jagraon, police claim to have cracked the murder case with the arrest of a Delhi resident.The accused has been identified as Jawed of Jamia Nagar, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi.“After the sack was discovered by MC staff cleaning the nullah on February 15, the victim was identified as Galib Hussain, 40, of Bihar. He was a sorcerer and used to live near Nalkiyan Wala Chowk in Jagraon on rent,” said Charanjit Singh, senior superintendent of police, Ludhiana RuralDuring investigation, the team zeroed in on the accused and traced his location to Delhi. A team was despatched to the national capital, and Jawed was arrested and brought to Ludhiana on Tuesday.The SSP said during questioning, the accused confessed to the crime. He revealed that he had introduced one of his female relatives to Hussain for remedy to a problem. But, he formed an illicit relationship with her. Enraged by this, he bludgeoned Hussain to death with a stone in his sleep. To dispose of the body, he stuffed it in a sack and dumped it in the nullah, before leaving for Delhi, the official added.The accused has been booked for murder and will be produced in court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-in-sack-delhi-man-held-for-bludgeoning-sorcerer-to-death-101618364684755.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Feeling happy, empowered, say Punjab’s first two DBT beneficiaries||Punjab’s first two direct benefit transfer (DBT) beneficiaries — Tarlochan Singh (48) of Rupnagar district’s Bhurara village and Dalip Singh (39) of Patiala’s Neelpur village — were all praise for the new system, saying the arhtiyas (commission agents) need not be apprehensive of the central government’s scheme. “I feel happy as I got the payment within 48 hours of procurement of my crop. I sold my wheat produce in the grain market on Sunday. Besides, I am excited for having become the first beneficiary of the scheme in the state,” said Tarlochan, who received ₹1.58 lakh in his account on Tuesday morning. “Earlier, it used to take 7- 10 days for the payment transfer. But this has come with a responsibility as now I have to manage the funds myself and not the arhtiya who did it in the past. Now we have to be careful about our spending as we do not have anyone to fall back on. But we will get used to the new system,” added the farmer who owns 10 acre agriculture land and has sold only a portion of his produce.Dalip Singh said he felt empowered as the old system has finally changed. “The arhtiyas used to delay payments to farmers for weeks and sometimes months and it led to overcharging and fleecing. There is no worry of being fleeced now. But the commission agents should not be worried as the age-old farmer-arhtiya relationship is here to stay. Farmers reposed faith in the arhtiyas for decades. The tables have turned now and it is their turn,” said the 39-year-old who received ₹1.48 lakh payment. Punjab food and civil supplies minister, who announced the names of the two beneficiaries, said the new system has been launched in the state successfully and all hiccups will be removed by the end of this week. The Centre has mandated DBT for payment of minimum support price (MSP) for farmers and insisted that the Punjab government implement it from the current rabi season. The state government was reluctant to implement the new system due to pressure exerted by the arhtiyas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/feeling-happy-empowered-say-punjab-s-first-two-dbt-beneficiaries-101618344946136.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Make reports on 2015 police firing, drugs public: Navjot Sidhu to Amarinder govt||Congress MLA and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said the Amarinder Singh-led government in the state should make public the report of inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap on the 2015 police firing and the one prepared by special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu on drugs. During a visit to Faridkot district to pay obeisance at the gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village from where a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen in 2015, the Congress leader indirectly targeted the state government, claiming that “weak” lawyers represented the case in court. “I have come here on the occasion of Baisakhi to expose the conspiracy of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. I am here to raise the voice of truth. A game of chess was set up wherein those who gave orders were protected while the pawns were attacked,” he added.“Why the lawyers representing the sacrilege cases were weak? Why top-notch lawyers were not fielded in the court? The ‘bir’ was stolen in June 2015 and it has been be six years now. People are still waiting for justice,” he said. Later, Sidhu uploaded a video of his visit titled “Justice delayed is justice denied” on his Facebook page and YouTube channel ‘Jittega Punjab’. Protest in Kotkapura over ‘delay’ in justiceThe families of Gurjeet Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who were killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan, on Tuesday held a protest against delay in getting justice. The demonstration was held at Kotkapura Chowk where the police firing incidents took place on October 14, 2015. Sidhu, however, did not visit the protesting families. The protest was announced after the Punjab and Haryana High Court last week rejected the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) in connection with the Kotkapura firing and asked the state government to constitute a fresh SIT, excluding IGP Pratap. Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh, said “I don’t know why he (MLA Sidhu) chose to visit the gurdwara today and not support our cause. All political parties and religious outfits have failed to get us justice.”Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana visited the Bargari gurdwara. “The Sikh community has been waiting for justice for a long time. But some people and political parties have used this fight for their vested interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-reports-on-2015-police-firing-drugs-public-navjot-sidhu-to-amarinder-govt-101618344944087.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police inspector booked for letting off 2 peddlers for ₹3.5 lakh, on the run||A Punjab Police inspector and a head constable were booked for allegedly accepting ₹3.5 lakh in lieu of letting off two drug peddlers in Tarn Taran town.The inspector, Baljit Singh, is on the run while head constable Davinder Singh has been arrested, police officials said. As per the FIR, Baljit Singh, who was posted in Tarn Taran civil lines, along with Davinder, who was deployed in the lockup cell of the Amritsar court complex, nabbed Malkiat Singh, alias Palta and his brother-in-law Bau Singh with 1kg heroin in Tarn Taran on March 31. The police have also booked Malkiat, Bau besides Jasbir Singh of Guruwali village, who allegedly played the role of mediator to strike the bribe deal. The case was registered on the complaint of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jatinder Singh who is deputed in the narcotic cell in Tarn Taran. Inspector Baljit accepted the bribe and also kept the recovered contraband with him, it was claimed. He has served as station house officer (SHO) at various police stations, including Tarn Taran city and Patti Sadar. Days after the incident, Malkiat and Bau informed some senior police officials about the incident and offered to surrender, it is learnt. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said the case was registered under sections 21, 29, 59, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act, Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.“A probe was marked to Patti deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kujinder Singh. Raids are on to nab the inspector. He has neither taken any permission to leave the station nor applied for leave. We are also mulling departmental action against him.,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-inspector-booked-for-letting-off-2-peddlers-for-rs-3-5-lakh-on-the-run-101618344942949.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||SIT head Kunwar Vijay seeks early retirement, Amarinder says no||In a new twist to the 2015 Kotakpura and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents, IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, currently heading a special investigation team (SIT) looking into the two cases, has resigned from the police services, days after the Punjab and Haryana high court reportedly quashed the probe led by him. His resignation was immediately rejected by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who described Kunwar Vijay as a highly competent, skilled, capable and courageous officer. The IG, however, hinted that he may not go back on his decision. Two people were killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan while they were protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village (also in Faridkot district). Police had opened fire in Kotkapura too. Kunwar Vijay was reportedly upset after the HC on Friday quashed the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police in two FIRs in Kotkapura violence. The court had also asked the state government to reconstitute the SIT without Kunwar Vijay. According to a senior government functionary, privy to the developments, the officer had shot off the resignation letter to Amarinder on Sunday and met the chief minister on Monday.“The state needs the expertise and experience of the officer who has contributed exceptional service to Punjab Police in various important positions,” said Amarinder in a statement on Tuesday. The chief minister said he has already made it clear that his government will challenge in the Supreme Court any court order that seeks to remove Kunwar Vijay as the SIT chief or quash the investigation. The officer and his team have done an excellent job” of expeditiously investigating the Kotkapura case, said Amarinder. He added that the probe will be taken to its logical conclusion under the supervision of the same officer. The 1998-batch IPS officer is scheduled to retire in 2028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-head-kunwar-vijay-seeks-early-retirement-amarinder-says-no-101618344883010.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Jr, part of 1958 Asian Games silver medal-winning hockey team, dead||Balbir Singh Junior, who was a member of the silver medal-winning 1958 Asian Games Indian hockey team, died in Chandigarh at the age of 88, his daughter Mandeep Samra said on Tuesday.He is survived by his wife, daughter and son. “My father passed away in sleep on Sunday morning due to heart failure,” his daughter said.His son is settled in Canada and could not attend the last rites of his father because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Born on May 2, 1932, at Sansarpur in Jalandhar, also known as the nursery of Indian hockey, Balbir Singh Junior had played alongside legends like Balbir Singh Senior, Leslie Claudius, Prithipal Singh, Balkishan and Charles Stephen among others.Balbir took to hockey when he was six. He studied at Lyallpur Khalsa College in Jalandhar and was first selected to play for the Indian hockey team in 1951 during the tour of Afghanistan.He was part of the Punjab state hockey team and also captained Panjab University team. Later, he played for the Indian Railways that toured European countries such as Spain, Switzerland and Italy. The team also played Test matches in the Netherlands.In 1962, Balbir joined the army as an emergency commissioned officer. He played for the Services in the national tournaments. He retired as a Major in 1984 and later settled in Chandigarh. Post-retirement he took keen interest in playing golf.“On behalf of Hockey India, I express my deepest condolences to Balbir Singh Junior’s family. His contribution to Indian hockey will always be remembered and the hockey fraternity mourns his demise,” Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam said. Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore also mourned the hockey player’s death. Badnore said that Balbir Singh Junior, who represented India in many international championships, will be remembered for his outstanding contribution to the sport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/balbir-singh-jr-part-of-1958-asian-games-silver-medal-winning-hockey-team-dead-101618343563188.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana logs 3,845 Covid cases in biggest daily jump||Fresh Covid-19 cases continued to rise at an alarming rate in Haryana as 3,845 fresh cases were recorded in state on Tuesday and 16 people succumbed to the contagion, according to the health bulletin.On Monday, Haryana had registered 3,818 new Covid cases and 14 fatalities. During the day, at least 1.68 lakh people were vaccinated for Covid prevention, increasing the cumulative tally of people vaccinated till Tuesday to 28 lakh.The virus claimed three lives in Karnal, two in Fatehabad, and one each in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Ambala, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Mahendergarh and Bhiwani.In the past 24 hours, 34,828 samples were taken and the active cases rose to 24,207. Total 2,109 patients recovered across state on Tuesday.With 998 new cases Gurugram topped the state in terms of fresh cases, followed by Faridabad with 417 cases, Karnal 324, Panchkula 278, Sonepat 246, Panipat 227, Fatehabad 204, Yamunanagar 177, Kurukshetra 143, Ambala 137, Hisar 121, and Jind 115.NIGHT CURFEW NOW FROM 10PM to 5AMMeanwhile, it was decided that the night curfew in Haryana will now be imposed from 10pm to 5am. The state government on Tuesday revised the curfew timings from the earlier 9pm to 5am.As per an order issued on Tuesday, there will be no curbs on manufacture of essential goods, inter- and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods.Commercial and private establishments, telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cables services, IT and IT-enabled services will also be exempted.The exempted category will include delivery of all essential goods, including food, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment through e-commerce; petrol pumps, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets; power generation, transmission and distribution units and services; cold storage and warehousing services; private security services; data and call centres for government activities only; farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field; intra- and inter-state movement of harvesting and harvester etc sowing-related machines including combine and other agriculture and horticulture implements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-logs-3-845-covid-cases-in-biggest-daily-jump-101618343274720.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir declares Jeet Sidhu as SAD candidate from Talwandi Sabo||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday announced four-time MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu as its candidate for the Talwandi Sabo assembly segment.Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was in Talwandi Sabo to pay obeisance on Baisakhi, told reporters that Sidhu will be fielded from his home turf. “Sidhu is a halqa in-charge and has been working closely with the grassroots party workers,” said Sukhbir.In 2002, Sidhu won the Talwandi Sabo seat as an Independent by defeating Congress’ Harminder Singh Jassi while in 2007 and 2012, he won as a Congress candidate. Later, Sidhu shifted his political loyalty to the Akalis and again defeated Jassi with a record margin in 2014.In the 2017 polls, Sidhu faced an electoral debacle when he lost to AAP’s Baljnder Kaur, a novice candidate, and finished third.Speaking on the occasion, Sukhbir charged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh with poor wheat procurement arrangements in the state. Sukhbir said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should listen to the voice of the masses and withdraw the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-declares-jeet-sidhu-as-sad-candidate-from-talwandi-sabo-101618343263013.html
14-04-2021||Other||Sharad Pawar to be discharged from hospital in next 2 days: Maharashtra deputy CM||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is likely to get discharged from Breach Candy Hospital in the next two days, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said after visiting his uncle at the hospital on Tuesday morning.“Pawar saheb is recuperating after the surgery. He will be discharged in the next two days,” he told reporters while in the hospital.The veteran leader’s condition is stable and he is recuperating at the hospital following a gallbladder surgery that was conducted on Monday.Pawar’s daughter and Baramati parliamentarian Supriya Sule posted a photo on her Facebook timeline, in which the NCP chief can be seen reading a newspaper while sitting on a chair. He was accompanied by wife Pratibha, Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra, Sule and her husband Sadanand.“Gudi Padwa, after a successful surgery of honourable Sharad Pawar. Baba is still at the hospital. Ajit Dada and Sunetra tai came to see him and we all could come together at the hospital. Cannot celebrate Gudi Padwa owing to the spread of Covid-19 but sharing moments with our family will give us strength to defeat the current circumstances. Celebrate Gudi Padwa but be careful. Be safe (sic),” stated her post.NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik had on Monday said, “A successful keyhole surgery was conducted today on our party president Sharad Pawar Saheb’s gallbladder by Dr Balsara. His condition is stable and is recuperating in his room at the Breach Candy Hospital.”The 80-year-old leader was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder.On March 30, the veteran leader had undergone an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis).The former Union minister was discharged from the hospital on April 3 and was expected to be admitted again for the surgery within a fortnight. He was advised for complete seven days rest by the doctors as there was swelling in his pancreas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sharad-pawar-to-be-discharged-from-hospital-in-next-2-days-maharashtra-deputy-cm-101618342842345.html
14-04-2021||Other||Offline NEET exam on Sunday: PG medical aspirants seek Maharashtra leaders’ help||Amid growing concern over offline examinations at a time when several states, including Maharashtra, are reporting record Covid-19 cases on a daily basis, MBBS graduates are a worried lot. While entrance exams for most undergraduate (UG) professional courses are planned for the end of this month or May, the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate (PG) medical students is scheduled to take place across the country on Sunday (April 18). With no word from the National Board of Examination (NBE) Tuesday, students are approaching state leaders, hoping for relief.Several PG medical aspirants, most of who are currently working at various hospitals across the state and country, have appealed to state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh that the entrance exam be postponed.“We [MBBS graduates] have been working day and night at various government and private hospitals across the state and many of our friends have also contracted the virus in the process. How are we expected to appear for an offline exam at a time when the state is planning to impose another lockdown?” said Manusha Patil, a NEET-PG applicant who is currently working at a make-shift jumbo centre in Pune. Last year, 160,000 NEET-PG aspirants of the 167,000 registered candidates had appeared for the exam. The total registrations for NEET-PG 2021 have not been revealed as yet. Several other students had also approached NBE, requesting authorities to postpone the NEET-PG exam. But in a statement released on NBE website earlier this week, the exam-conducting authority clarified that the entrance exam cannot be delayed any further.“Considering the importance of the examination in admitting PG students in their respective subjects for further training, it is in the best interest of candidates to continue to hold this examination on the announced date,” said a statement released on April 9. NBE, however, has assured students of added protective measures to ensure the exam is conducted smoothly.For instance, NBE has increased the total number of exam centres to ensure social distancing and also so that students do not have to travel far for the exam. Students are also being issued admit cards for the test along with an e-pass to ensure they are not stopped by authorities amid restrictions while traveling on the day of exam. Centres will also have a special isolation ward for students who record above normal temperature at the time of entering the exam centre. NBE also advised candidates feeling unwell or showing any symptoms to avoid appearing for the exam altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/offline-neet-exam-on-sunday-pg-medical-aspirants-seek-maharashtra-leaders-help-101618342722305.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Let us open offices to conduct online coaching classes: Owners in Mumbai||Coaching class owners in the city have urged the state government to relax some lockdown rules so they can smoothly conduct their classes in the online mode.In a letter sent to the government on Tuesday, the Maharashtra Class Owners Association (MCOA) has demanded that the government allow class owners to open their offices and premises at least for teachers and staff members for now. “Till now we were allowed to keep our office open and run online lectures from our classes as we have a better internet facility and arrangements at our premises. Now, we are not allowed to open our class premises. We are not even able to conduct our online sessions properly and meet parents for proper counselling. The second lockdown has closed all our options of survival and has broken our backbone,” states the letter sent by MCOA.The association has also requested the government to allow offline classes once the process of reopening resumes yet again in the state. Since many students are not comfortable with online lectures, they don’t join coaching classes which has reduced our revenue by 60-70 % over the past one year. We request the government to allow us for offline lectures from our classes and restart our industry after unlocking this lockdown with proper SOP and guidelines so that we can consolidate and revive soon,” said Santosh Vaskar, president of MCOA. All non-essential shops and establishments in the city have been shut since April 5 as per the orders of the state government and the BMC. Coaching classes in several parts of the state such as Mumbai and Pune remain closed since March last year. MCOA and several other coaching class organisations had earlier requested the government to allow them to reopen for offline classes with proper standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/let-us-open-offices-to-conduct-online-coaching-classes-owners-in-mumbai-101618342602377.html
14-04-2021||Other||Glut-like situation in Haryana mandis: Farmers block state highway for over five hours||Owing to the glut-like situation in Haryana mandis, farmers are being forced to unload their produce on the roads.The agitated farmers blocked the Karnal-Yamunanagar road for more than five hours over this.With harvesting at its peak, “tardy” lifting has caused this situation in mandis of Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal, said farmers, adding that they are not getting enough space to unload their produce.To resolve the situation, on Monday, the state government had stopped generation of gate passes for 24-hours in 18 mandis but farmers continue to bring wheat in mandis and claimed that they do not have any other option as they do not have godowns.The protesting farmers demanded the government to ensure immediate lifting of the procured wheat and gate passes to be generated on arrival of wheat. The arhtiyas said there is shortage of gunny bags in the mandis and blamed the government’s new procurement system for the current situation.As per officials, only 22% of total 3.55 lakh MT wheat procured by government agencies in Karnal has been lifted and 2.76 lakh MT is still in the mandis.Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav said early arrival of peak season has led to space constraints as around 70% of the total wheat has already arrived in the mandis.“We cannot force farmers not to bring their produce to mandi as around 50% farmers do not have their own tractor-trolleys and have to hire the vehicles. We have no other option than to unload the produce on roads,” said an arhtiya at Indri grain market.In Kurukshetra, farmers unloaded their wheat on Brahma Sarovar roads. Of total 1.91 lakh MT wheat procured in district, only 33,189 MT wheat has been lifted and over 1.57 lakh MT wheat is still lying in mandis in district.Kurukshetra DC Sharandeep Kaur Barar said that instructions were issued to transporters for speedy lifting of the procured wheat from the mandis. She said farmers should bring their produce to mandis as per schedule.Similarly, in Kaithal, of total 1.90 lakh MT procured wheat, only 50,000 MT wheat was lifted by procurement agencies, leading to space issue in most mandis in district. Officials associated with the procurement agencies said harvesting of wheat is on peak and due to space problems in mandis, transporters are facing problem for lifting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/glutlike-situation-in-haryana-mandis-farmers-block-state-highway-for-over-five-hours-101618342551805.html
14-04-2021||Other||Wetland destruction in Navi Mumbai: NGT to hear plea on Thursday||Activists have approached the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over the alleged continued destruction of Panje wetland in Raigad’s Uran taluka. The site, as per the petition filed by activist Nandakumar Pawar, is regarded as the largest migratory waterbird congregation site at Navi Mumbai by the Bombay Natural History Society. The matter has been listed for hearing on April 15.The Panje coastal wetland is a low-lying area of approximately 289 hectares circumscribed by Panje, Phunde, Dongari and Bokadvira villages. It is bordered by mangroves on the west and the east and has mangroves inside the wetland at some locations. Activists have alleged large-scale landfilling of earth over mangroves, and have accused City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) of blocking the flow of seawater to intertidal forests.While a broader petition is currently being heard on the matter in the Bombay hight court, the petitioners said they have approached NGT for an urgent hearing. The plea made is for official instructions to be given to Cidco for opening up all five of their water inlets and to allow tidal water to flow into Panje. Pawar has also sought directions for the Raigad district collector to ensure that no further impediments are created in the free flow of water to the Panje wetland, either through the blocking of culverts, pumping out of water, reclamation or through other means.Despite an order issued by environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on March 4 last year in response to a petition by NatConnect Foundation, there have been repeated instances of landfilling reported in the area. The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had previously also directed the Raigad collector to ensure all blocks of tidal water flow are removed. MCZMA has also filed an affidavit before HC, clarifying that the area in question falls under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ)-1, and that due to presence of mangroves no construction can be allowed there. “Despite these developments, there has been absolutely no change on the ground. It is a matter of great urgency, which is why we approached NGT. It was done at the behest of HC itself,” said Pawar.“Clause 3(iv) of CRZ notification, 2011, prohibits the reclamation, bunding or disturbing the natural course of sea water and sets out a limited set of exceptions to this. Clause 3(xii) stipulates an absolute prohibition on any kind of construction activity in CRZ-1 except those set out in clause 8 of the notification. A perusal of clause 8 of CRZ notification will bear out that blocking the tidal ingress of water to CRZ areas is not permitted,” stated Pawar’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wetland-destruction-in-navi-mumbai-ngt-to-hear-plea-on-thursday-101618342422329.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra imposes curfew, essential services to run||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday stopped short of declaring a complete lockdown, but announced tough restrictions, including the prohibitory order under Section 144, restricting movement of people from Wednesday 8pm till May 1, in a bid to break the chain of transmission of Covid-19 in the state. The state reported over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Thackeray, in an address to the state on Tuesday, also announced a package of ₹5,476 crore to help marginalised sections, including daily wagers, rickshaw drivers, maids, construction workers, among others, during this period. With the imposition of Section 144, people will not be able to travel far from home for non-essential activities. However, essential services have been exempted from restrictions between 7am and 8pm. Thackeray said rising cases have burdened the state’s health infrastructure and merely discussions cannot be afforded.“From tomorrow [Wednesday] 8pm Section 144 will be imposed to break the chain of transmission for the next 15 days. We will have to completely stop unnecessarily stepping out of the home, till now I used to say, avoid stepping out. I expect you to observe ‘Janta curfew’ and not step out of the home, unless absolutely necessary,” Thackeray said in his address.Announcing the new restrictions, the chief minister put the onus on citizens to adhere to Covid-19 safety measures in order to prevent the spread. “People have to decide whether they want to help corona or the government that is working to curb it.”He added, “We had two laboratories, now it has gone to 523, but the load on them has increased. We used to test around 85,000 samples, now it has gone to 250,000 [daily]. The last time we had 2,665 Covid Care Centers, which has been increased to nearly 4,000. All types of hospital beds, including isolation, oxygenated, ICU, etc, have increased from 325,000 to 350,000. But now, these facilities are burdened.” He further said that the administration has been instructed to ramp up health infrastructure.Hospitals, diagnostic centres, clinics, vaccinations, medical insurance offices, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies, other medical and health services, groceries, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, cold storage and warehousing services, public transport, including flights, trains, taxis, autos, and public buses, transport services, pre-monsoon work, banks, ATMs, Sebi recognised institutions, agriculture-related activities, petrol pumps, etc have been categorised in the essential category by the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte under “Break the Chain” initiative of the state.Shopping centres, malls, film and serial shootings, beaches, gardens, will be shut. Curbs will remain for hotels and restaurants, though home delivery and takeaways will be allowed. Similarly, theatres, auditoriums, amusement parks, water parks, gymnasiums, swimming pools, clubs, will remain shut. Religious places of worship will remain closed. Barbar shops, spas, salons, and beauty parlors will remain closed. Shopkeepers and others in essential services will be fined if they do not follow Covid rules, including vaccination. Public transport, including trains, taxis, autorickshaws, public buses, have not been stopped. However, they will operate with some restrictions. Autos will be allowed to have two passengers only, excluding the driver; taxis will be allowed to operate with 50% of vehicle capacity, while public buses will not be allowed to ferry any standees. Ecommerce will be allowed for the delivery of essential goods and services. Milk and newspapers will be allowed to be delivered at home. Manufacturing units for essential services can run on full capacity.The suburban trains, however, will not be open to general public. It will only operate for people who are associated with essential services for the next 15 days.Informing the people about the low availability of oxygen in the state, Thackeray said he will be writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the air force to supply oxygen in the state. He added that the states permitted to supply oxygen include north eastern states and West Bengal “I am going to write to prime minister to allow other states to supply oxygen to Maharashtra. Instead of by road transport of oxygen from other state, if we can get oxygen through the support of Air Force. By the time, supply reaches the state by road, the situation will worsen in the state,” he said. Thackeray said that the government was aware of the hardships faced by the poor due to the restrictions and that the state government had decided to take steps to provide some relief. “Seven crore beneficiaries under the food security scheme will get 3 kg wheat and 2 kg rice per person for free for one month. The Shiv Bhojan thali, which was priced at Rs5, will be provided for free,” he said. The government will also provide Rs1,500 to each of the 1.2 million registered construction workers and 0.5 million registered hawkers. 1.2 registered rickshaw drivers will be given Rs1,500 as their livelihood will be impacted due to the restrictions. Around 12 lakh Tribal families will be paid Rs2,000 per family under the Khavti scheme and Rs3,300 crore are being given via district-level schemes in fight against the pandemic, he said.Thackeray also appealed to opposition political parties to not politicise the fight against Covid-19, but instead joins hands with the government to beat the pandemic.Leader of opposition in Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, advised the government to use Rs3,300 crore allocated for adding beds, medical equipment, etc.Fadnavis criticised the government relief package and said, “Chief minister only thought of a few sections. No relief was provided for Bara Balutedar, small business owners, workers in saloons, flower vendors. They constitute a major chunk of the workforce, they must immediately take decision to include them. The state should have announced concessions for electricity bills, property tax, GST etc. We demand that the government must immediately take decision in this regard, “ Fadnavis said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-imposes-curfew-essential-services-to-run-101618342362373.html
14-04-2021||Other||21-year-old’s lips slashed near Mumbai for turning down man’s proposal||A man allegedly slashed the lips of a 21-year-old woman with a knife in Bhiwandi on Sunday after she turned down his proposal. The woman is admitted to the KEM Hospital and has suffered serious injuries. She needs to undergo surgery. Shanti Nagar police are on the lookout for the accused Muktar Abdul Rahim Ansari, 23, and his friend Shahid Shaikh. Ansari had been proposing the woman since many months. On Sunday, when the she came out of her house, he again proposed her for marriage. When she refused, the accused took out the knife which he was carrying, removed her mask and slashed her lips. Shaikh helped him flee the spot. “We are yet to arrest the accused. Our team has started to look for them,” an officer from Shanti Nagar police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21yearolds-lips-slashed-near-mumbai-for-turning-down-man-s-proposal-101618342242306.html
14-04-2021||Other||NCB seizes LSD blots, curated buds in Mumbai; 2 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday conducted multiple raids in Mumbai and seized 80 blots of LSD, 310 grams of curated hydroponic marijuana (buds) and ₹1.5 lakh.Following the input from reliable sources, the agency conducted the first raid on Tuesday at a post office in Vile Parle (East) and seized 80 blots of LSD from a parcel which was concealed in a book on Adolf Hitler’s life. During inquiry, the agency learnt that the parcel came from a European country to Tamil Nadu, from where it came to Mumbai. “We have been trying to trace the person who would have been the actual receiver and also the sender of the parcel,” said Wankhede. The LSD was procured through dark web and its payment was done by crypto currencies like bitcoin, added Wankhede.The second raid was conducted in Parel, where two alleged drug peddlers – Ganesh Sakharam Shere and Siddhanth Amin – were arrested. NCB seized 310 grams of curated hydroponic marijuana (buds) and ₹1.5 lakh from their residence. Shere – a Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) aspirant – and Amin used to distribute highly-expensive various strains of buds – blackberry, northern, rainbow and forbidden. These buds are imported from Europe, Canada and the US. “The duo is allegedly connected with a drug supplier, Sahil Shah alias Sahil Flacko, who runs drug a trafficking network internationally and figures in the agency’s wanted list since last August in connection with the drug probe into late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s (SSR) death,” said Sameer Wankhede, NCB’s zonal director. “Shah had supplied buds to two alleged drug peddlers, Karan Arora and Abbas Lakhani, two were arrested Rajput’s death case. Shah then fled Mumbai and is still untraceable,” said Wankhede. Some months ago, NCB learnt that Shah was hiding in Dubai but the agency is trying to trace his current location, added Wankhede.The agency also conducted raid at Shah’s residence in Malad (West) but did not recover anything from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-seizes-lsd-blots-curated-buds-in-mumbai-2-held-101618342122319.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 7,873 new Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths||Mumbai reported 7,873 cases on Tuesday followed by 27 deaths taking the case tally to 535,264 and toll to 12,093. With this, the city’s daily positivity rate fell to 15.96% that was around 26% in the first week of April.The city’s recovery rate is 81.44% with 435,953 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.25%. There are 86,098 active cases in the city.As of Tuesday morning, 15,744 out of 19,534 hospital beds in Mumbai were occupied, while 3,790 were vacant. Mumbai has 2,598 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, of which 45 are vacant. Of the 1,306 ventilator beds, 12 are vacant. There are 10,051 oxygen beds in the city, of which 1,397 are vacant.On Monday, Mumbai conducted 49,320 Covid-19 tests, which had a positivity rate of 15%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 4,699,507 tests, having an average positivity rate of 11.22%. Positivity rate is the per cent of people who test positive for Covid-19 of the total number of tests conducted.However, the BMC has opined that the number of cases in the city will stabilise by April 20 and the downfall of cases in the city will start falling from April 30. Further, in city 45,524 of citizens were vaccinated on Tuesday taking the total to 175,345,2. Of the 45,524 vaccinated on Tuesday, 1,165 were healthcare workers, 2,883 were frontline workers, 12,684 were senior citizens above age of 60 years and 28,792 were citizens between age of 45-59 years.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “Looking at the mortality increasing in the city, with bed occupancy increasing speedily, complete lockdown is the only solution. This considering the availability of ventilators and ICU beds has gone down drastically. Hence, in my opinion, strict restrictions are needed for the hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-7-873-new-covid-19-cases-27-deaths-101618342062312.html
14-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra to receive adequate rain this monsoon: Skymet||Maharashtra, as with the rest of the country, is expected to receive near-normal levels of rainfall this monsoon. Vidarbha, Marathwada and central Maharashtra (includes Pune) meteorological divisions are likely to see near-normal rainfall, while slight deficiencies are expected along the Konkan and Goa coast, meteorologists at private forecaster Skymet said on Tuesday.However, as the average monthly rainfall for Konkan (that includes Mumbai) and Goa, is consistently higher than Vidarbha, a deficiency of even 10-15% will not affect water supply or agricultural productivity. Mumbai and Pune are both expected to receive sufficient rains, according to Skymet.“We do not foresee any scarcity of rain in the region. Even in typically drought-prone Marathwada, there will be near-normal rainfall as was the case last year too. Vidarbha faced deficient rainfall last year, but this year, there will be better rain there too,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.In its preliminary forecast for India, Skymet said the rainfall from June to September is likely to be 103% of the long period average (LPA) of 88cm based on average monsoon rain from 1961 to 2010. In 2020 and 2019, monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA respectively. “For Maharashtra also, it will be the third good monsoon. And the interior parts will benefit a little more than in the earlier two seasons,” Palawat added.last week, several parts of the Vidarbha, Marathwada and central Maharashtra witnessed pre-monsoon showers due to a cyclonic circulation which had formed over parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. While Pune had reported hailstorms in some pockets, isolated drizzles were also felt in Mumbai over the weekend.When contacted, two officials of the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai said they would not be able to comment on Skymet’s forecast. “Our seasonal forecast is expected to come out this week. We can answer any questions after that,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-to-receive-adequate-rain-this-monsoon-skymet-101618342002318.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police start virtual meetings to address issues||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, to redress citizen’s grievances and encourage public participation in solving local issues, the Mumbai Police have initiated virtual public meetings through Zoom and WhatsApp video conferencing.On Monday, senior police officers of the force started a virtual interaction with traders association members, establishments association representatives, community leaders, local politicians, businessmen as well as people from various walks of life through Zoom meeting. “The initiative aims at reaching out to maximum people to know their grievances and issues, due to the imposition of another lockdown and come up with solutions by mutual understanding and dialogues. Virtual communication would also help avoid public meetings and gatherings. This method is also effective in getting the cooperation and involvement of the citizens in battling the present crisis,” joint commissioner of police, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil said. As part of the initiative, all beat chowki in-charges, senior inspectors of all 95 police stations, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), deputy commissioners of police (DCP) and additional commissioner of police have been asked to form multiple WhatsApp groups in their respective regions to know about the problems faced by people from all sections of society during pandemic and lockdown and solve them with the participation of concerned people. The joint commissioner of police, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil, was added to all groups. Patil could make surprise visits anytime during the virtual meetings and check if it is being done properly. The initiative also aims to reach out to people by maintaining much needed social distancing.ACPs and senior police inspectors would be administrators of WhatsApp groups, which would include local retailers/trader groups’ representatives, school-colleges principles, members of religious prayers halls/trusts, local civic corporation officials, community leaders, social workers, NGO members, members of labourers groups, migrants and members of slum and Muhalla committees, etc. While DCPs and additional CPs would form groups for virtual public meetings of members of associations of hotels, traders, e-commerce site operators, app-based food, grocery delivery service operators, shop owners, citizens associations, members of taxi-auto unions, executives of app-based taxi operators, private hospitals, senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials and concerned state government department officials. “From street vendors to big traders, everyone has been connected to police through this platform. Without physically meeting we are listening to people’s problems, providing them help, taking suggestions and enhancing our response to serve them better. This method lowers the risk of contractions of the virus and also discourages people from taking to streets to stage protests, morcha, dharnas, etc.,” said an IPS officer requesting anonymity.The city police have also called in additional security personnel from reserve police force for swift implementation of lockdown restrictions, another senior officer said.The virtual public meetings will also help reduce the growing infection among police personnel. So far 101 policemen from the Mumbai Police force have died of Covid infection, while total 7,997 cases of infection have been reported since April 2020. Presently the city police force has 460 active infected policemen.Meanwhile, 30,760 police officers have taken the first vaccine dose and 17,360 have taken the second dose. However, as the families of most of the policemen are still deprived of vaccines, the police personnel will have to be as alert as last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-start-virtual-meetings-to-address-issues-101618341882311.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 60 active cases on IIT-B campus; students, authorities concerned||Increasing Covid-19 cases is a concern across the state and the situation is no different at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). From 75 active cases on campus two weeks ago, the figure now stands at 60, with 25 new cases reported so far, this week.Institute officials, while warning campus residents to strictly adhere to Covid safety norms including wearing masks while outside, in the past few weeks, have also introduced stricter travel restrictions within and outside the campus. This, say, officials, could’ve helped control the cases on the institute’s premises in comparison to the week before last.“Our (on-campus) hospital was full last week, but after we shifted students eligible for home isolation to the Hostel-16 C wing, the bed availability in the hospital has improved. We currently have 17 inpatients, and four patients have been shifted to outside hospitals. At present, there are 20 active cases among students,” said an official message circulated by the institute’s deputy director of academic and infrastructural affairs (AIA), Prof. S Sudarshan. He added that analysis done by their contact tracing team indicates that most infections are coming from travel/commute outside the IIT-B campus, although there are some cases of transmission from within the campus as well.“The Covid situation in Mumbai continues to be worrying. While a partial lockdown is already in place, there are talks of a harder lockdown In the city. Even if there is a lockdown, we will continue to run our hostel messes and we have also made contingency plans to ensure supply of food to our hostel residents,” states the message addressed to the campus residents. “As of now not many students have approached us, but we have made it clear that if they want to leave, they may do so after discussing the travel risks with their parents,” said Prof Sudarshan.As per information shared by the institute, at present 2,000 staff members (including faculty, institute staff and project staff) live with their respective families on campus and around 3,000 students have returned to the campus. As a precautionary measure, the institute has already stopped in-person eating at any restaurants on campus (food delivery is allowed), while the hostel mess is functional with safety norms strictly being followed.“Since the beginning of the pandemic, room sharing was stopped and students were placed in individual rooms. In hostels where we’ve found multiple cases, we have asked students to take away food from the hostel mess instead of eating there. We have also shut down all sports facilities as per governor’s orders and we regularly reprimand students who flout safety norms,” added Prof Sudarshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-60-active-cases-on-iit-b-campus-students-authorities-concerned-101618341822908.html
14-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra housing body to build working women’s hostel in south Mumbai||Maharashtra Housing Area and Development Authority (Mhada) will build a hostel for working women on its plot at Tardeo in south Mumbai, Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad said. The proposed hostel will have 450-rooms and is expected to house around 1,000 women.Awhad said several women from other parts of the state migrate to Mumbai for employment but do not have a proper place to reside, and often have to stay in distant suburbs outside Mumbai city. “Mumbai is the financial capital and therefore, several women from various parts of Maharashtra come here for work. But here they do not have a proper place to live. They have to live in far-flung suburbs such as Vasai-Virar or Dombivli and beyond. The proposed hostel will come at Tardeo, which has proximity to railway stations, including Mumbai Central, Grant Road and Mahalaxmi. We will build a hotel for around 1,000 women. The entire project will be completed in about two years,” Awhad said. The construction cost of the hostel is estimated to be around ₹35 crore, senior Mhada officials said, adding that it will start the tendering process within six months. The minister added that the hostel will not be run by Mhada but an independent agency. He also said that the housing body will decide on the criteria for allotment of the hostel rooms as the project progresses.According to Mhada chief executive officer Anil Diggikar, Mhada has three transit buildings near MP Mill compound in Tardeo, whose occupants will be shifted out to the slum rehabilitation authority’s (SRA) transit facility. “The plot size is 1,918 square metres, with an FSI (floor space index) of 3 and we can construct 8,000 square metres of fungible FSI. There will be 450 rooms of 180 square feet each,” Diggikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-housing-body-to-build-working-women-s-hostel-in-south-mumbai-101618341822336.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 60,000 new Covid-19 cases||After the drop in cases on Monday, the state reported its second-highest single day spike on Tuesday, with the addition of 60,212 new cases, taking the tally to 3,519,208 and toll to 58,526, after the addition of 281 deaths.Mumbai saw a drop in cases, comparing the surge it saw from April 1 to 11. With the addition of 7,873 cases and 27 deaths in 24 hours, the city tally touched 53,5264 and the toll 12,093. Following Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik cities reported 5,214, 5,084 and 2,659 cases, respectively. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which comprises nine cities and rural parts of three districts, reported 16,596 cases on Tuesday. The region reported an addition of 46 deaths. Nagpur, Pune and Nashik districts reported 30, 17 and 16 deaths, respectively.The number of active cases rose to 593,042, resulting in the drop in the recovery rate to 81.44%. Pune has the highest (118,168) active patients, followed by in Mumbai (86,098) and Thane (81,303).The state has 3,294,398 citizens in home quarantine and 30,399 in institutional quarantine.Maharashtra has administered 10,752,969 doses on Tuesday, including 217,568 doses administered on Tuesday. The rate of the vaccination dropped on Tuesday because of public holiday and festival. The state had inoculated 329,112 beneficiaries on April 12, 223,716 on April 11 and 282,984 on April 10, according to the central government’s dashboard.The Bharatiya Janata Party has said Maharashtra has been given around 1.6 million doses over last four days, taking the tally to 12,762,470, of which 1,830,809 were remaining with the state till Tuesday morning. The party said Maharashtra will get more stock on April 15 as announced earlier.BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said the state government needs to ramp up the speed of vaccination for the second dose too. “The health care and fronline workers too have not been covered 100% with their first dose and the percentage hovers around 80%. About 40% of them have taken their second dose. There is no shortage of vaccine. We need proper planning to speed up vaccination,” he said.State authorities expect the arrest of the spike in the Covid-19 cases over the next few days owing to the measures.Dr Avinash Supe, head of state-appointed death audit committee, said they expect the peak by the end of the month. “We were expecting the peak by April 15, but it is now likely to take a couple of more weeks. After a plateau for 10 days we can expect the downward trend thereafter. We had reported a peak in May-June and then in September-October in 2020. The surge started in February end, which can be see peak by April end,” he said.Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, former national president of Indian Medical Association, said rapid vaccination could help the state in reducing the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-60-000-new-covid-19-cases-101618341703329.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gang involved in petrol pump robberies busted, 6 arrested in Amritsar||AMRITSARPolice on Tuesday busted a gang of robbers wanted in 29 cases with the arrest of six of its members during a raid in the Verka locality of Amritsar. Six more members of the gang managed to give police the slip.Police have recovered two pistols, two sharp-edged weapons and the same number of stolen motorcycles. Those arrested have been identified as Vishal Kumar, alias Bhayia, Akshey Kumar, Jobanjit Singh, alias Joban, Ranjodh Singh, alias Jodha, Jaspinder Singh, alias Baba, and Jaskaran Singh, alias Jass, of the Majitha Road area. Police have launched a hunt to nab Prince of Nangli village, and Suraj, Harpreet Singh, alias Waheguru, Money Singh, alias Mota, Sandeep Singh, alias Gattu, Lovish Malhi and Karan of the Majitha Road area.On a petrol pump robbery spree, the gang had recently looted 17 filling stations in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran districts, said police, adding that they were also wanted in a murder and an attempt to murder case. Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh had formed several teams to nab the accused.Addressing a press conference, deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said: “The gang members were arrested following a tip-off. Besides looting cash from petrol pumps, the accused robbed two cars, four two-wheelers and snatched four mobile phones. They are also wanted in the murder of a woman at the 88-Feet Road in Amritsar. They had also shot at two persons in Nangli village.”Twelve cases have been registered against the gang members in Amritsar city, 14 in Amritsar-rural, two in Tarn Taran and one in Ludhiana, Bhullar said, adding that the arrested accused disclosed that they were planning a bank robbery in Haryana.“We are also trying to identify those from whom the accused had brought illegal weapons, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-involved-in-petrol-pump-robberies-busted-6-arrested-in-amritsar-101618341702857.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 fear takes sheen out of Navratri, Ramzan festivities in Delhi||Navratri and Ramzan, during which devotees observe fasts and participate in special prayers, began on Tuesday with several places of worship in Delhi enforcing Covid-19 protocols at a time when the Capital is going through its worst phase of the pandemic.The city on Tuesday reported 13,468 cases, the highest ever single-day spike, and 81 people died of the infection, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin.At Kalkaji Mandir, devotees were seen waiting in long queues for their turn to enter the temple. Authorities also issued e-passes to regulate the crowd. No prasad or offerings were allowed in the temple.At Jhandewalan temple, the aarti was performed only in the morning in the presence of priest and temple staff, with no members of the public allowed. Similarly, at the Chhattarpur Temple, the aarti was performed by the temple staff, while it remained closed for devotees.Many other temples in the city saw few devotees turn up due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases and strict vigil by the authorities. During Navratri, Hindus offer prayers to the different avatars of the goddess Durga, and fast for nine days.Surendra Nath Avdhoot, mahant (head priest) Kalkaji Mandir, said the footfall of devotees on Tuesday was much lower compared to previous years, even as the management of the temple ensured that those who visited the temple followed physical distancing norms.“On the first of Navratri today (Tuesday) only 10,000 to 15,000 devotees turned up for darshan. In previous years, around 100,000 people used to visit the temple. To discourage crowding, we have put in place a system of e-passes. However, some devotees who were without passes were also allowed darshan. Nobody is being allowed to enter without a mask. We have deployed volunteers to ensure that no one violates social distancing norms even while they stand in queue,” Avdhoot said.At local mosques across the city, the management put up posters on the gates, warning people to wear masks and maintain social distancing.At several mosques, spots to place prayer mats were marked to ensure social distancing, while hand sanitisers were provided at the gates.The Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari, on Tuesday appealed to Muslims to follow all Covid-19 protocols during Ramzan and try to pray at home as far as possible to ensure there is no crowding at mosques.In a video posted on social media, Bukhari said, “I have been getting news of people dying of the infection. We must follow the Covid-19 protocols. People have been lax in following the mask rule. They must wear a mask in public places. We have removed the carpet from Jama Masjid and put stickers so that those coming to perform namaaz follow social distancing. I appeal to all local mosques that they should remove mats/carpets and put stickers. I also appeal to the people to not crowd the mosques and try to perform taraweeh (special night prayers during Ramzan) at home as much as possible.”During Ramzan, Muslims fast for a month between sunrise and sunset and perform special night prayers. The month culminates in the festival of Eid-ul fitr. Crowding in mosques and markets is common during Ramzan.The popular Jhandewalan Devi Mandir also remained closed for devotees on Tuesday. Some people were seen offering prayers outside the temple. Only the temple staff attended the morning and evening aartis.“It is sad that we can’t go inside the temple and take the blessings of Matarani (goddess Durga) during Navratri. But the safety of people is also equally important, so it’s a wise decision to keep the temple closed for the public,” said Ramesh Chandra Gupta, a devotee, outside the Jhandewalan temple.A functionary at the Jhandewalan Devi temple, who asked not to be named, said: “The safety of the devotees is paramount for us. We have made arrangements of live broadcast of aarti on the temple website.”The district administration maintained vigil to discourage crowding at temples.Vishwendra, district magistrate (south-east), said the Kalkaji Mandir is the biggest temple in the region, so elaborate arrangements were made to ensure that there is no crowding and people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“We have deployed over 100 civil defence volunteers in and around Kalkaji temple to keep a vigil. We have also issued fines against violators. In the temple premises, we have also shut shops that used to sell prasad, flowers and other offerings. People were largely seen following Covid guidelines,” he said.A senior official of the central district, who also asked not to be named, said, “Constant vigil was maintained around temples and also in residential neighbourhoods to ensure that religious gatherings do not take place. We are strictly enforcing Covid-19 guidelines.”Talking about arrangements at the Kalkaji temple, deputy commisioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said that nearly 100 police personnel were deployed around the temple for security, and to ensure that the devotees followed the Covid guidelines.“The temple management has issued e-passes and only those who had valid passes were allowed to enter the temple. Inside the temple, circles have been made on the floor for the devotees to wait in a queue. Nobody was found violating the rules,” said Meena.Meanwhile, at the Jhandewalan temple, police personnel were deployed in adequate numbers as part of their anti-terror measures as well as to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the premises, said DCP (central) Jasmeet Singh.“All the rituals were performed behind the closed gates,” he said.As per data released by the Delhi Police, 3,155 people were prosecuted for mask violations and 56 challans were issued for not following social distancing across the city till 4pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-fear-takes-sheen-out-of-navratri-ramzan-festivities-in-delhi-101618341352426.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Kumbh, political rallies to lead to national lockdown, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that with lakhs of seers crowding in Haridwar for Kumbh and political rallies being attended by lakhs in West Bengal, it would not be surprising if a national lockdown is imposed soon. The Sena chief spokesperson also said the cases in Maharashtra are going up due to the migrant population that comes to Maharashtra from states where there are no restrictions. “It will not be surprising if such a decision on lockdown will be taken not just in Maharashtra but across the country. Yesterday, we saw lakhs of people gather in Haridwar, in West Bengal there are rallies with thousands of people. Compared to that, there is a lot of control over such things in Maharashtra,” Raut said on Tuesday. The Sena leader said that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government is trying hard to curb the Covid-19 cases in the state but other states do not have control over the disease and people are migrating to Maharashtra. “They should have kept control on the lakhs of seers who got together in Haridwar. Today, we have our new year (Gudi Padwa) but the chief minister has kept restrictions. We do not like it but we have taken these decisions.” Last week, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray had blamed the migrant workers for the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. The Shiv Sena MP took on the BJP-led central government and Election Commission over the 24-hour ban from campaigning on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying the decision seems to have been taken at the behest of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-kumbh-political-rallies-to-lead-to-national-lockdown-says-sanjay-raut-101618341582312.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Migrants rush to return to hometowns||Amid the stringent curbs, migrant workers across Mumbai are forming a beeline to return to their native states, with huge crowds seen outside Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) on Tuesday afternoon. Railway authorities, however, maintained crowding was due to people travelling outside the city during summer vacation. Both Central and Western Railway are allowing only travellers who have booked the tickets in advance due to Covid-19 rules. The zonal railways are operating daily additional special outstation trains towards North India, including Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Assam. The Western Railway is also likely to operate a few special trains towards different destinations in North India. “The crowd at LTT, Kurla isn’t something very unusual. It is a routine summer season rush. Today, a total of 23 trains are scheduled to depart from LTT, of which 16 are either north-bound or east-bound. Of these 16, five are summer special trains.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. The city is also witnessing queues at outstation bus stops. Many workers fear loss of jobs, along with the trouble they went through during the 2020 lockdown, when many had to start walking to reach their hometowns. Noor Alam, who works as a salesman in a garment shop at Kurla, said, “Last year I had to wait for a month to board the train operated specially for migrant workers. I know the troubles I faced and how I survived with very little money. My friends have already left for their native places and even I am planning to do so shortly.” Autorickshaw driver Nilesh Kadam was desperately trying to get a bus ticket to Kankavali in Konkan. “I am hardly able to get one passenger daily from the international airport and with the lockdown, there is no way I can survive. In my village, at least I will be able to fulfil my basic needs,” said Kadam. Many private transport operators are running buses to places like Rajasthan, Uttarakand, Gujarat and even Uttar Pradesh. “As I am not getting train tickets, I plan to go to Uttarakhand by bus,” said Shivani Aswal, a saleswoman who is working in a cosmetics store in Andheri. “Though it will take at least four days, it is better than staying in lockdown in Mumbai.” Of the 350 workers at Angrezi Dhaba, which has seven outlets in Mumbai, 250 have returned. “We offered to pay them half the salary if they stayed back, but they were adamant to return. There was a lot of pressure from their families back home,” said Raj Sadvikar, co-founder and partner, Angrezi Dhaba. “There is no way we can stop them, but we are worried about how to bring them back once the situation normalises. It’s going to be tough,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-migrants-rush-to-return-to-hometowns-101618341402290.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC control rooms to handle bodies||In the backdrop of rising deaths in the city owing to Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revised its guidelines to ensure smooth passage for cremation of patients. As part of caution amid rising cases, every hospital or jumbo centre will have to route disposal of bodies via its 24 ward-level control rooms. The BMC provides cremation at 46 traditional facilities, followed by 11 electric crematoriums and 18 gas pyres. The circular giving out revised guidelines is expected to be out by this week. Currently, as per the protocol, once a death is reported of a Covid-19 patient, the hospital informs the family, after which it arranges for an ambulance to carry out last rites. Ambulance drivers and staff are supposed to be wearing PPE kits, mask and gloves. The body is later wrapped in a bag and taken to the crematorium or place of burial. As of now, five members of the family are allowed to attend the last rites, as per World Health Organisation protocols. However, this will change as hospitals will be required to contact ward war control rooms for the same.According to revised guidelines that are expected to be out this week, ward control rooms will coordinate with crematoriums about availability of slots. This, the BMC claims, is to ensure there is no queue at the crematoriums, in case the situation worsens in the coming days. The mortality rate in the city as of now is 2.50%, however, in terms of deaths being reported daily, the numbers have gone up. The city was reporting around five deaths daily, but the same went up to around 15 daily by March-end, and in the second week, over 30 deaths are being reported daily. Last week, the city had also reported a six-month-high for single day of 79 deaths. According to figures, the city reported the first death due to Covid-19 on March 17, 2020. So far, over 12,000 deaths have been reported. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We will issue a circular that will make it mandatory for hospitals to report deaths to ward-level war control rooms. This will ensure there is a smooth process for cremation of dead bodies, and unnecessary waiting can be avoided at crematoriums.” A BMC official said, “Mumbai has even handled around 150 deaths on a daily basis, and currently the situation is not alarming. We are introducing such a mechanism in anticipation of situation deteriorating in the coming days.” Meanwhile, according to state health department data, Mumbai had witnessed a peak of deaths due to Covid-19 between June 2020 and October 2020, during which over 8,000 deaths were reported in the city. The number of deaths started falling since November 2020, however, the numbers rose in April 2021. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician, said, “The second wave is being reported in the city owing to different variants of the virus, and if we want to ensure the death rate remains low, we need to continue increasing the number of tests, aggressively undertake contact-tracing and treat them. These are the only steps that can bring down mortality until a substantial number of the population is vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-control-rooms-to-handle-bodies-101618341282288.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||11,400 devotees reach for Vaishno Devi pilgrimage, 71 travellers test positive||The nine-day Navratri festival began on a cautious note in the wake of the pandemic as 11,400 pilgrims reached Katra, the base camp to the holy cave shrine of Vaishno Devi in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, on Tuesday. Earlier, around 25,000 to 30,000 pilgrims would throng the cave shrine per day. “From 5am to 6pm on Tuesday, 11,400 pilgrims had obtained yatra slips—4,400 offline and 7,000 online. The figures are significantly low as compared to the pre-pandemic time,”an official said. Last year, the shrine had been closed on March 18 and re-opened on August 16 after a hiatus of almost five months. A health official said 71 travellers had tested positive in Katra on the first day of the festival. “On Tuesday, we detected 85 new cases in Reasi, which included 71 travellers, 11 locals and two staff members. So far, 498 people have tested positive in Reasi,” he said. The travellers who tested positive were either sent back in specially designed cabs to Pathankot or kept in isolation. “Largely, travellers who tested positive preferred to return home, for which the administration has kept seven to eight cabs. For those, who choose to remain at Katra, the administration has the provision of paid quarantine in Katra and government quarantine at Panthal,” the official said. Sources within shrine board said inviting devotional singers while the second wave of the pandemic is sweeping through the UT was irrational. “Considering the surge in cases, the morning and evening aartis should have been left to the priests and singers of the shrine board,” they said. At 5,200ft, the cave shrine is one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimages and devotees from all over the country and abroad visit the shrine on auspicious days. The administration has fixed a ceiling of 25,000 pilgrims a day. Pilgrims arriving in trains to Katra will undergo rapid antigen tests (RATs) at the Katra railway station where Covid kiosks have been set up. Those arriving via road will undergo the test at Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir. Local devotees will be tested at Banganga and flying in will be tested at the Jammu airport. However, it is advisable for pilgrims coming from outside J&K to bring their Covid-19 negative reports, preferably RT-PCR test, not older than 72 hours. The cave shrine was visited by 13,089 pilgrims on April 11. Last year, in August, the figures had dipped to 7,253 and 27,427 in September before picking up momentum in October when 1,21,661 pilgrims visited the shrine followed by 1,03,749 devotees in November and 2,07,533 in December. In January, 4,08,061 pilgrims had visited the shrine, 3,89,549 in February and in March the count was around 3.5 lakh. Meanwhile, shat chandi maha yagya commenced at the cave shrine on first day of the festival amid chanting of vedic mantras and performance of other religious ceremonies. The maha yagya, which is being performed during navratras for peace, prosperity and health of humanity, will conclude with a purna ahuti on Ramanavami. Board CEO Ramesh Kumar said elaborate arrangements have been made to facilitate the pilgrims who are expected to visit the holy cave shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11400-devotees-reach-for-vaishno-devi-pilgrimage-71-travellers-test-positive-101618340983911.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Nagpur hospitals discharge patients early to admit others||As the second Covid wave sweeps Nagpur causing an unprecedented spurt in cases and mortalities, the city is also reeling under an equally unprecedented shortage of hospital beds. With the rising number of patients needing hospitalisation, hospitals – Government Medical College and Hospital and Indira Gandhi Medical College and private hospital in particular -- have resorted to early discharge of patients to make way for new patients needing a bed. In the process, the patients already under the spell of the virus and who have not yet recovered, face various other health complications and need hospitalisation again. Take the case of Sunil Madavi, 26, who works as an attendant at a city cancer hospital. Sunil was admitted to the GMCH after he contracted coronavirus last month. “He was discharged within nine days. After reaching home, he was disoriented, did not recognise family or friends and spoke incoherently. We got him admitted to a private hospital sensing something was amiss,” Madavi’s colleague Anup Thakre said. Subsequent tests showed Madavi was still reeling under Covid infection. “We again admitted him to GMCH and this time we requested the hospital authorities to discharge him only after he recovers. But he was discharged after 10-12 days and shifted to another government facility for quarantine,” said Madavi’s father Wamanrao. The GMCH superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said that they have only 900 Covid-19 beds. “It’s really very difficult to accommodate everyone as hardly 18-20 patients get discharge per day as against 70-80 new admissions every day,” he said. It is even alleged that two Covid patients were made to share a bed, reflecting the frightening reality of the bed crisis. Officials, who preferred anonymity, say the bed shortage is also because people flock to government hospitals to avoid the exorbitant cost of treatment at private hospitals. Even private hospitals divert critical patients to government hospitals. Dr Gawande said that after arranging for more beds, the crisis is manageable. Former guardian minister of Nagpur and state BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule alleged that those with Covid were being admitted in the same ward as patients being treated for other illnesses. “There are no beds in Nagpur,” he said. The pathetic situation of the government hospital could be gauged from the fact that a unique sit in dharna in front of government-run medical college and hospital here was staged on April 11 by the resident doctors to highlight the inconvenience which patients are facing due to neglect of district administration there. The agitating doctors highlighted the shortage of beds, oxygen cylinders etc. at the government hospital and blamed the district administration for not co-operating in the Covid-19 pandemic situation, even though it was going on since last year and have gone from bad to worse in the last one month. Dr Sanjay Chilkar, the nodal officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation for Covid-19 management said that Covid cases were initially reported from slums and highly congested areas. “Now we find cases from the middle-income population and entire households are getting affected -– a phenomenon more pronounced in the second wave.” He blames people’s carelessness towards Covid-safety norms of —wearing masks, avoiding large gatherings and crowded places for the spurt in infections. Two days before Holi, the main markets of Sitabuldi and Itwari areas were teeming with people and vehicles. People were out shopping for Holi and buying vegetables and fruits from scores of vendors. There was a constant stream of vehicles. Pedestrians, many of them without masks, were walking slowly, brushing past each other, Chilkar pointed out. Holi was on March 28. And after Holi, as many as 40,646 positive cases were reported from Nagpur city within two weeks, that’s virtually double than the last month’s figure when an average 2250-2500 cases were reported every day. Following the Covid surge, the district administration in Nagpur imposed a partial lockdown from February 1 and later a total lockdown from 15 February to 31 March and a night curfew from April 1. Testing was also ramped up, from merely 5,000 to now around 15,000 testing every day. Unfortunately, even after growing positive cases, there is still a sizable segment in Nagpur city population are not wearing mask in public. According to Dr Vijay Joshi, a senior doctor of local civic body and the coordinator of private and government hospitals for the Covid-19 patients in Nagpur said that lack of awareness among people is a challenge, as they don’t understand the seriousness of the virus. “Initially there was even hesitancy towards Covid-19 vaccine, but now people are coming for it,” says Dr Joshi and claimed that as many as 3, 67,476 people of Nagpur city were vaccinated till Monday evening. Amidst a massive spurt in Covid cases in Nagpur, testing has tripled to around 15,000 tests per day, according to the guardian minister for Nagpur district, Nitin Raut. As many as 1,322,892 people were tested so far. He said there are 2,991 oxygen beds, 1413 ICU and 532 ventilator beds available for Covid-19 patients in Nagpur city. However, this could not prevent the surge of the deadly disease. The increased testing might be another possible reason why more cases are being reported in Nagpur district, says Ravindra Thakare, the district collector. Chilkar said that there are over 57,819 active cases in Nagpur and of them 80% patients are asymptomatic. “In view of the present situation, we only recommend 20% mild and moderate patients to the hospitals. It is indeed a challenge as we have only 4,441 Covid beds (including from the private hospitals) in Nagpur city,” he said and claimed that the government is increasing the capacity in view of the growing situation. The state government already sanctioned ₹65-crore to tackle the outbreak in Nagpur. This amount will be used to increase beds, add more ICU beds, ventilators and provide more infrastructures in government-run hospitals at Nagpur. Meanwhile, authorities have imposed protocols for the second wave to ensure better surveillance. For instance, the authorities did away with strict home isolation for the first seven days and another seven days home quarantine after one test positive. However, the earlier protocols were stricter than the new one. During the first wave, there were strict hospitalisations (even for the asymptotic patient) for 14 days and another 14 days for home quarantine, said Chilkar. Asymptomatic to moderate cases are now sent to two designated Covid care centres. There are 138 Covid hospitals in Nagpur city. The more severe cases are sent to government-run medical college hospitals or civic hospitals for treatment. The locals, however, say the authorities of not doing enough to contain the outbreak. Mohan Kothekar, a rights activist, blames the authorities for not doing enough to prevent the infections from recurring. There was no sticker at homes of infected patients which were mandatory during the first wave last year. Kothekar, who resides in an apartment on Amravati Road in west Nagpur locality pointed out that in his apartment at least four to five families with couples and children were found positives, but the civic body didn’t put a sticker at their homes to alert the neighbours. Children and elders from their family, who had tested positive, were also moving about freely. A new variant of Sars-Cov-2 was detected in random community samples from Nagpur, the Union government said earlier this month. The Union health ministry said a novel variant with a combination of two mutations E484Q and L452R was found in 206 samples taken from state since December. “We sent swab samples of few patients to the National Institute of Virology at Pune a few days ago and the reports established the new strain of coronavirus,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nagpur-hospitals-discharge-patients-early-to-admit-others-101618340982860.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat making political hay from Covid crisis: CM||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday accused SAD MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of insensitive attempts to make political hay from the current Covid crisis in the state. In a statement, Amarinder said the Akali leader was in the habit of lying, even on the most sensitive of subjects, especially at a time when the unrelenting efforts of the state’s healthcare workers were showing some positive results. “Her comments on the Covid situation have exposed a new low,” said the chief minister, slamming the former Union minister for playing dirty political games on the issue of the pandemic. Harsimrat had on Monday slammed the state government over “shortcomings” in Covid management. Responding to her remarks, the CM said instead of choosing to support his government’s concerted efforts, which had led to some bright spots on the Covid front, Harsimrat, along with the rest of her party colleagues, including SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, had been continuously indulging in cheap criticism of his government on the management of the pandemic. Pointing out that the state’s medical community was working day and night to fight the pandemic, Amarinder said the untiring efforts of the medical fraternity had led to some improvement in the situation over the past few days, with Punjab no longer among the top five states contributing the maximum case load. While Punjab was still a long way from victory in the battle against Covid, this was a matter of optimism, and a cause for appreciation of all the frontline workers who were working hard for the past over one year, he noted. “Does she not realise how such statements are de-motivating for the frontline workers, and all the people of Punjab? Or does she simply not care, because her entire focus is on finding excuses to pull down my government?” he asked. The CM also lashed out at Harsimrat for finding fault with the ban on political gatherings in the state. While the Congress had voluntarily decided to put off all rallies and gatherings, the Akalis, led by Sukhbir himself, were spreading mayhem by proudly holding such rallies without masks and social distancing of any kind, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harsimrat-making-political-hay-from-covid-crisis-cm-101618340922866.html
14-04-2021||Other||Karnataka CM calls for all party meet on April 18, rules out lockdown||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of another lockdown in the state and added that he has called for an all-party meeting on April 18, a day after the three by-polls in the state, to decide the future course of action to control the spread of the Covid-19 in the state.Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar, the members of the Technical Advisory Committee members are expected to attend the meeting on April 18.“I have called an all-party meeting on April 18 regarding the COVID situation here. The technical advisory committee has suggested that positive cases will increase till May 2. Hence, people must abide by Covid appropriate behaviour,” he said. He further clarified that the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has not recommended any lockdown. “I’m part of the TAC. No one has recommended a lockdown,” Yediyurappa said. “Currently, there is no proposal to impose a lockdown. We will wait and watch the situation for a week,” the CM said while speaking to the media in Bidar district. “We are hoping that the situation will be under control within a week. After monitoring the situation, we will take a call on the tough measures to be implemented to contain the spread of the virus,” he said. A member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on the condition of anonymity said that May 2 was one of the projections given by the TAC. “During our meetings, based on the information available, we had told the government that the spike could continue till May 2. However, we had reworked these estimates and told the chief minister that the spike could continue till the end of May,” said the expert. “People have to cooperate by wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and physical distancing. There is no other way.. With folded hands, I want to ask the people to cooperate,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cm-calls-for-all-party-meet-on-april-18-rules-out-lockdown-101618340862269.html
14-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s daily Covid tally breaches 5K mark||LUCKNOW Lucknow’s single-day Covid count breached the 5,000-mark on Tuesday as 5,382 fresh cases surfaced and 18 people lost their battle against Covid in the last 24 hours, taking fatality count to 1,371. The state capital’s active case count stood at 27,385. As many as 1,086 patients recovered from Covid on Tuesday and so far 87,929 people had defeated the virus in Lucknow, as per data from the health department.Eleven doctors and three staff of Shyama Prasad Mukherji Hospital tested Covid positive. Rajya Sabh MP Sanjay Seth, principal secretary (urban development) Rajnish Dubey and additional district magistrate Vishwa Bhushan Mishra were also among those who tested positive.Meanwhile, the LMC created 11,645 containment zones in the city. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said only houses with single Covid case were sealed only those areas are barricaded where more than one case was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-daily-covid-tally-breaches-5k-mark-101618340802218.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 53 deaths, 3,003 fresh Covid cases||The coronavirus tally in Punjab rose to 2.79 lakh on Tuesday with 3,003 new infections, while 53 more deaths took the toll to 7,609, a health bulletin said.There are 28,184 active cases, while 2,612 more coronavirus patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 2.43 lakh, the health department bulletin said.Seven deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur, six each in Sangrur and Gurdaspur and five each in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala.Ludhiana reported 480 cases, followed by 391 in Jalandhar, 374 in Mohali, 312 in Amritsar and 298 in Patiala.There are 50 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 363 are on oxygen support. A total of 64,07,939 samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-53-deaths-3-003-fresh-covid-cases-101618340744683.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, 2 lakh students appear for annual exam in HP||A day after Himachal Pradesh recorded the highest ever spike in coronavirus cases with 1,089 fresh infections, around two lakh students appeared for the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education’s annual examination on Tuesday. As many as 1,16,954 regular students and 14,931 open school students appeared for the Class-10 examination while 1,00,982 regular students and 13,944 open school candidates appeared for the examination. The examinations will conclude on April 28 for Class 10 and May 10 for Class 12. The board’s chairperson Suresh Kumar Soni said 2,137 examination centres had been set up across the state.Separate dates for infected students Soni said the examinations were being conducted in compliance with Covid guidelines. “Separate provisions have been made for students with flu-like symptoms. Infected students can appear for the examination after a month and dates for the same will be announced later,” he said. Should a teacher at the examination centre test positive, staff from other schools will be deputed at the centre. Those in boarding schools at greater risk Students putting up at boarding schools are at a greater risk as evidenced by 18 students testing positive at Pine Grove, a well-known boarding school in Dharampur, Solan. Four cooks, and teachers have also tested positive for the virus. School authorities, however, remain tight-lipped despite attempts to reach them for a comment. The boarders tested positive a week after 120 students at Dalhousie Public School tested positive. Students from a school in Barotiwala have also tested positive for the virus. With students increasingly contracting the virus, the district administrations have taken fresh measures and are maintaining a close tab on the residential schools. Solan and Shimla have the highest number of residential schools. The managements of residential schools have asked parents to furnish reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) negative reports before admitting students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-2-lakh-students-appear-for-annual-exam-in-hp-101618340684615.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s health infrastructure falls short as patients go after private medical care||The spread of Covid-19 disease among the city’s wealthier residents of high rises — at least 799 buildings are now sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation as of April 12 — is driving the shortage of private hospital beds in Mumbai. This shift in the socio-economic pattern of the pandemic has once again left Mumbai struggling to cope, as it did during the first wave. Bandra’s tony Lilavati Hospital in Bandra added 25 beds in the lobby of its Covid-19 floor last month, but it’s still not enough, chief executive officer Dr V Ravishankhar said. “Patients know that once they are in, their treatment will start and they will be moved to a bed as soon as someone is discharged,” Ravishankar said. “It gets tough when patients have specific demands of private beds or deluxe rooms.” At any given point, at least eight Covid-19 patients are being treated in the triage area – the first point of contact with a patient. After the last peak settled down in November, many beds were reassigned for non-Covid care. But as soon as the cases surged, they went back to the Covid-19 arrangement. Currently, the hospital has 142 regular beds and 48 Intensive Care Unit beds for Covid-19 cases. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, a shortage of beds is being felt in the private sector particularly as “a large number of patients are now coming from housing complexes and high rises.” The situation in public-run hospitals isn’t as yet dire, but the number of vacant beds is fast reducing. As of April 12, as many as 15,451 beds were occupied out of the 19,329 Covid-19 beds under the BMC’s command (13,512 in public hospitals and 5817 in private hospitals). Of the vacant beds, only 588 were in private hospitals. The city has 89 ICU beds available (out of a total of 2,529) and 32 ventilators available (out of a total of 1302). Mumbai has recorded over 5,20,214 cases and 12,017 deaths to date. Last year, the city’s highest single-day surge during the first wave was 2848 cases on October 7, 2020. This year, the highest single-day count touched 11,302 on April 4. A serological prevalence study carried out by the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research along with the BMC in July 2020 had revealed that 57% of the slum population and 16% of the non-slum population were infected by the coronaviruS. A second round of the study in August also showed a higher prevalence of 44.9% in slums and 17.5% prevalence in the non-slum population. The surveys marked an important trend—those living in high rises had escaped the first wave of the pandemic. SHORTAGE OF BEDS Last year, as the pandemic raged, the civic body created additional health infrastructure in the form of jumbo Covid-19 facilities in large areas. The first such facility opened inside the dome stadium of the National Sports Club of India in Worli in March 2020. Other such jumbo facilities were started in Bandra Kurla Complex, Byculla, Goregaon, Dahisar, and Mulund, at a breakneck speed. When the cases started declining in November, these big facilities were mostly lying vacant but the infrastructure was retained for vaccination drives and a second wave which was anticipated in December-January. The facility at Mahalaxmi was dismantled, and now the corporation wants to put that facility back up. “We retained all new infrastructure that was developed for Covid-19, which is why we have been able to cater to a large number of patients in the second wave,” Kakani said. According to him, the number of hospital beds, including ICU and oxygenated beds is 1.5 times more than what the city had during the first wave. “In the jumbo facilities too, the number of beds has been increased. For example, the BKC facility has upgraded to 2000 beds from the earlier 1000, and Goregaon facility has gone up to 1600 from 1100 beds,” he said. The civic body also plans to open three more jumbo facilities with 300 beds each. “We have identified larges spaces in the western and eastern suburbs and one in the city. We will start with 300 beds and increase the capacity as per the need,” Kakani said. The possible locations earmarked are Malad, Kanjurmarg, and Sion. GOVT SHORTSIGHTEDNESS The high demand for private beds stems from multiple reasons like the lack of hygiene, upkeep, and the overall negative perception about the public-run healthcare facilities, experts said. Civic commissioner Iqbal Chahal has appealed to the citizens to not be picky while choosing beds but the civic body definitely needs to do much more to instill confidence in their facilities. “The second wave was almost two months later than we anticipated. The government had enough and more time to work various aspects on hygiene and upkeep of these facilities and upgrade them based on the feedback or complaints of patients,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More. In the first wave, social media was replete with accounts of people who had faced a difficult time accessing civic facilities, whether of beds or ambulances that arrived on time. Recently, a 38-year-old academician who was admitted to the BKC jumbo facility shared his experience on Twitter last week, and wrote about the dirty sheets, unclean toilets, and the high summer temperatures which made his recovery period difficult. In another instance, a 59-year-old social worker from South Mumbai was unable to find an oxygen bed for his 56-year-old wife last week. Eventually he found one in the civic-run Nair hospital. But when he received a call from Bombay Hospital, a private facility, about the availability of a bed, he decided to shift his wife within an hour of admission. “There was no doctor to communicate with us. When we reached there, I took my wife on a stretcher all the way to the fifth-floor ward. Once there, I had to chase a nurse to shift her on the bed and connect her oxygen. Then I was asked to get an X-Ray done and I had to again shift her on a stretcher and take her to the diagnostics sections. There was no help available. It was simply impossible to believe that my wife would get any treatment or attention,” the social worker who did not wish to be named said. “When I got a call from Bombay Hospital, I immediately decided to shift her out,” he said adding his wife’s condition has now improved and her oxygen saturation has gone up to 93%. Nair Hospital’s dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal, however, said that they had enough staff members. “We have recruited 150 multi-purpose workers and are also in the process of recruiting more AYUSH doctors. Our hospital also has vacant oxygen beds. Only the ICU beds are currently full. Some doctors were away for their examinations, but they have joined back work from April 1,” he said. According to More, Mumbai is facing a shortage of healthcare workers because those hired on contract during the first wave were not given renewals. “A lot of doctors who were hired on the contract were let go after the cases decreased. A good healthcare system cannot run on short contracts. One had to have a good number of doctors and an additional reserve as a backup. Need-based hiring of doctors puts lives at risk. I have heard the Mumbai and Pune corporations have let go of anywhere between 200 to 300 doctors,” he said. It is as yet unclear how many doctors were hired by the civic body, during the first wave, on contract, as well as during the current second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-health-infrastructure-falls-short-as-patients-go-after-private-medical-care-101618340683425.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K detects record 1,269 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 1,269 fresh Covid infections, the highest single-day jump after September 20, taking the UT’s tally to 1,40,650, health officials said.So far, April has already recorded around 9,600 Covid-19 cases, which is higher than the monthly tally of January, February and March, which recorded around 3,500, 1,900 and 4,500 cases, respectively. At the peak of the first wave, the UT had recorded 37,372 cases and 478 deaths in September.The UT also recorded three fresh fatalities, one in Kashmir and two in Jammu division, taking the death toll to 2,037. Of the new cases, 687 were from Kashmir division while 582 were from Jammu. J&K had recorded an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12,2020 and 1,457 infections on September 20.Officials said with 423 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 265 in Udhampur, 191 in Jammu district, 98 in Baramulla , 62 in Reasi and 42 in Budgam. Five of 20 districts reported single digit cases, while no case was reported in Kishtwar district.The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March reached 8,681, officials said. Since February 9, when active cases were at a low of 593, the UT has added 8,088 active cases in just over two months.On Saturday, 493 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including 392 from Kashmir and 101 from Jammu. As many as 1, 29,932 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 92.37% from 98% in the first fortnight of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-detects-record-1-269-new-cases-101618340388796.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane battles shortage of Covid beds, again||On April 2, 43-year-old Saji Nair, a resident of Majiwada, redialled the number of the Thane Municipal Corporation’s war room – the nodal office where callers who wish to register for a bed in a Covid hospital are directed to their respective area’s medical officer to initiate the procedure – but like the previous 15 times, he didn’t get through. He cut the call, and then dialled the number of a private hospital close to his Majiwada residence in Thane. No answer. The previous private hospitals that he had reached out to did not have any bed available. Finally, his family physician Dr P C Kulkarni called him to visit Fortis hospital in Mulund. Nair, who had tested positive for Covid-19 a week before, finally found a bed and got himself admitted. “I had a fever and a lot of weakness as well, I needed constant care. My aged parents stay with me and home quarantine would have meant putting their lives at risk,” Nair said. Even as Thane has seen 16,409 cases in the first 10 days of April, more than 400 patients are currently admitted outside the city. The city has 4,499 beds available. As of April 10, the number of patients admitted in hospitals in Thane were 3,372, and only 383 Oxygen and 79 ICU beds were still free. Thane is one of the four big urban centres that is driving Maharashtra’s second wave: together with Mumbai, Pune, and Nagpur, they accounted for 59% of Maharashtra’s cases in the first four days of April. Thane, in particular, has seen a particularly steep rise to a total of 95,737 cases till now. After a fall in daily caseload from the first week of November to 120 to 150, which further decreased to less than 100 by January and all the way up to mid-February, cases began to spike again. In Mid-March, the daily caseload averaged around 500 and on April 3, the caseload was three times that number. In the first week of February, the doubling rate was 300; now it’s 42 days. However, in the same time period, the number of tests conducted daily have gone from 6500 to 10,450. All the same, overstrained healthcare infrastructure is not a new story. The first wave saw a similar situation unfold, when in June 2020 – at the time that the state’s caseload had begun to ascend towards a peak -- the city launched its first dedicated Covid Hospital, Global Hospital which had a bed capacity of 1024. During its peak (September 17), the centre had 700 beds available. Currently, there are less than 50 beds vacant. The municipality is seeking to address the shortage. It reopened the 400-bed Covid care facility at Kausa, after shutting down operations in month of October, besides roping in a few more private hospitals as Covid hospitals. A 100-bed facililty at Vartak Nagar was opened on April 3 by the civic body. In all, Thane has 26 Covid hospitals and 2 Covid centres. “We are making additional provisions for increasing the number of beds, there are many places which we had converted to a Covid centre. We are reviving all these places and also in touch with our Covid task force team to provide medical staff support,” Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner. “Despite the onset of the second wave there were no proper restrictions in the city. Delivery boys and parcel services were frequenting housing societies, as were visitors. Roadside eateries were open, people crowded outside shops blocking the footpath making it difficult for those walking along the road to follow social distancing,” said Shashikumar Nair, a city-based citizen activist. Lax behaviour, and failure to mask up and follow effective distancing is being touted as one of the main reasons for the new wave. Localities like Majiwada-Manpada and Vartak Nagar, which have the plushest residential complexes and townships, are recording more than 500 to 600 cases every day since April 4. Moreover, there is a moving population in this area as most people travel to Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other neighbouring cities for work, often using some form of public transport. Before the new set of restrictions, including weekend lockdown, was imposed starting April 5, many housing societies had grown lax in terms of containing the spread of the virus by allowing free flow of visitors. During the first wave, TMC had not only sealed buildings but also areas within 2km radius of sealed buildings were considered containment zones. Moreover, they roped in Rapid Action force in Lokmanya- Savarkar Nagar, Wagle Estate and Mumbra wards to patrol regularly and ensure Lockdown norms are followed. Similarly, in the month of May, SRPF jawans were stationed in Mumbra.The TMC had not tightened the restrictions in hotspots or announced containment zones till April 3, when the corporation started sealing the buildings after 1482 cases were recorded on that day. The last time the city had seen such a high tally was in October 2020, when the highest daily caseload recorded was nearly half: 727. “We have announced hotspots in the city, these are clusters which have an increased number of positive cases. We have sealed 95 buildings in the city which had more than five positive Covid-19 cases since April 3. Among these, the greatest number of buildings are sealed in Diva, while not a single building was sealed in Mumbra and Wagale Estate ward. With Majiwada-Manpada ward witnessing the highest spike, the corporation has also sealed 316 floors of different buildings in this ward alone,” said Ashok Burpulle, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, TMC. There are also growing concerns of a new, double mutant strain of the virus, which has been found in samples from Maharashtra that were studied for genome sequencing by the Centre. And while more information on that is still awaited, experts said that further restrictions will help arrest the spread of the virus. What will also help is vaccination: something that wasn’t happening during the first wave. Although Thane city has 54 operational vaccination centres, only around 34 are functioning at all times as some centres are open only on alternate days. Till now, there have been 1.8 lakh vaccinations including first and booster dosages. On a daily basis initially there used to be 10,000 vaccinations from March 1 onwards but as there are fewer vaccines available since March 30, the civic body has reduced it to around 6000 to 7000 vaccines daily. “We are giving preference to those with prior booking, but we ensure that the crowd is managed well and in case a particular centre has a greater number of people we contact the nearest vaccine centre and divert the crowd,” Malvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-battles-shortage-of-covid-beds-again-101618340385641.html
14-04-2021||Other||ACS seeks report on delay in Covid test reports||Lucknow: The state health and family welfare department on Tuesday sought report from the director general, medical health and chief medical officer (CMO), Lucknow over delay in the Covid sample test reports and starting of the Covid hospitals. In a letter to DG , medical health Dr DS Negi and CMO, Lucknow, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said four times more Covid cases were being reported during the second wave in the city in comparison to the first wave, yet all the Covid hospitals had not been made functional. The ACS has directed both the officers to submit report on the issue. In a separate order, Prasad warned of action against private laboratories and hospitals for charging more fees from the people than the rate fixed by the state government. Action would be taken under UP Public Health and Epidemic Act-2020 against the defaulting private hospitals and laboratories, he said. Prasad said the treatment and sample test was free in the government hospitals and laboratories. In an order issued by the state government, the private laboratories’ rate has been fixed ₹700 per test for the patients visiting the laboratories whereas ₹900 would be charged for collection of the sample from home, he said. The rate for the private hospitals has been also fixed- ₹10,000 per day for moderate sickness (isolation bed with oxygen support) in NABH accredited hospitals and ₹8,000 in non-NABH hospitals, For severe sickness (ICU without ventilator) ₹15,000 per day in NABH accredited hospital and ₹13,000 in non-accredited hospitals. For very severe sickness (ICU with ventilator) the rate was ₹18,000 in the accredited hospitals and ₹15,000 per day in the non-accredited hospitals, he said. Some private hospitals were charging extra fees from the patients for consultancy, nursing care and monitoring visit which was against the order of the state government. The use of Remdesivir injections, RT-PCR tests and IL-6 tests were not included in the package, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/acs-seeks-report-on-delay-in-test-reports-101618340202177.html
14-04-2021||Other||With finger pointed at Haryana, Chadha says get ready for water shortage||New Delhi: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said that large parts of Delhi are likely to witness a shortage of water starting Wednesday as Haryana, in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines, is reportedly sharing lower than the mandated share of Yamuna water with Delhi, and has failed to adhere to safe pollution levels.Chadha, who is also an MLA from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), called it “criminal negligence” and accused the Haryana government of affecting the Right to Life of Delhi residents. “Haryana government is deliberately trying to play with the lives of people by supplying polluted water that is untreatable by world-class treatment plants. The Haryana government must wake up, and not play with the lives of the people of Delhi. We demand that the Haryana government must supply water (from Yamuna) that it is legally designated to (Delhi), by the Supreme Court, and within the range of treatable PPM (parts per million),” Chadha said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, Chadha said that water supply will be “severely hit” in parts of central, south and west Delhi on Wednesday as the treatment capacity of three water treatment plants in the Capital—Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal — were affected by inadequate water supply from Haryana. The situation is also worsened by the high levels of ammonia in the Yamuna water, he said.Among the areas that will experience water shortage no Wednesday are Vijay Nagar, Timarpur, Khyber Pass, Old Secretariat, Civil Lines, Lahori Gate, Old Sabzi Mandi, Naya Bazaar, Peeli Kothi, Malka Ganj, Motia Khan, Jhandewalan, Baraf Khana, Patparganj, Pusa Road, Rajinder Nagar, Karol Bagh, Central Secretariat, Parliament House and President House. Supply will also be hit at Vigyan Bhawan, Rakab Ganj, India Gate, Janpath, North Avenue, East Patel Nagar, New Patel Nagar, South Patel Nagar, Cantonment, RK Puram, Vasant Vihar, Akbar Road, Sarojini Nagar, Kalkaji Tughlaqabad, Giri Nagar, Lodhi Colony and Defence Colony. Chadha said that on Tuesday, water production in Chandrawal has dropped from 92 MGD (million gallons per day) to 71 MGD, and in Okhla from 21 MGD to 10 MGD. “In total, 85 MGD of the water supply has been reduced due to the trouble created by Haryana,” he saidDJB officials said that water treatment plants can treat only up to 1PPM of water. PPM is the mass of a chemical or contaminant per unit volume of water. According to DJB’s recording at 4pm on Tuesday, the PPM level reached an average 7.6 across all water treatment plants.. “The amount of pond-level water that should be maintained by Haryana should be 674 feet. Today (Tuesday), it is just 670 feet. And, it should be known that even if it is reduced to 0.1 feet, it can jeopardise the water supply,” Chadha said. Yamuna is one of the primary sources of water for the national capital, constituting nearly 40% of the water produced and supplied to the homes in Delhi. This is not the first time that the DJB vice-chairperson has accused the Haryana government of sending highly polluted water to the Delhi side, and not transferring the prescribed water for Delhi. In January, the Supreme Court had also issued a notice to the Haryana government over high pollution levels in the Yamuna after DJB alleged that water containing high ammonia levels was being released into the river from the neighbouring state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-finger-pointed-at-haryana-chadha-says-get-ready-for-water-shortage-101618340142189.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||In 2020, DFS recorded least emergency calls, most deaths||While 2020 marked the least number of emergency calls received by the Delhi Fire Services in the last five years, data released by the fire department on Tuesday showed that it handled the most human casualties caused by fire, building collapse, hanging and drowning during the same period.According to the DFS data, the fire control room received 25,709 emergency calls related to fire, building collapse, bird rescue, suicides, and drowning, in 2020, or an average of around 71 such calls each day. Between 2016 and 2020, most calls were received in 2018 (31,264 calls), followed by 2019 (31,157 calls).DFS data showed that the city witnessed most number of deaths -- 346 -- in these incidents in 2020, 38 more than in 2019. The second highest was in 2017, when 318 people lost their lives in different incidents.“Nearly 70 people out of 346 died in fire incidents. The remaining people died by suicide, drowning, or building collapse. The calls were responded to by firefighters and rescue teams posted at 64 fire stations across the city. There were two serious fire and 19 medium fire incidents reported in Delhi last year,” said DFS chief Atul Garg.DFS and other fire departments across the country will observe the annual “Fire Service Week” from Wednesday by paying homage to 66 fire fighters and officers of the Mumbai Fire Brigade who lost their lives during a fire fighting operation in a ship “Fort Stikine” in 1944, Delhi fire department officials said.Garg said that the fire service week -- the theme for which is “Maintenance of Fire Safety Equipment is key to Mitigate Fire Hazards” -- will also see a wreath laying ceremony at Rohini’s Fire Safety Management Academy, followed by a series of events throughout the week.“The major emphasis during the fire service week shall be to propagate the theme and to generate fire safety awareness in the society through a series of lectures, demonstrations and group discussions. Offices, markets, schools and JJ clusters at prominent places have been specifically selected for lectures and demonstrations,” he added.In a statement released on Tuesday, DFS said that a proposal for filling of 706 posts of fire operators have been sent to Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) and the recruitment process has been started. A total of 32 radio telephone operators have also been recruited and are likely to join the department soon.To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the fire service response, the department has procured more vehicles and equipments, which are undergoing registration with transport authorities, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dfsrecorded-least-emergency-calls-most-casualties-in-2020-101618340082771.html
14-04-2021||Other||Court asks Tihar if they can restart in-person meeting of prisoners with family||New DelhiThe Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the prison authorities to explore the possibility of allowing in-person meetings for prisoners with their family members provided they wear proper protective gear and masks, as virtual meetings were not feasible for everyone.Justice Prathiba M Singh said that family members of every prisoner may not have access to the kind of gadgets and internet connection required for online meetings and therefore, the feasibility of conducting in-person meetings be explored.The court also asked director general (DG) of prisons Sandip Goyal whether the number of meetings of prisoners with their family and lawyers can be increased to four per month instead of the current three.Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, appearing for Goyal, told the court that earlier eight meetings per month were allowed and the number was reduced to three, that too virtually, after the Covid-19 outbreak.Subsequently, when the situation improved, in-person meetings were restarted, but they were again stopped in April after the surge in Covid cases. He, however, added that he will seek instructions on the queries posed by the court.The court also sought to know whether the computers in the computer centre in Tihar Jail can be made operational for prisoners to access the websites of Delhi Police, trial courts, Delhi high court and the Supreme Court, so that they can keep track of their cases and FIRs against them.It also asked the DG Prisons to consider providing more computers with Internet connection in the legal aid room of the jail, so that lawyers can help prisoners find out their case status and also draft pleas.The queries were posed to DG Prisons after being raised before the court by two JNU students — Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita — who are in jail in connection with the communal riots in north east Delhi.Narwal and Kalita, arrested last year in May and in judicial custody presently, had sought a direction to the DG Prisons to allow them and other inmates to have a choice of in-person or virtual meetings to communicate with family and friends as is provided under the Prison Rules of 2018.The two students were arrested by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for their alleged role in conspiring to orchestrate the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-asks-tihar-if-they-can-restart-in-person-meeting-of-prisoners-with-family-101618340022754.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up AAP MLA, says hearing to reopen Markaz is still in progress||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up AAP MLA and Delhi Waqf Board chairman Amanatullah Khan for his comments regarding the reopening of the Markaz building in Nizamuddin for the public. The court also declined a request to permit 50 people to offer prayers on the first day of Ramzan, and instead allowed five nominees to enter the premises.The judge expressed displeasure over a statement given to the media by Khan, who said the court has allowed the mosque to be made operational.Justice Mukta Gupta termed Khan’s statement “unfortunate” and said that it has not ordered the reopening of the Markaz building in south-east Delhi which was sealed on March 31 last year after the alleged violation of the Covid-19 guidelines at Tablighi Jamaat meetings.“It is unfortunate that despite the fact that the writ is yet to be decided and this court has not passed any order in re-opening the mosque, Amanatullah Khan...has made a statement stating that the court has opened the mosque,” the court noted in its order.Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the court that on Monday, Khan pressured police personnel present during an inspection to open the entire premises. He also said Khan had misrepresented the court’s order of April 12 as a de-sealing order. “He also released a misleading video, wherein he has claimed credit for getting the Markaz mosque, comprising seven floors, opened,” he said, adding that the legislator also released a video claiming that the building has been de-sealed.The court was hearing a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board seeking the opening of the Markaz.On Tuesday, the court also declined the prayer of senior counsel Ramesh Gupta, appearing for the board, for re-opening the mosque for 50 people to offer prayers on the first day of Ramzan, saying it cannot issue any direction without seeing what the Centre says in its affidavit. “...once the court allows, controlling the number will be difficult,” said justice Gupta, adding that she would “see” it on April 15, the next date of hearing. The court allowed five nominated persons to offer prayers, as submitted by the Centre. SG Mehta, along with advocate Rajat Nair, also representing Delhi Police, opposed the prayer and told the court that according to an April 10 order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, all gatherings, including political, social, religious or any other congregation, are prohibited in the city.Mehta also said that the last time the court had ordered re-opening of the mosque on Shab-e-Baraat, over 500 people had gathered though the court only allowed 50 people.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, representing the board, however, disputed the claim. He also said that religious congregations are being allowed while stating that 3.5 million people took a dip in the Ganga during the Kumbh Festival. Mehta said that he would submit any video of that day if it is available.The Centre on March 24 told the Delhi high court that 50 people chosen by the state waqf board and whose names are given to the local police station can be permitted to offer prayers at the mosque in the Nizamuddin Markaz on the Shab-e-Barat.Meanwhile, the court asked the Centre to file an affidavit as to whether the DDMA order was being implemented across the board. The court also asked authorities to file a response to the plan submitted by Delhi Waqf Board for holding prayers during the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapmla-pulled-up-for-comments-on-markaz-reopening-101618340022242.html
14-04-2021||Other||Meerut: Woman commits suicide, in-laws shoot video as proof of innocence||A 25-year-old married woman hanged herself to death after a family feud in village Daityana of Chapar police station on Sunday, while her husband and other family members shot her act on a mobile phone. Later, they shared the video as proof of their innocence, police said.After the video of the incident went viral on social media, the police swung into action and arrested the woman’s father-in-law Devendra and mother-in-law Savitri, and raids are being conducted to arrest her husband Ashish and her brother-in-law Sachin who are still at large.SSP of Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said that a case under sections 498A, 304B, 506 of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the dowry prohibition act has been registered against the accused on the complaint of the woman’s father Anil Kumar.He said that the initial investigation indicates that the video was shot from a window of the room, where the woman committed suicide, and family members and other villagers were present outside. “They tried to break the door and simultaneously shot the video too perhaps to create evidence that they were not involved in the incident,” said Yadav and added that the case has been registered on the complaint of the woman’s father. The deceased, a resident of village Palri of Shahpur area in district Muzaffarnagar married Ashish of village Datiyan of Chapaar area a one-and-a-half-year ago. The couple has a daughter, but their relationship turned sour with time. In a fit of anger, after a feud with her husband, she locked the room from inside and hanged herself to death. Her husband and family members tried to break the door and a voice in the video could be heard saying ‘Apne aap fansi laga rahi hai’.Her family has accused her husband and his family members of demanding dowry, torturing and compelling her to end her life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meerut-woman-commits-suicide-in-laws-shoot-video-as-proof-of-innocence-101618339962695.html
14-04-2021||Other||Man held for shooting at, robbing fruit vendor, search on two others||New DelhiA week after a 50-year-old fruit vendor was shot at and robbed of nearly ₹4 lakh in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, police on Tuesday said the daylight armed robbery was committed by three men, including two habitual criminals, from Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda.One of the two, identified as Surender Verma alias Munna, was arrested by the northwest Delhi Police from his in-laws’ home in Gonda, with the help of their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh. During questioning, police said he revealed that the three accused had taken a room on rent in outer Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy for the last one month to avoid a UP Police drive to arrest habitual criminals ahead of approaching gram panchayat elections.“Verma has revealed that a relative of one of the two absconding suspects is also contesting the pradhan elections in his village. His purpose behind committing the robbery was to arrange money for the candidate’s election campaign expenditures. Verma’s disclosure will be verified when we arrest the suspect,” said an investigating officer, who did not want to be identified.Around 1 pm on April 6, Krishan Kumar, a fruit vendor from Azadpur fruits and vegetables market, was walking towards a private bank to deposit ₹3.90 lakh when two men wearing masks allegedly pointed a gun and asked him to hand over his cashbag. Kumar was allegedly shot on his left arm when he resisted the robbery. The duo allegedly snatched the bag and fled on a bike with their third associate, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said that a case was registered and multiple teams were tasked to nab the suspects. The special staff team scanned the CCTV cameras installed on the routes that the suspects took while fleeing. The video footage showed that after a few hundred metres, two suspects got down from the bike and got on an e-rickshaw.“We followed the trail and found the bike abandoned in Jahangirpuri area. The suspect who rode the bike at the time of the crime was identified as Surender Verma. Through electronic surveillance, Verma’s location was found in Gonda, from where he was arrested,” said Rangnani, adding that Verma purchased a mobile phone worth ₹10,000 from the ₹30,000 he received as his share of the loot. During questioning, the DCP said Verma, who was previously booked in four cases, including under the Gangster Act in Gonda, revealed that a majority of the loot and the pistol used in the crime is in the possession of his associate, Jitender Maurya, who was earlier involved in seven crimes in Gonda.“Maurya deposited ₹2 lakh in his bank account. We have seized the account and are making efforts to arrest him and the third suspect, Abhishek Verma,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-shooting-at-robbing-fruit-vendor-search-on-two-others-101618339963269.html
14-04-2021||Other||Industrial areas ask for vaccination for workers in the area||New Delhi: Industrial area bodies in the city have requested district administrations to set up vaccination centres or camps for their workers, arguing that the move will help firm owners ease the inoculation process for their staffers.The Centre last week allowed government and private workplaces to set up vaccination centres on campus in a bid to ramp up inoculations.The Narela Industrial Complex Welfare Association (NICWA), wrote to the northwest Delhi district administration on April 8 in this regard. Ashish Garg, general secretary of the association, said the 4,000-odd units there employed close to 200,000 employees.Garg said, “If the government agrees, we can help them set up vaccination centres here. We can also mobilise workers who meet the criteria for vaccination. At a time when cases are increasing, it is important that our employees get jabs for free as they are struggling to make ends meet and can’t afford to go to private hospitals. We are yet to hear from the district administration.”He added, “The medical facility where vaccines are available is a bit far away from our industrial areas. Workers are reluctant to visit hospitals mainly because they don’t want to lose out on the daily wages. If there is a centre here, workers will not have to lose out on day’s work and will also get motivated seeing others getting the vaccine.”A senior district official with North West Delhi said, “The matter was raised last week in a meeting with Delhi government’s chief secretary. But no decision has been taken on this so far. Currently, we have made special arrangements to take people from industrial areas and villages who meet the criteria to the centres for vaccination. We have put four or five vehicles in services just for this.”In Udyog Nagar industrial area near Paschim Vihar in West Delhi, the industry association has a medical facility that stakeholders say can be used as vaccination hub. Ashok Gupta, president of the association said, “We have close to 20,000 workers in our industrial area. We have been requesting the district administration to use our centre. We were hoping that our centre would be used during the Tika Utsav. It is important to ensure that labourers are vaccinated,” said Gupta.Industrial associations said business has only recently started to pick up, even though it is not at the same level as it was before Covid. With the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases once again, industry owners fear reverse migration and want to provide facilities to workers.“A majority of people working in industrial areas are migrant workers. Last year, they all left for their villages during the lockdown. We don’t want a situation like that again. If they take care of them now by providing facilities such as vaccinations near their workplace, we can avert such a situation,” said Vijay Virmani, president of Delhi manufacturers Federation (which has 24 industrial area associations as members).Virmani added, “The labourers are reluctant because they feel they will lose out an entire day’s wages if they travel to a vaccination centre. We are planning to write to the Delhi government to request them to allow vaccinations in all industrial areas.”A senior Delhi government’s revenue department official said, “We are doing institution based vaccination. Opening vaccination centres in industrial areas will help in vaccinating a large population. But the health department has to take a call on it.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/industrial-areas-ask-for-vaccination-for-workers-in-the-area-101618339903963.html
14-04-2021||Other||Vaccination permissible during Ramzan fast: ICI||LUCKNOW: The Islamic Centre of India (ICI), a prominent Islamic seminary issued a fatwa on Tuesday, saying vaccination while fasting during the holy month of Ramzan was ‘halal’ (permitted) in Islam, hence it would not invalidate the fast. “Getting vaccinated won’t affect the fasting, since the vaccine is injected into the muscle and not the stomach. So it won’t affect the fasting. Muslims should not delay and get themselves vaccinated even in the month of fasting,” stated the fatwa issued by ICI, Lucknow. Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, Imam Eidgah and chairman ICI, said the fatwa was issued after a person named Abdursheed Kidwai of Bhopal asked the Darul-Ifta that during the pandemic, when Covid19 vaccine was being administered, was it ‘halal’ (permitted) to get vaccinated or ‘haram’ (not permitted) in Islam. The caller who called on the helpline had also asked if taking vaccine would affect the fast. He said the fatwa department not only clear his doubt but also issued a fatwa, stating that it won’t affect fasting during Ramzan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-permissible-during-ramzan-fast-ici-101618339902672.html
14-04-2021||Other||As cases rise, Metro amps up checks to limit crowds, enforce Covid protocols||New Delhi: With the number of Covid-19 infections increasing rapidly in the national capital, the Delhi Metro has tightened protocols to ensure social distancing norms are followed inside stations and trains. Senior officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said these measures included shutting entry gates for crowd management inside stations, to increasing the number of flying squads to check violations inside trains, over the last fortnight, strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour is being ensured. “We are closely monitoring the situation. Flying squads are regularly inspecting trains and stations to ensure Covid protocols are followed. Passengers are being penalised and counselled. We are also shutting entry to stations temporarily to ensure there is no crowding,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. DMRC on Tuesday closed off entry to at least seven metro stations temporarily at various points. These stations included, Saket, Qutub Minar, New Delhi, Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Seelampur and Shastri Park. Apart from the entry restrictions, DMRC has also intensified penalising passengers found travelling without masks. DMRC data shows that between April 1 and April 12, 6755 commuters were prosecuted for not wearing masks inside the Metro stations and inside trains. Metro officials confirmed that while such a plan to close off entry to stations for crowd management inside stations was announced when the network was opened for public after a five-month-long lockdown on September 7 last year this was implemented on-ground only from April 6 this year, when the number of infections in the city started increasing again. On Tuesday, Delhi reported xx cases of Covid-19 infections, the highest single day numbers to ever be recorded since the pandemic broke out (to confirm after the numbers are released. On Monday, Delhi reported 11, 491 cases and 72 deaths. On April 6, entry was restricted at four stations, on April 8 the gates were closed off for one station, and on April 12, entry to four stations was restricted for different durations to manage the crowd inside stations. Many commuters, who were stranded outside the stations on Tuesday, said that closing of gates was leading to counterproductive results as large crowds gathered outside stations waiting to get in. Commuters complained that the wait outside stations, especially the interchange stations such as Kashmere Gate and New Delhi, was as much as 45 minutes. “What are they gaining by closing off entry? Crowds have been gathering outside because of this unannounced closure. If they allow people to go, there will be smooth movement and no crowding,” said Sudha Sriniwas, a commuter who was waiting outside Kashmere Gate. Metro officials, however, said that it was imperative that all the precautions are followed to the T at this time to ensure that the Metro does not have to face another shutdown. “We are conducting regular meetings with the centre and Delhi government representatives to give updates of our safety protocol. It is imperative that a mass transit network like the Delhi Metro follow all precautions. This has been a first experience for us but we have been doing a good job and ensuring that the Covid protocol is thoroughly maintained,” said a senior DMRC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-rise-metro-amps-up-checks-to-limit-crowds-enforce-covid-protocols-101618339782182.html
14-04-2021||Delhi||DU admission process to get delayed again this year due to Covid-19||Admissions to colleges in Delhi University are likely to be delayed by a few months due to the second Covid-19 wave raging across the country, officials involved in the process said on Tuesday.Officials said that the university will wait for majority of the education boards in the country to complete their Class 12 exams before starting the admission process. Last year, the registration process began in June, and the first cut-off was announced in October, due to the lockdown.The academic session, which normally begins in DU in July, began in November last year.Officials said the admission process is likely to get delayed again this year with the Covid cases rising across the country. “DU is the biggest central university in the country and students from all over the country apply here. The university is keeping a close eye on how different state boards and national education boards are planning to conduct Class 12 exams. In some states, such as Maharashtra, the state education board has postponed Class 12 board exams. We cannot exclude students from Maharashtra by deciding early admission dates. So, it is sure that the process will get delayed like last year,” said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson of DU’s admission panel.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi said the admission timeline is dependent on how the state and national education boards conduct their Class 12 examinations.“We have to take care of all the boards. There is still uncertainty about the CBSE exams. So, again it’s likely that the admission process will get delayed…,” he said.The Maharashtra government on Monday postponed their Class 10 and 12 board exams. There have been similar demands in other states as well in view of the spike in cases.HT reported in February that DU was planning to adopt Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) from this year for admission to various undergraduate courses. Under the new system, the test score and Class 12 marks will be considered for admission to undergraduate courses.Joshi, who is a member of a committee constituted by the Union ministry of education to recommend modalities for the CUCET, said the university is still waiting for the Centre to notify CUCET. “We are ready to implement CUCET from this year. The university has decided to give 50-50 weightage to both CUCET and Class 12 scores,” he said.DU is also likely to skip to sports and extracurricular activity trials for admissions on 5% supernumerary seats reserved for these categories in each course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-admission-process-to-get-delayed-again-this-year-due-to-covid19-101618339724114.html
14-04-2021||Other||Delhi child rights body recommends CBSE to postpone board exams||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Tuesday wrote to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) recommending it to either postpone the Class 10 and 12 exams -- slated to begin on May 4 -- or reconsider the assessment criteria in view of the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases across the country. CBSE officials, however, said they are monitoring the situation and will take a call soon.The DCPCR letter comes hours after Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal requested the Centre to cancel the board exams, citing the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Delhi recorded the highest ever single day tally of “13,500 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours”, the CM said. Total number of fresh cases in Delhi was 13,468, according to the Delhi government health bulletin release Tuesday evening. In its letter to CBSE chairperson Manoj Ahuja, DCPCR chief Anurag Kundu said, “India is witnessing a spectacular rise in Covid-19 cases. In the past week, nearly one million people have been infected. We lost nearly 5,000 of our loved ones to the pandemic. This wave is clearly stronger and this demands that every precaution is taken to curb its spread. Nearly five lakh children are set to appear in the upcoming board examinations. This threatens not only the children’s health, but the children may act as the carrier infecting their parents and grandparents. The examination centres can become hot spots of the pandemic.”The child rights organisations also sought clarity on the board‘s plan to handle Covid-19 protocols at examination centres. “There remains a lack of clarity on how the CBSE intends to handle the cases of children whose relatives are infected. Similarly, how will the cases of those children be handled who get infected during the examination?” Kundu said in the letter.“Therefore, the DCPCR advises the CBSE to either postpone the scheduled board examinations or to reconsider the assessment criteria to focus on internal examinations,” the letter added.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia also requested the CBSE to cancel the upcoming exams. “Looking at the rising Covid-19 cases across the country, now is the time to cancel the CBSE board examinations. When education could not be done in the traditional (offline) mode for the whole year, then why is there the stubbornness to conduct the exam in the offline mode at the end of the year? The examination centres will become super-spreaders if the exams are not cancelled,” he tweeted on Tuesday.Officials at the CBSE, meanwhile, said that they are closely monitoring the situation. “The board is keeping a close watch on how the Covid-19 pandemic situation is unfolding across the country. Some state boards have already started postponing their exams. In case of CBSE, which is the biggest national board, any decision regarding exams cannot be taken unilaterally. We are discussing the situation with the union ministries and will soon take a call if the exams need to be postponed or not,” a senior official said. “The board has to consider the Covid-19 situation across states before taking a call since CBSE cannot conduct exams in different states at different times. Besides, it’s not possible to adopt any other way of assessment or conduct exams online,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-child-rights-body-recommends-cbse-to-postpone-board-exams-101618339723480.html
14-04-2021||Other||AAP, BJP spar over repairing Shastri Park furniture market||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday demanded that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) spend ₹60 lakh to set up the furniture market in Shastri Park, in which more than 200 shops were guttedin a fire on Sunday. The BJP dismissed the demand as “frivolous” and said the market will be “renovated as per guidelines”.“A few days ago, a massive fire gutted about 272 MCD stalls at the Shastri Park furniture market. However, not a single councillor or mayor or even standing committee member of the BJP-ruled MCD has visited the affected area. This is the same market in which 743 vendors evicted from near Jama Masjid and Meena Bazar in central Delhi were relocated. The relocation was the result of a prolonged legal. AAP demands that the MCD should at the earliest spend ₹60 lakh to set up the market now,” said the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi BJP’s general secretary Harsh Malhotra said, “The AAP’s claims and demands are frivolous. BJP stands with the traders. The market will be repaired and renovated as per guidelines.”EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said directions have been issued to officials to undertake repair work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-spar-over-repairing-shastri-park-furniture-market-101618339722754.html
14-04-2021||Other||Language varsity curriculum to be revised as per NEP||Lucknow Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University curriculum would be revised according to the National Education Policy-2020, vice chancellor professor AK Shukla told a meeting of faculty members on Tuesday. Prof Shukla said that this university was still new and there was immense potential to initiate positive changes. He also said that India had a rich history and culture. If the language-related departments of the university infused this historical legacy in the university’s curriculum, it would attract not only Indian students but also those from abroad. He also said that this university had the energy of young teachers who must come forward to prepare short term job-oriented courses suited to the demands of the digital age and make them accessible to the students through Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) platforms. He said that the students had many sources for acquiring knowledge through the online medium and the teacher himself had the responsibility to make his mark in this digital age. He said that the real aim of education would be achieved if teachers motivated students to explore the syllabus instead of covering it. It was the responsibility of 21st century teachers to create an environment conducive to learning and try to link education with Indian diaspora and societal knowledge, he said. Through the meeting, he instructed all deans to design the courses of their faculties in accordance with the New Education Policy so that students could be provided with multiple entry and exit benefits. He also asked all teachers to prepare video lectures related to their respective subjects and share them with maximum number of students through the university’s YouTube channel. In the end, he urged all teachers to make efforts for promoting the achievements and strength of the university among more and more people through online and offline mediums. The main objective of the meeting was to bring the courses of the university in line with the New Education Policy and to offer language -related courses as a specialization, said university spokesman Tanu Dang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/language-varsity-curriculum-to-be-revised-as-per-nep-101618339722164.html
14-04-2021||Other||To tackle air pollution, govt eyes a ‘public movement’||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s long-term strategy to bring down pollution levels in the national capital will involve turning the fight into a “public movement”, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday.“Within the constraints of the pandemic and restrictions on mass mobilisation, we need to create a public movement. Our three-pronged approach needs to focus on policy, technology and making the environment a mass concern. People have the power. If the environment becomes the people’s concern, then big milestones can be achieved,” said Rai, during the final day of a two-day environment roundtable with experts.The environment minister on Tuesday held the second digital roundtable conference with environment experts to come up with a “holistic strategy” to reduce air pollution in Delhi before the onset of winter this year. “Pondering on pollution [just] during the winter months, when the AQI (air quality index) is severe, is not a solution. We, therefore, require public support. A plan that can work through the year is needed, and in the coming days, we will come up with an action plan to improve Delhi’s AQI. Nobody knows till when the pandemic will rage, and it’s not feasible to wait for so long. We would like your (the public) suggestions to create a viable and effective plan for the city,” Rai said.Delhi has been battling with poor air quality, which especially worsens during winter when the pollution levels deteriorate to emergency levels. Delhi was the most polluted capital city in the world in 2020 for the third consecutive year, according to a report by IQAir, a Swiss group that ranks cities based on their air quality measured in terms of the levels of ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that can enter the organs and cause lasting damage. “Often when a crisis occurs, it (responsibility) is passed from department to department because even officers-in-charge sometimes don’t know where their jurisdiction ends and the other’s begin. Delhi faces multiple challenges and if, within these challenges, we are able to deliver, then it will be a feat worth celebrating,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-tackle-air-pollution-govt-eyes-a-public-movement-101618339665906.html
14-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn scrambles to contain virus spread in Dhakoli||Authorities are sparing no effort to contain the spread of virus that has infected at least 187 people in Dhakoli, which has been converted into a containment zone. Though the decision to declare the town a containment zone drew opposition from shopkeepers, all entry and exit points were sealed and movement of vehicles was restricted on Tuesday morning. Only essential service providers were allowed to move. To ensure compliance, police have set up six nakas, where officials will be deployed in three shifts. The areas declared containment zones include Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla, Kishanpura and Ghazipur, which together have a population of about 1 lakh. “The area shares its borders with Chandigarh and Panchkula and has seen a spike in number of Covid cases. That is why it has been converted into a containment zone. We have held a meeting with councillors to create awareness among residents to co-operate with the authorities,” said SDM Kuldeep Bawa. He added that night curfew remains in force. A 24x7 control room has also been set up at Dera Bassi SDM office and people can dial 01762-528116 for assistance. Testing scaled up The authorities have increased the number of testing teams from two to 10 for door-to-door sampling and vaccination. The containment zone has been divided into 10 sections to speed up testing. “There will be 100% testing. Those testing negative will be vaccinated. Those testing positive will require isolation and will be recommended appropriate care and medical attention,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan. “As and when a team screens an area and it is declared safe, the containment in that particular area will be lifted. After that, micro containment zones will be created,” he added. Shopkeepers hold protest Many shopkeepers held a protest in Dhakoli against closure of shops and raised slogans against the authorities. “We have already suffered huge losses last year and with the shops being closed again, we will not be able to survive,” said Maandeep Singh, a shopkeeper. “We belong to a middle-class family, whose livelihood depends on the earnings from these small shops. If these are closed, how will we be able to ensure education of our children?” asked another protester, Sukhvir Singh. “Daily wagers will leave again. We have to pay rent and electricity bills which will not be possible if the shops remain closed,” said Devinder Singh. The shopkeepers alleged that the liquor vends were allowed to operate even during night curfew and no action was taken against them. However, SDM Bawa said, “We are allowing essential services to operate. The shopkeepers have been asked to ensure social distancing. In small shops, no more than five people will be allowed.” Man booked for violating quarantineThe police have a Dhakoli man for violating quarantine. DC Dayalan said information was received from Dhakoli CHC that a resident of Golden Apartments had tested positive on April 6, but he jumped his quarantine. A case under sections 269 and 270 of the IPC has been registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-scrambles-to-contain-virus-spread-in-dhakoli-101618339665317.html
14-04-2021||Other||BJP asks Delhi govt to implement Ayushman Bharat scheme||New DelhiThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday hit out the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government for not implementing the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme int he Capital and depriving people of its benefits during the Covid pandemic. With increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, BJP also demanded that the government call an all-party meeting to discuss the situation.The BJP said that the government’s decision to declare 14 private hospitals as dedicated Covid facilities shows that government hospitals are not equipped to deal with the current situation.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “The government’s Covid management system has totally collapsed and they seem totally dependent on private hospitals to tackle the situation. The treatment is very expensive in a private setup and beyond the reach of lower and middle class people. But the government is yet to implement the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme.”Demanding immediate implementation of Ayushman Bharat scheme, Gupta said that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said last year that it would be implemented in Delhi. Gupta said, “Almost the entire country is getting the benefit under this central government scheme and getting their Covid treatment free even in private hospitals. But in Delhi, people are not that lucky.”Gupta said, “Government schools and colleges can be used as temporary quarantine centres or hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-asks-delhi-govt-to-implement-ayushman-bharat-scheme-101618339662813.html
14-04-2021||Other||Lost money to online fraudsters? Now call 155260 for quick retrieval||New DelhiDelhi Police on Tuesday said they have formally launched a helpline number that helps victims of online financial frauds get their money back quickly.The helpline — 155260 — was already operating under the Union ministry of home affairs for reporting all kinds of cyber crimes. The cyber cell of Delhi Police, in collaboration with the Union ministry of home affairs, in November last year decided to take over and enhance the capacities of the helpline on a pilot basis. The police added 10 lines to the helpline number, a move that saw tremendous response, helping at least 23 victims of frauds recover their lost money either partially or fully, said Anyesh Roy, deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell). Roy added that in total , the 23 victims so far have managed to get around ₹8.11 lakh back, of which the biggest beneficiary was a Delhi-based retired audit account officer, who managed to get back ₹98,000 that he had lost to a fraudster.“In such financial frauds, retrieval of the duped money mainly depends on how quickly the complaint is received and attended to. Hence, it was necessary to have several lines open for the helpline number so that victims do not have to wait,” said Roy.Next, the police got in touch with a host of banks, online wallet firms and payment gateways to join the system. So far, nearly 50 of them have joined.Throwing light on how the helpline works, Roy said that when a victim loses money from their account, they can call the helpline number within 24 hour with the details of bank account or e-wallet from which the money is deducted, and if possible the account in which the money was deposited.Thereafter, armed with the information, the police immediately raise the matter with the concerned banks or e-wallet firms. “Our online platform is such that the officer concerned in the banks or e-wallet firms immediately receive the transaction details on their phones and emails,” Roy said.If the stolen money has not been withdrawn from an ATM or used to make utility payment , the amount is immediately put on hold by the bank or the e-wallet firm at the police’s request. Thereafter, the money is later returned to the victim.The officer said that while victims must separately also call their banks or e-wallet firms to prevent any more deductions, calling the 155260 helpline number increases their chances of retrieving the money. The entire system, investigators said, depended mainly on how quickly the financial fraud is reported to the police.This is different from the usual police action in the sense that when an online financial fraud is reported to the local police station or even to the cyber cell, it takes at least a few hours for the complaint to be registered and the police to begin their investigation.Calling the helpline number, on the other hand, initiates the retrieval process immediately, said Roy.Police said that this is a national platform formally launched on April 1. “Rajasthan has already joined the platform. Other states too are expected to follow suit soon,” said Roy.Prakash Singh, former DGP of Uttar Pradesh, called the platform an excellent initiative with the potential of helping a large number of victims. “Even if this platform can help a fraction of the people duped of their money, a large number of victims will be helped. In a financial fraud, most victims just want their money back and this platform promises to do that,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lost-money-to-online-fraudsters-now-call-155260-for-quick-retrieval-101618339662248.html
14-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka records lowest case fatality rate, ground reality paints different picture||As per the government data on Covid-19, Karnataka reported the lowest Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in April 2021. CFR refers to the number of deaths reported per 100 cases and in April, so far, Karnataka’s CFR is 0.45%, in comparison to April 2020, when the CFR in the state stood at was 4.09%. Although these numbers may seem promising, the ground reality is much different. “There has been over a 100% increase in the number of deaths in the state over the last week. In Bengaluru, the percentage (increase in Covid-19 deaths) is around 150%. What is even more worrying is that young people are also losing their lives. If you look at the number of deaths reported on April 11 (Sunday), there is a 33-year-old and two 38-year-olds. This is a matter of concern,” said a member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on condition of anonymity. Between April 6 to April 12, 284 patients died in the state because of Covid-19. Out of this, 188 deaths were reported in Bengaluru. In comparison, between March 30 and April 5, the state registered 137 Covid deaths and Bengaluru reported 77 of them.The official added that matter has been taken up with health minister Dr K Sudhakar. A senior Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) official said that the number of days spent in hospital by patients before death too has been a matter of concern. Among the deaths reported in Karnataka, out of 54 deaths reported 27 patients died within 24 hours of being admitted to the hospital. “This is means most of the cases are coming to the hospital after their situation gets worse. In most cases, by the time they reach the hospital, there is very little that doctors can do. We have informed the authorities about the same,” he said. People need to test quickly and not wait for the symptoms to get worse, say experts. “The government has opened several fever clinics across the city and state for people to get tested. People should make use of them. We have asked the employees there to check all parameters of the patients who are coming for a check-up and admit those who require intensive treatment,” said Sudhakar. He added that the government will focus on accelerating the vaccination drive in the state. “We have already launched awareness campaigns to get more people to vaccinate themselves. At the same time, we are aware of the increasing cases in the state and we have ensured that 50% of beds in hospitals are made available for Covid-19 treatment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-records-lowest-case-fatality-rate-ground-reality-paints-different-picture-101618339122947.html
14-04-2021||Lucknow||Spreading positivity with Jerusalema Dance Challenge||The Jerusalema Dance Challenge became a global phenomenon after Angolan dance group Fenómenos do Semba created a video of South African hit song ‘Jerusalema.’ After the viral videos of Austrian airlines, Swiss Police, Redemptorist Nuns, Lucknowites too have joined the bandwagon and spreading positivity, in these tough times, through their videos and in turn challenging others. City-based Institute of Career Studies lead from the front and thereafter another educational institute Hoerner College created mesmerising videos originally created by Johannesburg-based musician and producer Master KG. “We participated in the dance challenge as it exemplified the spirit of human connectedness and positivity during the frightful Covid19 pandemic. We also took this opportunity to showcase talented students and choreographers Imran Vaquar and Manjeet Kaur. Along with the Jerusalema moves we have included Indian classical dance forms,” said ICS Career GPS founder Dr Amrita Dass. They have got 48,000 viewers on their YouTube page. The other schools are planning to join their challenge includes Chittagong Grammar School, BD, Shiv Nadar School, Faridabad, South City International School, Kolkata, St Mary’s School, Johannesburg among others, she added. Hoerner College principal Dr Mala Mehra got inspired by the challenge given by the staff of Hiranandani Hospital Staff, Mumbai. “The thought behind it was to motivate the teaching, non-teaching and support staff to have a sense of worthiness at the body of work they achieved in the face of the pandemic. To have switched from offline to online, they have come to work in such difficult circumstances. Inclusion of all in the challenge was also fun as every teacher and every worker laughed and joked while following all protocols!” she said. The video was shot by Arpit Massey and team while dance training was given by pre-primary college in-charge Heena Shukla. “The response was overwhelming as we went on the school FB bulletin, YouTube channel and practically all shared on various social media platforms,” she added. The videos are getting good views and comments. “So beautifully coordinated and choreographed. Loved the amalgamation of kathak, Bharat natyam, splits and cartwheel. Kudos to all (Sic),” wrote Neena Prakash Mathur on the video posted by Dr Dass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/spreading-positivity-with-jerusalema-dance-challenge-101618339003942.html
14-04-2021||Other||Fraud in corona times: Fake report, fake donors and packages for testing||Fake covid-19 test reports, fake profile of plasma donors and selling of packages to get tested for Covid-19 infection are some of dirty tricks being used to extort money from people at a time when there is panic due to rising cases in Lucknow as well as other parts of the state, said police officials here on Tuesday.They said it has become a new tool for some fraudsters who are extorting and minting money in the garb of providing different medical facilities and people are inadvertently getting duped.Citing an example, a senior police official of Lucknow Commissionerate said two men identified as Shubham Gautam and Shivam Kushwaha, who had once worked with pathology, were arrested for providing fake Covid-19 test reports to people willing to procure it for travelling or other reasons.He said the two fraudsters used the fake letter pad of a city’s diagnostic centre to issue fake test reports to over 50 people and charged around ₹900 from those who wanted a preferable report—people wanted negative report to travel to other states or board a flight. Many people sought negative report to visit hospitals for treatment of other ailments, he added. The official said the two fraudsters landed in police net when the pathology owner received multiple calls from people due to delay in receiving reports. He said the duo was booked under IPC sections 188 for violating government orders, 467 for forging of documents, 468 for using forged documents for cheating purpose and 471 for using forged document as genuine.An elderly person requesting anonymity said there was an urgent need of plasma for a serious Covid-19 infected patient when he came across some profiles of plasma donors on social media.“We requested one of the plasma donors whose location was mentioned near-by Lucknow with help of some people. The person demanded charges for his travel to Lucknow to donate plasma and was paid ₹1000 through online services for it. The person did not turn up for the plasma donation and is unapproachable since then,” he emphasised and added, “It was very small amount, so the police was not reported about the incident, but such practice is quite prevalent nowadays”.Similarly, some Gomti Nagar residents alleged a private hospital was minting money from people in the name of providing a full package for the family after giving inconclusive report to people coming for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fraud-in-corona-times-fake-report-fake-donors-and-packages-for-testing-101618338942154.html
14-04-2021||Other||12 new labs set to boost Covid sample testing in state||The RT-PCR method used for testing samples of suspected Covid patients is likely to get a boost in Uttar Pradesh with the start of twelve new laboratories of the biosafety level-2 (BSL-2) standard by April end.Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, “Twelve new laboratories are being set up at Amethi, Auraiya, Bijnor, Kushinagar, Deoria, Mau, Siddharthnagar, Sonbhadra, Bulandshahar, Kasganj, Mahoba and Sitapur districts for the RT-PCR sample test of the suspected Covid patients. The laboratories will start testing samples soon.”“To increase Covid sample testing, the state health and family welfare department has also decided to use 300 TrueNat machines installed in various districts. The state government procured the TrueNat machines last year to increase the sample testing in the districts,” he said.“After decline in the Covid cases, the machines were used for the sample testing of other diseases. The chief medical officers have been directed to use the TrueNat machines for carrying out Covid tests,” Prasad said.A health department officer said Uttar Pradesh started its fight against Covid-19 with a single laboratory at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) by testing just 72 samples on March 23 last year. “Now the state has 125 laboratories in the government sector and 104 in the private sector for the Covid sample testing. The twelve new laboratories will give thrust to the Covid sample testing,” he said.Additional chief secretary, information and MSME, Navneet Sehgal said the state was now testing over 2 lakh samples of which one lakh were RT-PCR tests. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed the state health department to conduct 1.50 lakh RT-PCR tests which is considered the gold standard of the Covid 19 testing. The CM also directed the minister in-charge of all the 75 districts to review the facilities provided to the Covid patients in meeting with the district magistrates regularly, Sehgal said.“The start of the twelve new laboratories in the backward districts will help the patients in getting the sample test fast. It will also assist the department in checking the spread of the Sars-CoV-2 infection. The state government has laboratories in all the district as well as in medical colleges,” he said. “On Monday, the laboratories tested 2.18 lakh samples of which 97,000 samples were tested with RT-PCR method, taking the total tally of the samples tested in UP to 3.71 crore,” he added.“The state health department has issued orders for the appointment of one medical officer, two non- medical scientists, three laboratories technician, one data entry operator and two laboratory assistants in each laboratory coming up in the 12 districts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-new-labs-set-to-boost-covid-sample-testing-in-state-101618338762131.html
14-04-2021||Other||Majority UP traders not averse to lockdown to break Covid chain||Traders in Uttar Pradesh (UP) are not averse to the idea of the lockdown with many of them seeing the emergency step as the only hope to break the chain of the Covid-19 infection. Expressing concern over the situation arising from the pandemic in Lucknow and other UP cities, UP Udyog Vyapar Mandal chief Sandeep Bansal on Sunday invited traders to comment on his Facebook page asking them to suggest as to what the government should do to deal with situation that, he said, was turning from bad to worse. “Is complete lockdown the way out?” he asked. Majority of them backed the idea of a complete lockdown to break the chain though some differed or suggested alternatives. “It is not possible to control corona without lockdown. And it should be clamped immediately right now otherwise the situation is so bad that even lockdown may not help,” said Anuj Shukla in his reply. “ “A 72-hour complete lockdown alone can help otherwise government will not be able to deal with the situation,” Mohanish Alok Trivedi added. Gaurav Jain went to the extent of suggesting a complete lockdown for a month. “One month lockdown is must under the given circumstances otherwise we will lose more lives,” he said. Lokesh Agrawal suggested 15 days’ lockdown to break the chain. Mohit Agrawal also said that complete lockdown again appeared to be the only hope under the given circumstance. Rakesh Karzdar, however, questioned the utility of lockdown. “The objective of lockdown is to stop people from mixing together. The purpose is defeated when people gather in large numbers in markets to buy essentials during the lockdown relaxation,” he argued. Anil Gupta suggested no lockdown but Covid-appropriate behaviour including masking must be enforced strictly in markets while Suresh Chandra Agrawal stressed the need for more testing under lockdown. “The administration must carry out an intensive door-to-door drive for Covid-19 testing in congested areas like Aminabad, Nakkhas, Rakabganj, Thakurganj in Lucknow with complete lockdown there till the drive ends and positive cases are identified,” he suggested. Amarnath Prajapati suggested that the government must bolster health infrastructure in hospitals rather than mull lockdown. Naveen Gupta said “Lockdown or no lockdown, it is the trading community that is to suffer most from the pandemic. The government should increase medical facilities in hospitals,” Recommending compete lockdown Bhupendra Pandey said “I support complete lockdown because we must understand the fact that you will run your business only when you stay alive.” Bansal said different traders had given different suggestions but a large number of them had suggested complete lockdown as an effective tool to defeat the virus. “We will apprise the government of traders’ views,” he said. Bansal has recently launched a campaign ‘Mask nahi, saamaan nahi’ (No mask no goods) asking traders to refuse selling goods to people who came without mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/majority-up-traders-not-averse-to-lockdown-to-break-covid-chain-101618338642157.html
14-04-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath in isolation as CMO officials test Covid-19 positive||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath isolated himself on Tuesday after some officials of his office tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The officers of my office tested positive for coronavirus. They were in touch with me, therefore, as a precaution, I am isolating myself and starting all my work digitally,” the CM tweeted in Hindi.Adityanath, who received the first dose of vaccine earlier this month, has been campaigning for the Bharatiya Janata Party in poll-bound West Bengal.UP records highest spikeUttar Pradesh on Tuesday registered a record 17,963 new cases and 85 deaths in a single day, according to the HT dashboard. The state has, so far, seen 723,582 cases and 9,309 deaths.The record spike comes on the day the Allahabad high court directed the state government to look into the viability of a two-three week complete lockdown in worst-affected districts, and restrict public gatherings to 50 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-staff-tests-positive-yogi-isolates-self-reviews-covid-scenario-virtually-101618338342164.html
14-04-2021||Gurugram||Positivity rate remains at 10% as Gurugram records 998 new infections on Tuesday||The city on Tuesday reported 998 Covid-19 cases and one Covid-related death, taking the total case tally to 72,271 and the number of deaths due to the infection to 370, as per the health department data.There was no reduction in the positivity rate from Monday, as it continued to remain at 10%Officials of the health department said that they recommended more areas to be listed as containment zones, which will increase the number of such zones from 61 to 94. The case spike on Tuesday took the total number of active cases in the district to 6,460, of whom 6,018 are in isolation. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer said that cases are on the rise in specific areas, due to which they have recommended an increase in containment zones to isolate the cases. According to the health department data, 714 patients recovered on Tuesday, while 9,013 samples were collected for Covid-19 testing. Till date, the department has collected 1,031,175 samples for testing across the district. Health department officials said that 15,060 people were vaccinated on Tuesday at 220 session sites. Till date, the department has vaccinated 275,000 people in the city, which is almost 55% of the eligible beneficiaries. Yadav also said that the department managed to achieve 175% of the targets set for the ‘tika utsav’ that commenced on April 11. “The number of vaccinations at private hospitals was only 2,000 and this is matter of concern for us. We took up this matter with their representatives during a meeting today and asked them to expand the vaccine outreach,” he said. MCG to start mass sanitisationThe Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will restart mass sanitisation drives in the city, especially in containment zones, due to the spike in Covid-19 infections, a release issued by the civic body on Tuesday stated.From March to September last year, the MCG undertook mass sanitisation exercised. However, after the number of Covid-19 cases started to fall, it was being carried out at a micro-level, in floors, or outside houses of people with the infection.Common spaces such as lifts, staircases, parks, and streets are disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 by the MCG. Last year, the MCG sanitised and disinfected around 350 residential areas in the city along with ATM kiosks, bank branches, chemists and grocery shops.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that in the first phase, sanitisation will be done in the containment zones on Wednesday and Thursday, and in the second phase, it will be carried out across the city.“According to the schedule, a special campaign will be launched to sanitise 91 areas of Gurugram on Wednesday and Thursday. Various teams have been formed for this task. After sanitisation, fogging and anti-larvae operations will be initiated as per schedule in all condominiums, sectors and colonies of Gurugram to keep a check on vector-borne diseases as well,” said Singh.Around 10 teams have been formed for the MCG for the mass sanitisation and anti-larvae operations. The teams will undertake sanitisation as well as initiate fogging and anti-larvae activities simultaneously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/positivity-rate-remains-at-10-as-gurugram-records-998-new-infections-on-tuesday-101618337322079.html
14-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana farmer was killed by neighbours to avenge slander: Police||The 48-year-old farmer, found dead on Rasulpur Road on March 23, was murdered by two cousins and their friend for allegedly defaming their family, police said on Tuesday.The accused, Amandeep Singh, 27, his cousin, Gurwinder Singh of Rattangarh, Koomkalan, and the latter’s friend, Gursewak Singh of Maloud, have been arrested.Police have also nabbed Amandeep’s father Harwinder Singh, 61, and brother Manpreet Singh, 32, for conspiring to kill the victim, Rajinder Singh.Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said Amandeep’s family and the victim lived in Barundi village.They suspected that Rajinder had spread rumours about their family and employed black magic, due to which Manpreet was unable to find a matrimonial match.“Seeking revenge, Amandeep, his father and brother conspired to murder Rajinder. For this, Amandeep roped in his cousin, Gurwinder, and his friend, Gursewak, whose motorcycle they wanted to use to flee after the crime,” the SSP said.“On March 22, Harwinder and Manpreet left for a relative’s house in Pamal village to avoid their presence near the crime scene. The next day around 5.30am, Amandeep, Gurwinder and Gursewak Singh hid behind a wall near Nanaksar Thath, lying low in wait of Rajinder. As he reached there on his scooter, Gurwinder threw red chilli powder in his eyes. Then they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and sticks, killing him on the spot,” the police official added.After executing the murder, Amandeep informed his father about it using Gurwinder’s mobile phone around 6.30am.During investigation, the police discovered that the victim and Amandeep’s family had rivalry, which led to their questioning and confession, the SSP said.All accused are facing a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to police custody till April 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-farmer-was-killed-by-neighbours-to-avenge-slander-police-101618334022710.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Lockdown fear drives hordes of migrant labourers to railway station to leave Pune||PUNE As chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced fresh curbs on Tuesday for the next 15 days, its anticipation throughout the day led to hordes of migrants leaving Pune, flooding the railway station and bus stands. As the word on Thackeray’s Tuesday evening appeal to the state spread, migrant workers begun to gather at Pune railway station; many of them scrambling to get a ticket for the 9pm train to Uttar Pradesh. Appealing to workers in his address Thackeray said, “These restrictions are with the aim to save lives. I request everyone to support the government in its fight against Covid.” Among those returning back to their native places were those working in industries across Pune district - hotel staff and labourers on real estate sites, even though the government has allowed industries and in-situ construction sites to operate.With Tuesday being a public holiday on account of Gudi Padwa, followed by another holiday on Wednesday because of Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary, many chose to board trains in large numbers at the Pune station. The station officials along with police had a hard time managing the crowd as people were desperate to go back despite having no advance booking. As workers began leaving city, Maharashtra labour minister Hasan Mushrif also asked workers not to panic as the Maharashtra government would be making arrangements for workers. “Even as government is planning to impose a lockdown, it will be of two weeks. The government is also planning to make arrangements for workers during this period. I appeal to these workers not to leave as they have a major contribution in Maharashtra’s development,” Mushrif said. An official at Pune railway station said, “Labourers who had confirmed tickets with them were allowed entry to inside the station, while the rest were sent back.” One of the workers who wanted to board a train to Lucknow was not allowed entry inside the station “My colleague got the ticket confirmed, but I could not. So I will stay back in the city for few days and then go back.” Credai Pune President Anil Pharande has appealed to construction workers not to panic and stay back at their camps. Anil Pharande said, ““There is no need to panic and even in case of a lockdown happens in future we will give you all necessary facilities for a clean, safe and healthy living. All necessary items like groceries, medicine and COVID appropriate sanitised environment will be provided to the construction workers. If needed, medical facilities and provision for isolation shall also be provided.”Many restaurants staff also started leaving the city. “My two of the cooks have already left for Konkan. We are already having cash crunch and these cooks left today. They will be back once the situation is normal,” said Sarvesh Jadhav owner of Austin40 cafehouse, Baner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-announcement-drives-hordes-of-migrant-labourers-to-railway-station-to-leave-pune-101618331261814.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Managing biomedical Covid waste, a challenge for Swach workers||With as many as 70 per cent asymptomatic Covid-19 affected patients home quarantined, there could be an alarming rise in the spread of the infection if the bio-medical waste and the garbage of the quarantined person is not dealt with properly. Many of the housing societies have tied up with Swach for collecting their segregated waste but despite the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s repeated appeal to residents and patients to segregate their Covid waste, it is not happening. “Waste pickers are collecting from everyone at their risk; we are training them to handle such waste carefully. Citizens should sanitize their waste with sanitisers and hand it over once in a few days, in sealed bags and inform waste pickers that there are home quarantine patients living with them. These include masks, gloves, items contaminated with blood or body fluids should not be disposed with daily waste and must be given as biomedical waste to PMC, and we have informed waste pickers not to sort such waste for recycling,” said Harshad Barde, Swach. Waste pickers have been infected over the year, according to Barde. “Some have died but there is no confirmed knowledge of source of neither infection nor any specific case of transmission from citizens. Swach has raised support for PPE for every month since lockdown, gloves, masks, sanitisers, soaps five to six times more than the PPE received from PMC during the same period,” said Barde. “We tell citizens when we find out that they should hand it over separately. Many citizens follow the rules but there are still some who just dump their Covid medical waste without telling us. They should be more careful, protecting us is protecting other citizens of the city,” Supriya Bhadakwad, waste picker. Residents in NIBM said that the PMC van to collect Covid waste comes once a week. “The Mukadam sends a message the previous day, so that our maids collect it from that household. We have requested the patient’s family to keep the waste at home, which is actually very little. Also, in case we need, he is willing to send the vehicle again,” said Maithily Manekwad, resident of NIBM. In areas like Baner and Pashan, the PMC is not doing much to help pick up this waste. Uma Tripathi who is home quarantined said, “The PMC is not picking up garbage, we have been following up and it is only false promises from their side. Garbage is being picked up every four to five days from houses in our society and it is kept in society premises for eight to 10 days.” While the Pune ploggers resumed plogging drives after the first lockdown last year in the month of August, they were greeted with massive rise in open dumping of biomedical waste in the river body. “More than 4,000 single-use masks were collected in the last six months while plogging. This is a serious concern because people have no idea about the disposal methods of biomedical waste. I raised an online petition to demand installation of mask and biomedical waste disposal bins. That helped us raise the concern at the right forum and talk about the issue. We are advising people to avoid disposal of such waste in the open and seeking help of sanitation workers of PMC,” said Vivek Gurav, Pune ploggers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/managing-biomedical-covid-waste-a-challenge-for-swach-workers-101618330841843.html
14-04-2021||Pune||Spike in food deliveries but fall in overall restaurant business||The night curfew restrictions and norms to only allow parcel service from restaurants have been a boon for online food delivery chains as there is a huge spike in online deliveries; however, the hotel industry is still facing losses. Abbas Ali, manager of Good Luck Cafe said, “Online orders have increased but the business has been severely impacted since the April 3 restriction. People have always enjoyed dine in service at our place and many still ask us for the same, but we cannot allow due to the norms” The night curfew in Pune was imposed on February 22 and for restaurants open after 10pm only takeaway was allowed. The norms became more stringent from April 3 as only takeaway was permitted for the entire day. However, food delivery is now only allowed till 10 pm. “The online parcel delivery has increased specially between 12noon to 5pm. There was never a rush of online delivery boys outside my restaurant. From five the number has now increased to 15 orders in a day’s time,” said Rajesh Sharma of Hotel Maharashtra on Laxmi road.” An employee of Zomato on the request of anonymity said “The flow of orders coming in daytime has increased from 30 per cent to 60 per cent. One thing which has affected the order chain is delivery restrictions until 10pm. There are many people who get off work after 10pm and then they place an order. There is a huge crowd of such people in Pune and that number has fallen due to the restriction.” Sarvesh Jadhav, owner of Austin40 cafe house, said, “Now with only parcel service available, people prefer to order from nearby restaurants so even if you provide special meals, discounted rates, you won’t get orders because of the delivery time. When dine in was allowed, people often used to visit from Baner and Koregaon park at our cafe.” Laxman Naidu, a delivery boy who works with Swiggy said, “The 10pm restriction should be increased at least until 11pm. It will benefit many delivery boys. In the daytime, the orders have increased.” Swiggy spokesperson said, “With the surge in Covid cases in the city, Puneites are increasingly turning to Swiggy. We’re urging consumers to opt for no-contact delivery, while also ensuring adherence to various safety and hygiene protocols amongst our restaurant and delivery partners. This includes regular temperature checks, sanitisation and the compliance of mask usage with our AI-powered audit mechanism for our delivery partners. Swiggy is also covering the costs for the Covid-19 vaccination and RT-PCR tests of our delivery partners in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/spike-in-food-deliveries-but-overall-restaurant-business-impacted-101618330421704.html
14-04-2021||Other||In highest-ever daily spike, UP records 18,021 Covid cases, 85 deaths||LUCKNOW In its biggest-ever single-day spike so far, Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday reported of 18,021 fresh Covid cases and 85 deaths due to the virus, taking the overall fatality count to 9,309. The active case count of the state rose to 95,980 while the infection count stood at 7,23,582, as per the health department.After 2,182 active cases on February 25, the state added 93,978 more cases to the tally within 47 days. During the first wave of the pandemic, the maximum surge in active cases was 68,325 on September 17 last year.Along with urban hubs, districts with large rural population were also witnessing surge in Covid cases, including Ballia, Ghazipur, Azamgarh, Sonbhadra, Banda, Lalitpur, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh. All districts reported more than 100 fresh cases on Tuesday. Only two districts, Kasganj and Hathras, saw fresh cases in single digit – 8 and 5 respectively.Four districts – Lucknow, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Varanasi – were carrying the major load of the Covid cases. The district administrations of these districts were directed to take effective measures to break the chain of Covid infection, said a health department officer.“Of the total active cases in UP, 49,163 are in home isolation, 1,446 are admitted to private hospitals while the remaining 45,371 are in level two and three Covid facilities run by the state government,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health and family welfare, in a press conference on Tuesday.During the day, Lucknow reported 5,382 fresh Covid cases, followed by Prayagraj 1,856, Kanpur 1,271, Varanasi 1,404, Ghaziabad 199, Gautam Buddh Nagar 229, Meerut 321, Gorakhpur 602, Bareilly 271, Jhansi 503, Agra 234 and Moradabad 155.Lucknow saw 18 deaths, Prayagraj 8, Kanpur 10, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Sambhal and Rae Bareli 4 each, Varanasi and Pratapgarh 3 each, two each in Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Barabanki, Rampur, Gonda and Amethi and one each in Meerut, Jhansi, Saharanpur, Ballia, Ayodhya, Mathura, Shahjhanpur, Hardoi, Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Unnao, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Chitrakoot, Bhadohi and Sant Kabir Nagar. UP had tested 3,71,73,548 Covid samples till now, including 2,18,965 in the past 24 hours. “People should take utmost precaution to break the chain of infection. Whether they are vaccinated or not, following Covid protocol is necessary” said Prasad.Additional chief secretary, information and MSME, Navneet Sehgal said medical colleges were directed to utilise services of fourth and fifth year MBBS students in Covid hospitals while officials were directed to use 50% of the ambulances in all districts for transportation of Covid patients. The DMs were also asked to acquire private ambulances operating in respective districts, he added.The government expedited surveillance, sanitisation and sample testing work across UP while the urban development department, fire brigade and local bodies were directed to carry out sanitization work to check the spread of Covid, said SehgalHealth workers surveyed 15.58 crore people in various districts since the start of the Covid pandemic last year, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-highest-ever-spike-up-records-18-021-covid-cases-85-deaths-101618327001743.html
14-04-2021||Pune||PMC releases list of 30 vaccination centres offering Covaxin’s second dose||Due to reserved Covaxin stock in the city, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has now brought out a list of 30 dedicated Covaxin centres dedicated to providing only second Covaxin doses.On Sunday, Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted saying that there is confusion among beneficiaries who received their first dose of Covaxin in March and who are now eligible for the second dose, as they are unable to find vaccination sites. Many citizens responded to the same claiming that their parents are unaware of where to get the second shot of Covaxin. Nilesh Dhakras, whose parents had got the first shot of Covaxin, said, “The PMC must provide a list of hospitals in Pune city where Covaxin is available for second dose. We got an appointment using Cowin, only to find on the day that the hospital had Covishield doses only.” Another citizen Rahul Kumar said, “My parents have taken their first shot of Covaxin at Inlak Budhrani hospital on March 19. They are not finding any hospital nearby for the second shot of Covaxin.”Another citizen Anil Sane said, “ Many hospitals deny having stock of Covaxin, especially in Kothrud, Deccan, and Karvenagar. We are due for the second dose in a day or two.” To streamline the process of second shots of Covaxin the civic body has now announced a list of 30 hospitals which will be dedicated to giving only second shots of the Covaxin Covid vaccination. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer said, “We have announced this list of 30 hospitals, including both private and public, where citizens can get their second shot of Covaxin. As of now we have enough doses to last for the next few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-releases-list-of-30-vaccination-centres-offering-covaxin-s-second-dose-101618326401563.html
14-04-2021||Pune||PMC Covid care centres near empty as patients prefer home isolation||PUNE Though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has Covid care centres active for isolation, most citizens infected with the virus, prefer to isolate at home.PMC officer Rajendra Muthe, in charge of the PMC isolation facilities, said, “It is true that there is a poor response for isolation at the centres. PMC has the maximum number of isolation facilities in the city available at educational institutes, hostels, sports complexes and on PMC properties. We are keeping beds ready considering the second surge.”Muthe added, “If the government or local authorities take a decision to keep maximum positive patients at isolation centres, we must be prepared for it. Some people are not following Covid-appropriate norms. Despite being positive, instead of remaining in quarantine, they are coming out of their homes after three or four days.”A PMC official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “In the first surge, most patients were from slums. The homes are very small and there were common toilets. This time, maximum positive patients are from housing societies and apartments, and all these prefer to do home isolation or get admitted to hospital.”As per the figures issued by Pune Zilla Parishad, as of February 12, a total of 75,896 patients were in home isolation, and 23,910 in hospital isolation. The PMC official said, “Our total isolation facility has reached 8,000 beds and hardly 1,000 people are using the isolation facility.”An official statement by the PMC issued on Monday, read: “Already 1,900 beds are erected at Agricultural College, Balewadi sports complex, SNDT College on Karve road, and the Dr Bababasaheb Ambedkar hostel on Ghole road. Medical officers have been recruited at these locations.”Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “New Covid care centres are coming at the Sinhgad Institute in Vadgaon; Trinity College in Kondhwa; Aundh ITI; Fergusson College; Nikmar Institute in Balewadi; Ganesh Kala Krida Manch in Swargat; and at the Savitribai Phule Pune University. These new Covid care centres will have a capacity of 4,700 beds.PMC has already started Covid care centres at Rakshaknagar Sports complex in Kharadi; Bankar School in Hadapsar; Sant Dnyaneshwar Hostel in Yerwada; and the Gangadham Fire Brigade at Bibvewadi. The total bed capacity of these centres is 1,250 and already 589 patients are taking treatment here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-covid-care-centres-near-empty-as-patients-prefer-home-isolation-101618324841497.html
14-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 11 die amid oxygen shortage reports, kin vandalise hospitals||Angry relatives stormed two hospitals at Nalla Sopara in Maharashtra’s Palghar district on Tuesday after at least 11 Covid-19 patients died on Monday night allegedly due to oxygen shortage. The authorities, however, insisted there was no shortage.“We thought my father would recover but he died because of a lack of oxygen supply... the hospital gave us false assurances,” said Rahul Verma, whose father, Ram Babu, 52, died on Monday. He added his father had a heart disease and was admitted to the Vinayaka Hospital for seven days for Covid-19 treatment.Rajendra Kamble, a police officer, said there were deaths at the two hospitals — Vinayaka Hospital and Riddhi Vinayak Hospital — but insisted they were not due to the shortage. He added the 11 patients were in critical condition. “...the hospitals had three oxygen cylinders functional, and we are investigating the matter,” said Kamble.Earlier on Monday, an audio message of Rajiv Patil, the mayor of Palghar’s Vasai, purportedly highlighting a severe shortage of oxygen needed for patients was widely shared on social media.Patil confirmed the authenticity of the message, and appealed to the state government to solve the matter.Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation (VVMC) health department, too, maintained the deaths had nothing to do with the oxygen shortage. Ganesh Patil,VVMC’s public relations officer, said the Vinayaka Hospital received 139 jumbo oxygen cylinders and one dura cylinder (of 28 jumbo cylinder capacity) on Sunday.Riddhi Vinayak Hospital also Sunday received around 50 jumbo cylinders and 60 on Monday, according to Ganesh Patil. A total of 110 jumbo cylinders were there for patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-11-die-amid-oxygen-shortage-reports-kin-vandalise-hospitals-101618310321697.html
14-04-2021||Ranchi||42-yr-old bludgeons and suffocates wife, minor daughters, their teacher||Jharkand police are on the hunt for Deepak Kumar, 42, who they say is on the run after killing his wife, two minor daughters, 10 and 15, their tuition teacher, 21, and attacking his friend’s family.The motives for the killings are not known.Investigators cited a preliminary probe and said Kumar, who works in the fire brigade of a steel factory, killed his wife and daughters by bludgeoning them with a hammer and suffocating them with a pillow after drinking liquor on Sunday night.They claim he killed the teacher in the same manner around 11am on Monday. M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur’s senior police superintendent, said the teacher’s half clad body with her hands tied was recovered from inside a bed box and they were awaiting a post-mortem report to know whether she was raped. Then, either between the two incidents, or after the second, he visited his father-in-law and took back jewellery worth ₹5 lakh that his wife had left with her father for safekeeping. “My daughter...kept it [jewellery] in my house in view of rampant cases of theft...” said the father-in-law.Finally, he invited his friend’s family for lunch, and attacked them.Investigators say Kumar attacked his friend and the latter’s brother-in-law with the same hammer. The friend’s wife somehow ran out and raised an alarm following which the two were rushed to hospital.The accused managed to lock his house and flee on a motorcycle. His brother-in-law and the teacher’s brother were informed about the murders. They broke the lock to enter the house , where they found four bodies.The man’s friend was battling for his life in a critical condition, said Vanan. “Forensic evidence is being collected and the motive of such gruesome killings is being investigated.” According to the police, Kumar’s mobile phone has been switched off since Monday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-escapes-after-killing-wife-daughters-their-teacher-in-jharkhand-101618304801092.html
