16-04-2021||Other||IndiGo to waive change fee on bookings from April 17 to 30||Looking at the uncertainty in air travel owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases and curbs on the movement in various Indian states, budget carrier-IndiGo announced to waive off the change fees on new bookings made from April 17 till April 30. The airline also announced that passengers will be able to make unlimited changes for new bookings made till April 30 on regular fares under this offer. IndiGo is the second airline after SpiceJet to introduce such a waiver. “There is no change in the cancellation fee, and that will be chargeable,” the airline spokesperson said. Sanjay Kumar, chief strategy and revenue officer, IndiGo, said, “This offer is in line with our philosophy of providing our customers a hassle-free experience, and giving them much-needed flexibility, especially in these times.” SpiceJet was the first airline to introduce such an offer. On March 31, in order to make passengers feel safe and not suffer due to the unprecedented situation, SpiceJet introduced the offer where passengers booked direct domestic flight tickets from March 27 to April 4 were eligible for a one-time waiver on the change fee for the travel period between March 27 and June 30. However, the airline had clarified that fare the difference between two places (in case of sector change) will be applicable for flight changes and the customer will have to pay the additional amount, if required, and that in case the fare of the changed sector is lesser than the original sector booked, the difference will be refunded to the passengers. “Passengers will be able to avail the waiver of change fee only for one time. In case the flight is changed by passengers for the second time, change fee will be applicable as per standard terms,” SpiceJet had said. The airline specified that the ‘zero change fee’ offer cannot be clubbed with any other scheme, offer, discount or promotion. It also said that the offer is valid on bookings made via all channels including SpiceJet’s website, mobiles, reservations (call centre), airport ticketing counter and online travel agents.“However, fare difference for flight changes and facilitation fee will be applicable for flight change requested through reservations (airline call centre) or airport ticketing counters,” SpiceJet had said. Meanwhile, IndiGo has transported 81,437kg of Covid-19 vaccine shipment from January 12 to April 12. The country’s largest airline by market, in a media statement, said that it has secured a leading market share of 36.56% in Covid-19 vaccine transportation. Apart from IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air India, Vistara and GoAir, too, have transported vaccines to various parts of the country. SpiceJet has also tied up with various airports for storage and companies for delivery of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indigo-to-waive-change-fee-on-bookings-from-april-17-to-30-101618597275966.html
16-04-2021||Other||36-year-old man found strangled to death at Ludhiana park||Missing for two days, a 36-year-old man was found murdered in a park near Sidhwan Canal on Friday. Police said the assailants strangled the victim, Feroze, with a piece of rope. His brother-in-law, Abdul Halal, told the police that Feroze was a labourer and used to live alone on rent in Guru Arjun Dev Nagar. On Wednesday night, he left the house in an inebriated state and did not return. Halal came to know that Feroze was missing when he did not report for work on Thursday. A day later, he was found dead at a park.“Passers-by informed the police about the victim lying dead in the park. There were strangulation marks on the neck, and his mobile phone and cash were missing. He may have been killed due to an old rivalry. We have lodged a murder case and are probing the case from various angles,” said inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer (SHO) at Model Town police station. The body has been sent to the Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/36yearold-man-found-strangled-to-death-at-ludhiana-park-101618597036767.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana touches new peak with 598 Covid-19 cases, six dead||With 598 people testing positive, the district on Friday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases – a 12.8% spike from its last high of 530 cases on April 11.Also, six people succumbed to the virus for the third day in a row, pushing the toll to 1,232.The fresh cases took the district’s tally past the 41,000 mark, just two days after it crossed 40,000 cases.Still leading Punjab’s caseload with 41,543 infections, Ludhiana has 3,817 active cases, second only to Mohali’s 5,075.As many as 73,560 people are under home quarantine and 26 on ventilator support in various hospitals.On the bright side, 36,494 people (87.84%) have successfully beaten the virus, meeting the national average of 87.8%. The district has reported 7,133 cases in 16 days of April – just 161 short of March’s 7,294 infections. Steadily rising, the deaths this month, at 89, are also nearing March’s toll of 115.Those who died on Friday were an 85-year-old man from Khanna, an 80-year-old woman from Maharana Partap Nagar, a 75-year-old man from Indrapuri, a 74-year-old woman from Tilak Nagar, a 75-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal and a 36-year-old man from Dugri.An undertrial, an international traveller and a healthcare worker were among the latest cases. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said more positive cases were coming to the fore as the health department had ramped up testing to rein in the fast transmission of the new variants. He urged residents to not lower their guard and follow safety measures.Oxygen plant set up at civil hospitalTo meet the rising demand for oxygen amid the Covid surge, the health department on Friday inaugurated an oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital. Inaugurated by MLA Surinder Dawar, the plant has a capacity of 70MLD (million litres daily), which is enough to smoothly run the Covid unit and other departments, said senior medical officer Dr Amarjeet Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-touches-new-peak-with-598-covid-19-cases-six-dead-101618595657392.html
16-04-2021||Other||193 frontline workers test positive at PGIMS, Rohtak||Total 193 frontline workers of around 3,000 total staff strength at Rohtak’s Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) have tested positive for Covid-19 in April so far.These include 51 doctors, 43 staff nurses, 18 paramedics, 25 bearers and sweepers, 19 ministerial staff, and 37 students (mostly junior doctors).As per data provided by PGIMS spokesman Dr Gajender Singh said 32 persons including 29 doctors, one staff nurse and two paramedical staff were found infected in January this year, and 41 including 35 doctors, five staff nurse and a paramedical staff in March.“In the second wave, 266 personnel of our institute were found to be infected with the virus. Of these, 193 cases came to fore in the last 16 days,” he said.“These cases are all time high since October last year. Total 502 frontline workers were tested positive from September to December last year,” he added.On more PGIMS staff testing positive for the virus, two senior doctors, pleading anonymity, said that by mid-February, the fear of Covid had waned and people had lowered their guard resulting in further spread of the virus.“Many health workers remained reluctant in getting vaccinated. Most of our employees who were found positive have received either one or both doses, are undergoing home isolation, and are asymptomatic,” they added.As per official figures, 315 doctors got infected between September and December last year and 115 this year so far; 95 staff nurses tested positive last year and 49 this year; 52 paramedical staff last year against this year’s 21; 29 bearers and sweepers in 2020 and 25 this year so far; 11 ministerial staff last year and 19 this year. No student had tested positive last year but this year, 37 have tested positive so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/193-frontline-workers-test-positive-at-pgims-rohtak-101618594336471.html
16-04-2021||Other||Haryana deputes 12 IAS officers to review Covid preparations in districts||Grappling with the alarming rise in Covid-19 infections in state, the Haryana government on Friday restricted the passenger capacity to 50% in buses plying within the state and on inter-state routes.In another step to check the spread of the contagion, the state government has closed all educational institutes (government and private), including colleges and universities will remain closed till April 30.Also, the government has deputed 12 senior IAS officers, including additional chief secretary (ACS) rank officers, with immediate effect to review and monitor the Covid preparations in districts in addition to their present duties.Haryana, on Friday, issued consolidated guidelines to contain the pandemic in state with immediate effect. The instructions include encouraging public to fix appointment through Saral app for video conferencing with officers in order to discourage official visits in the offices of secretariats at state and district level.Financial commissioner and additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal said the state government has released ₹10 lakh advance to all deputy commissioners for urgent Covid management.Prohibition on movement of individuals for non-essential activities between 10pm and 5am in state will continue, and the government has allowed the DCs to impose Section 144 wherever necessary, for enforcement of Covid Curfew and for other restrictions as required locally.Violators of the prohibitions will be imposed ₹500 fine.RESTRICTIONS IN HARYANAAll educational institutes, government and private, will remain closed till April 30.There is no curb on movement (inter-state and intra-state) of essential and non-essential goods.Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws will be allowed to ply with two passengers, while one pillion rider will be allowed on a two-wheeler. Cabs will be allowed three passengers, excluding the driver.Bars, restaurants and shopping malls will have to follow the already imposed curbs on public gathering.In indoor spaces, people up to 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 50 persons. This will also apply on cinemas, theatres, multiplexes, bars, restaurants, hotels, clubs, and gyms.In outdoor spaces, only 200 people can assemble. For funerals and cremations participation will be limited to a maximum 20 persons.Physical offerings such as Prasad, langars, etc, distribution or sprinkling of holy water inside religious place will not be allowed.However, there is no bar on community kitchens already running and following physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food.During social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations in indoor spaces, maximum 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 50 persons.Public will be motivated to conduct marriages and other functions in daytime to avoid traffic congestions at the time of commencement of night curfew.6,277 NEW COVID CASES DETECTEDHaryana reported another high of 6,277 fresh Covid cases and 20 deaths on Friday pushing the active case tally to 33,817. A medical bulletin said the sample positivity rate is 5.07% and the recovery rate is 89.13%. Health authorities tested 41,658 cases on Friday.Gurugram with 1,919 new cases was the leading district in state followed by Faridabad (980), Karnal (449) and Sonepat (418). Among the dead, three were from Rohtak, two each from Gurugram, Faridabad, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Jind and Yamunanagar, and one each from Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Nuh.12 CASES OF UK STRAIN DETECTED IN STATEAt least 12 fresh cases of UK strain of coronavirus have been detected in Haryana following whole genome sequencing reports received from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).Health officials said 10 cases of UK strain (B.1.1.7) were detected from Karnal and two from Gurugram. “The Gurugram UK variant patients are residents of Delhi,” health officials said.The detection of UK strain is the outcome of 276 specimens taken from patients and tested for whole genome sequencing.On whether there is need to worry, additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that the distinguishing factor of UK strain is its high transmissibility.“It spreads from one person to another very fast. We are still awaiting outcome of 800 samples and are apprehensive that the speed at which the virus is multiplying in different districts, the UK strain can also spread,” he said.KARNAL PVT HOSPITALS TO RESERVE 20% BEDS FOR EMERGENCY USEMeanwhile, the Karnal district administration has directed all private hospitals to reserve 20% beds for emergency use. The directions were issued by deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav in a meeting with doctors of private hospitals and senior officials of the administration. He said a team of doctors will visit private hospitals on regular basis. Private hospitals are to update status of beds and patients on a portal of government medical college and hospital every day.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said following the surge, KCGMCH has been made a dedicated Covid hospital with 250-bed capacity, 116 of which are already occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-deputes-12-ias-officers-to-review-covid-preparations-in-districts-101618593924527.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi weekend curfew: Here's how to apply online for e-pass||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Delhi government has announced a night curfew including a weekend curfew and the closure of malls, gymnasiums, spas and auditoriums. The decision comes after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.According to an official order issued on Thursday, the weekend curfew will be effective from 10pm on April 16 (Friday) to 5am on April 19 (Monday). However, people of certain professions have been exempted from the curfew.The Delhi government said that those who are engaged in providing essential services like groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk and medicine, but do not have a Government ID can apply for an e-pass.Private doctors, nurses and paramedical staff can also travel during night curfew by showing a valid ID card. Passengers travelling to and from the airport, railway stations and bus stands will also be allowed to travel after they produce valid tickets. Pregnant women and patients going for treatment can travel during the night curfew.Here's how one can apply online for an e-pass:--People who are eligible for an e-pass can apply by visiting the website of Delhi government's official e-pass website: https://epass.jantasamvad.org/epass/init/.--One needs to select the language in which one would like to proceed. English and Hindi are the two available languages. From the drop-down menu, one can select 'e-pass for travel during night-curfew (10pm-5am).--Fill in details like name, phone number, district and address or place of engagement and click on submit. Once it is completed, one can get the e-pass.--One also needs to fill in the details for the period of time one needs to get an e-pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weekend-curfew-here-s-how-to-apply-online-for-epass-101618590385884.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister says ‘will impose stricter lockdown’ if people violate Covid-19 norms||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope warned the people of the state on Friday saying the government will impose a stricter lockdown if the citizens fail to adhere to Covid-19 norms. He said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led government is considering further tightening the restrictions amid the rampant violations of the lockdown norms“The people are not following the rules resulting in crowding at public places. A strict lockdown for 15 days to break the chain of virus transmission is necessary. If the violation continues, we will impose stricter lockdown in the state,” Rajesh Tope said.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The state health minister’s remark comes on a day when Maharashtra reported 63,729 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the western state’s total infection tally above 3.7 million.Maharashtra is already witnessing weekend curfew and night curfew starting 8pm on April 14 to 7am May 1. The government has also restricted the movement of people during the daytime by imposing section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits the assembly of more than five people.During the partial lockdown in Maharashtra, only essential services are allowed to operate. To further curb the spread of the disease, the government has banned dine-in services in restaurants, except for those staying in hotels attached to them. Only takeaway and parcel services are permitted while home delivery is permitted till the entrance of the building. Violation of Covid-19 norms will attract fines of ₹1,000 for delivery personnel and ₹10,000 for the establishment.Earlier in the day Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar also warned Pune residents of a complete lockdown. “Pune residents gave a good response to the weekend lockdown. I am hoping that they will follow the rules in the upcoming days. Otherwise as some of my fellow ministers have warned, a complete lockdown like last year may have to be imposed. I request citizens to follow the rules and do not push the administration to take this decision. In complete lockdown, many suffered a great deal of hardships,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-says-will-impose-stricter-lockdown-if-people-violate-covid-19-norms-101618592386525.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Weekend curfew begins in Delhi, some traders want stricter lockdown in Capital||Delhi which on Friday recorded the highest spike of nearly 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases comes under a weekend lockdown from 10pm on Friday, for the first time after the national lockdown was imposed in March 2020. It has not been decided yet whether this weekend lockdown will be continued in the Capital, though several restrictions have been put in place on the movement of people. Mumbai, on the other hand, is under restrictions till May 1 as Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed in the entire state.Maharashtra restrictions, according to which only essential shops will be allowed to open, have evoked sharp reactions as traders have been staging protests demanding waiver.The Retailers Association of India on Friday urged the Maharashtra government to permit home delivery of non-food items for orders taken through phone or website. Now, only e-commerce and restaurants are allowed home delivery.The Confederation of All India Traders is supporting Delhi's weekend lockdown and instead asked the government to impose a complete lockdown of at least 10 days to contain the situation. "It is very important to break the chain and for that, it is very important to put a complete lockdown for at least 10 days in Delhi. Traders of Delhi stand with the government and will continue supplies of essential commodities uninterruptedly," CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said, as quoted by news agency PTI.Traders in Lucknow's prominent markets Hazratganj, Aminabad are also observing a voluntary lockdown between April 15 to 18 to stop the spread of the infection.Apart from breaching all previous records of 24-hour spikes, Delhi on Friday reported 141 deaths. The AAP government has decied to appoint 10 IAS officers and nodal officers for Covid-19 hospitals run by the Delhi government, while minister Manish Sisodia has been made the nodal minister for all Covid-19 management in the city.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-begins-in-delhi-some-traders-want-stricter-lockdown-in-capital-101618591603438.html
16-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: AU asks students to vacate hostels, head back home||Amidst the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj, the authorities of Allahabad University (AU) have asked its students to vacate the hostels and return to their homes. The fresh instructions come from the varsity authorities although the hostels of AU or the trusts were officially closed since August last year many inmates are forcefully occupying their rooms. AU authorities had made several attempts to free these rooms from the ‘forceful occupants’ including levying a fine of up to five times the amount of hostel fee of their stay, but all attempts failed to deter these inmates. Now, the vice-chancellor, through a letter issued by assistant registrar DK Goswami has once again asked dean student welfare (DSW) to ensure that the hostel rooms are vacated, and inmates are asked to go back to their homes for their safety. The letter mentions, in Uttar Pradesh, Covid cases are continuously rising day by day and the Government of Uttar Pradesh has enforced disaster management act across the state. In the interest of the students, it is required that all students should vacate the hostels and return to their homes. Further, all classes are being run in online mode and thus student should stay at home for their safety.The DSW has been asked by the VC to take necessary action in this regard and an action taken report has to be submitted to the VC. Interestingly, the letter of the assistant registrar, which was shared by the assistant public relation officer of AU with the media, also mentions the fact that the hostels of AU could be converted into Covid wards if needed. It mentions, “It is also a fact that hospitals are facing crises and hostels will be converted in the Covid wards.”This holds ground as the city is witnessing an acute shortage of beds in different hospitals for patients infected with the coronavirus. If things do not improve, there is a possibility that the administration would need more buildings to be converted into Covid wards, AU hostels could be one of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-au-asks-students-to-vacate-hostels-head-back-home-101618592055652.html
16-04-2021||Ranchi||J’khand sees highest ever single day spike, active cases breach 20k-mark||Jharkhand broke all its previous records regarding Covid-19 statistics after detecting 3,480 new cases on Thursday, the highest ever single-day spike in positive cases since the pandemic’s outbreak last year, according to the state health department’s bulletin released on Friday morning.The state last saw the peak in active cases on August 31 last after discovering 3,331 positive cases . However, these cases were unearthed after a special testing drive under which 163,113 samples were tested. The positivity rate on that day stood at 2.04%. However, on Thursday, the 3,480 positive cases were discovered after testing only 38,552 samples, registering a record 9.02% positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 samples tested). This indicates greater spread of infection. The state has been witnessing a steep surge in daily detection of cases for last seven days, during which a total of 18,482 cases were discovered. This pushed the state’s active caseload over the 20,000-mark.According to the health department’s bulletin dated April 16, 2021, the state has thus far reported 151,272 cases, including 129,301 recoveries, 20,651 active cases and 1,320 deaths.Capital city Ranchi, which is hardest hit by the pandemic in the state, accounted for the maximum new cases with the discovery of 1,398 cases on April 15. This took the district’s tally to 46,889 cases, including 37,893 recoveries, 8,661 active cases and 385 deaths.Out of the 20, 651 active cases in the state, Ranchi alone contributed 8,661 cases, accounting for nearly 42% of the state’s total active caseload. However, the district has a total of 2,995 beds comprising isolation beds, oxygen-supported beds, ICU and ventilator beds, in both government and private sectors.The rising number of cases in Ranchi put the district’s health care and services in crisis, causing much trouble to patients, many of whom died in last one week for alleged want of adequate treatment.Majority of hospitals in Ranchi, including private and government ones, were running with full capacity with all Covid-19 beds occupied.According to April 16 data uploaded on Ranchi’s Covid-19 live dashboard, that shows availability of beds in different hospitals across the district, all premiere hospitals, including government-owned Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and Sadar hospital, showed full occupancy of oxygen supported and ICU beds.According to a district health department official, the city was reeling under acute shortage of oxygen supported and ICU beds. “Availability of isolation beds without oxygen support doesn’t serve much purpose, as it is meant only for secluding the infected person. It is of utmost important to set up more oxygen beds and ICU beds to check the fatality rate,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-sees-highest-ever-single-day-spike-active-cases-breach-20kmark-101618591636417.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports over 19,000 new Covid-19 cases in record single-day spike, tally crosses 800,000 mark||Delhi on Friday witnessed yet another record spike in daily new infections as the city reported 19,486 new Covid-19 cases, its highest-ever surge in a 24-hour period. With this, the national capital’s cases tally reached 803,623, the health department bulletin showed. Also, 141 patients succumbed to the infection in the past 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 11,793.Active cases of the coronavirus disease in Delhi have been steadily increasing this week and currently stand at 61,005, a jump of 6,696 cases from the 54,309 reported on Thursday. The city began the week with 38,095 active cases on Monday (April 12).Meanwhile, 12,649 patients were cured of the disease on the day, taking the total recoveries to 730,825, according to the latest data. Also, the recovery rate currently stands at 90.94 per cent.Also read | ‘Covid-19 situation very grim, will enforce restrictions strictly’: Delhi PoliceThe national capital’s record single-day spike comes on a day when India reported its highest single-day spike with 217,353 new cases and 1,185 fatalities. More than 200,000 new cases have been reported in the country for the second consecutive day.Medical workers in the national capital have tested 98,957 samples for the disease in the last 24 hours, including 64,939 RTPCR, CBNAAT or TrueNat tests and 34,018 Rapid Antigen tests, the bulletin showed. So far, 16,043,160 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the city and the tests per million count stand at 844,376. Also, the cumulative positivity rate considering the total tests done and the total confirmed cases stands at 5.01 per cent and the case fatality rate in the city is 1.47 per cent.Also read | India records 217,353 fresh Covid-19 cases in highest-ever daily spikeAs far as vaccinations are concerned, 76,642 beneficiaries received the Covid-19 vaccine dose in the last 24 hours. This includes the 59,493 first doses and 17,149 second doses. With this, the cumulative vaccination coverage reached 2,450,424 beneficiaries in the capital city, the bulletin showed.Currently, there are 29,705 patients in home isolation and as many as 9,929 containment zones are in effect within the city. A night curfew until April 30 and a weekend curfew have been imposed by the Delhi government to curb the spread of the disease in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-over-19-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-record-single-day-spike-tally-crosses-800-000-mark-101618591444819.html
16-04-2021||Other||Stage set for Madhupur bypoll today||More than 3.22 lakh people will cast their votes in strict compliance with Covid-19 precautions in Madhupur, as the assembly constituency goes to polls on Saturday to decide fate of six candidates in fray.Officials at chief electoral office claimed that all preparations related to the by-election were completed. “We have made adequate security arrangements to conduct free and fair polls. Special precautions have been taken at each booth in view of Covid-19, so that electors can come and vote without hesitation,” said state chief electoral officer (CEO) K Ravi Kumar.He said a specially designed video message regarding Covid-19 guidelines was also circulated among polling personnel and voters.Covid-19 patients can also exercise their franchise, but they will be allowed to vote at the last hour of the polling day. “The patients and polling staff will be in PPE kits to conduct polling,” Kumar said.Officials said polling stations were sanitized and voters will not be allowed to enter the booth without mask. However, arrangement of providing masks has also been made at polling station for voters, they said.In a bid to ensure social distancing, circles have been marked at a distance of six feet. Thermal scanners will be placed at entry of every polling station. Voters will be provided gloves to press the EVM button, officials said.Polling will be conducted across 487 stations and will start from 7am and conclude at 6pm. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.As many as six candidates--including Ganga Narayan Singh from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Hafizul Hasan from Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Ashok Kumar Thakur (independent), Uttam Kumar Yadav (independent), Kisan Kumar Bathwal (independent) and Rajendra Kumar (independent)--are in the fray to try their luck.However, the assembly constituency in Santhal Paragana division has traditionally witnessed a direct electoral battle between the ruling JMM and main opposition BJP.The Madhupur seat went vacant after demise of minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari. The serving minister and four-term legislator from Madhupur died of a heart attack on October 3, a day after recovering from Covid-19. Deoghar deputy commissioner (DC) cum district electoral officer on Friday inspected security arrangements at polling booths, strong room and counting places.During inspection at Charki Pahadi-based strong room, DC Manjunath Bhajantri directed concerned officials of the district administration for ensuring proper safety of strong room, EVMs, VVPATs and their transportation to counting centre after polling.Polling party members have been given special medical kit. Besides protection from Covid-19, medicines for blood pressure, asthma and heart ailments have been provided in the kit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stage-set-for-madhupur-bypoll-today-101618591575662.html
16-04-2021||Patna||Chhath Puja begins, admn on toes to prevent religious gathering||Amid ongoing Navratri and Ramzan, 4-day Chhath Puja commenced on Friday. With various festivals falling at the same time amid spike in Covid-19 cases, the district administration has heightened vigil to prevent gathering of devotees at religious places.Considering Covid-19 safety protocols, majority of devotees have decided to perform puja indoors. In an effort to stop people from visiting ghats, Patna Municipal Corporation facilitated holy water distribution in several wards. PMC public relations officer Harshita said, “We distributed ‘Gangajal’ from tankers at several places in the morning so that people can collect holy water for performing rituals at home. Regular sanitisation work in going on with the help of jitter machine and hand-held devices across the city.” Devotees shared that the second wave of Covid-19 has taken sheen out of Chhath, Navratri and Ramzan festivities in the city.Geeta Devi (60), a Chhath devotee, said, “I missed taking bath at the ghat. Covid-19 situation has dampened festivity. I have resorted to artificial pool for offering ‘arghya’.”Meanwhile, city mosques wore deserted look on Friday, despite being the first ‘Jumma’ of Ramzan.General secretary of Imarat-e-Shariah Maulana Al Quasami said mosques have restricted the visit of devotees following the state government’s safety guidelines. “We have requested the people to offer prayer at home. Only the imam and muezzin (the person who gives the call for prayers) have been allowed to offer prayer at mosques to fulfil the religious obligations,” he said. District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “In view of public health safety, residents are not allowed to celebrate Chhath on ghats or offer ‘namaz’ at mosques. Neither religious procession will be allowed on Ramnavmi.”“Sub-divisional officers are monitoring their respective areas to prevent crowding. Additional magistrates and police forces have been deployed for strict vigil. Public announcement systems are being used for generating mass awareness,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chhath-puja-begins-admn-on-toes-to-prevent-religious-gathering-101618591456411.html
16-04-2021||Other||Bettiah: 24 vehicles gutted in fire at gas godown||A major mishap was averted after a gas godown caught fire near Sant Ghat under Bairiya police station area at the outskirts of Bettiah on Thursday night, causing explosion of more than 100 LPG cylinders that gutted and about two dozen vehicles.Sources quoting the eye-witnesses said the fire broke out in the premises of a gas godown and soon engulfed cylinder-laden vehicles parked on the premises. “It was around 11.45 pm when we heard a deafening explosion. But before we could understand what had happened, the entire premises of the godown was on fire as cylinders kept exploding and metal pieces flying across,” said Rajesh Jaiswal, a resident of Sant Ghat. “The explosion was heard about a kilometre away,” said another villager in Bairiya block. For about 45 minutes, the gas godown resembled a fireball, threatening to spread in the nearby area where a petrol pump is located barely 200 metres away. It took the fire brigade about an hour to douse the blaze with help of eight fire tenders, three of which brought from neighbouring East Champaran. Later, Kundan Kumar, district magistrate (DM) of West Champaran, said, “No causalities were reported in the incident.”Nandkishore Choudhary, the owner of the gas agency, put the damages caused at over ₹50 lakh. “Besides, about 24 vehicles and about 300 cylinders are missing or damaged in the incident. The fire has also caused extensive damages to the godown’s roof and boundary wall,” Choudhary said. “In all, 12 delivery vans, 10 others carriers and two motorcycles were found to be completely gutted in the course of our preliminary investigation,” said Dhushyant Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Bairiya police station. “The exact cause of the fire could not be known immediately. We are trying to ascertain the same,” said Vidhyanath Paswan, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Bettiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bettiah-24-vehicles-gutted-in-fire-at-gas-godown-101618591455674.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||PIL in Delhi HC seeks to establish NRI Commission at national level||A public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the Delhi High Court on Friday seeking to establish a Non-Resident Indians Commission (NRI Commission) at the national level to address the concerns of Indians living outside the country.The PIL was filed by Anisur Rehman through advocate Jose Abraham. Rehman claimed that he is an NRI currently working in Sultanate of Oman, and is well aware of the challenges faced by the NRI community on foreign land as well as in the home country.Rehman, in his PIL, said he wants to protect the fundamental right of NRIs guaranteed under the Constitution of India and has therefore urged the court to issue direction to the Centre to consider his representation and take appropriate action on the same.He said that there are millions of Indian expatriates who are living in labour camps and other deplorable areas for better lives for their families in India."The NRIs are a section which makes a pivotal contribution in the development of the nation. The NRI community has always seen at the forefront to help the country in times of crisis caused by internal issues or calamities. The most recent example is the wholehearted support extended by the Indian expatriates especially in GCC countries during the havoc caused by floods in southern India," the plea said.The advocate said that NRIs are seen as a vulnerable section in these times when the Covid-19 pandemic is spreading at a rapid pace."The Indian expatriates also face exploitation and breach of contract in many countries. Indians are also languishing in foreign prisons under false and fabricated charges. Many Indian women are physically and mentally exploited either by their employer or many times by even their own husbands," read the petition."The issues of concern to the NRIs are varied in nature. The NRIs have to face immense difficulties in India as well. In recent times, one often gets to hear of reports of difficulties faced by NRIs to start an enterprise in India," it said.It further stated that the union and state governments have always assured the NRI organisations of fullest support with initiatives focusing on the NRIs undertaken from time to time.The petitioner apprised the court that so far only three state governments--Punjab, Kerala and Goa have constituted an NRI Commission.The petitioner submitted that an NRI commission at the national level is the need of the hour and the need for it has become dire in the current pandemic situation.He said that Covid-19 has caused immense hardships to the Indian NRI community. It is estimated that lakhs of Indians have lost their source of employment or are on the verge of losing their jobs, the plea claimed.Rehman said that the present situation has also increased the need for a National NRI commission on the lines of the proposed Commission for Migrant Labours.The petitioner said that a national level commission will help in streamlining all the NRI related welfare schemes at one platform and in safeguarding the interest of the expatriates in a more efficacious and effective manner.The Delhi High Court will hear the petition on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pil-in-delhi-hc-seeks-to-establish-nri-commission-at-national-level-101618590826937.html
16-04-2021||Patna||School teachers’ recruitment: Online monitor on cards for fair play||With the past appointment of school teachers done through panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies since 2006 landing in court due to controversies surrounding them, Bihar’s education department is now working on a mechanism to ensure centralized monitoring of all future recruitments. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the objective behind decentralizing the recruitment process was to vest more responsibility in the democratically elected PRIs and urban local bodies, but due to complaints about irregularities the matters landed in court. “Now, the effort is to monitor the recruitment process online through a system located centrally in Patna without diluting the role of PRIs and urban local bodies a wee bit. This is only to usher in greater transparency and accountability. We have to recruit another 1.25 lakh teachers and as soon as we get the nod of the court, we will start it,” he said. The minister said that there was no point making recruitment in one year and then dealing with litigations for the next 10 years. “We are developing an online process so that the candidates could have a fair idea of every stage – right from the time they apply to the making of the merit list and issue of appointment letters by the recruiting agencies at the level of PRIs and urban local bodies,” he said. The move is significant as the Bihar’s Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB), probing the suspected appointment of teachers on forged document on the orders of the Patna High Court since 2015, is still unable to complete the exercise due to education department’s inability to make available nearly one lakh missing folders, as cooperation from PRIs, many of which underwent change of guard in the last 15 years, was found lacking.With the court expressing displeasure over the delay, the government recently came up with an alternative mechanism and fixed the accountability on teachers to get their documents verified by uploading them afresh. The teachers have to upload the certificate for minimum eligibility required for their recruitment, along with their marksheets submitted along with the application and the recruitment letter on a web portal designed for the purpose. In the fresh recruitment of around 94,000 primary teachers, the department has, learning from the past, decided to tread cautiously. All the documents will be verified before issuing appointment letters. For the new exercise also, all documents will have to be uploaded on the portal. The minister said the government was also ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula. The court had earlier stopped the recruitment process following allegations that reservation roster was not being followed. The hearing in the case is due. “The government will guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The government wants to give benefits to all the categories. We have to hire around 91,000 teachers in elementary schools and 30,000-plus in secondary and higher schools. As soon as we get the go-ahead from the court, the process will start. We will assure court there will be no deviation from the roster,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/school-teachers-recruitment-online-monitor-on-cards-for-fair-play-101618591335616.html
16-04-2021||Patna||Opposition parties want panchayat polls put off||The Opposition parties on Friday called for postponement of the impending panchayat elections in the state in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.The state has more than 29,000 active cases and health machinery is having a tough time managing resources to deal with the problem.Anand Madhab, chairman of the state Congress’s manifesto committee, has urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the elections for the three-tier panchayat elections till the time the situation is brought under control. “Not only are people getting sick in large numbers due to Covid-19 this time, casualty figures are also alarming,” said Madhab.Echoing similar views, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief spokesman and MLA Bhai Birendra said, “Situation would have not been so alarming had the government learnt from the past mistakes and ramped up medical facilities.”Officials at the SEC, which conducts the elections for urban and rural bodies, said they were all geared up for holding the elections.State election commissioner Deepak Prasad, however, could not be contacted for his comments.As per the panchayati raj department, elections for six posts in each of over 8,400 panchayat bodies are scheduled to be held in June. Accordingly, the state election commission has identified 1.14 lakh booths across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/opposition-parties-want-panchayat-polls-put-off-101618591294237.html
16-04-2021||Other||Bihar hospitals gasp for oxygen cylinders||Amid the ominous surge in Covid-19 cases, hospitals in Bihar are facing acute shortage of oxygen cylinders whose demand has shot up manifold.In capital Patna, demand for oxygen has almost doubled in the last few days. At Sahyog Hospital in Patliputra Colony, for instance, the demand has doubled from 20 cylinders to 40 cylinders per day. Unable to meet the excess demand, the hospital was refusing to admit Covid-19 patients who require oxygen up to 12-15 litres per minute, said a hospital source.Sai Hospital and Satyavrat Hospital in Kankerbagh were also facing shortage of oxygen cylinders.Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit conceded there was shortage over the last two days and said efforts were on to streamline supply in the next two days. “We have asked two major suppliers, Linde India and Inox Air Products Ltd, to supply medical oxygen on a daily basis instead of alternate days, as is the case now,” he said.“Two oxygen generation plants, with a capacity of 250 litres oxygen per minute, are operational at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) while those at seven other state-run medical college hospitals will be functional in a week or 10 days, said Amrit.Bihar has to essentially rely on West Bengal and Jharkhand for supply of medical oxygen.In Muzaffarpur, which recorded 265 positive cases on Thursday, oxygen supply failed miserably to meet the demand.Rambabu, an operator in a company engaged in oxygen production and refilling, said the demand for small oxygen cylinders had gone up by 10 times while demand for big cylinders had increased by three to five times. “Earlier, we used to supply 50 to 60 big cylinders every day. Now, we have to supply 180-200 cylinders daily,” he said.Another supplier Suresh Kumar said his agency had received a demand of 23 to 25 small cylinders, which has now gone up to 35 to 45 daily.Officials agreed that the demand had gone up, but said there was no shortage. “There is no reported case of shortage at health centres,” said Dr Vikas Kumar, principal of Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH). “We are using piped system for supply of oxygen. We are also getting 250 big cylinders through outsourcing,” he said.Civil surgeon Dr SK Chaudhury also dismissed reports of shortage.In Seemanchal, officials said there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders but expressed fears in case the number of patients increases rapidly. Purnia civil surgeon Dr S K Verma said “There is no shortage of oxygen cylinders in the district till now and we are ready to deal with any situation.” “In Kishanganj, there is no critical Covid patient and there is no dearth of oxygen cylinders. The 281 people tested positive for Covid-19 are getting treatment in home isolation,” Kishanganj civil surgeon Dr Shrinanandan said. “There is no dearth of oxygen cylinders.”Araria civil surgeon Dr M P Gupta said “There are five patients undergoing treatment in Araria. They all are at a Covid designated hospital at Forbesganj. There is no shortage of oxygen cylinders and beds in the district now.” In Bhabua, Oxygen cylinders were available in sufficient numbers and there was no shortage, additional chief medical officer, Dr KN Tiwary said.There were 10 ventilator machines available in the district, but these were not operational in the absence of experts, officials said.Oxygen shortage was not reported from any part of West and East Champaran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-hospitals-gasp-for-oxygen-cylinders-101618591215644.html
16-04-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records highest single-day spike of 6,277 infections; 20 more dead||There was no let-up in the Covid-19 surge in Haryana on Friday as the state reported a record 6,277 new cases of the disease which took its cumulative infection tally to 3,42,077.Twenty more fatalities due to the viral disease were reported in the state in a span of 24 hours, pushing its overall death toll to 3,354, according to a health department bulletin.Of the fresh cases, Gurgaon, the worst-hit district in the state, accounted for 1,919, its highest single-day spike so far.Among other districts that reported a big spike are Faridabad (980), Karnal (449), Sonipat (418), Panchkula (314), Hisar (288), Ambala (269), Kurukshetra (243) and Sirsa (202), the bulletin said.On Wednesday, the state had recorded 5,858 coronavirus cases.Among the latest deaths, three were from Rohtak and two each from Jind, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Gurgaon districts.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 33,817.So far, 3,04,906 people have recovered from the disease, and the state has a recovery rate of 89.13 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-6-277-infections-20-more-dead-101618588615537.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Man duped of ₹2.8 lakh in online fraud||A 44-year-old man from Pune was duped by a person who claimed to be interested in an online advertisement posted by the victim to sell an air cooler. A complaint was lodged by Paresh Mathur (44), a resident of Mohammadwadi area of Pune. Mathur posted an advertisement on Olx with an aim to sell an air cooler. A man called up Mathur around 10am on March 29 and showed interest in buying the appliance. The man caller Mathur multiple times and agreed to buy the appliance before sending him a QR code for payment. The caller asked Mathur to scan the QR code he had sent and complete the transaction. When Mathur lost money instead of receiving money, the caller told him that he will get a refund of the amount, according to the police. The caller then sent multiple QR codes, and the complainant completed payment on them all. Through multiple transactions, the complainant lost ₹2,80,000, according to the police. The man did not show up to collect the cooler and stopped communicating with the complainant. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Kondhwa police station in the matter. Police inspector (crime) Shabbir Sayyed of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-duped-of-2-8-lakh-in-online-fraud-101618587675391.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Three arrested for attempted murder of businessman||Three of the five men booked for attempted murder of a small-business owner in Gadital area of Hadapsar on Wednesday were arrested by Pune police on Thursday. They were remanded to the custody of Pune police until April 20 on Friday by a local court. The injured man was identified as Ravi Dhotre (36), a resident of Tulajbhawani vasahat in Hadapsar. “The injured man owns a brick and sand supply business, and he was operating that day when these people went there and attacked him. They wanted the shop space for themselves. We are investigating what they intended to do with the shop,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Thorat of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case. The three arrested were identified as Autar Singh Taak, Toran Singh Taak, Japansingh Taak, all residents of Hadapsar. Two more people are wanted in the case while Dhotre is undergoing treatment for serious injuries he sustained in the attack. The police are awaiting doctor’s report to ascertain his condition. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), rioting of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-for-attempted-murder-of-businessman-101618587495358.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Pune police seek custody of accused involved in job fraud||The cyber-crime police of Pune have arrested one man and have sought custody of another from Gujarat police for their involvement in at least three cases of online job fraud. While multiple other cases against them are suspected to have been unreported, the Pune police have found two of the three known cases to be from Pune while one is from Dehradun. The man arrested from Pune was identified as Vishal Minanath Jamdade (24), a resident of Parner in Ahmednagar. He was remanded to custody of Pune police until April 18 by a local court. The second man was identified as Anup Dhormale who is currently in the custody of Gujarat police in another case of job fraud, according to senior police inspector Machindra Pandit of cyber-crime police station. “They have registered a domain for a website that looks like a job portal. They sent emails and called well-educated people who were looking for jobs abroad. Once the victims shared details, they offered jobs and took money for various reasons including visa, travel, medical tests, etc., We have arrested him in one case and found another case in Pune. We are looking at other similar cases to see if their credentials show up in those,” said police inspector Ankush Chintaman who is investigating the case. Jamdade was arrested in a case under Sections 419, 420, 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act which was registered at cyber police station in 2020. The case was registered based on a complaint of a man who was duped of ₹4,60,400 by the duo. The police have found another victim who was duped of ₹1,50,000. “All these are highly educated people who are seeking jobs in other countries,” said PI Chintaman. The victims of the two men are suspected to be in other parts of the country aside from Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-seek-custody-of-accused-involved-in-job-fraud-101618587375324.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Pune residents face inconvenience due to delay in RT-PCR test reports||PUNE Bharti Sahastrabuddhe (56) had to wait for almost a week to get her RT-PCR report, unaware of whether she has tested positive or negative for Covid, she had to live in uncertainty and fear of infecting her family members.Mr and Mrs Sahastrabuddhe who live near Sinhagad road in the city had their samples collected through a reputed laboratory on April 7, however, Mr Sahastrabuddhe (63), got his report on April 13 and his wife got it on April 15.Many people in Pune have been complaining about a delay in RT-PCR reports, especially since Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) brought in orders to get RT-PCR tests done for work and travel purposes. The district administration has been writing to the state government to increase testing capacity in the city which has been reporting the highest number of new Covid cases in the country.While most commercial laboratories have ensured that the reports are made available to the people within 24 to 36 hours, most hospitals have either stopped or prioritized sample collection.Dr HK Sake, executive director at Noble Hospital, said, “We have stopped collecting samples for now because we have an overload of work. Our staff is exhausted with treating patients at the OPD and those admitted. We have samples lined up on our corridors and so we have stopped collection as of now.”Abrarali Dalal, chief operating officer (COO) Sahyadri Hospitals, said, “We have not stopped collection, but we have prioritized it. We do not collect samples for those who need it for work or travel purpose, but ensure that the staff is used optimally and so we attend to hospitalised patients or those at home with symptoms.”Major laboratories in the city still face a shortage of manpower which is delaying reporting. Pallavi Jain, managing director at Krsnaa, said, “We ensure that all our reports are presented within 36 hours and the delay is because of the staff shortage as most of them have been infected. Also, we have to ensure that every sample is reported with all the contact details as described by the PMC.” However, delayed reports are hampering the further contact tracing work which is crucial to break the chain of infection and stop the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-residents-face-inconvenience-due-to-delay-in-rt-pcr-test-reports-101618586595372.html
16-04-2021||Pune||PCMC to boost health infrastructure to tackle rising Covid cases||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) which has seen a surge in Covid cases and infection-related deaths will boost its health infrastructure to bring the cases under control, said, officials.Shortage of hospital beds and Remdesivir injections are some of the key issues due to which the number of deaths in twin cities is increasing.“More people are getting infected and shortage of Remdesivir injections has made things harder for the health department. The administration is working to boost infrastructure by increasing beds in hospitals where Covid patients are being treated,” said a doctor from the PCMC health department on the request of anonymity.On Friday, PCMC registered 2,529 fresh cases and 54 deaths, while on Thursday, it registered 61 deaths in a day which was the highest number of single-day deaths since January 2021.More than 30 people are succumbing due to Covid in PCMC since April 11.The positivity rate in PCMC is 19.58 %, however, on April 15 it was 24.26 %. The case fatality rate (CFR) also rose to 1.73 per cent on Thursday, while on average PCMC has 1.28 % CFR. In the year 2020, PCMC had managed to keep CFR to 1.5 per cent.“With the infrastructure boost, we will manage to bring the CFR rate down. The process of increasing beds has already started. From 74 ventilator beds, we will increase the number to 290 at PCMC-run hospitals. While we will be also getting 90 more ventilator beds via corporate social responsibility initiative which will be kept in private hospitals,” said Shirish Poredi, spokesperson of PCMC.From February 27 to April 13, PCMC has collected ₹34,81,000 in fines from 2249 people for flouting mask norm and also people who continued functioning hotels/bars after the allocated time.“Since 9 am to midnight people from administration and police are keeping a check on all the activities within the city limits. Anyone who flouts the rule will be penalised severely,” said Poredi.Donate plasma, get ₹2000 from PCMCTo attract more plasma donations in the city, the PCMC administration has launched an allowance of ₹2,000 to every individual who donates plasma. Currently, PCMC is facing an acute shortage of plasma as there are fewer donors.“PCMC administration wants more people to come forward to donate plasma. Whoever donates the plasma will be given ₹2,000,” said Poredi.Covid deaths in Pimpri-Chinchwad(Figures from April 12 to 16)April 16: 54April 15: 61April 14: 45April 13: 31April 12: 34||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-to-boost-health-infrastructure-to-tackle-rising-covid-cases-101618584915291.html
16-04-2021||Patna||Bihar Assembly shut after 44 test positive; all-party meet today||With continuing surge in Covid-19 pandemic in Bihar in general and in Patna in particular, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Friday ordered complete closure of the Bihar Legislative Assembly secretariat from April 17 to April 25.The decision was taken after 44 Vidhan Sabha secretariat officials and staff tested positive within three days. “These are extraordinary times. Any government can at best ensure proper treatment to the ill, but a pandemic requires utmost caution and social awareness to check its spread. The need of the hour is not to panic, but be conscious and follow the protocol. The office has been closed to break the chain,” he said.The Speaker said during the closure of the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, all the officials and staff would be required to stay in headquarters and keep their mobile phones on. The Speaker urged all the hospitals and doctors to get down to serving the humanity in this hour of crisis.Meanwhile, a day before an all-party meeting over Covid situation in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar held a high-level meeting here Friday to review steps taken so far to check spread of the virus and also availability of oxygen cylinder for coronavirus patients.Emerging from the meeting, Kumar refused to divulge details of the deliberations, saying everything will be discussed at all-party meeting which will be chaired by Governor Phagu Chauhan on April 17.“We will brief about steps taken till now to check the spread of infections and will listen to point of views of others,” he told reporters.The meeting called by the Governor will be held in virtual mode.Friday’s meeting was attended by deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, health minister Mangal Pandey, education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit, among others.Asked if Bihar was contemplating a lockdown or night curfew in the backdrop of substantial increase in infections, the chief minister did not give any direct answer and said things would be discussed at Saturday meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/speaker-orders-closure-of-assembly-after-44-test-positive-in-3-days-101618583295162.html
16-04-2021||Other||Above normal rainfall this year for most of Maharashtra: IMD||PUNE Most parts of Maharashtra will experience above normal, and normal, rainfall during the Southwest Monsoon this season, as per the long range forecast (LRF) issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.IMD will also issue a special monsoon forecast this season for the monsoon core zone, which includes Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Bihar.During an online press briefing on Friday, M Mohapatra, IMD director-general said that the monsoon this season will be 98 per cent of the long period average (LPA), which means that rainfall this year will be normal.“Rainfall between June to September this year will be 98 percent of the LPA, which falls under the normal rainfall category. The LPA for India during the southwest monsoon season is 880 millimetres, which is calculated from 1961 to 2010,” said Mohapatra.He further added that El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions this season will not see any development.OP Sreejith, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Forecast, IMD Pune, said that as per the forecast there is no deficiency in rainfall forecast for Maharashtra.“As per the LRF, the probability for normal and above normal rainfall in most parts of Maharashtra is good. However, as per the current situation, there is no deficiency of rainfall forecasted,” said Sreejith.A second LRF is given by the end of May, by the IMD.This monsoon season, IMD will issue a monthly probabilistic forecast for each month - June, July, August and September.This will be a new feature in the forecast as earlier, IMD would give rainfall forecasts for June and July, and then for August and September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/above-normal-rainfall-this-year-for-most-of-maharashtra-imd-101618582935118.html
16-04-2021||Other||Midnight fire at Ludhiana slum leaves four families homeless||Four families were left shelterless after their hutments were burned down in a fire near the railway lines on Jassian Road on Thursday midnight. While none of the occupants was hurt, a few pigeons kept in a cage in one of the shanties died in the incident. The fire was first noticed by one of the slumdwellers around 1.30am and the fire brigade was contacted.“The families rushed out to safety and we all started throwing water at the fire. One of the hutments was razed to stop the flames from spreading to other structures. Meanwhile, the fire brigade also arrived and doused the blaze,” said Gurwinder Singh, who alerted the fire department. Firefighter Harmel Singh said two trucks were rushed to the spot from the fire wing headquarters near railway station and Haibowal fire station, and the flames were extinguished after two hours. Four shanties, containing household goods, clothes, furniture, electronic articles and cash, were gutted, he said, adding that the cause behind the fire was not immediately clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/midnight-fire-at-ludhiana-slum-leaves-four-families-homeless-101618581795839.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Those appearing for exams this weekend in Delhi don't need curfew e-passes: DDMA||People appearing for examinations this weekend in Delhi will not require curfew e-passes, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order on Friday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the Covid-19 infection in the city.The DDMA directed that "any person/student shall be allowed for movement during the curfew to appear in examination on production of valid admit card"."The examination staff deployed for exam duties shall also be allowed to travel on production of valid identity card," the order read.According to an official order issued on Thursday, the weekend curfew will be effective from 10 pm on April 16 (Friday) to 5 am on April 19 (Monday).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-appearing-for-exams-this-weekend-in-delhi-don-t-need-curfew-e-passes-ddma-101618580463537.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||E-pass for night curfew valid for weekend curfew too: Delhi government||Those who have a valid night curfew e-pass are not required to take a separate pass for the weekend curfew, the Delhi government said on Friday.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had announced a curfew this weekend and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the infection.The Delhi government had on April 6 announced a seven-hour night curfew. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the city.The DDMA order for curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be in force till April 30."The e-pass possessed by a person for movement connected to essential goods and services during night curfew shall also be valid for weekend curfew period, " read a letter issued by the DDMA on Friday.A notice on the Delhi government website also said, "If you already hold a night-curfew ePass, you DO NOT have to re-apply for the weekend curfew. Your pass shall automatically be considered valid during the weekend (in the day-time)."The e-pass is being issued for those who are engaged in providing essential services, but do not have a government ID.This includes individuals related to commercial and private establishments -- like shops dealing with food, groceries, pharmaceuticals, or people working in banks, insurance offices, private security agencies and petrol pumps, among others -- and those going for Covid vaccination during the weekend curfew.Delhi recorded 16,699 Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities on Thursday, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/epass-for-night-curfew-valid-for-weekend-curfew-too-delhi-government-101618579459191.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to face shortage of Remdesivir for next 2 to 3 days, says minister Rajendra Shingane||Maharashtra will face a shortage of 12,000 to 15,000 Remdesivir injections, used to treat Covid-19 patients, for the next two to three days, state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Rajendra Shingane said on Friday.He said pharma companies manufacturing Remdesivir have stepped up production but it will take time for the new stock to reach the market.Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Companies that produce Remdesivir injection have increased their production but it will take some time for the vials to hit the market. If we consider a 10-12 per cent shortage, Maharashtra will continue to face a shortage of 12,000 to 15,000 Remdesivir vials for the next two to three days.”Blaming companies for delay in supply of the much sough-after Covid-19 drug, the FDA minister said, “The heads of Remdesivir-making companies had 15 days back assured me to supply around 55,000 vials of the injection. However, till April 15 these companies could provide only 37,000 to 39,000 vials to the state.”“I held a video conference meeting with the CEOs and MDs of some of the companies that produce Remdesivir today again. These companies have now assured me that supply will be streamlined April 19 onwards,” he said.He lauded the Centre's move to ban the export of Remdesivir."Ready stocks of Remdesivir (which were bound for shipments abroad) are available even in Maharashtra. Some of the company representatives met me with a proposal of allowing these stocks to be sold in Maharashtra,” Shingane said."Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray has also issued orders allowing export-bound stocks to be sold in the state (following the ban). I do not know how much such vials are available (with companies)," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-face-shortage-of-remdesivir-for-next-2-to-3-days-says-minister-rajendra-shingane-101618575248056.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: An Ode to Doctors||“Not all heroes wear capes. In the midst of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the real heroes wear scrubs.” It was a modest clinic, housed on the ground floor of an unprepossessing one-storey structure, consisting of a tiny reception area which led to a larger room, divided into three austere examination rooms by plywood partitions and flanked by a dimly lit space, where the compounder sat, behind a small window. The husband-and-wife doctor couple who ran this modest medical centre, right below their own home, did not even have a demarcated space for themselves to meet patients, but shuffled constantly in and out of the examination rooms, as and when required. Those were the days of innocence; of leading robust and unencumbered lives, when we were encouraged to adopt pursuits and practices that would give today’s woke, politically correct Google-informed and germ-obsessed parents a million nightmares. Blithely ignorant of any consequences, we wolfed down calorie-loaded white breads and sugary desserts, untouched by screens and blocks, we played all day under the hot sun; unmindful of hygiene and germs, we ate off the streets, drank water straight from taps, guzzled instant coffee twice a day (because it made the milk taste better) and ran around barefoot and free in the playing fields of our youth, with not a thought of contagions and accidents, or bugs and microbes. And when all this caught up with us, we were duly dragged off to the friendly neighbourhood family doctor, who after a predictable routine of knocking on our tummies, having us stick out our tongues, examining our torsos with his stethoscope and feeling our foreheads for fever, would give us a little scrap of illegible paper, which we were to hand over to the compounder, ever ready in his dimly-lit cave, to pound and pulverise the vilest potions he could lay his hands on, to punish us back to good health. Today, as doctors and other medical professionals are at the very forefront of the planet’s epic battle against the coronavirus pandemic, where their expertise and prowess have been called into action so urgently to save humanity, I can’t help but think of the sea of change in recognising the significance that doctors play in our lives. Today, it is to our doctors and medical fraternity that the world turns, for hope and deliverance. And it is to their eternal credit — throwing caution and thoughts of their own personal safety to the winds, it is our doctors who have risen to this generational unprecedented challenge facing humanity. “Wherever the art of medicine is loved, there is also a love of Humanity,” said Hippocrates, and to be sure, Mumbai has had a rich history of humane, empathetic, and compassionate doctors — internationally renowned gynaecologists, celebrated surgeons, acclaimed oncologists, distinguished psychiatrists and eminent general practitioners who have graced this city and left lasting memories as their legacies. Indeed, over the years, Mumbai’s doctors have earned for themselves an illustrious reputation and much renown. Doctors who have gone above and beyond the call of their duty to attend to the elderly and ailing; doctors who have set aside their own personal ambitions to work tirelessly in public hospitals and centres, where the rewards and recognition are way below their pay grade; and doctors who even as they practiced the highest rigors of professionalism and principles, have not forsaken their humour and kindness. Which is why, today when we hear of the critical exhaustion that doctors and medical professionals are experiencing and when we see photographs of doctors curled up like sardines in makeshift cupboards or corridors and doorways catching a few moments of sleep in between emergencies, their faces scarred by the constant wearing of masks, it is paramount that we never forget that they too are human. In March, Dr Rajesh Parikh, neuropsychiatrist and director of medical research at Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, one of the city’s most celebrated medical professionals with over 150 publications in journals such as Lancet, American Journal of Psychiatry, and internationally renowned as much for his erudition as his wit, posted a few heartfelt lines on a social media platform alluding to his experience of “signs of early depression”. “A public admission of my early symptoms of depression. Hope to avoid it with yoga, mindfulness and exercise. Otherwise, will need counselling and/or meds. With so many bright colleagues to choose from, am not at all worried for myself,” the post had read. As expected, the effect it had on his legion of friends, patients and admirers was seismic. After all, Parikh had been one of the first crusaders against the scourge of the pandemic and a familiar, almost daily presence on prime TV as an authority on the virus. As early as December 2019, while on a trip to the Sunderbans, he had been keenly following news of the strange new disease taking lives in Wuhan. “I anticipated the havoc that the virus would bring to our country and the rest of the world, and began work on a protocol for Jaslok which, at the insistence of my lovely publisher Milee Aishwarya of Penguin Random House, mutated into a national bestseller.” “The Coronavirus: What you Need to Know about the Global Pandemic” was the first book in the world on the pandemic and was launched to a global audience of 25,000, a record of sorts for a book launch. On the heels of this book, Parikh had burnt the midnight oil to bring out “The Vaccination Book” — a comprehensive tome on every aspect of the subject. The fact that a man as knowledgeable in not only the vagaries of the disease but also the inner workings of the mind could succumb to the exhaustion and sense of defeat was not lost on anyone. “Physician, heal thyself” was the universal response. We see doctors as being invincible and superhuman. “In nothing do men more nearly approach the gods than in giving health to men,” said Marcus Tullius Cicero. And yes, they are gods who help and heal, repair and remedy, soothe and settle, but beneath all that brilliance and cognition it is easy to forget that they are all too human, eminently so. Fortunately, thanks to the groundswell of support and harnessing his inner resources as well as yoga and mindfulness and talking to his wife, the eminent Dr Firuza Parikh, Parikh had bounced back in two days. But he continues to acknowledge with humility the vulnerability of all, especially experts on the pandemic and mental health. “We are in for another major pandemic of a mental health crisis, but I am confident that as a species we shall harness our collective resources to overcome it. And to quote Abraham Lincoln — “This too shall pass”,” he says. So even as the battle to defeat the pandemic continues, let us never forget that our doctors are some of our most precious resources and that they, even the most accomplished and impassioned and erudite among them, are human too and as vulnerable to fatigue and frustration and exhaustion as the rest of us, during these unprecedented and harrowing times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-an-ode-to-doctors-101618578675877.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Charges framed against Hooda by special CBI court in AJL plot re-allotment case||A special court on Friday framed charges against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper. The trial court acted on the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) chargesheet filed in December 2018. CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg ordered the framing of charges under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Hooda. Hooda was present in the court when charges were framed. Also read: Randeep Surjewala, Harsimrat Badal test positive for Covid-19The detailed order is awaited. Congress leader Motilal Vora, who died in December 2020, too was an accused in the case. Another accused arrayed was the firm, AJL. At the time of registering the FIR in 2016, Vora was the chairman of AJL and Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi were among the shareholders. The newspaper was launched in 1938 by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister. Hooda misused his position to favour AJL: Probe An institutional plot, C-17 spread over 3,360 square metres in Sector 6, Panchkula, was allotted by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to AJL in 1982, but because the construction was not carried in 10 years, it was taken back in 1992. In 1995 and in 1996, appeal and revisions were filed by AJL against resumption of the plot, but these were also dismissed by the HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner, Town and Country Planning. However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL, according to the CBI. The CBI claimed that Hooda, who was also the HUDA chairman, “blatantly misused his official position and dishonestly allotted the plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment to AJL at original rates plus interest in violation of the HUDA policy vide an order on August 28, 2005. Thus, he caused wrongful loss to HUDA and wrongful gain to AJL.” In December 2018, the CBI had filed a chargesheet against Hooda, Vora and AJL. An Enforcement Directorate probe is also underway in the case. On May 5, 2016, the FIR was registered by the Haryana vigilance bureau regarding allegations of cheating and corruption against Hooda and others. In December 2016, the Haryana government recommended the CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charges-framed-against-hooda-by-special-cbi-court-in-ajl-plot-re-allotment-case-101618574297163.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Staying on in the off-season is key to NBA success||In preparation for a professional basketball season, a substantial portion of a comprehensive training programme will incorporate focus on physical training. With a professional basketball season in the NBA being approximately 80 – 100 games each season, over eight months, this usually leaves an athlete a window of three-four months in the offseason to prepare themselves for the rigors of the competitive season. What are the primary components of offseason basketball training? How does it differ from physical training for basketball during the season? The first objective of offseason basketball training in a professional league as competitive and long as the NBA is for players to rest from the mental and physical fatigue of the season. While different athletes have a large variation in the amount of rest time they need to recuperate from the demands of the season, the usual duration of this is from one-four weeks. During this time, athletes will not engage in any rigorous physical activity, due primarily to the fact that athletes in season are in a constant state of nervous system fatigue. To reach a steady physical state of not being “overtrained” this period of down time is essential for the majority of athletes who have not yet developed the resistance to fatigue that gets built up over many years of playing in the NBA schedule. After this brief rest period, an athlete will usually focus exclusively on rebuilding their body physically in the initial part of the off-season. This could involve a few weeks and sessions of cross-training such as swimming, biking, boxing, running on the track, martial arts or yoga. The purpose of this training is to reintroduce a gradual physical load to the body. Additionally, it keeps athletes learning various movements that are general and not specific to basketball. This allows for less risk on overuse injuries from all the repetitive motions due to basketball. General weightlifting exercises are also reintroduced to the training programme at this time, as well as an increased focus on flexibility and balance. After a few weeks of cross-training, athletes will dive into the main part of their offseason programme. They might pick a select number of technical skills that they want to improve at in basketball games and work on those skills in an isolated setting, improving their confidence in those skills before trying to apply them to game situations. From a physical standpoint, athletes will use this six-week period to build up their body physically with a focus on increasing lean muscle mass, maximum strength levels and also doing the relevant amount of flexibility work necessary to improve their positioning and movement on the basketball court. By this time period, there is usually about three-four weeks left till the start of basketball training camp and the season again. The focus shifts from building up the body to fine tuning all of the basketball skills in a setting that requires more game action. An athlete will likely have improved confidence from honing their technical skills, now transfers over as the athlete re-introduces their body to the decision-making and physical qualities required to implement those newly learned skills into an actual an game. The focus on weight training may dial back considerably, but will still be maintained consistently in preparation for training camp to ensure athlete strength levels are high. By planning out the offseason in this cyclical fashion, an athlete can ensure that they are entering the competitive season and training camp in peak physical condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-staying-on-in-the-off-season-is-key-to-nba-success-101618574295987.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu takes on Capt Amarinder govt, says cheated people on sacrilege, drug probes||Taking a swipe at the Capt Amarinder Singh-led ministry in Punjab, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said the Congress government had cheated the people who voted it to power on the assurance that it would bring those guilty of the 2015 sacrilege incidents and drug cases to book. Addressing a press conference in Patiala, Sidhu said: “The government was formed on the promise of punishing the guilty of sacrilege and those involved in the drug cases, but it failed on both fronts. The public feels cheated as the government didn’t kept its promise.” Questioning the working of the Capt Amarinder Singh government, he blamed botched-up investigations for the delay in nailing the guilty. Sidhu, who visited Kotkapura that was the epicentre of the sacrilege incidents and subsequent protests on Baisakhi, demanded that the Punjab government make the reports of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 incidents public. He also sought the release of the report on drug cases compiled by special task force chief Harpreet Sidhu. “In Punjab, the SIT means SITDOWN. No SIT has yielded any result so far,” he said. On the drug cases, he said that Harpreet Sidhu’s report was handed over to the government by the court for taking action. “The file has been sent to the government through the advocate general to act against the guilty. Why has no action been taken so far? ” he said. He said if the government does not believe the STF report, it should probe the statements of drug lord Jagdish Bhola and others, who are on record to say that they were only pawns. “Why have the big names involved in the drug racket not been exposed?” he said. On the sacrilege issue, Sidhu said that the investigation was botched up since 2015. “Why has the government failed to name and nail the guilty? On whose directions did the policemen open fire on protesters? Why are their names not mentioned in the FIR? It’s evident from the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report that the then chief minister had spoken to the then police chief at midnight, hours before the firing on protesting Sikhs was undertaken. The report was tabled in the House, debated and a resolution was passed to punish the guilty, but no concrete action has been taken. Who is responsible?” he said, asking the government to make the report of the sacrilege probe public. On his course of action, Sidhu said he has started by raising issues. “Sacrilege is the most important issue for me and I will not sit until the guilty are punished,” he said. He urged the government to make the SIT report public. “Everyone knows who is guilty for the sacrilege and firing on Sikhs besides the drugs problem of Punjab, but why has the government failed to act?” he said, adding: “The public is angry with the government.” Sidhu declined comment on the resignation of inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-takes-on-capt-amarinder-govt-says-cheated-people-on-sacrilege-drug-probes-101618572975538.html
16-04-2021||Lucknow||UP sees record daily rise of 27,426 Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh's daily Covid-19 cases surged to a record high of 27,426 on Friday, taking the state's cumulative tally to 7,93,720, according to an official.The death toll climbed to 9,583 with 103 more fatalities, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here.This is the third straight day when the state has reported a record rise in Covid-19 cases. As many as 22,439 fresh cases were recorded on Thursday and 20,510 on Wednesday."In the past 24 hours, 27,426 fresh cases were reported while 6,429 people were discharged," Prasad said.Currently, there are 1,50,676 active cases in the state. Of these, 77,146 patients are in home isolation, 2,435 in private hospitals and the remaining in government hospitals, he said.As many as 6,33,461 people have recovered from the infection so far, he added.On Thursday, 2.23 lakh samples were tested. With this, the total number of samples tested so far has risen to over 3.78 crore, Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-record-daily-rise-of-27-426-covid-19-cases-101618572213914.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Dust storm hits Delhi-NCR; light rain in several areas||The national capital on Friday afternoon witnessed light drizzle and dust storm amid sweltering heat and rising temperature. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted light rain and thundershowers in Delhi."The dust storm hit Delhi around 4 pm. The wind speed was 50 kilometres per hour. A hailstorm is also likely. Very light rain has also been recorded in some areas," IMD head Kuldeep Srivastava said, according to news agency PTI.Delhi may also see a hailstorm on Friday in some places, the IMD forecast says, along with light rain, thundershowers, and gusty winds. The intensity of rain is expected to be less on Saturday, as the forecast says there will be very light drizzle accompanied by gusty winds.According to the IMD, the weather is expected to be dry from Sunday onward. However, strong wind with speed ranging between 20 and 30 kmph is expected to blow over the city until Monday. The mercury is expected to dip by two to four degrees Celsius over the weekend and is expected to bring some respite from soaring daytime temperature.The weather department said the maximum temperature will hover around 36 degrees Celsius till Saturday before it starts to rise again. The mercury is predicted to remain below 40 degrees Celsius for the next five to six days, the IMD said.A forecast from the Centre’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi shows that the AQI is likely to improve to the moderate category on Friday and Saturday owing to rainfall.Under the influence of a trough or wind discontinuity from the southeast Arabian Sea off Kerala coast to north interior Karnataka across south interior Karnataka in lower levels; widespread rainfall with a thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely over south peninsular India during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-relief-after-a-drizzle-rainfall-to-continue-till-saturday-101618569347089.html
16-04-2021||Patna||SEC, EC resolve dispute over EVMs; early panchayat polls on cards in Bihar||After almost two months of deadlock between the State Election Commission (SEC) and Election Commission of India (EC) over the procurement of multi-post electronic voting machines (EVMs) for the upcoming panchayat polls in Bihar, there are indications that both sides have settled the dispute by favouring the use of general EVMs. The development comes after high-level talks took place between EC and SEC in New Delhi on Thursday. Officials in the know said the EC has assured the state poll panel that it will provide EVMs ( models that are used in assembly and parliamentary polls) based on availability of the voting machines , a proposition to which the SEC is now open. “We have discussed the option of using EVMs used by EC in assembly and general polls. It is a viable option and we will now work on it.The talks have been positive and we feel the panchayat polls will now be conducted at the earliest through EVMs,” said secretary, SEC, Yogendra Ram. Also Read | Caste a factor in 21 of 45 seats in Bengal’s fifth phase polling on SaturdayAccording to officials in the know, EC and SEC representatives discussed procuring multi-post EVM model B-3 SSDM from the ECIL( Electronic Corporation of India Limited), Bengaluru. But the proposition was not found feasible as the ECIL expressed its inability to provide 15,000 multi-post EVMs of B-3 model in a short time. “ECIL has communicated that it would take at least several months to provide EVMs as per specifications by SEC . That would inordinately delay the panchayat polls. This is why, we feel it is feasible to use general EVMs that would be made available by EC,” said a senior SEC functionary. SEC officials said the state poll panel would now work on the new plan of holding the panchayat polls through EVMs provided by EC. Needless to say, the task of holding the polls through simple EVMs is said to be more challenging given that each polling station would require at least six EVMs for six posts. That way a few hundred thousand EVMs would be required. “There are logistics involved. All these points will be put before the Commission,” the functionary added. Admittedly, the decks have now been cleared for early panchayat polls . The SEC had filed a writ petition in the Patna high court in February seeking judicial remedy over the EC’s reluctant stand in giving permission to ECIL, Bengaluru to provide multi-post EVMs. The court , during its last two hearings, had ordered both the poll panels to settle the matter amicably; however, the case is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sec-ec-resolve-dispute-over-evms-early-panchayat-polls-on-cards-in-bihar-101618569976093.html
16-04-2021||Other||J&K Police arrest, disengage services of woman officer for ‘glorifying militancy’||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday arrested and disengaged services of a woman Special Police Officer and blamed her for “glorifying militancy” and obstructing government officials in discharging their duties during search and cordon operation in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, a police spokesman said, adding the woman has been terminated from service.“A case about the incident was also registered by the police,” he added“During the course of the search, the search party was obstructed by a woman identified as Saima Akther of Frisal. The woman resisted the search party, turned violent and uttered statements glorifying violent actions of terrorism. She captured a video through her phone and forwarded it on social media platforms with the aim of disrupting the search,” the statement said.The spokesman said that on Wednesday, after receiving specific input regarding the presence of militants in Karewa Mohallah of village Frisal, a search operation was launched.A few days ago, the woman had posted a video and blamed security forces for harassing her family members on the pretext of carrying out searches. The video went viral on social media.It is learnt that the woman has been charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti questioned the slapping of UAPA on the woman.“Saima Akhter from Kulgam has been slapped with UAPA for raising legitimate questions about searching her home repeatedly without any reasons. Saima’s ailing mother understandably exacerbated her worries. When it comes to cruelty even women arent spared in Naya Kashmir,” Mufti tweeted..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-police-arrest-disengage-services-of-woman-officer-for-glorifying-militancy-101618569496211.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||‘Covid-19 situation very grim, will enforce restrictions strictly’: Delhi Police||As Delhi prepares for stricter curbs and weekend curfew because of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi Police on Friday said the situation in the Capital is grim and vowed to enforce restrictions strictly to prevent the disease from spreading. “The Covid-19 situation is very grim. Many are getting infected daily, many are dying. Some restrictions have been imposed and there will be a curfew this weekend. All movements, except essential movements, are restricted. So, Delhi Police will enforce this strictly,” commissioner SN Shrivastava was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereSN Shrivastava asserted that police patrolling will be done across the Capital to ensure citizens are adhering to the norms and if anyone steps out of their house, they will face action unless they are going out for essential services. “They can be arrested for violation, a case can also be registered,” he told ANI.The Delhi Police commissioner’s remark comes a day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced fresh curbs in the national capital, which is witnessing the fourth wave of the pandemic. Delhi will observe a weekend lockdown while gyms, spas, and malls across the city will remain shut to break the chain of transmission of the virus.Also Read: Delhi is the country's worst-hit Covid-19 city nowAccording to the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), assembly halls, entertainment parks, and auditoriums will be closed, while cinemas will be allowed to function at 30% capacity. Dine-in facilities at restaurants in the city have also been barred, only takeaway and delivery services will be allowed. Delhi is also under a night curfew from 10pm to 5am.“On weekdays, people have to earn their livelihood. But on the weekend, people go out for entertainment and other activities, which can be curtailed. Hence, to break the chain of infections, we are imposing a weekend curfew,” Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday after his meeting with lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on the Covid-19 situation in the Capital. The current restrictions are in place till April 30 and they may be extended if the need arises, Arvind Kejriwal added.The curbs come at a time when Delhi is recording close to 17,000 fresh Covid-19 cases every day. On Thursday, the city logged 16,699 cases and the count surged past 17,000 on the previous day. The city’s caseload now stands at 784,137, including 54,309 active cases, 718,176 recoveries, and 11,652 deaths, according to the latest health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-situation-very-grim-will-enforce-restrictions-strictly-delhi-police-101618568590135.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro reworks train schedule for weekend curfew||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has reworked its train schedules for the weekend due to the curfew announced by the Delhi government. DMRC officials said that across the network, Metro services will be available with a headway of 15 minutes during the weekend.While Metro services will be available for essential service providers and those with valid e-passes, the number of train trips will reduce due to the drop in passenger load.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC said, “In view of the curfew imposed by the government for the coming weekend for the containment of Covid-19, Metro services will be available with a headway of 15 minutes across the whole network on April 17 and 18.”Also Read | Delhi govt names Manish Sisodia as nodal minister for Covid-19 managementThe waiting period will increase on Blue and Green line corridors where there is bifurcation—for instance, on the Blue Line, which is from Dwarka Sector 21 to Noida and Vaishali.Dayal said, “The two sections, where there is a bifurcation in the network i.e, Noida/Vaishali section of the Blue Line and Kirti Nagar/Inderlok section of the Green Line, the headway will become double. Metro services on these corridors will be available after every 30 minutes.”In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed transport services to ply as usual but only for essential service providers and those with valid e-passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-reworks-train-schedule-for-weekend-curfew-101618568474925.html
16-04-2021||Other||Bihar mulls centralised vigil of school teachers’ recruitment for greater transparency||Bihar education department is now working on a mechanism to ensure centralized monitoring of all future recruitments of school teachers, state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said. “Now, the effort is to monitor the recruitment process online through a system located centrally in Patna without diluting the role of PRIs and urban local bodies a wee bit. This is only to usher in greater transparency and accountability. We have to recruit another 1.25 lakh teachers and as soon as we get the nod of the court, we will start it,” Choudhary stated.The past appointment of school teachers was done through the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies but several controversies were surrounding them. The minister said the objective of the Nitish Kumar government behind decentralising the recruitment process was to vest more responsibility in the PRIs and urban local bodies but due to complaints about irregularities, the matters landed in court. The minister said that there was no point in making recruitment one year and then dealing with the litigations and court cases for the next 10 years. “We are developing an online process so that the candidates could have a fair idea of every stage – right from the time they apply to the making of the merit list and issue of appointment letters by the recruiting agencies at the level of PRIs and urban local bodies,” he added. The move is significant as the Bihar’s Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB), which is probing the suspected appointment of teachers on forged document by the order of the Patna High Court since 2015, is still unable to complete the exercise due to the education department’s inability to make available nearly one-lakh missing folders. Cooperation from PRIs, many of which underwent change of guard in the last 15 years, was found lacking. With the court expressing displeasure over the delay, the government recently came up with an alternative mechanism and fixed the accountability on teachers to get their documents verified by uploading them afresh. The teachers have to upload the certificate for minimum eligibility required for their recruitment, their mark sheets along with the application and the recruitment letter on a web portal designed for the purpose. In the fresh recruitment of around 94,000 primary teachers, the department has, learning from the past, decided to tread cautiously. All the documents will be verified before issuing appointment letters. For the new exercise also, all documents will have to be uploaded on the portal. The minister said the government was also ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula. The court had earlier stopped the recruitment process following allegations that the reservation roster was not being followed. The hearing in the case is due. “The government will guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The government wants to give benefits to all the categories. We have to carry out around 91,000 recruitments in elementary schools and 30,000 plus in secondary and higher schools. As soon as we get the go-ahead from the court, the process will be on. We will assure the court that there will be no deviation from the roster,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-mulls-centralised-vigil-of-school-teachers-recruitment-for-greater-transparency-101618566855829.html
16-04-2021||Bhopal||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tests Covid-19 positive||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday said he has tested coronavirus positive. “My COVID-19 test report is positive. I have presently quarantined myself at my Delhi residence. Those who came in my contact should isolate themselves and keep a watch on their health by taking all precautions,” the Rajya Sabha member said in a tweet. The former Madhya Pradesh chief minister had given his sample for Covid-19 test to the staff of Delhi-based Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital on Thursday after developing symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-leader-digvijaya-singh-tests-covid-19-positive-101618566168479.html
16-04-2021||Bangalore||K’taka CM Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid again, hospitalised||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. This is the second time the 78-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader has contracted the virus. He has been admitted to Bengaluru’s Manipal Hospital for treatment.He was admitted to Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in Bengaluru with for the last two days. He tested negative for Covid-19 two days ago; however, he tested positive on Friday. Then he was shifted to Manipal Hospital.Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advise of doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine.“Upon having mild fever, today I got tested for Covid-19 and my report has come out positive. Although I am doing fine, I am being hospitalised based on the advise of doctors. I request all those who have come in my contact recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine,” read a tweet from chief minister’s official handle.Also Read | Night curfew to continue till April 20, says Karnataka CM YediyurappaBefore the testing positive, in the morning, Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with top officials of the government at his official residence to discuss the steps to be taken to contain the increasing number of cases in the state. The meeting was attended by the Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Gaurav Gupta among others.Following the meeting, Yediyurappa hinted at more stringent measures from April 20; however, he said that no new decisions were taken in the meeting. The chief minister has also convened an all-party meeting on the pandemic on April 18 in Bengaluru to discuss the imposition of stringent measure to contain the virus.Yediyurappa had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 2, 2020, and he was discharged after 8 days in a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-yediyurappa-tests-positive-for-covid-again-hospitalised-101618565114991.html
16-04-2021||Lucknow||UP imposes another Covid-19 curb on Sunday, ₹1,000 fine for not wearing masks||In yet another attempt to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday ordered all markets in rural and urban areas to observe a weekly closure on Sunday. Only emergency services, cleanliness and sanitisation drives will be carried out in the state on Sunday, Adityanath said during a virtual meeting with divisional commissioners, district magistrates, chief medical officers and officers of Team-11. Adityanath told officers to ensure that people wear masks and said anyone flouting the rule should be fined ₹1000 for the first offence and that the fine would be 10 times for repeat offenders.Uttar Pradesh is among the 12 states and Union territories in the country which is witnessing the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The state has recorded 22,439 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 104 new deaths so far, according to official data. The Uttar Pradesh government has already clamped additional curbs in the worst-affected districts of the state, including night curfew and closing schools.Also read | Migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh must follow these Covid-19 guidelinesThe night curfew in 10 districts of the state, including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur, will now be enforced from 8pm to 7am instead of 9pm to 6am, officials have said. And on Thursday the government shut all schools till May 15 and postponed state board exams. The new exam dates will be announced in the first week of May, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who tested positive for the virus earlier this week.Also read | UP sees highest single-day spike of 22,439 cases; 104 more dieThe government has also decided to increase beds and hospitals for Covid-19 patients. Amit Mohan Prasad, the additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) said another 45 government hospitals and private Medical Colleges have been notified as Covid hospitals in 30 districts. Adityanath also sent health officials to Ahmedabad in Gujarat to procure 25,000 Remdesivir injections. "CM has directed Health department for urgent procurement of 25,000 Remdesivir from Ahmedabad. For this, directors and officials of the department are going to Ahmedabad on a state plane today itself," a tweet by the chief minister's office said on Wednesday.The Centre has prohibited the export of Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients as several states reported their shortage. Remdesivir is considered a key antiviral drug in fight against Covid-19, especially among adults with severe complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-imposes-another-covid-19-curb-on-sunday-rs-1-000-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-101618562638525.html
16-04-2021||Other||Parts of Kashmir witness drop in temperature after continuous rains||Rains lashed several parts of Kashmir last night bringing down the temperature. Some upper reaches also observed light snowfall. The India Meteorological Department has predicted rainfall till Monday and said the weather will improve from next week. The continuous rainfall led to the drop in the temperature by 7 to 8 degrees across the Valley.The rains lashed the northern and southern parts of Kashmir from late last night. At the upper reaches of Machil, Keran and Gurez, light snowfall was recorded after the sudden drop in the temperature.Sonam Lotus, Director, IMD, said the weather will remain disturbed till the end of the third week. “As per our recordings, we expect light-to-moderate rain and snow on higher reaches at many places in Kashmir and scattered places in Jammu. The rains could be accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning.”He said that the weather will remain partly cloudy in Ladakh. “Light snowfall is expected at some isolated places in Kargil district,” Lotus added.Srinagar recorded 9.5 degrees Celsius temperature during the night while in Jammu, the night temperature was at 19.9. Kokernag in South Kashmir was the coldest place as night temperature was recorded at 6-degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parts-of-kashmir-witness-drop-in-temperature-after-continuous-rains-101618562174655.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt names Manish Sisodia as nodal minister for Covid-19 management||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia would be functioning as Nodal Minister for Covid management in the national capital, said the Delhi government on Friday.He will also be responsible for inter-ministerial coordination till further orders.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting today over the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the city. Health Minister Satyendar Jain and other senior officials will also be presented at the meeting.On the fifth consecutive day on Thursday, the city has reported over 10,000 fresh cases. As per the latest health bulletin, with this, the total Covid-19 cases in Delhi now stand at 7,84,137, including 54,309 active cases, 7,18,176 recoveries, and 11,652 deaths.In an effort to curb the spread of the contagious virus, the Delhi government has also imposed a weekend curfew in a view of the grim coronavirus situation in the national capital from Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-names-manish-sisodia-as-nodal-minister-for-covid-management-101618561436194.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Set up helplines, help desks in hospitals for Covid patients, families: Delhi L-G||Delhi lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Friday directed agencies to scale up enforcement of Covid-19 regulations and asked the government to set up a helpline to help people check availability of beds in hospitals. He gave the directions in a meeting he chaired to review enforcement efforts and preparedness to implement restrictions the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) imposed in light of the ongoing Covid-19 surge in the Capital.“ The L-G, along with the chief secretary, police commissioner, divisional commissioner, municipal corporation commissioners and other senior officers concerned, reviewed the enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and preparedness for implementing the guidelines. (He) advised targeted and aggressive deployment and enforcement in areas where crowding takes place, as also during peak crowding hours and asked for a temporal graph of the outcomes,” said a senior official in the L-G’s office.The senior official further said, “(L-G) asked the chief secretary to ensure setting up of helplines that inform people of the availability of beds in hospitals, apart from displaying the same on government portals, and establishing help desks to assist patients and attendants in every hospital. These should be amply publicised. Concerted and coordinated efforts are required from all agencies and stakeholders to contain the existing surge.”Currently, the Delhi government has a website and mobile application to help people with bed availability. In the past few days, as Delhi witnessed severe increase in occupancy rate of hospital beds, there were complaints about figures in the website and the application not being updated in realtime and causing inconvenience to people. Senior government officials, however, said that dedicated teams are working on real time update of bed-related data round the clock.As on Friday afternoon, 11,673 out of 16,212 total Covid-19 beds in the city’s hospitals were occupied, government records said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday imposed restrictions that involve a weekend curfew, temporary shutting down of shopping malls, gyms, spas and entertainment parks, a cap of 30% on capacity of cinema halls and multiplexes, restricting dining in at restaurants, and limiting weekly markets to maximum one per day in one municipal zone. There is already a night curfew in place, which will continue, the DDMA said in its order which effectively notifies the new restrictions.The DDMA is chaired by Baijal. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/set-up-helplines-help-desks-in-hospitals-for-covid-patients-families-delhi-lg-101618560914572.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||124 active Covid vaccination centres in Mumbai, says BMC. Check list here||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday published a list of vaccination centres in Mumbai for people to receive shots against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), days after the civic body was forced to shut all private vaccination centres in its jurisdiction due to alleged shortage of doses.Also Read | Mumbai private Covid-19 vaccine centres shut till April 12, BMC apologises for inconveninceAccording to the list, there are 124 active vaccination centres in Mumbai as of April 15, 2021. The list includes private and government vaccination centres, as well as those under the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), which is BMC itself. Some of the most famous hospitals in the metropolis are inoculating people against the viral disease, the list shows. These include the Breach Candy Hospital, which is a private facility, as are Jaslok Hospital, Wockhardt Hospital, Hinduja Hospital, Lilavati Hospital, Kokilaben Hospital, among others. The list shows 72 private hospitals are also serving as vaccination centres.Also Read | After shutting vaccination centres, BMC receives 99,000 doses of CovishieldMeanwhile, there are 35 MCGM or BMC hospitals on the list, while the corresponding figure for government hospitals is 17. CAMA Hospital, JJ Hospital, TATA Memorial Hospital are among the state hospitals which are doubling as vaccination centres.The full list is available on BMC's official website. You can also click here to access the list or check it below.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare dashboard, 117,223,509 vaccine doses have been administered in the country thus far. The nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16 and is currently in its third phase. Two vaccines have been approved so far: Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as Covishield and Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.Also Read | Centre allows Haffkine to start Covaxin productionA third shot, the Russian-made Sputnik V, was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday. The other two were approved in January.Also Read | Sputnik V vaccine gets DCGI nod for emergency useWith an infection tally exceeding 3.6 million as well as a related death toll of more than 59,000, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in India. Mumbai, its capital, is among the worst-hit cities, with a caseload and death toll of more than 553,000 and 12,000 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/124-active-covid-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-says-bmc-check-list-here-101618558413384.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Surjewala, Harsimrat Badal test positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, Congress general secretary and former Haryana minister Surjewala, 53, said, “I have tested +ve for #COVID19 today morning. Anyone who has come in contact with me in the last 5 days, please self-isolate & take necessary precautions.” Also read: Nearly 10 crore Covaxin doses to be produced per month by September: GovtHarsimrat, a former Union minister, said that she has tested positive with mild symptoms. “I have quarantined myself at home and am taking all the necessary precautions. I would request all those who came in contact with me to isolate and get themselves tested at the earliest,” the 54-year-old SAD member of Parliament from Bathinda said. Harsimrat’s husband and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had also recently tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surjewala-harsimrat-badal-test-positive-for-covid19-101618556954193.html
16-04-2021||Dehradun||30 sadhus contract Covid-19 during Kumbh, others call for caution||At least 30 sadhus have tested positive for the coronavirus disease and one has died during the ongoing Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand's Haridwar, adding to fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may add to the already spiralling cases of Covid-19, news agency ANI reported on Friday citing a senior medical officer. Kapil Dev, the chief of the Maha Nirvani Akhara, who was in the city to attend the Kumbh Mela from Madhya Pradesh's Chitrakoot, died in a hospital in Dehradun on Wednesday, the agency added."Thirty 30 sadhus have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in Haridwar. Medical teams are going to akhadas and RT-PCR tests of sadhus are being done continuously. The process will be further quickened from April 17," Haridwar chief medical officer, Dr SK Jha, was quoted as saying by ANI.Jha said that people who have contracted the coronavirus disease and are from Haridwar have been sent for home quarantine and those who came from outside are being admitted to hospitals. He also said that the Covid-19 patients who are in serious condition are being referred to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh.More than 1,700 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14. Medical workers conducted 236,751 tests over the five-day period in the mela site and 1701 came out positive for the coronavirus disease.Also read | Covid surge: Why Kumbh, farmers’ protest, poll rallies must end immediatelyMeanwhile, the Uttarakhand government imposed night curfew across the state and curbed large gatherings on Thursday but exempted the Kumbh Mela from all restrictions evn though experts have raised concern over the rampant violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The government said in an order that the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by Centre in January and the state government in February will remain in effect at the Kumbh Mela.Millions of people have participated in the Kumbh Mela, which began on April 1, so far. The first “shahi snan” or royal bath was held on March 11 on Mahashivratri, the second on April 14 and the third on April 14. The fourth shahi snan is scheduled on April 27. Official said 1.35 million devotees took a dip in the Ganga on the third “shahi snan” on Wednesday 3.1 million people participated in the previous one on April 12.Panchayati Niranjani Akhada, one of the 13 akhadas, on Thursday announced the conclusion of the Kumbh on April 17. "Given the situation of the pandemic in Haridwar, we have taken the decision to conclude the Kumbh on April 17. Regarding the shahi snan on April 27, we will take steps in accordance with the decision of Akhada Parishad. A bunch of sadhus will participate in the fourth shahi snan from our akhada," Ravindra Puri Maharaj, secretary of the Niranjani Akhada said, according to ANI."Overcrowding Haridwar is not appropriate in the present scenario. Many of our staffs and sadhus have fallen ill," Kailash Giri, Acharya Mahamandeleshwar said.Haridwar is the worst-hit district in the hill state with 19,575 infections after the capital city of Dehradun, which has 37,743 Covid-19 cases. Haridwar recorded 613 cases of the coronavirus disease on Thursday. Kumbh is a four month gathering but the duration of the congregation has been curtailed to one month this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/30-sadhus-contract-covid-19-during-kumbh-others-call-for-caution-101618554322613.html
16-04-2021||Bangalore||Night curfew to continue till April 20, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday announced that an ongoing night curfew in seven districts will continue till April 20, as the state continued to witness a record rise in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Night curfew will continue in seven districts. Cases have increased, we have collected all information. We will take a call on the extension of night curfew on April 20, till then the existing restrictions will continue,” Yediyurappa said, according to news agency ANI, after chairing an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the southern state.A night curfew came into effect in Karnataka’s capital city of Bengaluru, and six other districts – Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru and Udupi-Manipal – on April 10, and will be in effect till April 20. It begins daily at 10pm and ends at 5am the next day.Also Read | Karnataka gears up for night curfew from Apr 10 to 20, essential services sparedSpeaking on the pandemic situation in Karnataka, the chief minister further said, “The scenario in our state is different. No need to compare our state with other states. We have our own issues which need to be addressed. As far as Covid-19 is concerned, appropriate action will be taken to curb it in the state.The scenario in our state is different. No need to compare our state with other states. We have our own issues which need to be addressed. As far as #COVID19 is concerned, appropriate action will be taken to curb it in the state: Karnataka CM BS YediyurappaOn Tuesday, Yeddiyurappa denied the state would be put under a lockdown, adding that an all-party meeting will be held on April 18 regarding the Covid-19 situation.Also Read | Karnataka CM Yediyurappa calls all-party meet on April 18 over spike in Covid-19 casesKarnataka is among the worst Covid-19 hit states in the country, and among the largest contributors to the daily new cases. On Thursday, its infection tally increased by a record 14,738 fresh infections, thus reaching 1,109,650, as per a health department bulletin. There were also 66 related deaths, taking the death toll to 13,112. Total 999,958 people have defeated the viral disease, while 96,561 are still in its grip. On Wednesday, 11,265 cases were detected, a record rise, before being surpassed by the numbers on Thursday.Also Read | Karnataka sees another record daily new Covid-19 infections with 14,738 cases, active cases move close to 100,000-markBengaluru Urban is the worst-affected district in the state, with an infection tally of 512,521. The district witnessed a record rise on Thursday, with 10,497 cases contributing more than 71% of Karnataka’s new cases on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/night-curfew-to-continue-till-april-20-announces-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-101618554082852.html
16-04-2021||Other||Odisha demands 25 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine in single lot over intermittent supply||The Odisha government has again demanded at least 25 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in a single supply, saying that an intermittent supply affected the vaccination drive, as per the state health minister’s letter to the Union government.“I again request you to urgently supply at least 10 days of stock of Covishield (25 lakh doses) in a single lot as an emergency measure to enable us to plan sessions and undertake the vaccination programme effectively. Due to the intermittent supply of COVID vaccines, the sessions for immunisation cannot be conducted as planned,” Odisha health and family welfare minister Naba Das said in his letter to the Centre. Das had earlier written two more letters to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan requesting more supply of vaccines.Das, in a letter to Dr Harsha Vardhan, said the state is prepared to administer 3 lakh doses daily but about 2-3 lakh vaccine shots are being allocated to it at a time.Das said the state has received 50,79,650 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of April 14 of which 48.15 lakh doses have been used. Though the state administered 2.71 lakh doses on April 3, its highest so far, the vaccination has been erratic due to the intermittent supply of vaccines. In the last 7 days beginning April 9, the vaccination has hovered between 66,787 and 1.98 lakh, he said.The state is likely to receive another consignment of 3 lakh doses of vaccines on Friday.The state government’s concern over erratic Covid-19 supply came even as Odisha registered its highest single-day Covid-19 cases of 3,108 on Friday. Three more deaths were reported.The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) climbed to 9.7 per cent while the R0 (R-naught) value stood at 2.14. R-naught, also called the R-factor, stands for the ability of one infected person passing on the disease, on average, to the number of healthy people.Reports suggest that the rate of reproduction of coronavirus infection has reached its peak since March-April 2020 when it was 1.98 in Odisha.Director of health services, Dr Bijoy Mohapatra, said, though the state government is yet to arrive at a mathematical model of the likely number of cases in the next few weeks, he expected the peak to arrive by mid-May.“Considering that the R0 value is now more than 2 and TPR is nearing 9, we are making all efforts to keep the beds ready. Of the 4,198 general Covid beds, around 25 per cent are occupied while 60 per cent of the ICU beds are occupied. Similarly, less than 20 per cent of the ventilators are occupied right now. We are trying to add 40 per cent more beds than what we would need at the time of a peak,” said Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-demands-25-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-single-lot-over-intermittent-supply-101618555106587.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Pune's demand for Remdesivir injections not met over last several days: Official||Amid the sudden surge in COVID-19 cases across the country, several states have witnessed shortage of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir and medical oxygen.Several states have been witnesssing shortage of Remdesivir, as in Pune, relatives of COVID-19 patients staged a sit-in protest outside Collector's office demanding the supply of Remdesivir injections.The Additional Collector of Maharashtra's Pune Vijay Singh Deshmukh said that the Pune district's demand for Remdesivir injections has not met over the last several days."The daily demand for Remdesivir in Pune district is about 18,000 injections per day. We have demanded 45,000 doses but we received the first consignment of 600 injections, later (on the next day) we received 300 injections stock, and yesterday we received about 1,200 injections," he said.Meanwhile, Centre is taking various steps to ensure easy access of Remdesivir to patients and hospitals and for that matter it has prohibited exports of Remdesivir injection and Remdesivir active pharmaceutical ingredients till the COVID situation in the country improves.Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday told ANI that the current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of Remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month."Now fast-track approval has been given for the monthly production of around 80 lakh vials," Mandaviya said."As an additional measure, Remdesivir, API, and formulation were placed under the export ban from April 11 by DGFT to increase the supply of Remdesivir in the domestic market. On government intervention, Remdesivir supplies of approximately four lakh vials meant for export is being diverted by manufacturers to fulfill the domestic requirement," the Union Minister further said.Meanwhile, 200 boxes containing 9,264 vials of COVID-19 drug Remdesivir injection reached Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.Gujarat High Court, on a suo motu case on the COVID-19 situation in the state, said that the state government should make people aware of when to take Remdesivir injection."You should make people aware about when to take Remdesivir injection," said Gujarat High Court.Apart from the drug, there is a shortage of medical oxygen in many states. To deal with the increased demand for medical oxygen amid the surge in COVID-19 cases, the Centre on Thursday said a tender will be finalised to import 50,000 metric tons (MT) of medical oxygen and possible sources will be identified by the Ministry of External Affairs.Medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of COVID affected patients. There has been increasing demand for medical oxygen, especially from the 12 states with high burden of active COVID cases viz.- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.While the demand in Maharashtra expected to beyond available production capacity of the state, states like Madhya Pradesh do not have any production capacity to meet their demand for medical oxygen. Besides, there is a trend of increasing demand in other oxygen producing states such as Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, etc.According to a release issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 4880 MT, 5619 MT and 6593 MT oxygen have been identified for the 12 high burden states for meeting their projected demand as on April 20, April 25, and April 30, respectively."Sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity were mapped to match the requirement of states. States are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan. While the demand in Maharashtra," the Ministry said.It added that the government is also identifying another 100 hospitals in far-flung locations for the installation of Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants.India reported its highest-ever single-day spike in COVID-19 with over 2 lakh cases on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry.With 2,00,739 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, India recorded the highest single-day spike ever since the pandemic began last year.The country's total number of cases now stands at 1,40,74,564, including 14,71,877 active cases.India also reported 1,038 fresh COVID-related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the overall death toll to 1,73,123.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564.India currently is the second worst-hit country in the world in terms of COVID-19 cases, with the United States being the worst affected. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-demand-for-remdesivir-injections-not-met-over-last-several-days-official-101618554075968.html
16-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan imposes weekend Covid-19 curfew. All you need to know||To curb the surging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Rajasthan government has announced a weekend curfew in the state from 6pm on Friday till 5am on Monday. According to the Rajasthan health department, as many as 6,658 Covid-19 cases and 33 deaths were reported in the state in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally of active Covid-19 cases to 49,276.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced the weekend curfew in the state on Twitter and urged citizens to cooperate with the state government and follow all relevant Covid-19-appropriate protocols. A 12-hour-long night curfew across Rajasthan is already in place and will remain in effect between 6pm and 6am till April 30. The weekend curfew restrictions from 6pm on Friday till 5am on Monday come in addition to the existing night curfew.Also Read: Rajasthan imposes night curfew from 6pm to 6am in all cities from April 16-30Here's what's allowed and what isn't:What's allowed in Rajasthan?1. Essential facilities such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, milk supply, and confectionaries shall also remain open. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.2. Banks, insurance offices, ATMs and other financial services shall be allowed to function.3 . The supply of LPG cylinders would be normal even during the curfew, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has assured, and customers do not need to resort to panic booking.4 . Emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services. Pharmaceutical companies and medical insurance offices shall also remain open. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics shall be allowed to carry on with their duties. Pregnant women and patients, if they are travelling to get medical services, shall be allowed.5 . Workplaces with more than 100 employees shall adopt a 50-50 approach: 50% of the employees shall work from the office while the rest has to work from home.What's not allowed in Rajasthan?1. Religious events, fairs, fetes and festivities in both rural and urban areas are banned.2. All educational and teaching institutes, coaching classes, and libraries in Rajasthan shall remain closed.Also Read: Rajasthan postpones exams for class 10, 12; promotes students of class 8, 9, 113. Home deliveries in restaurants shall not be allowed post 8pm, although in-house guest services in hotels shall be allowed to remain functional.4. According to the existing order of the state department, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, and amusement parks remain closed till further notice. Swimming pools and gymnasiums have also been instructed to remain shut.5. No more than 50 guests allowed in planned weddings, private parties, functions, and social gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-imposes-weekend-covid-19-curfew-all-you-need-to-know-101618550035177.html
16-04-2021||Bangalore||K’taka CM calls emergency meeting over Covid; decision on more curbs on April 20||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that the night curfew, imposed amid a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, is likely to be continued and possibly extended in the eight districts, including Bengaluru. As for other curbs in the state, “on April 20, we will sit again and decide,” Yediyurappa said after holding an emergency meeting at his Bengaluru residence. Following an emergency meeting at his residence, Yediyurappa said, “We will continue this (night curfew)...and are thinking which other districts it can be extended to.” He said decisions will be taken after consulting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The meeting came against the backdrop of the health crisis in Karnataka since March. The situation has spiralled out of control since April in which Bengaluru recorded more than double the numbers of cases it witnessed during the first wave of the outbreak last year. Also Read | 10,497 new cases in B’luru, HC calls for crackdownIt has recorded nearly 50,000 new cases in the last one week, government data shows. More worrying is the positivity rate that is hovering around the 10% mark consistently for at least one week now. India’s IT capital has also seen hospital bed occupancy of over 70% and nearly 100% in intensive care units (ICU) beds, data from the civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), shows. Experts from the Technical Advisory Committee and the government have stated that Covid-19 numbers could peak in the first week of May. Bengaluru breached the five-figure mark for the first time on Thursday with 10,497 cases in a single-day, taking its active case count to 71,827. The city also accounted for 30 of the 66 fatalities reported across the state on Thursday. Karnataka reported 14,738 infections in the 24 hours on Wednesday. The active case count of Karnataka inched towards the 100,000 mark and currently stands at 96,561.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-calls-emergency-meeting-over-covid-decision-on-more-curbs-on-april-20-101618554134844.html
16-04-2021||Ranchi||Campaign for Madhupur by-election ends, over 3.22 lakh to vote on April 17||Political parties and candidates made a last-ditch effort to garner people’s support, as campaigning for Madhupur by-election ended on Thursday evening.Even though Madhupur assembly constituency in Santhal Paragana division has traditionally witnessed a direct electoral battle between the JMM and the BJP, four independent candidates are also leaving no stone unturned to score in the by-poll.More than 3.22 lakh electors from the constituency are expected to exercise their franchise on Saturday. A total of 487 polling stations will be in operation on the polling day under heavy deployment of security.State chief electoral officer (CEO) K Ravi Kumar said, “Campaign came to an end at 6 am on Thursday.Polling will be held on Saturday from 7am till 6pm.”As many as six candidates, including Ganga Narayan Singh from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Hafizul Hasan from the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Ashok Kumar Thakur (independent), Uttam Kumar Yadav (Independent), Kisan Kumar Bathwal (Independent) and Rajendra Kumar (Independent), are in the poll fray to try their lucks.The Madhupur seat went vacant after demise of the Jharkhand minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari. The serving minister and a four-term legislator from Madhupur in Santhal Pargana division of the state died of heart attack on October 3, a day after recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital.In a sudden move, chief minister Hemant Soren inducted Ansari’s son, Hafizul Hasan, who is not yet a member of the Jharkhand legislative assembly, as the 10th member of his cabinet. He filed his nomination as JMM candidate for Madhupur by-election. As per the constitutional provisions, a person becomes a member of the assembly within six months of becoming a minister.Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has put all its effort to ensure win of its candidate. The chief minister himself campaigned for Hasan from April 9 in Madhupur till April 15.“We are hopeful of winning the by-election easily,” the chief minister said.Meanwhile, the BJP has put its confidence in Ganga Narayan Singh, who switched from AJSU party for the seat. “People have made up their minds to make the BJP candidate win this time from Madhupur,” said Koderma parliamentarian Annapurna Devi, who has also been campaigning for the party candidate.For voters, unemployment and growing crime have been the major issue.However, religious issues ruled the election campaign mostly, as the constituency has around 30% Muslim population. Both the JMM and the BJP promised for tribal development in the constituency keeping in mind around 15% tribal population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/campaign-for-madhupur-by-election-ends-over-3-22-lakh-to-vote-on-april-17-101618553285899.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Stray dog burnt alive, case registered in Maharashtra's Thane||Police have registered an offence against unidentified persons for allegedly burning a stray dog alive in Thane city of Maharashtra, an official said on Friday. A complaint in this regard was lodged by a 20-year-old member of the Citizens for Animal Protection Foundation at Rabodi police station, he said. "The complainant said he got a message on Tuesday evening about a stray dog being burnt by some unidentified persons at Masanwada. He rushed to the spot and found the partly-burnt dog, which he took to a veterinary hospital. But the animal died there," the official said. An offence under IPC section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, was registered against the unidentified accused on Wednesday, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stray-dog-burnt-alive-case-registered-in-maharashtra-101618553275590.html
16-04-2021||Lucknow||Plans of setting up state NITI Aayog in Uttar Pradesh far from reality||Uttar Pradesh’s grand plan to set up a state-level Niti Aayog to formulate, evaluate and monitor policies hasn’t taken off more than a year after the state’s finance minister Suresh Khanna government made the announcement in his budget speech in February last year. Senior officers of the state planning department remained tight-lipped on the issue. Others, however, assert that process to set up the state’s policy think tank in accordance with the announcement has been initiated, though giving shape to the new body may take some time. “We have held preliminary discussions and will take further action as and when the modalities and the likely organization structure of the proposed State Niti Aayog are finalised,” said a senior officer of the state planning department. Usually, the budgetary announcements are implemented in the same financial year and 2020-2021 ended on March 31, 2021. The state government may have to expedite action at every stage to make the State Niti Aayog a reality in near future. “If the state government made any announcement about setting up of a State Niti Aayog to replace the state planning commission it should have taken early action. The old institution is yet to be scrapped and the new one has not been given shape. Any delay may affect the planning process,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor department of economic, Lucknow University. Also read: India’s vaccine supply: States, UTs receive 129,428,360 dosesUttar Pradesh State Niti Aayog was expected to replace the state planning commission set up nearly 50 years ago. The state planning commission lost its relevance after January 1, 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to do away with the Planning Commission of India and set up the National Institution for Transforming India, a policy think tank called the Niti Aayog. The state planning commission was responsible for preparing the annual plans for the state till 2017, the last year of UP’s 12th five year plan. Amid questions over its continuation, the previous government did not take any decision to scrap the state planning body. A change of government in the 2017 assembly elections brought the issue into focus again and questions resurfaced about the relevance of the state planning commission. An announcement about setting up the Uttar Pradesh State Niti Aayog, replacing the state plan panel gave indications about the obvious shifting of focus from working out annual plans and the five year plans to formulate, evaluate and monitor policies. “Yes, there is a need for a body for advisory functions and oversee the planning process. A new body should however be set up on the pattern of the NITI Aayog with experts from different and not become a government body that the state planning commission has turned out to be,” said AK Singh, former director Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow. The state planning commission also works as an apex body for guiding the District Planning Committees set up in every district under the provisions of Article 243 ZD of the Constitution of India. The state government will therefore have to take a call to assign this role to the State Niti Aayog or some other organisation when it gives a final shape to the structure and working of the new body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/plans-of-setting-up-state-niti-aayog-in-uttar-pradesh-far-from-reality-101618553054110.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Central University of Himachal Pradesh shuts campuses amid Covid surge||Amid the unrelenting surge in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, particularly Kangra, the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) has shut all its three temporary campuses for offline academic activities. The CUHP has three campuses in Dharamshala, Shahpur and Dehra. The decision was taken at a meeting of the departmental heads, chaired by vice-chancellor Roshan Lal Sharma, on Thursday evening. Also read: India records 217,353 fresh Covid-19 cases in highest-ever daily spikeAll offline academic activities and exams in all campuses of Himachal Pradesh Central University have been put off till further orders. Students are barred from entering the campuses. However, the order will not be applicable on CUHP hostels, said acting registrar Hem Raj. He said teachers can opt to take online classes from the university or their house, according to the guidelines. The registrar said those opting for online classes from home should inform the department head concerned in advance. Those teaching online from the campus will need to inform the department head at the end of the week. The head of the department will send the information through the concerned authority to the vice-chancellor. No faculty shall leave the station without the approval of the competent authority, he said. Himachal Pradesh has seen a spurt in the Covid-19 cases in recent days with Kangra being the worst-hit district. The state has recorded close to 10,000 cases in a fortnight of which more than 2,000 have been recorded in Kangra alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-university-of-himachal-pradesh-shuts-campuses-amid-covid-surge-101618551134144.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||High court rules not to impede justice, but to aid it: Bombay HC||The high court’s rules are not meant to impede justice, but to aid it, the Bombay high court observed on Tuesday and declared that a biological parent need not furnish surety while applying for letters of administration or succession certificates regarding interest in estate of their minor children.Justice Gautam Patel issued the clarification after noticing that the high court registry was routinely taking objections and demanding surety for the entirety of the minor child’s share in the estate from mostly poor widowed mothers. “In more than one order, I have noted all our (HC) Rules are not meant to impede justice, but to aid it,” said justice Gautam Patel. “No court of justice can be blindsided by such a ruthless application of this or that rule,” the court added.Also Read | HC: Reschedule Mumbai civic body panel meeting for FridayThe judge said in most cases, the petitioners were widowed at an uncommonly early age and were left with the duty of caring for minor children, some of them very young, and in at least two cases, they had aged parents or in-laws to look after as well. “In every single case, these widowed petitioners have had no independent income,” said the judge, adding, “They have no means of providing the surety, bond or justifying the surety for any part of the estate.”The high court clarified that under the Bombay High Court (Original Side) Rules, a biological parent is not required to furnish or justify surety while applying for letters of administration or succession certificates for the purpose of his or her minor child’s interest in an estate.“Rule 422(a)(ii) (of Bombay HC Rules) has no application at all to a birth parent who is the natural guardian of a minor. It follows that when an application for Letters of Administration or Succession Certificate is made by a parent and one of the heirs is the natural guardian of the Petitioner, no question arises of having to furnish surety or of justifying surety for the share of a birth minor in an estate,” said justice Patel. The court added that in all matters where a birth parent seeks such letters of administration or succession certificates, the registry is not entitled to demand surety justifying the birth minor’s share in the property or estate in question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-rules-not-to-impede-justice-but-to-aid-it-bombay-hc-101618547474032.html
16-04-2021||Noida||Noida to increase random Covid-19 testing for commuters from Delhi||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration has decided to increase the number of random coronavirus tests for people commuting to and from Delhi."Number of Covid tests will be increased in areas bordering Delhi. For people commuting to and from the national capital, the random tests for the virus will be conducted," District Magistrate Suhas LY said while speaking to reporters on Thursday.The tests will be conducted at the Delhi-Noida border area.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh government yesterday extended existing night curfew timings in its several cities including the capital Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar.With an extension of two hours, the curfew would now be in effect between 8pm and 7am. Earlier, the curfew timings were 10pm to 5am.The state reported 20,510 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours yesterday taking the number of active cases in the state to 1,11,835, said Uttar Pradesh health Bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-increase-random-covid-19-testing-for-commuters-from-delhi-101618546736202.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro closes entry gates of six stations to avoid crowding||Entry gates were temporarily closed at six Metro stations in Delhi to ensure the social distancing is being followed by the commuters, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a series of tweets on Friday. The gates were closed during the rush hour in the morning at Jhilmil, Seelmpur, Sahstri Park, Mohan Nagar, Dilshad Garden and Shahdara Metro stations. The entry gates have been opened now at all six stations, DMRC announced in separate tweets. All six stations are on the Red Line that runs from Rithala to Shaheed Sthal (Ghaziabad ISBT).Service UpdateEntry for Mohan Nagar is now open. Thank you for your patience. https://t.co/WnAnyLYjKKService UpdateEntry for Dilshad Garden is now open. Thank you for your patience. https://t.co/gobqnz7h1CService UpdateEntry for Shahdara has been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures.Exit is allowed.The temporary closure of the entry comes as Delhi is in the grips of the fourth wave of Covid-19. The Delhi government in March designated Metro stations as "super spreader areas" and also asked authorities to increase surveillance in these areas to check the spread and ensure Covid-19 norms are being followed.The national capital has become the most affected city by the Covid-19 in the country as it overtook Mumbai in terms of daily cases of the coronavirus disease. The city logged 17,282 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, in the highest single-day surge since the pandemic began in the city.Amid the record surge in Covid-19 infections, the Delhi government on Thursday imposed a 'weekend curfew'--from10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday--on the movement of individuals till April 30 or further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-closes-entry-gates-of-three-stations-to-avoid-crowding-101618545610914.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's weekend Covid-19 curfew in effect from Friday. Here's what's allowed, what's not||In an effort to curb the spread of the contagious coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government has imposed a weekend curfew that comes into effect from Friday. According to the Delhi health department, as many as 16,699 new Covid-19 cases and 112 related deaths were reported in the national capital on Thursday--the fifth consecutive day to register over 10,000 fresh cases amid spiralling infections in the city.Also Read: Delhi is the country's worst-hit Covid-19 city nowDuring the curfew in Delhi over the weekend, shopping malls, auditoriums, restaurants, gyms and spas will remain shut till further orders, while cinema theatres will be allowed to screen movies with 30% of their seating capacities on weekdays. Additionally, people will not be allowed to dine in restaurants and only home deliveries will be permitted. Those rendering essential services will be issued curfew passes.Also Read: Can I visit a friend? Are restaurants open? Delhi weekend curfew FAQs answeredThe weekend curfew in Delhi will be in place between 10pm on Friday and 5am on Monday. Citizens have been asked to strictly adhere to the do's and don'ts issued by the government in view of the Covid-19 situation.Here's what you are allowed to do and what you aren't:What's allowed in Delhi during the weekend curfew?1. Police, civil defence, prisons, home guards, fire and emergency services personnel are allowed to carry on their duties as these fall under 'essential services' allowed during the Covid-19 lockdown. They will, however, need to produce valid identity cards.2. All judicial officials, judges, advocates and lawyers may continue their services, given they produce their respective valid ID cards.3. Emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services. Pharmaceutical companies and medical insurance offices shall also remain open. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics shall be allowed to carry on with their duties. Pregnant women and patients, if they are travelling to get medical services, shall be allowed.4. Essential nutriment facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall also remain open. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.5. Banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, telecommunication internet, broadcasting, IT and cable-related services shall be allowed to function. E-commerce delivery services shall be allowed, on condition of adherence to proper protocol.6. Power generation, distribution staff, people associated with cold storage services, private security services shall be allowed. So will staff of production units of services which require a continuous process. No restrictions will be imposed on persons who are going in for Covid-19 vaccination.7. Cinema theatres will allow one-third of their seating capacity on the weekdays, but shall remain shut on the weekends, according to an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).What's not allowed in Delhi during the weekend curfew?1. Shopping malls, gymnasiums, spas, assembly halls, entertainment parks and auditoriums in Delhi will remain shut till further notice.2. Dine-in facilities at restaurants and eateries in the city will be barred, but home delivery of food shall be allowed, on the condition of strict adherence to Covid-19-related protocols.3. Except for one weekly market per day per municipal zone, all other shopping zones, arcades and market complexes in Delhi shall remain shut during the weekends. Markets are to operate from inside schools to facilitate physical distancing and visitors will need to undergo Covid-19 tests at the spot.4. Weddings that have already been planned shall be allowed to proceed, but only with relevant curfew passes issued by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-in-delhi-from-today-here-s-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101618540457783.html
16-04-2021||Patna||Special vaccination drive during Ramzan in Bihar’s Kishanganj||The district administration in Bihar’s Kishanganj has launched a special Covid-19 vaccination drive from 6pm to 9pm during the ongoing fasting month of Ramzan.Kishanganj district magistrate Aditya Prakash announced the drive after a virtual meeting on Wednesday with four lawmakers from the district. “...we all agreed to carry on vaccination drive for three hours between 6pm and 9pm during Ramzan.” Prakash said civil surgeon Shrinandan also attended the virtual meeting.Also Read | “Corona chariot” ensures seniors, differently abled beneficiaries get vaccine in SangviPrakash asked the people to take the shots in large numbers. “In all the 119 vaccination centres in the district ,vaccination is being run smoothly.” He said 61,333 people had been administered the first shots of the vaccine while 12,246 people have taken the second dose until Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/special-vaccination-drive-during-ramzan-in-bihar-s-kishanganj-101618543333767.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi is the country's worst-hit Covid-19 city now||Delhi has overtaken Mumbai to become the most affected city in the country by the coronavirus pandemic in terms of daily Covid-19 tally. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 17,282 cases of Covid-19, in the highest single-day surge in the Capital since the pandemic began and reported more than 100 deaths, according to the health department's data. Data shows Mumbai's single-day peak so far is 11,163, which were reported on April 4.Delhi reported 8593 cases--the highest single-day spike till the third wave of the pandemic--on November 11 last year and the city recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count, on November 18. The positivity rate on November 14 last year had stood at 15.33 per cent, according to official data. The Capital recorded 10,774 cases on April 11, overtaking the highest daily surge till the third wave. Since then, Covid-19 cases in Delhi have been on an upward spiral--they surged to 13,468 on Tuesday and 17,282 on Wednesday.Also watch | Kejriwal announces weekend curfew; malls to remain closed﻿Also read | Over 300 Delhi Police personnel test Covid-19 positive amid surge in casesTill Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 130,228 Covid-19 cases and 464 deaths in April. In March, financial capital of the country saw 88,710 cases and 216 fatalities, according to official data. Data shows that in the same month, Delhi registered 23,141 cases and 117 deaths.Bengaluru recorded 8,155 Covid-19 cases and Chennai 2,564, their highest daily surge, on Wednesday. Pune's highest single-day since the pandemic began was 12,494 cases, recorded on April 4.Also read | Losses vs Covid surge: Gym, mall owners split on latest restrictionsDelhi has recorded 77,775 Covid-19 cases, witnessing a massive rise of 234 per cent, from April 4 to April 13 and 376 people have died due to the disease during the same period. The test positivity rate – a ratio of the number of positive cases to total tests conducted – went up to 20.2% on Thursday from 0.59% a month ago – the highest in since June 26. Since April 1, the seven-day average of daily infections have shot up 590% and the city now has 54,309 active cases. The Capital logged 16,699 cases on Thursday but the positivity rate soared to 20.22% because of lower testing the previous day as it was a public holiday.Also read | Delhi's hospital occupancy now over 10k; test positivity rate shoots past 20%As the national capital's health infrastructure was overwhelmed with the massive spike in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government shut malls, gymnasiums, spas, assembly halls, entertainment parks and auditoriums, barred dine-in facilities at restaurants, reduced capacity at cinemas at 30% until April 30 and clamped a curfew on movement and assembly of people this weekend. An order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said the weekend curfew will be in place between 10pm on Friday and 5am on Monday. Essential service workers and people out for emergencies, outstation travel or weddings will be allowed, said the order. A 10pm-5am night curfew restrictions are already in place until April 30.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the situation will be monitored closely, the curbs could be extended beyond April 30 and the curfew could also be imposed on following weekends, if needed. “People should not think of it as an inconvenience for them. It is in fact for their own safety,” he added.Kejrwal said essential services and weddings will not be affected during the weekend curfew and passes will be provided to those attending these ceremonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-is-the-country-s-worst-hit-covid-19-city-now-101618542159926.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri borders remain closed||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Friday due to the protest by farmers who are demanding withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially as vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad was allowed on the stretch.“Ghazipur NH-24 upper side towards Ghaziabad is open for traffic movement. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police official said.The Delhi Traffic Police have diverted the traffic that may possibly lead to traffic congestions in parts of the city during the peak hours.Also Read | Amid farmers’ protest threats, Haryana CM, Dushyant give Ambedkar Jayanti events a missAccording to Delhi Traffic Police officials, vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see traffic congestion.“The following borders are closed for traffic movement — Piyau Maniyari, Singhu border, Harewali, Mangeshpur and Tikri border,” said a traffic police official. Auchandi border is open only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open.Traffic police advised commuters to take alternate routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-borders-remain-closed-101618542013652.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Rain, thunderstorm likely in Delhi today; air quality remains poor||Delhi is likely to see a thunderstorm with rain on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 22 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 21.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, and maximum temperature was 40.5 degrees Celsius -- three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 234. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 220, which is in the poor category.Also Read | Monsoon likely to be normal for third consecutive year: Skymet WeatherAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The PM10 (coarse dust particles) continues to remain as the prominent lead pollutant. Surface winds are high and South-westerly. Under the influence of approaching Western disturbance, thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely to increase dust emission on April 16. Air quality is expected to stay in the Moderate to Poor category for tomorrow [Friday]. In the case of rainfall wet deposition is likely to improve AQI on [April] 17 and 18 to the lower end of the Moderate category.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-thunderstorm-likely-in-delhi-today-air-quality-remains-poor-101618541173520.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Travel to airports, ISBTs, stns allowed; e-passes must for vaccination: Officials||After the Delhi government on Thursday announced fresh curbs to curtail the rampaging spread of Covid-19 in the city, including a weekend curfew from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, transport agency officials clarified that those engaged in essential services, those with medical emergencies or those coming from or going to railway stations, the airport and inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) during the weekend have been kept out of the ambit of the restrictions and won’t need e-passes, provided they are able to produce the requisite documents.Crucially, those to get the vaccine shots during the weekend or those who need to get tested for Covid-19 will also be allowed to travel, but will need to register for an e-pass, said officials. Residents will be allowed to use public transport services on the weekend only if they fall within the ambit of the exemptions during the weekend curbs, similar to the norms in place for the night curfew.“The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order does not specifically mention people travelling for a Covid-19 test. But it has been clarified that such people will be considered under the category of patients travelling for medical or health services. They will not need e-passes, but are advised to keep one handy,” a revenue department official said.Residents of Delhi can apply for e-passes by visiting the www.delhi.gov.in website.Officials of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited, which run the 6,600-odd state buses in the city, and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said their operations will continue as usual, but entry of passengers will be strictly regulated on the basis of ID cards and e-passes during the weekend curfew.“Inter-state travel by road will be allowed only for those under the exempted category during the weekend curfew as well as the night curfew that is already in place,” said the official.However, several residents said they buy tickets at railway stations or bus terminals, and will not be able to produce documents if stopped.“Most of us buy tickets at the ISBT. How will we produce the ticket when we are on our way to the ISBT?,” asked Ravi Kumar, a migrant worker who said he wants to travel Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh for his nephew’s wedding.A second government official said, “The idea of the weekend curfew is to break the chain of transmission. The message to people through this measure is that they should stay where they are and not move. However, if it is an emergency, then the person might be allowed to go without the bus ticket on the merit of his claims.”A transport department official in the Capital said taxis and autorickshaws will ply as usual during the weekend curfew, but operators and drivers will either need to produce relevant ID cards or e-passes.“In general, there will be fewer cabs and autos because demand will reduce as most people will stay indoors. The Delhi police and enforcement officers from the district magistrate’s offices will do random checks on the roads. Hence, it is better to avoid venturing out during the weekend unless it is a health emergency,” said the transport official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/travel-to-airports-isbts-stns-allowed-e-passes-must-for-vaccination-official-101618539822038.html
16-04-2021||City||Over 300 Delhi Police personnel test Covid-19 positive amid surge in cases||As many as 300 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) amid a worrying surge in the national capital, news agency ANI reported. 15 of them have been admitted to the hospital, while the rest are home quarantined, the agency reported, citing sources in the Delhi Police. Healthcare workers and frontline personnel such as cops face the direct risk of contracting Covid-19 due to them being at the forefront of efforts to ensure that people are adhering to Covid-19-related protocols.As many as 16,699 new Covid-19 cases and 112 related deaths were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department informed on Thursday evening, taking the total number of active cases to 54,309. This makes Thursday the fifth consecutive day that the national capital has reported over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases.Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava had earlier informed that police personnel, healthcare workers and frontline workers exposed to the highly contagious disease have tested positive in the last few days amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the city."During conducting our duties, we have to take all precautions including wearing a 3-ply or N95 mask, maintaining social distancing and sanitising," ANI quoted him as saying.As many as 16,699 new COVID-19 cases and 112 related deaths were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours, the Delhi health department informed on Thursday evening, taking the total number of active cases to 54,309.This is the fifth consecutive day that the national capital has reported over 10,000 fresh cases.The Delhi government has also imposed a weekend Covid-19 curfew in a view of the grim coronavirus situation in the national capital. Shopping malls, auditoriums, restaurants, gyms and spas are to remain shut till further orders, while cinema theatres will be allowed to screen movies with 30% of their seating capacities on weekdays. Additionally, curfew passes will be issued to those rendering essential services. People will not be allowed to dine in restaurants and only home deliveries will be permitted.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-300-delhi-police-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-amid-surge-in-cases-101618538685239.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Losses vs Covid surge: Gym, mall owners split on latest restrictions||With the government shutting malls, gymnasiums, spas, and auditoriums and a further reduction in the capacity of cinema halls from 50% to 30%, owners of these establishments said they have been dealt a major blow even before they had a chance to recover from the distress of the nationwide lockdown. These curbs come into effect from Friday.While most establishment heads expressed concern over the government’s decision, some said the move was inevitable given the surge in cases.According to the fresh curbs announced by the Delhi government on Thursday, malls, gyms, spas, and auditoriums will be asked to remain shut until further orders. Owners of gyms—among the last to open after last year’s lockdown— said the Delhi government’s decision to close gyms again will hit business.“This is like a lockdown for gyms and it will be a major blow to the industry that has been struggling after the lockdown last year. The industry, in Delhi, has suffered the longest compared to other states. Some of them will be forced to shut shop if the government does not intervene. We are planning to meet the chief minister at the earliest,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi Gyms Association.Gyms across the country were closed after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 last year to arrest the spread of Covid-19. As the central government allowed states to take calls on reopening of certain sectors one after the other, starting June, several states allowed gyms to reopen by early-August. But Delhi, which witnessed phases of severe surge, allowed gyms to open only by mid-September – which means, the industry was out of work for nearly six months in the Capital.“For six months, we had to incur all fixed costs such as rent, taxes, etc. We also paid salaries to our staff. But there was no revenue. We had to take loans to resume our business in September. The industry is under huge financial burden at this stage. We appeal to the government to rethink its strategies,” said Zoaib Rana, founder of Gravitaz gym in Ashok Vihar.Vinay Sangwan, co-director of Anytime Fitness, a chain of gyms in Delhi-NCR, said: “Gyms have followed a long list of protocols to ensure safety of clients as well as employees. That is the reason why there is no case of gyms turning into hot spots anywhere. There have been no instances of violation of rules either. We understand the risks of the surge in Covid-19 cases but then a blanket ban on gyms should not be seen as the solution.”Mall owners, too, said the closure was coming at a time when malls were only beginning to recover. “After last year’s lockdown, malls had started operations with great difficulty. Just when we were hoping to recover our losses, there is this fresh surge in cases. We understand the government is concerned. Covid is a bigger issue than anything else and we stand with the government. We will comply with all rules, regulations, and guidelines, despite the financial losses that we will have to bear,” said Vineet Parashar, head of operations, V3S mall and V3S East Center Mall, east DelhiUnlike malls and gyms, multiplexes and theatres can operate at a reduced capacity.Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinépolis India, said while they are yet to receive the formal orders detailing the curbs, they would abide by all guidelines. “We will follow all guidelines. Studies have shown theatres to be low-risk environments for the virus spread due to the double-height ceilings and a well-ventilated environment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/losses-vs-covid-surge-gym-mall-owners-split-on-latest-restrictions-101618539401013.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's hospital occupancy now over 10k; test positivity rate shoots past 20%||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi soared to a 295-day high on Thursday, and breached the 20% mark, on the back of significantly fewer tests in the Capital, as hospitalisations for the infection hit an all-time high in the city, with over 10,000 now occupying Covid-19 beds.The city reported 16,669 new cases on Thursday, a slight decline in the incidence of the viral infection over the previous day, largely due to the drop in testing.As the city’s Covid-19 graph continued to surge, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, announced more restrictions till April 30, including shutting gyms and malls completely, disallowing dine-in services at restaurants. The government also put in a place curfew over the weekend, starting from 10pm on Friday, till 5am on Monday.On Thursday, 82,569 tests samples were collected, far lower than the average 99,460 daily tests reported over the past seven days, with the test positivity rate at 20.22%, significantly higher than 15.92% logged the previous day, and the highest since 23.28% on June 23 during the first wave of infections.The positivity rate peaked at 15.3% during the third wave in November.The test positivity rate is a vital metric to assess the spread of an infection in a region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a rate below 5% for an infection to be considered under control.Delhi’s positivity rate fell below 5% on December 3. It then dropped to below 1% on December 28, and remained lower than that for 82 days.The city also added 112 deaths to its total toll, taking it to 11,652 on Thursday. This is the second day in a row that the city reported over 100 deaths.The city’s single-highest one-day death toll was on November 18, when Delhi added 131 fatalities.On Thursday evening, 10,929 people, were hospitalised with the viral infection, showed the state government’s Delhi Corona app, highlighting the daunting challenge for health care infrastructure in the Capital. The app showed that Delhi has 15,433 beds to treat Covid-19 patients.The number of hospitalisations had peaked at 9,522 during the November surge of cases. There are 15,433 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in the city, of which 70.8% were occupied as on Thursday night as per the government’s Delhi Corona app. And, 88% of the 3,811 ICU beds were occupied.“We need to implement stern measures to control the spread of the infection; we are already short on the number of beds. We are heading for a disaster. If today the number of cases increases, the load on the ward and ICU beds will increase in the next five to ten days as it takes that much time for symptoms to worsen and people to reach hospitals,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Experts have said the current increase in cases cannot be attributed solely to mutated variants present in the population and emphasised on the importance of following the rules.“No variant can escape the mask. The rise in the number of cases is sufficient reason to worry. Now is not the time to worry, it would have been before the cases started increasing. What we can do is implement standard public health measures such as minimising indoor mingling, young people staying in. It is not that the virus has mutated to infect younger people, it is the younger people who are out and are getting infected,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.In a statement issued on Thursday evening, Kejriwal said two civic body-run hospitals — Hindu Rao and Swami Dayanand Hospital should be declared Covid-only facilities, which will add 900 beds for patients with the viral infection. “There should be full cooperation and no politics on the matter. Delhi government will provide every possible help to the MCD hospitals, including funds,” Kejriwal said.Additionally, the Delhi government has requested the Centre to reserve 2,700 more beds for Covid-19 patients in its hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-hospital-occupancy-now-over-10k-test-positivity-rate-shoots-past-20-101618539013289.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||In Delhi markets, new Covid-19 curbs reinforce fears of another full lockdown||The imposition of a series of restrictions in Delhi, including a curfew this weekend, has reinforced fears of a lockdown in markets and among the interconnected network of stakeholders, ranging from traders, employees and warehouse keepers to transporters and porters.“The lockdown was hell... Buses were stopped. We struggled to get home. We had no source of income in the city for days,” said Balram Singh, a porter in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar market. He said he returned to Delhi from his village in Bihar’s Sitamarh district in October.OP Gupta, president of wholesale garment traders’ association in Gandhi Nagar, said fears of a shutdown run deep.“For instance, a wholesale market for jeans will be associated with manufacturers. Each manufacturer will be associated with few ancillary units supplying labels, zips, and other such things. Each shop in the market will have helpers, accountants, and other employees, and regularly deal with porters, labourers, and transporters. It’s an entire ecosystem... The fear of a lockdown is not limited to traders and shop owners.”Ankit Kumar, who works as a helper at a garment shop in Sadar Bazar, said: “During the lockdown last year, I managed to stay in Delhi and keep my job with a pay cut. But there is no point living in Delhi if I cannot save any money to send back home to Gorakhpur [in Uttar Pradesh]. If the government is planning another lockdown, I have to make plans too.”However, market association officials said a few groups of traders have demanded a short lockdown, saying that the Capital’s Covid-19 graph had spiked at alarming levels.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said, “We have insisted that traders support their employees during the short lockdown, which is much-needed to break the chain of transmission. If people are assured that they will have food, shelter and that they will not lose their jobs, they will not start heading back to their villages.”Devraj Baweja, general secretary of the Confederation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association, said, “We have stressed on staggered timings and the importance of distancing in the market, so that a lockdown-like situation does not arise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-delhi-markets-new-covid-19-curbs-reinforce-fears-of-another-full-lockdown-101618537989462.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 doubling rate goes from 3,500 days to 46 days||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi soared to a 295-day high on Thursday, and breached the 20% mark, on the back of significantly fewer tests in the Capital, as hospitalisations for the infection hit an all-time high in the city, with over 10,000 now occupying Covid-19 beds.The city reported 16,669 new cases on Thursday, a slight decline in the incidence of the viral infection over the previous day, largely due to the drop in testing.As the city’s Covid-19 graph continued to surge, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, announced more restrictions till April 30, including shutting gyms and malls completely, disallowing dine-in services at restaurants. The government also put in a place curfew over the weekend, starting from 10pm on Friday, till 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-doubling-rate-goes-from-3500-days-to-46-days-101618535442020.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Tough time for restaurants in Delhi: Owners||New Delhi The government’s order disallowing dine-in services in all restaurants in the city, and allowing only deliveries, will devastate an already ailing industry, owners of several eateries in the national capital said on Thursday, citing the impact of last year’s nationwide lockdown and subsequent restrictions such as the night curfew.Some stakeholders also contended that the industry will have to overhaul its processes within days to focus solely on deliveries.SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant, Connaught Place, said a number of things, including staff rosters and salary disbursement, will need to be altered to adjust to the new curbs.“When we started deliveries in June, we could barely make a fraction of the previous sales. Running the restaurant comes with costs, and we will have to shell out to divert all our resources to focus on deliveries. There will be a massive burden on resources due to the shift,” he said, adding that arranging e-passes for his staff was already proving cumbersome.Experts, however, pointed out that restaurants are particularly dangerous in terms of virus spread.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said that in the current situation, curbs on indoor sitting were necessary to stop the transmission of infection. “Indoor sitting creates a problem. People take off their masks to talk and eat, which increases the chances of transmission,” Kishore said.Restaurant owners maintained that the hit to their business would be hard.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony, said the restaurant’s sales dropped around 70% since the night curfew was imposed on April 6, and feared the latest order will increase losses.“Due to the surge in cases, only a handful of people were stepping out. Our business will nosedive with the closure of dine-in services. We foresee that sales will drop by 90%,” he said.He said the restaurant-cum-bar will adjust service staff into the delivery chain to keep the business running. “We will rotate service staff and use their services for deliveries. Our plan is to use their services in different capacities so we don’t arrive in a situation where we have to let go of people. Our sales have already taken a big hit, but we will have to abide by the orders,” Suman said.Ramesh Kitchloo, founder of Samavar restaurant in Pamposh Enclave, said Thursday’s orders will be the death knell for the industry. “Lakhs have assembled for the Kumbh Mela. Is there no Covid-19 at Kumbh, or in Kolkata where huge [election] rallies are being held? The government has no objections to such gatherings but restaurants that are barely making ends meet are being punished despite complying with rules. This is a massive disaster,” said Kitchloo.Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, which is a representative body with more than 5,000 members across the country, said the new measure was a blow. “It is unjust for governments to crack down on restaurants every time there is a Covid-19 surge but not impose any restrictions on political rallies and religious congregations,” said Singh, adding there was no relaxation in the rent and other duties and fees that restaurants were paying to the government and civic agencies.A senior government official said curbs were necessary to break the chain of transmission, and that restrictions were inevitable due to the surge in cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tough-time-for-restaurants-in-delhi-owners-101618534702436.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||'Extension of weekend curbs will depend on Delhi’s graph,' say officials||Stricter curbs may be imposed in Delhi if the number of Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate continue to rise at the pace they are, senior administration officials said on Thursday after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a curfew this weekend and imposed widespread restrictions as the pandemic continued to spiral out of control in Delhi.“The order issued on Thursday imposes a weekend curfew only from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday. Extending the restriction for more weekends or imposing stricter curbs on the lines of Maharashtra will solely depend on Delhi’s Covid-19 curve — the positivity rate in the next few days. So the coming week will be crucial,” said a senior health official.In Delhi, the latest test positivity rate was 20.22%, the highest in 294 days.This number has shot up over the past few weeks, well past the 5% threshold as recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO).Delhi’s positivity rate fell below 5% on December 3. It then dropped to below 1% on December 28, and stayed beneath that number for 82 days.The city also has over 54,000 active cases now — the highest ever.The official quoted above said the Delhi government and the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) will review Thursday’s restrictions in the coming week to decide if more stringent curbs are needed, factoring in the impact of the fresh curbs on the Capital’s Covid-19 case trajectory.A second government official actively involved in Delhi’s Covid management plan said the city administration is closely monitoring the recent curbs announced in Maharashtra, which is witnessing the steepest surge in cases among all states. The Maharashtra government this week announced the imposition of Section 144 across the state till 7am on May 1.“Cases are increasing at an unprecedented rate, which has forced the government to impose these restrictions. It is expected the restrictions will help slow down the spread of the disease. Otherwise, no amount of additional hospital beds, ICUs and ventilators will be sufficient. The restrictions should help increase mask compliance and adherence to distancing among the masses,” said a second senior official who did not wish to be identified.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday expressed concern over the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and imposed a weekend curfew, temporarily shut shopping malls, gyms, spas and entertainment parks, capped the capacity of cinema halls and multiplexes at 30%, barred dining at restaurants, and limited weekly markets to one per day in a single municipal zone. The night curfew, in place till April 30, will continue, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in its order.“On weekdays, people have to earn their livelihood. But on the weekend, people go out for entertainment and other activities, which can be curtailed. Hence, to break the chain of infections, we are imposing a weekend curfew,” said Kejriwal, an hour after a meeting with L-G Anil Baijal on the Capital’s coronavirus situation.“We will not allow any inconvenience to those involved in essential services like going to hospitals, railway stations or airports as well as weddings. We will issue passes for their movement quickly and without harassment,” Kejriwal added.Experts, however, said such restrictions should have been imposed in Delhi much earlier, which they said would have bought DDMA time to review the situation.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “It is too late. In Delhi, such curbs should have been imposed much earlier — ideally, by mid or end-March, when cases started increasing at a decent pace. That would have given the government more time to review and assess the impact of the curbs and take decisions on future course of actions. Assessment of such restrictions is not feasible in short time windows.”Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore, said, “The effects of such restrictions are not likely to reflect in Covid-19 numbers in just a week. The government should have imposed such restrictions in Delhi at least three weeks ago. At this stage, the government should develop more strategies to improve mask compliance. It is evident that large-scale transmission is happening in Delhi and such restrictions cannot be imposed for long durations. People will come out and start making social contact again. The government has to ensure that they are all masked. There is no other way to arrest transmission in the long run.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/extension-of-weekend-curbs-will-depend-on-delhi-s-graph-101618528023137.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Umar Khalid gets bail in a riots case, to stay in jail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former JNU student union leader Umar Khalid in connection with the riots that broke out in Khajuri Khas area of north-east Delhi in February last year, saying that he was not present on the scene of crime and that he cannot be kept behind bars on the basis of “sketchy material”.Khalid, however, will continue to remain in jail in connection with the case regarding the conspiracy behind the north-east Delhi riots in which he was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said Khalid was neither captured in any CCTV footage nor viral video, nor any independent witness or any police witness identified him in the crowd at the crime scene.“Prima facie, the applicant appears to have been roped in the matter merely on the basis of his own disclosure statement and disclosure statement of co-accused Tahir Hussain. The statement of Rahul Kasana (witness) is yet to be tested on the touchstone of evidence….”“The applicant cannot be permitted to remain behind bars in this case on the basis of such sketchy material against him,” the court said.As many as 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured in the riots that broke out in parts of north-east Delhi on February 23, 2020. Police have registered 755 cases related to the communal violence that was allegedly triggered after clashes between those protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those supporting it.The FIR in the Khajuri Khas case was registered on the statement of constable Sangram Singh, in which he alleged that on February 24, 2020 at about 2pm, a large crowd gathered on the road in a locality in north-east Delhi and started pelting stones. The constable alleged that the mob thrashed him and other police officials.Singh alleged that the mob set ablaze vehicles in a parking area, including his motorcycle.On Thursday, the court said the sole evidence of this “so called conspiracy” is a statement by a witness Rahul Kasana, in which he stated while he was standing outside a building in Shaheen Bagh, where he had dropped principal accused Tahir Hussain, he saw Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi going in the same building.“I fail to understand from the aforesaid statement how a lofty claim of conspiracy can be inferred. In my humble opinion, chargesheeting the applicant in this case on the basis of such an insignificant material is unwarranted. I have deliberately not touched the material sought to be relied upon by the police against the applicant in case FIR No.59/2020 (investigated by Special Cell),” the judge said in his 12-page order.The court also rejected the prosecution’s argument that Khalid was in regular contact with co-accused Tahir Hussain and Khalid Saifi over mobile phone and said that “prima facie that does not in any way go on to establish the criminal conspiracy alleged against the applicant in the matter”.“The applicant cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter,” it said.It granted bail to Khalid on a personal bond of Rs.20,000 with one surety of the like amount while adding that he will not tamper with evidence or influence any witness in any manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/umar-khalid-gets-bail-in-a-riots-case-to-stay-in-jail-101618527542670.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 5,858 cases in a day, Haryana touches another grim milestone||Haryana’s active coronavirus count crossed 30,000 infections on Thursday as the state reported 5,858 new infections and 18 deaths. On a brighter note, the state crossed 3-million inoculations. The surge in infections pushed the sample positivity rate past 5% and brought down the recovery rate below 90%, as per the medical bulletin. National capital region (NCR) district of Gurugram with 1,434 new infections on Thursday and an active case count of 7,740 cases was the leading district in terms of virus spread. It was followed by Faridabad, another NCR district, which reported 810 new cases on Thursday, raising number of active cases to 3,467. Another NCR district, Sonepat, which reported 336 new cases on Thursday, has 1,808 active cases. Northern Haryana districts of Karnal with 370 new cases and 2,617 active cases, Panchkula with 315 new cases and 1,799 active cases, Ambala with 294 active cases and 1,693 active cases, Panipat with 248 new infections and 1,305 active cases were some of the other leading districts. The health authorities on Thursday tested 31,493 individuals as compared to 39,543 on Wednesday. Nodal officer contracts infectionRohtak Haryana’s nodal officer for covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary tested positive for the virus on Thursday. PGIMS spokesman Dr Varun Arora said Chaudhary was tested on Wednesday and was found positive for the virus. “He had tested positive last year also. We request the people to wear face mask and get vaccinated. The cases are rising and we can’t take the virus lightly. Many people who got infected last year are contracting the virus again,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-5-858-cases-in-a-day-haryana-touches-another-grim-milestone-101618520364617.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Open to imposing weekend curfew, says Chandigarh admn amid Covid surge||From imposing weekend curfew to bringing back the odd-even system for shops in the city, the UT administration is considering a slew of options to rein in the surging Covid-19 cases in the city. Closure of apni mandis, gyms, spas, cinemas and malls is also on the table, while restaurants may be allowed to provide only take-away service. A complete ban on social, cultural and religious events may also be considered, besides change in staffing pattern at offices, such as allowing only 50% strength. Stating that all options were being considered, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will take a call on the measures to be taken in the meeting scheduled on Friday.” The administration is also working out the modalities for distribution of free food and accommodation for migrant labourers in case weekend curfew is enforced. On Tuesday, UT had reintroduced weekend closure at Sukhna Lake and had also shut down Rock Garden on all days. The night curfew was also extended – now being enforced from 10pm to 5am, instead of 10.30pm to 5am. In the neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula, the curfew is from 9pm to 5am. It was in September last year, when the administration had ended the odd-even system for shops and markets in the city. As part of the fresh measures, the restriction on visitors at the Deputy Commission’s office may be introduced at other offices as well. “It can be a total ban on visitors or restricted entry so as to minimise rush in offices,” said a UT official. Special vaccination camps Urging resident welfare bodies to persuade eligible people to get the Covid-19 vaccine, the adviser said the defaulters should be named and shamed.“Any group, association or society can approach the administration with a list of 100 eligible people for a special camp in the area. Ambulances are also available for free pick-up of old and disabled persons,” said Parida.Box: 12 more areas sealed The UT administration on Thursday declared 12 more micro-containment zones in the city, taking their number up to 134. On Tuesday, the administration had notified 57 such zones. Three areas were sealed in Sector 7, two each in Sectors 38 and 49, and one each in Sectors 27, 39, 46, 51 and 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/open-to-imposing-weekend-curfew-says-chandigarh-admn-amid-covid-surge-101618519512476.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||UK variant found in 70% samples sent by PGIMER||As many as 70% of the 60 samples sent by PGIMER for genome sequencing in March turned positive for the UK variant of Covid-19. Among the 60 patients sampled, 45 were from Chandigarh.“The department of virology, PGIMER, had sent 60 positive samples to National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, in March. Among them, 70% had UK variant and one sample was found to have double mutation. 681H mutant of Covid-19 was observed in 20% of the samples,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.“Considering the high transmission rate of the UK variant, citizens should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance and frequently using sanitiser or washing hands,” he added.Advising people to avoid non-essential travel and crowded places, Dr Ram said, “The eligible people should get vaccinated, which will help reduce the disease’s severity and further help in breaking the chain of transmission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uk-variant-found-in-70-samples-sent-by-pgimer-101618518554080.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Akali MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha acquitted in 1983 Patti doctor murder case||A court in Tarn Taran on Thursday acquitted former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislator Virsa Singh Valtoha in the case of murder of Patti-based doctor Sudarshan Kumar Trehan in 1983 due to “lack of evidence”. Valtoha, who remained chief parliamentary secretary in the SAD-BJP government, was facing trial in the case since February 2019 after the police presented a supplementary challan against him after 36 years of the incident. The development came as relief to the former MLA ahead of the 2022 assembly elections as SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced his candidature from the Khemkaran constituency last month. “The case was heard in the court of additional district and sessions judge Charanjit Singh Arora on Thursday. Five witnesses, including Jaswant Kaur (posted as Tarn Taran superintendent of police at the time of filing supplementary challan), one Sukhjinder Kaur and a doctor who conducted the post-mortem on the victim’s body, were presented in the court. The judge acquitted the former MLA after hearing the arguments from both the sides,” said Valtoha’s counsel JS Dhillon. Assistant district attorney Ramneet Kaur said, “Many of the witnesses in the case have died. The accused was acquitted as we did not have any eyewitnesses.” A senior police official said they recently submitted a report about the witnesses in the court. “Many of the witnesses had died while some could not be traced,” he added. In February 2020, the court of additional sessions judge Paramjit Kaur had asked the Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) to submit a report on the witnesses and arrange for those who were alive so that the case may be taken into its logical end. Dr Trehan was murdered in his clinic at Patti on September 30, 1983. The Akali leader was named as one of the accused in the case after one Hardev Singh purportedly told the police a year later that he, Valtoha and another person were behind the murder. Valtoha got bail in the case in February 1991, but the police never presented a supplementary chargesheet against him. He had been claiming that the court concerned had discharged him from the case. The other accused, Hardev and Baldev Singh, were acquitted in November 1990. Terming the judgment as a “victory of truth”, Valtoha said, “It was a deep-rooted conspiracy by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to present the chargesheet against me in the case in which I was discharged in 1991. It was a bid to destroy my political career.” He claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case, alleging “political vendetta”. Case Timeline Sept 30, 1983: Dr Sudarshan Kumar Trehan murdered in his clinic in Tarn Taran district’s Patti town. An FIR registered against unidentified persons. 1984: Police take in custody Hardev Singh who said he, Valtoha and one Baldev Singh were behind Dr Trehan’s murder. Nov 1990: Hardev and Baldev Singh acquitted in the case. Feb 1991: Valtoha gets bail in the case. Feb 2019: Police present supplementary chargesheet against Valtoha in court on the basis of a plea by a human rights organisation. Feb 2020: Court asks police to submit status report on witnesses. Sept 2020: Supreme Court expresses shock over long pendency of the case; directs state government to submit reply as to why this case was dragging for so long. April 7, 2021: No witness produced in court against Valtoha and the matter was adjourned to April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exakali-mla-virsa-singh-valtoha-acquitted-in-1983-patti-doctor-murder-case-101618518372223.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||9th Guru’s 400th birth anniversary: SGPC in a fix over holding main event amid worsening Covid situation||Even as it has planned the main event to mark the 400th birth anniversary (parkash gurpurb) of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur in New Amritsar locality of the holy city, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is in a quandary over the worsening pandemic situation and restrictions being imposed by the government to prevent gatherings. SGPC president Jagir Kaur said the function will be held from April 29 to May 1. “The devotees want this centenary to be celebrated with the same spirit as other centenaries. We even apprehend that the government may impose a ban on the function. Therefore, we are hesitating from appealing to the sangat to attend the event in a large number,” she said while interacting with mediapersons. “Also, we got a letter from the administration saying New Amritsar locality has been declared a containment zone where no gathering can be organised. The government should make it clear whether we cannot organise the function or not. We will ensure a small gathering on the occasion,” she added.About her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on April 8 on the 400th birth anniversary, Jagir Kaur said, “I suggested that the Union government should establish a ‘vishv shanti kendra’ (world peace centre) on the lines of the United Nations Organisation (UNO) after Guru Tegh Bahadur.”It was also suggested that a chapter on the life of the ninth guru be included in the curricula of all state school boards in India, especially in the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) books, she added. “I said a SGPC representative be permanently included in the scrutiny committee so that clear and true knowledge of Sikh philosophy and history may be imparted to the students. We also urged the PM that the Gurbani (holy writings) of the ninth guru be translated in all Indian language as well as major international languages and it be made available in world-class libraries and universities,” she said.Besides, the central government was asked to issue a coin, envelope, and postage stamp on the occasion, Jagir Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9th-guru-s-400th-birth-anniversary-sgpc-in-a-fix-over-holding-main-event-amid-worsening-covid-situation-101618517772016.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to hire 931 regular lecturers in all 48 govt colleges after 19 years||The Punjab higher education department is set to recruit 931 assistant professors or lecturers on regular basis in the state’s all 48 government colleges after a gap of 19 years. A detailed file has been sent to the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) for working on the final logistics before issuing an advertisement for the posts. The process of recruiting regular college lecturers in Punjab was last initiated in 2002 but the hiring was cancelled after the state vigilance bureau busted a cash-for-job scam that year. Since then, the recruitment of lecturers has been stalled with the matter being sub-judice. The state has a total 1,873 sanctioned posts of lecturers of which 1,292 are lying vacant. Currently, the government colleges have 581 regular lecturers only. To deal with staff shortage, 882 guest faculty members and 251 part-time lecturers have been roped in.Special secretary (higher education) Paramjit Singh, who is also director of public instructions (DPI colleges), said all the hiccups have been cleared for the recruitment.“The advertisement will be issued in the months to come,” he said. Guest faculty, part-time teachers fear job lossServing in government colleges for nearly 15 years, as many as 882 guest faculty members and 251 part-time lecturers are afraid that they may lose their jobs with the appointment of regular assistant professors. They have demanded relaxations in the recruitment process so that their jobs could be regularised.Deepak Kaushal, member of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, said their jobs have not been regularised till date due to bad policies of the successive state governments. “The guest faculty forms the backbone of government colleges in Punjab. The sad part is that 50% guest lecturers have crossed the age limit to apply for other government jobs. Therefore, the government must give certain relaxations related to age in the hiring process,” said Kaushal.Also, the government should ensure that their services are availed even as regular lecturers are appointed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-hire-931-regular-lecturers-in-all-48-govt-colleges-after-19-years-101618517414770.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area hits record high of 1,587 Covid-19 cases||The Chandigarh tricity area on Thursday registered its biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases, with 1,587 people testing positive for the virus – a 21% spike from its last high of 1,310 on Monday.Adding 860 infections, Mohali also hit a record daily high and accounted for 54% of tricity’s cases. It also topped Punjab’s Thursday tally of 4,333.Panchkula’s cases at 315, too, touched the all-time high since the pandemic broke out in March last year.Chandigarh saw a slight dip in its 24-hour Covid count, with 412 cases against Wednesday’s 421, but reported three deaths, which pushed its toll to 407.Mohali also recorded a death, taking its total casualties to 487 – the highest in tricity.Mohali’s active cases cross 5,000 markWith Thursday’s cases, the district’s active cases shot up to 5,225, while the total cases reached 33,844.As many as 399 of the 860 cases were from Mohali city and 196 from Dhakoli. Kharar followed at 147, Dera Bassi at 47, Gharuan at 34, Banur four, and Lalru, Boothgarh and Kurali had 11 cases each.Recording 7,151 cases and 54 deaths in 15 days of April, Mohali has surpassed its March tallies of 6,315 and 48, respectively. At 28,132 (83%) recoveries, the district is trailing behind the national average of 88.31%.36-year-old among UT’s casualtiesAmong UT’s fatalities on Thursday were an 80-year-old man from Sector 51, who had severe acute respiratory infection; a 73-year-old woman from Sector 48, who had coronary artery disease and also suffered a septic shock; and a 36-year-old woman from Maloya with disseminated abdominal tuberculosis.Chandigarh has witnessed 32,397 cases so far, of which 3,371 are active. A total of 28,619 patients (88%) have recovered. Within two weeks of April, the city has recorded 5,398 cases and 28 deaths.Panchkula city contributed 222 of the 315 cases in the district, whose total reached 15,946 cases. As many as 1,799 patients are recuperating, 13,987 (87.7%) have been cured and 160 have succumbed to the virus. Among these, April accounts for six deaths and 2,917 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-hits-record-high-of-1-587-covid-19-cases-101618517293245.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Second Covid wave in Punjab has low fatality rate despite high caseload||The case fatality rate (CFR) during the second coronavirus wave in Punjab is lower than the first one that swept the state last year even as caseload this time is on the higher side, shows an analysis of the figures of the health department. In the second wave that experts say started in early January, the CFR remained 1.8% against 3% of the last time. This despite the fact that the state’s overall fatality rate so far at 2.7% is still the highest in the country, followed by Sikkim at 2.2% though less deaths brought the figure down from January’s first week when it was 3.2%. Punjab’s CFR in April remained 1.7%. State Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “The CFR this time is low as we learnt lessons from the first wave and encouraged people to come forward for testing at the earliest. But still, a lot needs to be done as people still are as hesitant about early testing.”Peak likely in 3rd week of April Experts working in the state government’s Covid-management group say the second wave in the state may hit its peak in the third week of April when daily case count is expected to reach nearly 4,500. “Our prediction model has been near accurate so far. We look at April third week as crucial. We can minimise the impact by strictly following the protocols,” said the nodal officer. In the first wave till December 31, the state recorded 1,66,522 cases in 287 days since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Punjab on March 18. This comes out to be 580 cases per day. But from January 1 to April 14, the state added 1,15,983 cases, in 104 days, registering a daily average of 1,115 cases. Whereas the first wave witnessed 7,632 deaths, the figure in the second is 2,330.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-covid-wave-in-punjab-has-low-fatality-rate-despite-high-caseload-101618517116367.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate election: Polling to be held at 5 venues for constituency of faculties||The polling for the election of six members to the senate from the faculties of Panjab University will be held at five different venues on the varsity campus.The venues for polling were announced by the university on Thursday. The senate polls of PU are set to begin from April 26 with the election of six members from the constituency of faculties. Twelve candidates are in the fray from the faculties, which have 754 eligible voters. One member will be elected to PU senate from each faculty on April 26. According to the schedule announced by the university, the polling for the faculty of law will be held at the chemistry department auditorium from 9am to 11am.For arts faculty, the polling will be held at evening studies auditorium from 9.30 to 12.30pm while the polling for the faculty of languages will be held at English department auditorium at the same time slot. As per the schedule, the polling for the faculty of science will be held at law department auditorium and for medical science faculty, polling will be held at gymnasium hall from 10am to 1.30pm. The polling for the combined faculty will also be held at the gymnasium hall from 10am to 2.30pm.After faculties, the election of principals of technical and professional colleges and the staff of technical and professional colleges will be held on May 3 followed by the teachers of the university departments on May 10. The registered graduate constituency, from which 15 members are elected to PU senate, will go to the polls on May 16.Over 100 candidates are in the fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-election-polling-to-be-held-at-5-venues-for-constituency-of-faculties-101618516572011.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Congress’s Ranjit Singh Jiti is new president of Kurali civic body||Ranjit Singh Jiti, a close aide of former Punjab minister Jagmohan Singh Kang, has been elected as the new president of the Kurali municipal council for a period of two and half years. Independent councillor Simran Kaur was elected vice-president. The elections for the civic body were held on February 14 and results were declared on February 17. In the first meeting of the civic body on Thursday, sub divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain first administered the oath to all 17 councillors, followed by elections.Two factions of Congress nominated two presidents – Ranjit Singh Jiti of Kang group and Bhavana Sharma of Balbir Singh Sidhu group. Both groups got eight votes each, but the lone BJP councilor supported Jiti.In Kurali, out of 17 wards, Congress won on nine seats, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) managed to win only two and BJP won one seat. Independent candidates won the remaining five. For the past decade, SAD was ruling the house. In the last term, SAD-BJP won nine seats, Congress won six seats and two seats were won by independents ,who later joined SAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congresss-ranjit-singh-jiti-is-new-president-of-kurali-civic-body-101618516514051.html
16-04-2021||Other||In just 2 weeks, Ludhiana govt schools enrol more students than last year||In just two weeks since the admission process began on April 1, government schools in Ludhiana district have enrolled 31,477 new students. This is more than double the new admissions logged last year. School principals say that good infrastructure and quality education have prompted many parents to shift their wards from private schools to government ones. Last year, around 14,000 students had joined the governments schools in the district between April and June. Of these, 7,000 were from private schools. This time, 3,600 students have shifted from private to government schools. The principals said the pandemic has put a lot of financial constraints on parents, who are thus shifting their wards to government schools, which offer free education to students upto Class-8 and charge nominally for Classes 9 to 12.At Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, 495 new students have enrolled in Classes 1 to 10. Of these, 467 are from private schools. The school already has a strength of 4,000 students. Principal Sanjeev Thapar said, “We are receive a large number of enquiries everyday and there is always a queue outside my room as parents are keen to admit their wards in our school. We have set up a help desk and teachers are answering the queries.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Multi-Purpose, 350 new students have been enrolled this year, of which 250 are from private schools. Due to higher enrolment, the school authorities have received the secretary education’s approval to run the school in twoshifts. Principal Navdeep Romana said, “We have informed students regarding the admission process. All the forms are available online and have to be sent on WhatsApp groups.” Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, which has a strength of 1,500 students has enrolled 200 new students from Classes 6 to 12. School principal Rajesh Kumar, said, “Our teachers conducted door-to-door surveys and held awareness camps in gurdwaras, due to which over 110 students from private schools have shifted to our school. Last year, over 500 new students had registered online and were admitted. We except more students to enrol in the coming days.”Harjit Singh, district education officer (secondary-cum-elementary), said, “School principals and teachers are making efforts to enhance the enrolment in their schools. Door-to-door campaigning and hoardings installed at public places have helped the schools. Most parents are preferring to send their wards to government schools as our schools now have good infrastructure and offer free education till Class 8 and charge only a nominal fee for senior classes. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-just-2-weeks-ludhiana-govt-schools-enrol-more-students-than-last-year-101618516512819.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Process to build new model jail at Chandigarh’s Sector 51 set in motion||The UT administration has started the process to construct a new model jail in Sector 51 with tenders being invited and consultants roped in for an environmental impact assessment. “The jail will come up at the area adjoining the main prison on campus ‘A’ at Model Jail, Chandigarh, at an estimated cost of ₹18 crore,” said UT chief engineer CB Ojha. The model jail complex has a land parcel of 47 acres. The existing model jail is spread over 14 acres. It includes barracks, offices and residential accommodation for jail officials and staff. The new jail will come up on around six acres, which are currently vacant. “While the old model jail has a capacity to house 1,120 inmates, the new jail will be able to accommodate at least 376 inmates. There will be five barracks for 70 inmates each. There will also be exclusive barrack for hardcore inmates with a capacity of 26 persons,” said Ojha. The completed works should be 2.24 lakh sq ft, which includes the existing area of 1.63 lakh sq ft and the proposed new construction area of 65,876 sq ft, he added. On the need of the new jail, Virat, additional inspector general-cum-superintendent, prisons, said, “The new jail, which will be part of the existing establishment, is required to meet the future requirements. The city’s population is growing, which requires expanded prison space. The new jail will also help in providing latest facilities to visitors and inmates.” The new building will also have skill development centre, study centre, central tower, kitchen, administrative block, anganwadi kitchen, waiting hall, cabin for security person and sentry post. The administration has invited online tenders from eligible and established consultants for preparation of environmental impact assessment (EIA). The EIA will be used to obtain the environmental and eco-sensitive clearance for the new model jail. The bids of the tender documents will be opened on April 20. The firm would have to submit application to ministry of environment and forest for grant of environmental clearance within 15 days of allotment of work. In 30 days, it would submit rapid EIA study after grant of terms of reference by the state expert appraisal committee. After the grant of clearance, the firm must submit the application to the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/process-to-build-new-model-jail-at-chandigarh-s-sector-51-set-in-motion-101618516452099.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Resolution introduced in US Congress to recognise significance of Baisakhi||A US Congressman has introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to recognise the significance of Baisakhi and those who celebrate it.“This resolution recognises the historic, cultural, and religious significance of the festival of Baisakhi,” Congressman John Garamendi said on the House floor as he re-introduced the resolution.Also known as ‘Vaisakhi’, Baisakhi is a spring season harvest festival for Sikhs, Hindus and Buddhists. It also marks the Sikh New Year and commemorates the formation of Khalsa Panth by tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in 1699, Garamendi said. The Congressman from California is co-chair of the Sikh Caucus in the House.“Madam speaker, I encourage all members of the House to join me in recognising the significance of Baisakhi and those who celebrate it,” Garamendi said.In the United States, Baisakhi is celebrated with large processions, celebrations, and community service. Baisakhi celebrates community, prosperity, and continued progress in the year ahead, he said.“As our country emerges from the Covid-19 pandemic, it is critical that we celebrate the strength of our communities and the sacrifice it will take to defeat the coronavirus and look toward the future,” the lawmaker said.April 13, he said, marks the start of the beginning of the Sikh religion and the start of the Punjabi New Year. “Late 2020 and early 2021 has tested the Indian Sikh community, and I hope the coming months will be marked by peace, prosperity, and respect for all faith communities,” Garamendi said.The resolution, co-sponsored by more than a dozen other lawmakers, including Dr Ami Bera and Frank Pallone, recognises the historic, cultural, and religious significance of the festival of Baisakhi.Recognising the significance of Baisakhi to Sikh communities in the United States and around the world, the resolution expresses its respect for all communities that celebrate the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resolution-introduced-in-us-congress-to-recognise-significance-of-baisakhi-101618516392038.html
16-04-2021||Other||Carcass plant still not operational, Ludhiana MC to pay ₹8 lakh fine||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has slapped an environmental compensation of ₹8 lakh on the Ludhiana municipal corporation for its failure to operationalise a modern and scientific carcass disposal plant at Noorpur Bet within the set deadline.The plant was to be completed and put into use by August 31, 2020. Once it starts running, the plant will help dispose of the bodies of dead animals in a scientific manner. At present, the carcasses are disposed off on the banks of Satluj river. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has already raised objections against the practice. Disposal of carcasses had become a major concern for the MC last year when the PPCB had imposed a fine of ₹2.28 lakh each on the five groups running a hadda rodi (carcass dump) in Laddowal area for dumping waste into Sutlej.A monitoring committee, constituted by the NGT, had visited the plant on February 27 last year and observed that about 45% the construction work on the carcass plant was complete. The committee members were assured that rest of the work will be completed by February 2021. When the committee members visited the plant again in March this year, it found that the plant was not operational yet. The committee members stated, in their report, that the work on the effluent treatment plant at the site had also been completed but it wasn’t operational. The MC was to all undertake tree plantation at the site to control the stench but it had failed to do so.The report in this regard was submitted to the PPCB, which imposed an environmental compensation of ₹8 lakh upon the MC on April 13.Despite repeated attempts, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was not available for comments. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said he, along with cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, had visited the site twice to check the progress on the project. “I will speak to the officials supervising the project and seek a detailed review in the matter,” said the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/carcass-plant-still-not-operational-ludhiana-mc-to-pay-rs-8-lakh-fine-101618516272108.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura verdict: Courts over indulgent towards police officials: Justice Ranjit Singh||Questioning the Punjab and Haryana high court’s decision quashing the special investigation team (SIT) probe into the Kotkapura firing case, justice Ranjit Singh (retd) said on Thursday that the courts have lately been “over indulgent towards police officials”.In a statement, retired high court judge said that so far, justice has eluded those who suffered at the hands of “trigger happy” police officials, who “killed and injured” various persons sitting on protest at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in 2015. “First, the then government and administration did everything to save the guilty officials, who committed serious offence of murder/attempt to murder. Lately, the courts have been over indulgent towards police officials without sparing any thought for those who were killed and injured in this firing suffering lifelong handicaps,” he said.Justice Singh had headed a one-man inquiry commission, appointed by the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in 2017, into the cases of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing in Faridkot district in which two Sikh protesters were killed. The incidents had happened during the rule of the Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP alliance led by chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. The panel had submitted its report in 2018. Last week, a high court bench quashed the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) into the Kotkapura firing case and also ordered reconstitution of SIT excluding IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, much to the embarrassment of the Congress government. Justice Singh said it is public pressure that has kept the cases revived leading to filing various chargesheets against those found blameworthy.“It is rare for the courts to interfere in the investigation of crime as that is the duty of police as per the criminal jurisprudence. The defect or infirmities in investigation, if any, are to be pleaded and proved before trial court where challans are filed. Police have unhindered power to investigate crime,” he said, adding: “No accused person would ever be satisfied with investigator and accused has no right to seek change of investigation officer.” Referring to some Supreme Court judgments, Justice Singh said: “Interference in the investigation by the courts is never done, especially when police have filed challans after completion of investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-verdict-courts-over-indulgent-towards-police-officials-justice-ranjit-singh-101618515972048.html
16-04-2021||Other||NGT asks Navi Mumbai planning body to clear water inlets at Panje wetland||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday instructed the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) to ensure that all tidal water inlets to its 289-hectare (ha) property in Uran are opened immediately to ensure flow of sea water to Panje coastal wetland and its mangrove forests. The development comes on the heels of a recent petition filed by Nandakumar Pawar of the Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, requesting an urgent interim relief in the matter.The order (a copy of which is yet to be made public) will concern five culverts that require cleaning up to allow tidal water from a free-flowing coastal creek to flow into the wetland, which has been significantly denuded over the past 10 years to due reclamation, construction and hindrances to water flow. Last November, the Bombay high court (HC) had ruled that blocking the flow of tidal water to the area would be deemed a violation.“However, as the HC’s order was not yet complied with, we approached NGT for an urgent interim relief in the matter. This was a much-needed step for ensuring the health of the wetland,” said NatConnect Foundation’s director BN Kumar, who has been campaigning to bring greater protection to the area.In September 2018, Cidco had shut 76 sluice gates using a flood-control mechanism to close high-tide water ingress. Some gates had also been damaged, which environmentalists said was starving the adjacent mangrove forests of water. In October 2019, following complaints submitted to the state mangrove cell and interventions by the wetland grievance redressal committee, these gates were opened by Cidco. “But there were five culverts that still required attention. Those will now have to be cleared up as well,” said Kumar.After a plea by NatConnect Foundation, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had, on March 4, 2020, ordered to halt construction at Panje. Despite this, reports of intermittent landfilling have been verified in the area. Environmentalists said this order, addressed to Raigad collector and Cidco went unimplemented, after which NatConnect approached the chief minister, who asked the environment department to intervene.Subsequently, last November 2020, Narendra Toke, director, environment and climate change department, instructed the collector and Cidco to abide by the minister’s order. Toke also pointed out that hindering tidal water flow to the wetland amounts to a violation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. The government has also claimed before HC that Panje falls under CRZ-1, due to which there can be no construction without the approval of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA).“Cidco, despite claiming that Panje is a holding pond as part of the flood control mechanism for the upcoming Dronagiri node, has leased out most of the wetland to Navi Mumbai SEZ (special economic zone), of which the state-owned planning agency is a 26% partner. NMSEZ built a massive compound wall around Panje and set up security cabins without any permission. The environment director has ordered NMSEZ to demolish the cabins, which were also not adhered to,” Kumar wrote in a more recent letter to CM.The Panje coastal wetland is low-lying and spread over an area of approximately 289ha. It is bounded by the Panje, Phunde, Dongari and Bokadvira villages and bordered by mangroves on the west and the east, and has mangroves inside the wetland at some locations. It is an intertidal wetland that has been formed naturally in abandoned saltpans. Due to its geographical location, it was earmarked by the planning authorities as a flood control zone as the regular tidal influence made it easy to soak and drain the water from the nearby areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-asks-cidco-to-clear-water-inlets-at-panje-wetland-101618515852525.html
16-04-2021||Other||Barnala nagar council president elected, amid Cong infighting||Amid infighting and raising of slogans by Congress councillors, even as they are in the majority in the 31-member Nagar Council, Gurjeet Singh was elected president of Barnala council on Thursday. Narinder Garg Neeta, who left BJP and joined the Congress a couple of days back, became vice-president. The Congress has 16 seats, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) four, Aam Aadmi Party three and Independents eight.Paramjeet Singh, alias Jonty Mann, councillor from ward number 6, claimed that he had the support of 13 councillors and his name was also proposed in the House. “Gurjeet Singh was elected with unfair means and democratic values were not followed during the election process. There was no videography of the voting. It was totally unjust. I am a committed Congressman. I will take up the matter with party high command,” said Mann.Barnala sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Varjeet Walia said that the president and vice-president were elected with majority. “Two names were proposed. However, Gurjeet Singh got eighteen votes and was elected the chief of the nagar council,” Walia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barnala-nagar-council-president-elected-amid-cong-infighting-101618515852068.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Thapar University Patiala falls under ambit of RTI Act||The Punjab State Information Commission (SIC) has declared Thapar University, Patiala, as “public authority” under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, and directed it to provide required information to the appellant. An official spokesperson said RTI activist Akash Verma sought information, but the university refused the same stating that the university was not in the ambit of the RTI. Verma approached the commission on December 24 last year by filing an appeal against the order passed by the institution. The spokesperson said that Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology was established by the then Pepsu government in 1955 following an agreement with the Mohini Thapar Charitable Trust. Besides funds, land was provided by the erstwhile Pepsu government free of cost for the establishment of the institute. The state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) also gave grants to the institution. Disposing of the activist’s appeal, the commission referred to a decision of the Supreme Court and declared the university a “public authority”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thapar-university-patiala-falls-under-ambit-of-rti-act-101618515732739.html
16-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra pollution control body takes steps to streamline mgmt of hazardous waste||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has instructed all producers and recyclers of hazardous waste to empanel transport services used by them. The move, officials said, will help in streamlining the management of potentially dangerous refuse, of which about 37% annually goes untreated in the state. A recent circular issued by MPCB states that only registered transport services — which sign binding memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with their waste generators — will be allowed to transport hazardous waste materials in the state after May 21 to the four registered treatment sites in the state. As per data with MPCB, there are 7,116 industrial units of varying sizes which produce hazardous waste in Maharashtra. These together generate about 1 million tonnes of hazardous waste annually. “As per the 2008 solid waste management notification, MPCB used to give authorisation to third party transporters to collect hazardous waste from generators and send to recyclers. However, as per the revised 2016 rules, it became mandatory that we give such authorisation only to waste generators and recyclers, and not transporters. Now, generators or recyclers need to reach out to us, sign an MoU with their vendors or use a verified third party transporter who will sign an MoU with them. Only then such transporters will be authorised and be able to identify from which industries they collect hazardous waste,” said Nandkumar Gurav, regional officer with MPCB. The underlying aim, Gurav explained, is to capture the 37% hazardous waste that goes untreated in the state each year. “If we can keep track of the transporter, where they go and come, and how much waste they transport, there is less chance of it being disposed of unscientifically in transit,” he said. To increase accountability in this sector, Gurav also said MPCB has created a new app to monitor the collection, transport and treatment of hazardous waste. “We have an online hazardous waste management web system which will store all details regarding the quantum of waste generated in a certain place and track the movement of this waste from generator to recycler. By assigning registered transporters’ vehicles with a specific industrial unit, we will be able to monitor their compliance,” Gurav said, adding that implementation of this programme is being fast-tracked after a recent town hall on waste management in Maharashtra, organised under the environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-pollution-control-body-takes-steps-to-streamline-mgmt-of-hazardous-waste-101618515731336.html
16-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra’s Pandharpur all set for MLA bypoll tomorrow||Amid controversies and allegations of corruption against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), an election battle is set in motion for the Pandharpur-Mangalwedha Assembly constituency in Solapur district of western Maharashtra. The contest is being seen as a test for the three-party coalition as it is the first Assembly bypoll since MVA came to power in 2019. Also, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has made the contest more interesting by linking it with the dislodging of the Uddhav Thackeray-led government.“Leave it to me on when the government needs to be changed, don’t worry about that. But now the bypoll is necessary as the people of Pandharpur got the first chance to show the government, which is involved in all sorts or corrupt practices, its place…. You just elect Samadhan Autade,” former chief minister (CM) and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, while addressing a campaign rally on Monday.Deputy CM and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar, while addressing another campaign rally on Thursday – the last day for campaigning – responded by saying, “The one who can dislodge this government is yet to be born… We don’t poke our nose in others’ business but also don’t spare those who try to cross our path.”The voting will be held on April 17.BJP is making all the efforts to win the seat to prove that there is a discontent against the Thackeray government. NCP, too, has put all its force, and most of its senior leaders, including Pawar and state chief Jayant Patil, have been campaigning aggressively. Baramati parliamentarian and party chief Sharad Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule, too, addressed a rally through video-conferencing.State Congress chief Nana Patole campaigned for the candidate Bhagirath Bhalke on Thursday. However, no senior Shiv Sena leader found to have campaigned for the NCP candidate. Sena rebel Shaila Godse is contesting the bypoll as an Independent. The party could not persuade her to withdraw her candidature. To control possible damage, Pawar has been meeting local Sena leaders to ensure they will also put their strength behind Bhalke in the bypoll, said an NCP leader.NCP fielded Bhalke after his father Bharat, the sitting legislator, died last November. He will face BJP’s Autade, who had fought the last Assembly elections as an independent candidate and secured the third position after getting 54,124 votes. In 2014, he got 40,910 votes as a Shiv Sena candidate.Bharat Bhalke was a three-term legislator and NCP is hoping that the sympathy will work in his son’s favour, as he is trying to take his father’s legacy ahead.“MVA is in a strong position in Solapur as all the three parties — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — are united in fighting the election against BJP. Our position became stronger after BJP leader Kalyan Kale joined NCP recently. People have sympathy for Bhalke as his father has brought so much development in the constituency which will ultimately help him in this election,” said Deepak Salunkhe Patil, vice-president NCP and former legislator from Solapur district.Political analysts believe that BJP has better prospects, as it has brought Autade and Prashant Paricharak together for the polls. The Paricharak family has a strong base and sympathies in Pandharpur. Paricharak’s uncle Sudhakar was a five-term legislator from the constituency. “The constituency is divided into three major groups, each led by Bhalke, Paricharak and Autade. By fielding Autade, BJP has brought Paricharak and Autade together against Bhalke making it a tough fight for MVA. Fadnavis has also given the responsibility of Autade’s election to Paricharak by assuring him better prospects in coming future,” said the editor of a Marathi daily, who did not wished to be named.However, Paricharak wanted BJP to field his nephew Pranay but the party chose Autade over him, which may not have gone down well with the family and his supporters, it is believed.State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “The state government has failed to provide any relief to the farmers after coming to power, which we have highlighted in our campaign. Moreover, they chose to disconnect the power connections of agriculture pumps, adding to farmers’ misery. They should have realised that the agrarian community is in trouble and have no money to pay the power bills,” he said.The disconnection of power is a major issue which may go against the NCP candidate. But people have sympathy with Bhalke, said the editor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtras-pandharpur-all-set-for-mla-bypoll-tomorrow-101618515671362.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mohindra questions BJP’s promise to appoint Dalit CM||Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on Thursday ridiculed the announcement by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Tarun Chugh that the party will appoint a Dalit chief minister if voted to power in the next assembly elections in the state. In a statement, Mohindra said the same BJP leaders were not able to appoint a Hindu deputy chief minister in 2007 and 2012 when they could have done it easily. “In 2007, the SAD government was completely dependent on the BJP’s support and it had won 19 out of 21 seats it contested. Even then, it could not assert itself to get a Hindu appointed as a deputy CM and now the party has the audacity to announce a Dalit CM when it has no existence at all in the state,” he said. Referring to the announcement, he said the party’s credibility is at its nadir as it could not watch the interests of the people it claims to represent. “These are simply survival tactics and are not going to help the party in any way,” he said.Don’t indulge in politics of identity: Tewari to Sukhbir A day after SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced he would give the Punjab deputy CM’s post to a Dalit if his party wins in 2022, Congress leader Manish Tewari on Thursday asked him whether the position of chief minister was reserved for someone.Tewari, the MP from Anandpur Sahib constituency, also said that the SAD leader should desist from indulging in “politics of identity”.Sukhbir on Wednesday had promised to give the post of Punjab deputy chief minister to a Dalit if his party is voted to power in the assembly polls next year.Reacting to the statement, Tewari asked Sukhbir: “Why only deputy chief minister, why not a Dalit as chief minister? Is the top position reserved for someone permanently? “Once the Pandora’s box of identity politics is opened, then people will legitimately demand, if not ask, as why a Hindu should not be chief minister or for that matter, someone from the OBC (other backward classes) community should not then be the chief minister of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohindra-questions-bjp-s-promise-to-appoint-dalit-cm-101618515612601.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||3 days after surgery, Sharad Pawar out of south Mumbai hospital||Three days after undergoing gallbladder surgery, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was discharged from Breach Candy Hospital on Thursday afternoon. The 80-year-old, who was diagnosed with multiple gallstones, is doing fine and has been advised to take complete rest for the next few days, his party said.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb will be discharged from hospital today and is in good health. Thank you everyone for your good wishes and support for saheb,” NCP’s chief spokesperson and Maharashtra skill development minister Nawab Malik tweeted on Thursday.Prior to the gallbladder surgery, the veteran leader on March 30 had undergone an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage, immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis). He was discharged from the hospital on April 3.The NCP chief had to cancel his three-day visit to West Bengal from April 1, following the health emergency. Pawar had planned to campaign in support of Mamata Banerjee by holding rallies for the West Bengal chief minister and her Trinamool Congress (TMC). The last four phases of the poll will be held between April 17 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-days-after-surgery-sharad-pawar-out-of-south-mumbai-hospital-101618515611309.html
16-04-2021||Other||HC: Reschedule Mumbai civic body panel meeting for Friday||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to reschedule its standing committee meeting that was to be held at 1pm through the virtual mode on Thursday. The court’s decision came after two members of the standing committee – a statutory body that approves and allocates funds required for civic body’s various projects or works – sought an offline meeting, citing that the 35 issues to be decided upon were “important”. However, though the court rescheduled the meeting, it also held that held that if courts could function virtually in light of the surge in the Covid-19 cases, the standing committee meeting too could be held online, and disposed of the public interest litigation (PIL). The vacation bench of justice Suresh Gupte and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the PIL filed by sitting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators Vinod Mishra and Makarand Narwekar, was informed by advocate Jeet Gandhi that the petition challenged BMC’s April 12 proposal to conduct the standing committee meeting on April 15 (Thursday) virtually. Gandhi submitted that as 35 issues involving crores of rupees, including the one pertaining to Nahur railway station, was on the agenda, at least 27 members of the standing committee and the BMC officials concerned be allowed to conduct a physical meeting by following Covid-19 protocols. Gandhi said the petitioners’ insisted on physical meeting because they apprehended that the agenda would be passed with a brute majority through virtual hearing by muting Opposition members. He added that BMC had not followed proper procedure, as it had intimated members about the meeting being held on virtual mode only on Wednesday night, as a result of which the 24-hour notice period was not abided, and hence, the meeting be postponed. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare argued that as the state government had restricted congregation of more than 25 persons, the panel meeting could not be held physically. He further added that the issues on agenda would be taken up as per serial numbers. After the court asked if the meeting could be held virtually on Friday, Sakhare took instructions from the committee’s chairman and BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and informed the court that the meeting would be rescheduled to Friday noon through videoconferencing instead of Thursday. While disposing of the petition, the bench noted, “The petitioners should be permitted to effectively attend and place submissions before the meeting. Petitioners will also be entitled to record the entire proceedings of the April 16 [Friday’s] meeting. We have not applied our mind to the merits of the controversy raised by the petitioners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-reschedule-mumbai-civic-body-panel-meeting-for-friday-101618515491331.html
16-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s daily Covid caseload touches all-time high, Mohali worst-affected||Punjab on Thursday reported 4,333 fresh Covid cases, the highest-ever single-day case count, breaking the previous record of 3,477 cases registered on April 12. With this, the state’s cumulative tally has reached 2,86,816, according to a medical bulletin.The state’s death toll climbed to 7,722 as 51 more people succumbed to the disease, the bulletin said. Mohali registered maximum 860 cases (nearly 20% of the total cases) in the state, followed by 482 in Ludhiana, 399 in Jalandhar, 365 in Amritsar, 353 in Patiala, 301 in Bathinda, 194 in Gurdaspur, 186 in Taran Taran and 127 in Kapurthala and Ferozepur, 110 in Faridkot, 104 in Rupnagar, 93 in Pathankot, 76 in Sangrur, 67 in Fazilka, 66 in Moga, 63 in Mansa, 55 in Barnala and 54 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Of the latest fatalities, 10 were reported from Amritsar, nine from Hoshiarpur and six each from Gurdaspur and Ludhiana, five from Patiala, two each from Bathinda and Ferozepur and one each from Faridkot, Mohali, Muktsar, Fazilka and Pathankot. A total of 2,478 coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 2,49,061, the bulletin stated. The state has 30,033 active cases, maximum of which 18,256 (nearly 60%) are in the five district of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali, Patiala and Amritsar.There are 40 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 374 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 64,73,869 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it added.Ensure Covid test results within 24 hours: CSChief Secretary (CS) Vini Mahajan on Thursday directed the medical education and research department to ensure Covid test results within 24 hours. She also urged the eligible persons to come forward for a jab as vaccine can prevent severity of the virus. Reviewing the Covid situation with the administrative secretaries, deputy commissioners, commissioners of police and SSPs, Mahajan asked the departments to provide a food kit along with “Corona Fateh” kit to the home isolated patients who are needy. Fixing the daily target of Covid testing at 50,000, she said the RAT testing should be ensured to all contacts immediately. “Deputy commissioners can use staff from any department for Covid management at district-level and services of the BLOs can be used for vaccination planning,” she instructed. Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said 82% police personnel have already been vaccinated.Expedite vaccination of medical college staff: Soni Medical education and research minister Om Prakash Soni on Thursday directed officials to complete vaccination of medical colleges’ staff in the state as soon as possible.At a meeting here to review the functioning of the medical education department, Soni said the immunisation campaign for the general public could be improved and run smoothly. He also directed the principals and medical superintendents of medical colleges to improve the healthcare facilities of Covid patients to bring down the mortality rate. Baba Farid Health Sciences University, Faridkot, vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur, Guru Ravidas Ayurveda University V-C Bal Krishan Sharma Kaushik, principal secretary, medical education and research, DK Tewari and director, medical education and research, Dr Sujata Sharma were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-daily-covid-caseload-touches-all-time-high-mohali-worstaffected-101618515432135.html
16-04-2021||Other||Find solution for Jain devotees to avail pious food without flouting norms: Bombay HC to state, trusts||The Bombay high court (HC) asked the Maharashtra government to respond to a plea which has sought permission to provide Ayambil Oli Tap food during the nine-day fasting period of the Jain community. The petitioners informed the court that they did not seek reopening of dining halls in temples like last year but only wanted devotees to be allowed to pick up packets of boiled, non-spicy pious food, made especially during the fasting period, from the temple in specific slots from April 19 to 27. The court held that it was a reasonable request and hence, the government should consider it. The bench also asked the petitioning temple trusts to find a workable solution to avoid flocking of devotees at the temple to collect the food parcels. The vacation bench of justice Suresh Gupte and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petitions filed by two temple trusts – Shree Trust Atman Kamal Labdhisurishwarji Jain Gyanmandir Trust and Sheth Motisha Religious and Charitable Trust – was informed by advocate Prafulla Shah that the petitioners were seeking a limited relief. Shah, while objecting to the government circular of April 13 which permitted hotels and restaurants to give away parcels, said the circular, by ordering closure of all religious places of worship for 15 days till May 1, was not allowing parcel distribution to temple trusts. After hearing the submissions, the bench asked the state government whether such prayers could be allowed. “The request seems reasonable. They are not opening the religious places, but just for providing food parcels,” HC said. However, additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that the state government would not permit take away of the food as congregation of people needed to be avoided as per recent standard operating procedure (SOPs). When the bench suggested that the trusts appoint volunteers to deliver food instead of having devotees gather near the temple, Chavan submitted that allowing such an arrangement would be considered as a bias by the state government towards one community. She referred to an order of another bench of HC on Wednesday which refused permission to the trustees of Juma Masjid to allow 50 devotees to offer prayers five times a day during the holy month of Ramzan. Chavan, however, added that if entering premises of the places of worship did not arise and a workable solution for food delivery as per SOPs was followed, the state could consider the request. Thereafter, the bench directed the parties to find a workable solution and place it before the bench on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/find-solution-for-jain-devotees-to-avail-pious-food-without-flouting-norms-bombay-hc-to-state-trusts-101618515371369.html
16-04-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai cops arrest lawyer for kidnapping client for ₹3-cr ransom||The Kharghar police arrested a 36-year-old lawyer for allegedly kidnapping one of his clients and demanding a ransom of ₹3 crore in the first week of April. The lawyer has tested positive after the arrest and has been admitted to a hospital in Panvel.According to the police, the complainant, 32-year-old Navnath Gole, is a businessman. He was arrested by the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Ahmedabad Police in January for cheating after a business deal went wrong. “Gole’s wife then met a lawyer, Vimal Jha, to bail her husband out. Jha demanded a fee of ₹70 lakh. Gole’s wife paid him ₹12 lakh through real-time gross settlement (RTGS) and ₹58 lakh in cash. Gole was released on bail by an Ahmedabad court on March 3,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.“A few days later, Jha met Gole and demanded ₹3 crore. He threatened to get Gole’s bail cancelled in case he failed to pay the money. On the night of April 2, Jha called Gole to his office at Belapur and demanded the money again. When Gole refused to pay, Jha, with the help of three others, kidnapped him in a car and took him to a farmhouse at Karjat. “They also confiscated his phones and assaulted him. They kept insisting on transferring some of his property to Jha’s name. The following day, they left Gole at Kharghar and threatened to kill him if he revealed the incident anything to anyone,” the officer said.Gole, however, approached the police. Inspector Bimal Bidve from Kharghar police station said, “We arrested Jha from Nashik from April 5. However, he was tested positive for Covid-19, hence the court granted him judicial custody. He is hospitalised. We are now hoping to arrest the other three aides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-cops-arrest-lawyer-for-kidnapping-client-for-3-cr-ransom-101618515311273.html
16-04-2021||Other||Covid mortality among women on rise in Ludhiana||The Covid mortality rate among women in Ludhiana has been on a consistent rise since March, data sourced from the district health department reveals. In March, the district had recorded a female mortality rate of 43%. In just 14 days (April 14), it went up to 44%. In January and February, the Covid mortality rate among women in Ludhiana was lower at 22% and 17% respectively. Out of the 34 female deaths in the first 14 days of April, 15 were from rural areas while 19 were from urban areas. The youngest female to succumb to the virus was a 32-year-old while the oldest was an 84-year-old. With 17 casualties, the 60-plus age group witnessed the most number of deaths. In the 50 to 59 age group, there were 13 female fatalities while four women, under the age of 50, lost their battle to the contagion this month. Experts say the main reason behind the rising fatalities is that women don’t receive timely medical attention. “As per our findings, women, especially those in rural areas, ignore their health and their family members too don’t pay any attention to their deteriorating condition. Most of them keep working even when they are sick and visit the hospital only when things get out of control,” said cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force of the state government. Earlier, a study by the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) had revealed that fewer elderly women than men are coming forward to get vaccinated against the deadly virus. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said that in most cases, it is the youngsters who bring home the virus with their reckless behaviour and it is the elderly, especially women, who pay the price for it. Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, who is handling Covid care at Arora Neuro Centre in Ludhiana said, “There is a lot of misinformation floating around about the virus. The conspiracy theories that claim that the virus is a hoax or a government propaganda are the main reasons why many people are not taking the disease seriously or following the protocols.” Dr Rajoo Singh Chhina, director, gastroenterology, Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and technical advisor UNIDO (United Nations) observed that as compared to the first wave, the fear factor has also diminished. “Earlier people used to rush to the hospital as soon as they started showing the symptoms, but now patients, especially those from rural areas, are arriving at the hospital only at a very later stage, which is leading to a rise in mortality,” said Dr Chhina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-mortality-among-women-on-rise-in-ludhiana-101618515192348.html
16-04-2021||Other||Saw daughter 8 months after her birth: Mumbai man released from Qatar jail in narcotics case||“Because of a fake narcotics case, my wife and I had to spend 22-months in jail and I could see my newborn daughter eight months after her birth,” said Bhendi Bazaar resident Sharique Qureshi who returned to India along with his wife Oniba and daughter from Qatar on Wednesday night. The couple was sentenced to 10 years in jail in a drug case in Qatar in 2019. However, the highest court in Qatar recently cleared the couple of all the charges after the family fought a hard battle. Qureshi and Oniba, who visited Qatar for their honeymoon, were arrested at Hamad International Airport in July 2019 after authorities recovered over 4kg of hashish in their bag. The couple’s family later discovered that their relative Tabassum Qureshi had allegedly placed the narcotics in Qureshi and Oniba’s bag. She had sponsored the trip for them and allegedly wanted to use the couple for transporting the drugs. “We had no plans of a second honeymoon. My father’s sister told us that she had planned a honeymoon for us in Doha as a gift and also wished to send some tobacco parcels to her associates in Qatar. We had refused to go. But we trusted her and landed in trouble,” Qureshi said. “After being detained, we were first lodged in separate rooms for seven days and life was hell. We were freezing because of the ACs and the blankets had not been washed for days. There were no washrooms and we had to call the guards to go to the toilet. The guards would take 20 minutes to come. In the jail, the co-inmates used to abuse me for using my wife for the narcotics trade. They would see me as bad human being. Those were the most traumatised days of our lives,” said Qureshi. After spending five months in jail, a trial court sentenced the two to 10 years imprisonment. The family challenged the verdict in the high court, which upheld the lower court’s verdict. “We had lost all hopes as we were completely blank about the case and the judicial system of the country,” Qureshi said. “We would cry all day. We would think why would our aunt do this to us. We had never done any wrong to anyone. Just because we trusted a relative, we had to suffer so much,” said Oniba breaking down. Despite being pregnant, Oniba could meet Qureshi only three times. She delivered a girl last year on February 26. “After repeatedly writing letters for eight months, seeking permission to meet my newborn, the authorities allowed me and I could meet my daughter, Aayat, only after eight months of her birth,” Sharique said. Meanwhile, the couple’s family followed up the matter with the Indian authorities and also approached the Qatari Apex court. On March 29, the Court of Cassation, the highest Court in Qatar, ordered to release the couple. “I was in Qatar for 15 months, fighting the legal battle for my children. It wasn’t easy for us as the legal system there is different. If you speak against the court’s verdict, they consider it as disrespect to their judicial system and prosecute you,” said Qureshi’s father Sharif Ahmed. Oniba’s mother Parveen Kausar said, “We were worried for our kids as there was health emergency across the globe due to Covid-19. And because of this the legal procedure to get out kids back got delayed by almost a year unnecessarily. But finally they could return home and that too, in the holy month of Ramadan. I am thankful to our police, NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.” Qureshi was employed with a Japanese company, but after the arrest, he lost his job. “I have to start my life afresh and I don’t know whether I will get a job or not during the pandemic,” he said. After completing all the formalities and paperwork they reached home at Bhendi Bazaar by 5am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/saw-daughter-8-months-after-her-birth-mumbai-man-released-from-qatar-jail-in-narcotics-case-101618515132513.html
16-04-2021||Other||Cremation sites in Kanpur working overtime, 35 new platforms set up||KANPUR Thirty-five new temporary platforms have been set up on the 20-km Bithoor-Sidhnath Ghat stretch along river Ganga to cremate bodies that are piling up at Bhagwatdas, Bhaironghat and Sidhnath ghats (cremation sites) in this area of Kanpur amid the Covid spike.While the tradition cremations are on till dusk, three electric crematoriums at these sites are working post midnight. In the last four days, 74 bodies have been consigned to flames — 64 of them are said to be of Covid positive patients, said employees at the cremation sites. On an average, 18 infected bodies are being burnt daily in each of the crematoriums at Bhagwatdass, Bhaironghat and Sidhnath ghats, they said.In the past two weeks, these crematoriums received 125 bodies. But the scenario changed in the past one week, said the employees, adding that they incinerated 20 bodies on Wednesday night, 18 of which were of corona positive people. “The temperature of the fireproof brick platform on which the body is kept for incineration remains 900 to 1000 degrees, whereas it should not be more than 600 degrees,” said an employee. We fear the chimney and other parts of incinerator may start melting,” he added. Puttan Mishra, a priest at Bhaironghat, said the number of traditional cremations (with wood) has also increased. The number, he said, has doubled in one week from the average 20 to 40 bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-sites-in-kanpur-working-overtime-35-new-platforms-set-up-101618514951363.html
16-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s KGMU and Balrampur Hosp to function as dedicated Covid facilities||LUCKNOW The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and Balrampur Hospital will be converted into dedicated Covid facilities, the state government decided on Thursday. After the government order, the medical university will function as a Covid facility from Monday (April 19), said KGMU officials. “A decision on running emergency services in departments such as trauma, cardiology and gynaecology will be taken by the state government,” they stated in a press statement.The gynaecology and cardiology departments are in separate buildings on one side of the road, along with the psychiatry and geriatric mental health department while the remaining departments are on the main campus, on the other side of the road. “Beds will be increased at KGMU and Balrampur hospital in a phased manner,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. The state government aims to collectively add about 2,500 beds at KGMU and Balrampur hospital. Preparations in this regard have already begun on the KGMU campus. “The plan is on and it will be implemented shortly,” said vice-chancellor Lt Gen Bipin Puri, when asked about the implementation of the decision to make KGMU a dedicated Covid facility. The KGMU campus houses the trauma centre building, Centenary Hospital phase one and two buildings on one side and most of the wards here have adequate facilities for patients. Collectively, they can start around 1,000 beds without involving the buildings on the campus, said a senior faculty. Balrampur Hospital will also be operational as a dedicated Covid hospital. At present, it has 215 Covid beds, including 48 ICU beds, and the number can be doubled. Medical education minister Suresh Khanna had said that 400 Covid beds in Integral Institute and 500 in TS Mishra Medical College will also be available while Era Medical College is also being made a dedicated Covid facility. Lucknow is reporting over 5,000 fresh Covid cases for the past three days and 35,865 patients are under treatment. The total case count has reached 1,27,295.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-kgmu-and-balrampur-hosp-to-function-as-dedicated-covid-facilities-101618514591288.html
16-04-2021||Other||UP sees highest single-day spike of 22,439 cases; 104 more die||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 22,439 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic while 104 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the fatality count to 9,480. The state’s infection count rose to 7,66,360. UP had tested over 3.75 crore Covid samples till now, including 2,06,517 in the last 24 hours (including 9,964 via RT-PCR method), according to the health department. “There are 1,29,848 active cases in the state, of which 66,528 are in home isolation, 2012 in private hospitals and the remaining in government Covid facilities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. A total of 4,222 patients were discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours. Across the state, Lucknow recorded 5,183 fresh cases, Prayagraj 1,888, Kanpur 1,263, Ghaziabad 538, Gautam Buddh Nagar 489, Varanasi 1,859, Meerut 632, Agra 349, Bareilly 399, Jhansi 466, Moradabad 415, Ballia 578, Ghazipur 211 and Sonebhadra 268. Lucknow saw the maximum deaths – 26, Kanpur 10, Prayagraj and Varanasi six each, Meerut and Jalaun 3 each, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Muzaffarnagar, Barabanki, Shahjahanpur, Chandauli, Unnao, Farukhabad and Lalitpur recorded two each. “Directives have been issued to raise the number of Covid tests, and particularly RT-PCR should be 1.5 lakh per day. The capacity of private labs will also be developed,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information, in a press conference. He said coordination was on with firms for adequate supply of oxygen in the state. “Mask should be used whenever one goes out of home as it will reduce spread of infection. Not wearing a mask in public place is an offence,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-22-439-cases-104-more-die-101618514231235.html
16-04-2021||Other||5,183 fresh cases, 26 deaths in Lucknow||LUCKNOW As many as 26 more people lost their battle against Covid in the state capital, taking the fatality count to 1,410 on Thursday. A (non-PG) resident doctor at the KGMU was among the deceased. With 5,183 fresh cases reported during the day, the number of active cases under treatment rose to 35,865. This is 27% of the total 1,29,848 active cases in UP, as per health department’s data. “Lucknow has till now reported 1,27,295 Covid cases, of which 90,020 have recovered. The recovery rate among patients is 70.71%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Meanwhile, the district administration has made Ritu Suhas, joint secretary, LDA, joint in-charge of the Covid command centre. She will monitor ambulance service, admission and home isolation patients. The appointment has been done under the Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5183-fresh-cases-26-deaths-in-lucknow-101618513991176.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra prisons record 200 active cases||Amid the second Covid-19 wave, the number of active positive inmates across the state prisons went up to 200 on Wednesday, from as low as 42 on March 3, 2021. “If the infection spreads across the state, then prisons cannot stay untouched from the contagious disease even if all the precautions are taken. However, we managed to ensure there is no increase in mortality rate among prisoners for many months,” said a prison officer. The prison department, since the outbreak of Covid in jails in May 2020, has not been allowing any fresh inmate without the Covid tests. Another prison officer, requesting anonymity said that all the precautionary measures which were enforced during the peak of the pandemic last year, have been put in place again. This also includes ensuring no ‘mulaqats’ (visits of prisoner’s relatives to jail to meet prisoners) at the prisons. Across the 44 prisons in the state so far, the jail authority has managed to conduct 57,524 Covid tests. “Since April 2020, a total of 3,116 prisoners have tested positive for Covid and seven succumbed to the disease. Yerwada, Kolhapur and Thane prisons have maximum active Covid positive prisoners,” the jail officer said. Since March 25, a total of 10,788 prisoners have been released to ensure no overcrowding in the prisons. But with relaxations in lockdown, new criminals are being caught by the police again and being sent to jail, hence the number of prisoners in jails are bound to increase. Some of the jail in states are highly overcrowded. The state prisons presently have 34,422 prisons against their capacity of around 26,000 prisoners.The prison authority also taking efforts to prevent the spread of the virus among its jail staffs. So far 3,896 tests have been conducted on staffs following which 717 detected positive for Covid-19. Eight jail staffers have lost a battle to the virus, while 623 recovered. At present state, prisons have 83 active Covid positive staffs. Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand did not respond to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-prisons-record-200-active-cases-101618513931245.html
16-04-2021||Other||Mumbai: Lab technician held for selling fake Covid-19 test reports||The unit-1 of Kashimira crime branch have arrested a lab technician with a reputed Mira Road-based laboratory for allegedly issuing fake Covid-19 negative reports to people for ₹1,000 each. All the six negative reports that he issued of ‘decoy patients’ are currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Mira Road and Bhayander hospitals, said an officer.The accused Krishna Ramdular Saroj, 26, is a resident of Lalji Pada, Kandivli (West) and worked for the reputed laboratory in Mira Road. He issued Covid-19 negative certificates based on the Aadhar card copies sent by the victims.Police laid a trap after receiving a tip-off about the activity. “The police sent Aadhar card details of six positive patients to Saroj and within four hours he sent them their Covid-19 negative report on WhatsApp,” said the officer.“We have arrested Saroj under section 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code. Saroj is likely to have issued several such fake Covid-19 negative test reports since the pandemic began. We are probing further,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-lab-technician-held-for-selling-fake-covid-19-test-reports-101618513871232.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||IB cancels exams in India, to consider predicted grades, coursework for marking||Due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state and the country, the International Baccalaureate (IB) has decided to cancel its examinations across the country. In an announcement made on Wednesday, the board said that it will use predicted grades to mark students this year.“Following ongoing conversations with our schools, associations and education boards, the IB has informed schools of our decision not to hold examinations in India due to the rising cases of Covid-19. We intend that the results of students in India should be awarded using coursework marks and predicted grades for the May 2021 session, as described in the awarding model outlined in February. For more details on the May 2021 session, students, parents and teachers are encouraged to talk to their school’s IB coordinator,” said the board in an official response.The board stated that while the students of IBDP (Class 12 equivalent) can take the non-examination route, those in the middle year’s programme (which includes Class 10) will be given alternative tasks for the evaluation process. Details on the process and the components of each of these options has been shared with schools. After the May 2020 predicted grades were higher than in previous years, IB has decided to recommend generous guidelines within which teachers will be asked to submit their predictions. “Where teachers feel these predicted grade distributions are not aligned with student performance, the IB is developing a process that will allow schools to request a different grade distribution and provide evidence that supports their claim,” stated the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ib-cancels-exams-in-india-to-consider-predicted-grades-coursework-for-marking-101618513811184.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Equivalence of marks key criterion for Maharashtra board decision||The decision to cancel Class 10 exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has pushed the Maharashtra government to examine the feasibility of a similar measure to ensure equivalence in the scores of students passing the exams. On Wednesday, CBSE cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams across the country this year in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Students of Class 10 will be marked on an objective criterion to be developed by the board, which is yet to be declared. On April 12, the state government postponed HSC exams (Class 12) to May end and SSC exams (Class 10) to June. However, following CBSE’s decision and a similar decision expected from ICSE and IGCSE, experts said it has become imperative for the state board to consider similar options. The need for equivalence becomes important especially in Mumbai where a large number of students across boards compete for a few coveted junior colleges leading to fierce competition for admission to Class 11. While there are more seats than applicants every year, top scorers set their eyes on a handful of sought-after junior colleges in the city.There have also been several instances in the past where concerns have been raised about state board students lagging behind their counterparts from the other boards as the latter have a more flexible and liberal marking style.“Students of the state board cannot be made to write exams when their counterparts from the other boards are at home, being evaluated based on their internal assessments. Similarly, to ensure that state board students do not lie at a disadvantage in admissions post Class 10, care needs to be taken to ensure that the board adopts a similar marking criterion as other national boards,” said an expert working with the state board on the issue. Jaywant Kulkarni, a teacher from Gandhi Bal Mandir High School in Kurla said considering the current scenario, the conduct of physical exams seems next to impossible. “In such a scenario, the government should announce that it will score students based on internal assessments as soon as possible so that schools can start preparing for the same. Under the current circumstances, school teachers who have seen the student for at least two-three years will be the best judges to assess their overall performance,” he added.Experts are worried that CBSE’s decision might just push boards into adopting a similar step which might have negative consequences on the overall learning outcomes of students. “State board students have prepared for exams for the whole year and now suddenly if they are told that the marking criteria are changed, there might be a lot of anxiety and confusion. The government needs to strike a right balance between equivalence and assessing the child’s performance in the best possible way at the moment. While physical exams seemed like an ideal way to do that even if they are postponed, CBSE’s decision might push boards towards considering internal assessments,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board. BOXSome solutions the state board has come up with in the last few years to bring about a level playing field for state board students vis-a-vis other boards-Best of 5 scores where the highest scoring five subjects of the six are considered for calculating overall scores of students-Oral exams- For every 100 marks exam, 20 marks are set aside for internal assessments such as orals and practicals-Bonus marks for arts and sports Students get between 3 and 25 bonus marks for excelling in areas such as sports, drawing and different performing arts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/equivalence-of-marks-key-criteria-for-maharashtra-board-decision-101618513751790.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Centre allows Haffkine to start Covaxin production||In a major development, the Central government has given permission to the state-owned Haffkine Bio Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited to start production of Covaxin, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech.The permission was granted by Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology of ministry of science and technology, the chief minister’s office confirmed. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he personally requested the PM to look into the matter in one of his virtual meetings.The permission has been granted on a request from the Haffkine Institute for transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech to producing the vaccine. This will be done by setting up a new plant for manufacturing Covid vaccine in collaboration with Bharat Biotech with an estimated cost of Rs154 crore.“The permission has been granted on the recommendations made by the expert committee. The Centre has given a year time to start the production. It has asked to constitute a team of senior technical experts from Haffkine Institute to complete the task at the earliest. The Centre has also asked the state government to appoint a senior official to monitor the progress of the project,” said a senior official.The permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech that has developed the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in the country was sought in January this year.Haffkine is a public sector undertaking owned by the state government and has developed a number of vaccines that include anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc. It has also sought permission for fill and finish operations of Covid vaccine in which Haffkine Institute will only fill vaccines in bottles and make them ready as a product.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-allows-haffkine-to-start-covaxin-production-101618513751166.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls even tougher curbs if rules not followed||A day after a complete lockdown began across Maharashtra, the state machinery was disappointed by the violation of restrictions in most parts of the state, pushing the government to warn people of even stricter curbs related to trains, markets for essential services in a couple of days if they did not follow the rules. The state government is also expected to instruct district authorities once again about a stricter implementation of lockdown curbs. Maharashtra government imposed lockdown across the state, excluding essential services and public transport, for two weeks beginning from 8pm on Wednesday till 7 am on May 1. The response to the lockdown on its first day was a mixed bag in the state. Crowds were witnessed at market places, while crowding in local trains in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), too, was evident during the peak hours. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar hinted at imposing even stricter curbs for the essential sectors. The minister said that the state government is expected to take a decision in that respect. “People were found violating lockdown norms on day one of the lockdown, which was distressing. If this continues, we will take a decision in the next two days to impose stricter curbs on essential services, petrol pumps. A decision will have to be taken about local train travel too.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already spoken about stricter restrictions if the expected results of the lockdown was not found. We will take a firm decision about it,” he said.Wadettiwar said t the state may even think of restricting operation of petrol pumps to only for vehicles involved in essential and emergency services. According to officials from Mantralaya, although the footfall at public places has reduced, it was not as expected. “The people are not taking it in the right spirit and are finding loopholes for violation of rules. Day by day the Covid-19 situation is worsening. Compared to last year’s lockdown, there is 40% more crowding at public places. It may be because of the decision of keeping public transport on. If this continues, the timing of operations of shops and establishments dealing in essential commodities are likely to be reduced. They will either be allowed to stay open for fewer hours or will be allowed to operate on alternate days. Similarly, the govenrment may also tap the idea of restricting operations of local trains in MMR,” said an official, requesting anonymity. Thackeray, during his meeting with district administrations on Wednesday, instructed them to enforce restrictions very strictly and take action against violators. “This time preventing the infection is very difficult and therefore the strict enforcement by the revenue and police machinery was very important. Do not lower your guard as we cannot afford to spread the infection further. There should not be any confusion while implementing the curbs,” he said. He also had told district authorities to shut down even essential services if the violation was found. “People are taking the situation very casually. Rather than enforcement by the machinery, the citizens are expected to follow the restrictions as social responsibility. The district administrations and police force will have to ensure more rigorous implementation of lockdown curbs,” Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary, Maharashtra said on Thursday. After the announcement of the lockdown on Tuesday evening, a few district collectors had requested the state government for relaxations, while most of them sought clarification on certain curbs. The state has, however, clarified that there would not be any relaxations given in the lockdown curbs and it needs to be implemented in toto. To answer doubts, the government issued a detailed clarification in form of response to frequently asked questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-even-tougher-curbs-if-rules-not-followed-101618513631221.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites stay in on Day 1 of state-wide restrictions||Empty roads, shut shops and closed eateries – Mumbai wore a deserted look on Thursday, the first day of 15-day strict restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government till May 1. While street vendors selling essential items such as vegetables and fruits are allowed to operate, local authorities asked them to wrap up early as the stalls got crowded. Mumbai Police and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ward staff were seen patrolling the areas throughout Thursday, asking shopkeepers to down shutters if norms were violated. Mahtab Alam, a vegetable street vendor from Dadar, said, “Around noon, the officials asked everyone to close business for the day. They have instructed us to work only till noon daily, for the next 15 days. Some vendors who did not listen to the police were asked to pay ₹1,200 fine.” Bharat Gogri, who owns a ready-made cloth store near Borivli station, tried to open half of his shop’s shutter at 9am on Thursday. Adjoining shopkeepers also tried the same. After some time, police personnel asked them to shut shop. Gogri and his fellow shopkeepers protested as hawkers continued to do business. “The state has allowed hawkers who do not pay tax or procure licences to operate while they are closing our legal shops,” said Gogri. Similar scenes were witnessed in the western suburbs of Malad, Kandivli and Goregaon. The latest ‘break the chain’ circular issued by the state empowers local authorities to take a call on restrictions in their areas for crowd control. The curbs have hit businesses of shop keepers and restaurateurs hard, with retail shop owners of Mumbai claiming a cumulative loss of ₹350 crore per day, and restaurateurs saying they are operating at 8% to 10% of their original income before the first phase of Covid-19 lockdown of March 2020. Amid the buzz over a lockdown, many labour and staff working at retail shops and restaurants left the city to return to their hometowns using inter-state public transport. As restaurants are allowed home delivery of food 24x7, some owners said they would remain open around-the-clock for online delivery. However, the business is bleak, they claim. Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, vice-president of Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association of India, said, “During the first phase of the lockdown last year, 30% of restaurants went out of business. Now, we are anticipating 30% more may go out of business if the restrictions extend for a considerable time. Most staff members have also left the city, so restaurants do not have the manpower to continue operating, let alone around-the-clock.” The wholesale markets of Zaveri Bazar, Kalbadevi and Mumbadevi saw scenes similar to the 2020 lockdown, as all shops were shut. Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale visited these places and praised the traders for adhering to the government’s diktat. Amid wedding season, many patrons who had given orders to make their jewellery faced anxious moments and were making frantic calls to the jewellers. “We have assured our clients that we will deliver their orders before the given deadline. We are committed to it despite this lockdown,” said Kumar Jain, president (Mumbai), Indian Bullion and Jewellers Association, a leading association of jewellers. At Zaveri Bazar wholesale market, at least 30,000 of the 300,000 workers have migrated back to their hometowns in the past few weeks. “We will wait for the next two days and see how the situation unfolds. We are fearing the virus,” said Rakesh Das, hailing from West Bengal and employed in the jewellery unit at Pydhonie. The handcarts, an essential for transporting goods in the wholesale markets, too, were lying unused. “There is not a single item to carry. I am wondering how long this lockdown will last. We managed last year somehow by taking loans, but this one will break our backs,” said Dhondiba Tarfe, a hand cart owner from Mangaldas market, a cloth market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-stay-in-on-day-1-of-state-wide-restrictions-101618513451141.html
16-04-2021||Other||Man throws acid on wife for not delivering son||Police have booked a man for throwing acid on his wife after their new-born turned to be a girl, and he wanted a boy. The couple have had two daughters from their seven-year marriage so far. The victim is admitted to Rajpura civil hospital with 58% burn injuries. Police said her husband, Harvinder Singh, has been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 326A (voluntary causing grievous hurt by use of acid) of the IPC.“According to the complaint of the woman, they married in 2014 and the accused wanted a son from her, after two daughters. The birth of a third daughter enraged her,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-throws-acid-on-wife-for-not-delivering-son-101618513271801.html
16-04-2021||Other||Telangana cancels class 10 exams, postpones class 12||With the number of positive cases for Covid-19 going up steeply in Telangana in the last 15 days, the state government on Thursday announced cancellation of all examinations for class 10 and indefinite postponement of intermediate second year (class 12) examinations. A notification to this effect was issued by special chief secretary (education) Chitra Ramachandran, following a high-level meeting convened by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao earlier in the day. The decision of the Telangana government follows the notification issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education, which made a similar announcement on Wednesday. Ramachandran said all the class 10 examinations scheduled to be held from May 17 stood cancelled. The results of the Class 10 students would be announced on the basis of an objective criterion to be developed by the Telangana Board of Secondary School Certification at a later date. “Any candidate who is not satisfied with the marks allotted to him or her would be given an opportunity to sit in an exam which might be conducted as and when the conditions become conducive,” she said. Similarly, Ramachandran also announced that all the Intermediate second year (Class 12) examinations proposed to be held from May 1 to 19 were postponed indefinitely.“We shall hold a review in the first week of June to take a call on the future dates of examination. The students would be given at least 15 days’ notice before the examinations,” she said. Those Intermediate second students having backlogs would be given minimum passing marks only for the backlog subjects, she said. With regard to Intermediate first year (class 11), the special chief secretary said all the students would be promoted to the second year without examinations. “However, the government will consider conducting the examinations whenever it becomes possible at a future date,” she said. Ramachandran also announced that the 25 per cent weightage of intermediate marks hitherto given for deciding the ranks of students appearing for the engineering and agriculture entrance examinations would not be considered this year. As such, the rankings would be decided purely on the merit obtained in the entrance test. In the last 24 hours, Telangana reported 3307 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths taking the overall tally of the positive cases to 338,045 and the death toll to 1,788, an official release by the Telangana medical and health department said. Currently, there are 27,861 active cases in Telangana. With 897 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the total recovery count has gone up to 308,396 cases, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-cancels-class-10-exams-postpones-class-12-101618513031050.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases have stabilised, next 15 days crucial: Mumbai civic chief||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said Covid-19 cases in the city have stabilised between 8,000 and 10,000, and the next 15 days are crucial. BMC had earlier said cases would start to go down by April-end. The daily positivity rate in the city has gone down to 15%, from 26% earlier this month.However, owing to the increase in the number of cases in the state along with rise in demand for oxygen beds in Mumbai, BMC on Thursday said it would appoint six civic officials to act as coordinators between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring that the same is used sparingly. There are around 150 private and government hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Thursday said, “Although the daily number of patients in Mumbai has stabilised between 8,000 and 10,000 in the last 15 days, the next 15 days are even more important. Given the growing number of patients and the amount of oxygen they need, it is important to keep the supply system running smoothly. At present 235 metric tonnes of oxygen is being supplied to the hospitals in Mumbai, and in view of the increasing number of patients, more demand has been made to the government.”On Thursday, the city reported 8,209 cases and 50 deaths, taking tally to 553,404 and toll to 12,197. The city’s recovery rate stands at 82.27% with 455,293 recoveries. Fatality rate is 2.20% and there are 84,753 active cases in the city.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician, said, “It is likely that the burden on health infrastructure will drop marginally as the lockdown will help bring the cases under control. However, about the number of cases going down in the city, I feel we will need at least around 30 days to bring down the cases with the amount of testing we are conducting in the city.”He added, “Though cases might have stabilised and the daily positivity rate has gone down, I feel our testing is also stabilising between 45,000 and 55,000. We need to steadily increase our daily testing figure and aim for at least 65,000 to 80,000 tests daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-have-stabilised-next-15-days-crucial-mumbai-civic-chief-101618512971673.html
16-04-2021||Other||Police detain CM Jagan’s sister Sharmila over protest||The Hyderabad police on Thursday arrested YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, when she tried to take out a foot march in the city along with hundreds of her followers. Sharmila, who addressed an impressive public meeting at Khammam last week and announced the launch of a new political party in Telangana, took up a three-day “deeksha” (fast) at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park in the heart of the city in the morning, demanding that the government fill up 1.92 lakh job vacancies by the Telangana government. The Hyderabad police, however, gave her permission to observe the deeksha only for one day, since there would be large gathering of her followers at the Dharna Chowk which was not permissible under the Covid-19 rules. But Sharmila announced that she would continue her fast for three days, come what may. However, as the deadline came to an end at 5 pm, the Saifabad police came to her and asked her to wind up the deeksha. When she did not relent, the police pulled down the tent and foiled her plans, resulting in a clash between the police and her followers. An agitated Sharmila announced that she would go on foot from Indira Park to her Lotus Pond residence, which was about 10 km away, where, she said, she would continue her fast for the next two days. As she walked for a couple of kilometres along with hundreds of her followers and reached Telugu Talli flyover, the police obstructed her and declared that she had no permission to go in a procession to her house. When she insisted that she would take out the foot march, the police arrested her and shifted her to Begumpet women’s police station. Speaking to reporters at the police station, Sharmila said she would continue her fast wherever she was taken and there was no question of going back on her announcement for a 72-hour deeksha. “It is atrocious that the Telangana government has chosen to arrest a woman who has taken up the deeksha for a genuine cause,” she said. Addressing hundreds of people at the Dharna Chowk, Sharmila lashed out at the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government for not filling up job vacancies even after six years. She blamed it on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for a spate of suicides by the unemployed youth due to lack of job opportunities. “I will continue my struggle till the KCR government issues a notification for filling up of 1.92 lakh job vacancies in various departments, as mentioned in the Biswal Committee report,” Sharmila said. Several social activists, political leaders and youth leaders attended her deeksha. Prominent writer Kancha Ilaiah appreciated Sharmila for waging a war against the TRS government like Rudrama Devi of Kakatiya dynasty. “She has every right to launch a new political party in Telangana and fight for fulfilling the aspirations of the people. I am not surprised if she becomes the chief minister of Telangana one day,” he said. Former Telugu Desam Party lawmaker and All India BC Welfare Association president R Krishnaiah, too, extended her support to Sharmila, saying she has all the capabilities of becoming the chief minister of Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-detain-cm-jagan-s-sister-sharmila-over-protest-101618512911124.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Day 1 of curbs: Public transport services in Mumbai see less takers||With restriction of the new lockdown imposed in the city on Thursday, public transport witnessed a dip in the number of passengers. Mumbai local services, which was closed for general public except for those travelling for valid reason, saw significant decline commuters. By 8pm on Thursday, nearly 1.8 million passengers travelled by local trains on both Central and Western Railway. Earlier, around 2.2 million passengers travelled on Central Railway and 1.8 million passengers travelled on Western Railway daily, as restrictions were eased under the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again. The Maharashtra government has not suspended public transport, but has implemented restrictions such as restricting general public from travelling by local trains. However, people working in essential care, travelling for medical purposes and those travelling to and fro vaccination centres across the city will be allowed to commute by the local trains. Autorickshaws are allowed to have two passengers only, excluding the driver; taxis are allowed to operate with 50% capacity and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are not allowed to ferry any standing passengers.Railway authorities have also restricted entry and exit points of railway stations on Thursday and started checking identity cards and documents of passengers at the entrance of railway stations. The inspection was conducted during the evening rush hour. “We have started checking identity cards of people working in essential care and other documents of passengers while they enter the railway stations. If we find any unauthorised travel, we inform Government Railway Police (GRP) who are authorised to charge fines,” said a senior railway official. There was also a decrease in passengers travelling by BEST buses. “There was up to a 5% decrease in the number of passengers travelling by BEST buses. No passengers were allowed to stand. We will know the exact decline in the number of passengers by Friday,” said a senior BEST official.Further, citing loss in livelihood, autorickshaw union has approached e-commerce website Amazon asking to engage autorickshaw and taxi drivers to deliver products within and outside Mumbai. “We would be happy if Amazon can look into engaging services of autorickshaw and taxi drivers in Mumbai and outside to deliver their products. They can also deliver bigger quantity and bulkier products. This would enable the autorickshaw and taxi drivers to earn some income during these difficult times,” said Krishna Hegde, president, Kamgar Seva Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-curbs-public-transport-services-in-mumbai-see-less-takers-101618512851078.html
16-04-2021||Other||Three arrested for abetting suicide of 26-year-old: Police||Bengaluru: Three men have been arrested for allegedly abetting a 26-year-old man to suicide by blackmailing him using intimate videos, Bengaluru Police said on Thursday.According to police, the body of the 26-year-old MBA graduate was found hanging at his residence near KR Puram on March 23. Police said that the man’s family could not ascertain the reason for suicide initially as they were not aware of any issues faced by him, neither did they find any note. Later, a message received by his sister from an unknown person pointed towards a possible case of extortion, police said. Police said the accused, identified as Kadeem, Robin and Javed, all residents of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, were arrested from their native place. Pointing that the accused were repeat offenders, investigators said Khadeem would create fake Facebook accounts in women’s name to lure men online. “He would send them a friend request and chat with them. During the chats, they would learn about the family background of their victims. Once they zeroed in on a target, they would then lure them for sex chats and video calls. They asked their victims to strip during the video calls and record them. These clips would then be used by the accused to blackmail their targets,” an investigating officer said, adding that the accused would take help of an unknown woman for video chat.Police said the same modus operandi was used in this case as well. “A Facebook friend request was sent to the 26-year-old by a stranger from a profile named after Neha Sharma,” the officer said. “He started chatting with the woman, who later made a video call to him. She removed her clothes and asked him to undress. What followed was recorded,” said the officer.Later, the gang extorted around ₹45,000 in multiple transactions from the man, threatening to release the video online and tell his family members about it, police said, adding that the continued harassment pushed the 26-year-old to take the extreme step. Meanwhile, on April 3, the deceased’s sister received a message from an unknown man on Facebook, which said that her brother had borrowed ₹21,000 from him, police said. She received another message from one Neha Sharma, asking if she was related to the victim. Finding the messages suspicious, she gave Neha Sharma her nephew’s number, claiming it to be of the victim. During the chats, they told the nephew, who they thought was the deceased, that with a one-time settlement of ₹21,000, the case could be closed, police said. The family then approached the police after realising that the 26-year-old was being blackmailed.Police have booked the three for abetment to suicide and cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and sections of Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-arrested-for-abetting-suicide-of-26-year-old-police-101618512791091.html
16-04-2021||Other||10,497 new cases in B’luru, HC calls for crack down||Bengaluru The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the state Director General of Police (DGP) to form committees and monitor action being taken against political leaders and celebrities violating Covid-19 protocols like wearing of masks and maintaining social distance, according to two persons aware of the developments. “We had brought to the court’s notice that lockdown norms are being violated more by celebrities and political leaders and no action is being taken against them. They have been virtually saved,” said Puthige R Ramesh, the advocate appearing on behalf of Letzkit Foundation, who filed the case. The court also observed that no one should be spared for violating safety protocols, the advocate added. The direction of the court comes at a time when Karnataka has been registering record Covid-19 cases, indicating that the health crisis in the southern state and its capital Bengaluru was spiraling wildly out of control. Bengaluru breached the five-figure mark for the first time as it reported 10,497 cases on Thursday, taking its active case count 71,827. The city accounted for 30 of the 66 fatalities reported across the state on Thursday. The overall toll in the state to 13,112. Karnataka reported 14,738 new infections, taking the active case count closer to the 100,000-mark at 96,561. The state had previously reported its biggest single-day spike of 11,265 cases on Wednesday.Among 66 deaths reported on Thursday, 30 are from Bengaluru Urban, Ballari and Bengaluru Rural (6), Mysuru (5), Hassan (4), Dharwad (3), Bidar, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada (2), and one each from Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Ramanagara, Shivamogga and Vijayapura.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 10,497, Kalaburagi 624, Tumakuru 387, Bidar 363, Mysuru 327, Mandya 211, Ballari 200, followed by others.Political leaders, including chief minister BS Yediyurappa, have been seen in public places with no masks and no semblance of social distancing. All three political parties -- Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) -- have been campaigning in Belagavi, Basavakalyan and Maski constituencies ahead of the April 17 bypolls, addressing large gatherings of people, which experts said, was one of the main reasons for spreading of the infection in these districts. The high court was hearing a plea by Letzkit Foundation, which sought strict implementation of Covid-19 norms in the state and Bengaluru, which accounts for around 70% of all cases being reported in Karnataka. Yediyurappa has said that there will be stricter action taken against violators “after the elections”, making it convenient for political parties to continue campaigning. The campaigning ended on Thursday and the polls are on Saturday in the three constituencies. “We have furnished all the photographs where all the violations are taking place by political leaders and film stars,” GR Mohan, an advocate who has filed an impleading application with the same prayer, said. He added that the court was also informed that the government decided to increase seating capacity (in cinema halls?) from 50% to 100% at the request of just one actor (Puneet Rajkumar). The Karnataka government has put in effect a ‘night curfew’ from April 10 to 20 in seven districts, including Bengaluru. The state government has ruled out a lockdown as it fears the economic impact on the already fledgling finances of the state, according to ministers, legislators and experts. However, the lack of hospital beds, especially for critically ill patients, has added to the challenges of the Yediyurappa-led state government. There are just over 30 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and those with ventilators in all of Bengaluru, according to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike data, which the HT reported on Wednesday. Almost 70% of all hospital beds (private and government) are full in Bengaluru, which has stressed the city’s healthcare system amid a raging pandemic. “Private hospitals have been requested to reserve 50% of beds for Covid patients. But private hospitals have reserved only 15-20% of what has been asked for. Government will consider it as a serious lapse. Strict measures will be initiated if they do not follow the government orders,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health & family welfare and medical education minister said on Thursday. He added that only critical non-Covid patients who need hospitalisation should be treated in hospitals. “Government cannot keep quiet if Covid patients are denied treatment,” Sudhakar said. The government has also sought a report from the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on increasing Covid-19 cases and containment measures. “The report will be handed over to the CM and he will take the decision after a detailed discussion with leaders in the all-party meeting and cabinet colleagues,” Sudhakar added. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10497-new-cases-in-b-luru-hc-calls-for-crack-down-101618512731688.html
16-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to add 1,500 beds as Covid-19 caseload rises||As Mumbai’s bed occupancy crosses 80% with more than 98% intensive care unit (ICU) and ventilator beds and 85% oxygen beds being full, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to add 1,500 beds. It has also allowed private hospitals to tie up with four and five-star hotels to accommodate patients who are not critical. On Thursday, 42 such beds were made available at hotels Intercontinental, Marine Drive and Trident, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). As per BMC’s dashboard, there are 20,022 beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centres, of which 4,105 are vacant. According to BMC, on Thursday it ordered to convert Jaslok Hospital, one of the major private hospitals in the city, into a Covid-19 hospital. This move will add 250 beds, of which 40 will be ICU beds. BMC has ordered the hospital authorities to discharge all non-Covid patients and not admit any non-Covid patients. According to BMC, non-Covid patients who are already admitted will be shifted to the nearest hospital within 48 hours, further cancelling all surgeries for the time being.Further, BMC said it has approved Bombay Hospital to admit non-critical and asymptomatic patients at InterContinental in Marine Drive, and HN Reliance Hospital to admit such patients at Trident in BKC. Civic officials said, more such hotels will be added to the list in the coming days.In a circular issued, BMC stated, “Step down facilities linked to hotels shall admit patients referred by linked private hospitals only. They shall be responsible for providing round the clock hospitality.”The circular added, “The hospitals shall charge up to ₹4,000. This includes charge of beds and meals. Additionally, medical expenses on the patient will be charged separately. In case, there are two members from a family, they can share a twin sharing room for which the cost will be up to ₹6,000.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Four and five-star hotels will be an extension of major private hospitals for step down of Covid-positive patients. Two hotels will begin the same from today. Additionally, 250 Covid-19 beds in Jaslok Hospital will be available by Saturday.”Chahal added, “In addition, 30 more ICU beds will be added to SevenHills Hospital today. Further, 1,500 additional beds will be added to the NESCO jumbo centre in the next week. These beds will mostly be oxygenated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-add-1-500-beds-as-covid-19-caseload-rises-101618512671036.html
16-04-2021||Other||UP govt to vaccinate teachers, other UP Board staff on priority||The state government, which on Thursday announced to postpone the high school and intermediate examinations of UP Board till May 20, has decided to vaccinate teachers and other staff to be deployed on exam duty on a priority, said officials. Special secretary Uday Bhanu Tripathi has sent a missive to all district magistrates, director, secondary education, chairman and secretary of UP Board, divisional joint directors (Education) and district inspectors of schools (DIOSs) to ensure that the teachers and non-teaching staff, eligible for vaccination according to age and set to perform duties in board examinations, should be vaccinated on a priority basis.Secretary UP Board Divyakant Shukla confirmed the missive and said that in compliance of the instructions of the state government arrangements were being made to ensure vaccination of all teachers and staff who are set to perform duties in the class 10 and class 12 examinations.Meanwhile, the state government, on Thursday announced that the board exam for both high school and intermediate exams would commence after May 20. Earlier, these exams were to be held from April 24 which were then postponed to May 8 owing to the worsening Cobid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh. Fresh dates of the board exams for different subjects and the date of conclusion of exams would now be announced later by the government, probably by second week of May. This year a total of 56,03,813 students have registered to appear in class X and class XII exams of UP Board. Of these, 29,94,312 are of class X and the rest, 26,09,501 students are of class XII. The postponement of exams of the UP board follows the record hike in number of coronavirus cases across the state. It also comes after the announcement made by the authorities of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) which have cancelled the board exams of class X while the board exams for class XII may have held after June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-vaccinate-teachers-other-up-board-staff-on-priority-101618511470865.html
16-04-2021||Gurugram||Principal of pvt school in Bhondsi booked for abetment to suicide||The principal of a private school in Bhondsi was booked on Thursday for abetting the suicide of a class 9 student on April 9, the police said. The student, a 16-year-old girl, took the extreme step after the principal allegedly slapped and humiliated her and called her parents after finding a mobile phone in her possession, the police said.The family members of the girl alleged that he had caned and abused her in front of the entire classroom and threatened her to rusticate her from school. However, no arrest has been made so far.An uncle of the girl said that she returned from school looking upset on April 8, did not talk to anyone and was constantly crying. “Before she reached home, we had received a call from the principal alleging that he has recovered a mobile phone from her possession and that it was proving to be a distraction from her studies. He called us the next day and asked to shift her to another school,” he said.The family members said that they tried to intervene and resolve the issue, but the principal was adamant that she would not be allowed to continue her studies in the school. “While we were returning, my niece’s friends informed us that the principal not only humiliated her but also assaulted her, caught her hands and abused her in front of the class. He made personal remarks also, “ said the uncle.Upon returning home, the girl went to her room and did not return for two hours. Her younger brother went to check on her and found her hanging, the police said. She was taken to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhondsi police station on Thursday. Jagbir Singh, the station house officer of Bhondsi police station, said they are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/class-9-student-hangs-to-death-school-principal-booked-for-abetment-101618509377188.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Covid impact: Eateries, food stalls feel the pinch in Pune||PUNE Amid the strict restrictions imposed by the state government to curb the Covid cases, many roadside eateries and food stalls have opted to keep their stalls closed and only a few are providing parcel services by following the virus-appropriate norms.On Thursday, hardly three to four roadside eateries were operational and provided parcel service in the peth area near Shaniwarwada, which usually attracts students, visitors, people working in nearby offices among others.Nitin Gaikwad, the owner of Shri Krishna Snacks near Saniwarwada, said, “My business has been affected, I hardly earn ₹400 daily, as compared to my regular income of ₹800. Mostly, the regulars are students who hardly come these days.”Vinod Gautam, who works at a stall “Shivam Dosa,” said, “During summer, families and students usually visit Saniwarwada and the business used to be at the peak. But the situation is different due to the pandemic. The government has allowed us to operate the business for parcel service, but there are hardly any customers.”Sai Pav Bhaji had some late diners from nearby offices. “These couple of people are my first customers of the day. Usually, by 2 pm, I would have a lot of orders, but now I have around four orders. Since people cannot stand and eat here and we have to parcel this, it is tough for them too,” said Milind Thopte, owner of Sai Pav Bhaji.Jagdish Patil, who works for a finance company nearby, said, “At least we are getting to eat even if it means to take a parcel to office. Last year it was tough during the lockdown and we had to rely on expensive restaurants.”While in Sadashiv peth, the “khau galli” is bereft of the usual crowd except for some people sitting on the steps of the shops on the opposite side of the eateries.“I was not aware that we have to do the Covid test. I will get it done tomorrow,” said one of the young employees of Bholenath tea stall. “Right now we are giving parcel only,” he said.Some of the stall owners have got themselves vaccinated from private hospitals just to open their business. Like Prithviraj Choudhary running the “Davangiri dosa” stall. “I went to a private hospital and got myself vaccinated. Only if I run my stall will I make money. There is hardly any public, but we are hoping that we can make some money to feed our family,” he said.Sagar Joshi, an employee of a bank, had to take his plate of dosa and eat in his car. “I live alone and there is no time to go to a mess and collect food. We are working on less staff hence there is a heavy workload. So the best is to come to these stalls, buy the food and eat it inside the vehicle,” said Joshi.Sachin Anda Bhurji at Balgandharva bridge run by Sachin Ingale is one of the famous spots for everyone to eat piping hot “burji”, but today (on Thursday), he waits eagerly to see customers. “I got vaccinated and only then came to open my stall. Since morning I have got only four orders. I have also advertised on my stall that I have started delivery up to a 3 km radius, using my resources. If one has to survive then I will have to use my savings to make it through this lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-impact-eateries-food-stalls-feel-the-pinch-101618504270071.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Two to a bed in Delhi hospital as Covid-19 crisis spirals||Gasping for air, two men wearing oxygen masks share a bed in a government hospital in India's capital New Delhi, victims of the country's growing Covid-19 crisis.From reporting under 10,000 new daily cases earlier this year, daily infections crossed 200,000 on Thursday, according to official data, the highest anywhere in the world.At Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), one of India's largest Covid-only facilities with more than 1,500 beds, a stream of ambulances ferried patients to the overflowing casualty ward on Thursday.Also watch: Covid patients share bed at Delhi’s LNJP hospital amid surge in casesSome also arrived in buses and three-wheeled autorickshaws.The youngest patient was a new-born baby."We are definitely over-burdened. We are already working at full capacity," said the hospital's medical director, Suresh Kumar.From an initial 54 beds, the hospital now has over 300 for Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Even that is not enough.Unrelated patients share beds, while bodies of the recently deceased lie outside the ward before being taken to the mortuary."Today we have 158 admissions in Lok Nayak alone," Kumar said. Almost all were severe cases.After imposing one of the world's strictest lockdowns for nearly three months last year, India's government relaxed almost all curbs by the beginning of 2021, although many regions have now introduced localised restrictions.LNJP's Kumar said fast-spreading new variants that evade testing were adding to the burden, as was human behaviour as the country reopened."People are not following the Covid guidelines," he said. "They are just careless."Outside the hospital's mortuary, weeping relatives gathered in the hot sun to wait for the bodies of loved ones to be released.Prashant Mehra, 40, said he had to pay a broker for preferential treatment before he could get his 90-year-old grandfather admitted to the hospital. The hospital did not immediately respond to a request for comment on his remarks.Mehra said the effort made little difference in the end."He died after six or seven hours," he said. "We already asked for our money back."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-to-a-bed-in-delhi-hospital-as-covid-19-crisis-spirals-101618502635962.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Woman mans ambulance wheels to ferry Covid victims for burial in Pune, even at nights||PUNE: A group of volunteers waiting at the Kausar Baug cemetery in Kondhwa was surprised when an ambulance driven by a woman and carrying body of a person who died of Covid-19 stopped in front of the main gate at 2am on Tuesday. Anita Gosavi, 41, had ferried the deceased from Pimpri-Chinchwad area to Kondhwa, covering a distance of about 23 km, alone. Javed Khan, a volunteer of the group, said, “We reached the Kausar Baug Kabrastan at midnight after receiving a message that a body will arrive for burial. It was a shock for us to see a woman at the wheel of the ambulance. We salute Anita for her dedication and bravery. We have never seen a woman driving an ambulance for Covid victims as we have been performing the last rites of those who died of the virus since the outbreak last year.” Anita, a resident of Pimpri-Chinchwad, said, “I am driving a ambulance since last September when my brother, who is an ambulance driver, tested positive for Covid. As he was not getting a driver, I offered to fill his place. Though my parents were against the decision, my brother convinced them.” “Whenever I get a call, I rush to hospitals to either pick up a Covid patient or body. I have ferried bodies alone at night many times. The situation is bad. Few days ago, I picked up a 23-year-old woman who was infected by the virus. Along with the patient and her parents, I was running from one hospital to another in search of a bed till 6 am. Finally, Yashwantrao Chavan Medical hospital in Pimpri promised to give a bed at 8 am. So, her parents requested me to drop them at home. I dropped them at home and got a call at 7 am that the patient has passed away.” About the fear of carrying bodies in ambulance alone at nights, Anita said, “I am not afraid to doing this work. Earlier, I was working as a school bus assistant. I was passionate about driving, and requested the bus driver uncle to teach me. The uncle taught me to drive and later I became a school bus driver before the lockdown left me jobless. I started vegetable business, but my parents asked me to shut shop.” Anita again took to wheels after her brother went into quarantine. When the second wave of Covid started, she began the service under the name of Savitri Ambulance. “I might be the first ambulance driver for Covid service, but am not sure. My daughter is pursuing doctorate at a renowned institute and son is a diploma holder. They have allowed me to do the work, but always tell me to follow all preventive norms.” A native of Jamkhed taluka in Ahmednagar district, Anita was brought up at Pimplekher village before shifting to Akluj after marriage. “When kids grew up, we shifted to Pune for their better education,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-mans-ambulance-wheels-to-ferry-covid-victims-for-burial-in-pune-even-at-nights-101618501810476.html
16-04-2021||Pune||PMC launches app for Covid patients in home isolation||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has launched an android-based application for Covid positive patients who have opted for home isolation.PMC home isolation app will give patients a direct channel to communicate with PMC about their daily well being and raise an alert in case of any emergency, said officials.Citizens need to download the app from Google Play Store app or from the link https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.technopurple.pmc.activity.homeisolationSatya Muley, an advocate and one of the volunteers who is helping people download this app, said, “Many people are opting for home isolation, especially those asymptomatic. These people should download the app. This will also help the PMC to tackle and monitor the growing numbers.”The app is designed to capture patient’s home location and digitise the daily health assessment checks. It helps in alerting authorities about patients who need immediate attention based on captured health parameters.The patient needs to register and make sure that all permissions are allowed for the app to work successfully in real-time.The guidelines to the app specify that patients opting for this app should not change phone settings and internet connectivity needs to be on for 17 days until the end of the quarantine period. A user guide via video is available in the app in Hindi, Marathi and English languages.To enrol on this app, the patient needs to be at home location to start the enrolment procedure, where all the details of the patient including the RT-PCR should be entered. In case multiple members in the family are Covid positive and in the same home isolation, they need to download and register from their phone. If a separate phone is not available then multiple patients can be enrolled in the same phone using the add button.It is important and required for the patient to submit a daily self-assessment form each day for 17 days of the quarantine period. Patients have to submit daily self-assessment form mandatorily before 3 pm, if not done so then the patient will receive a call from PMC staff.The app also suggests submitting an emergency form only if you in an emergency and need help from PMC. PMC staff will get alert when you fill this form and shall arrange help wherever possible. This app also shows important contacts ward wise control centre and ambulances in case of emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-launches-app-for-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-101618501329780.html
16-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist needs to step up Covid testing, say experts||With the Covid tally rising, health experts have pointed out the need to increase testing. Many labs and hospitals are delaying test reports, claim patients.Gajanan More, a resident of Kothrud said that on Thursday, he went to several labs for testing, but all of them said that the reports will come late. “I went to private hospitals for testing and they said that the reports will come in four days. After which I went to a private lab, they said that the kits are over and they can send a person to take a sample by the next day,” said More.In the Pune district, between April 1 and April 7 as many as 1,50,365 tests were conducted, while from April 8- April 14 as many as 1,96,778 tests were conducted, according to the district administration. In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, meanwhile, between April 1 and April 7 at least 1,40,823 tests were conducted and from April 8- April 14, at least 1,66,815 tests were conducted.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO) of Zilla Parishad said, 35,000 antigen kits would be given to 234 hotspots in rural Pune for mass testing in the next three days (from April 15).“We are hoping to get more people tested in Pune rural to ensure that good medical care is given to them and there is no further spread. Till April 17, we will be mass testing every person of each household who frequently goes out for work. This will help isolate and treat various patients at the early stage avoiding complications and further reducing death rate,” he said.Dr Vichar Nigam, Internal Medicine, consultant physician and diabetes specialist, Columbia Asia hospital, said that at a 40 per cent positivity rate, this is certainly one of the worst Covid waves the city has ever seen, owing to unregulated gatherings, and complete disregard of Covid safety norms.“We did not learn any lessons from the spike in cases that happened after festive celebrations last year. Few things are different this time. So far, the death rate is lower than last time. More deaths are reported in people above 60 years of age and with comorbidities. Approximately one-third of the infected patients are in their 20s and 30s which is more than last time,” said Dr Nigam.He added that instead of individuals, we are seeing entire families getting infected, which possibly indicates that the virus or its mutant strain that is causing the infection is less virulent, but more transmissible.“There is an urgent need to check the increasing number of infections to ensure that the healthcare providers can offer services to the more critical patients. Besides, every step must be taken to continue the current pace of vaccination, and try to speed it up so that more people are covered within a shorter period. Besides, public campaigns must be planned to increase awareness about the importance of Covid protocols and vaccine hesitancy,” said Dr Nigam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-needs-to-step-up-covid-testing-say-experts-101618496469301.html
16-04-2021||Delhi||Capital tightens curbs as cases spiral out of control||The Delhi government on Thursday shut malls, gyms, restaurants, reduced capacity at cinemas until April 30, and clamped a curfew on movement and assembly of people this weekend, as part of its efforts to arrest surging coronavirus infections that threaten to overrun the health infrastructure in the city with India’s worst outbreak.Malls, gymnasiums, spas, assembly halls, entertainment parks and auditoriums will be shut, dine-in facilities at restaurants in the city will be barred, and cinemas will be allowed to function at 30% capacity, said an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Only one weekly market per day per zone in municipal zones will be allowed, subject to compliance of Covid-19 protocols. Essential service workers and people out for emergencies, outstation travel or weddings will be allowed, said the order.The weekend curfew will be in place between 10pm on Friday and 5am on Monday.“On weekdays, people have to earn their livelihood. But on the weekend, people go out for entertainment and other activities, which can be curtailed. Hence, to break the chain of infections, we are imposing a weekend curfew,” said Kejriwal, an hour after meeting lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on the Capital’s coronavirus situation.A post shared by Hindustan Times (@hindustantimes)The CM, however, said that the situation will be monitored closely, and the curbs could be extended beyond April 30, and the curfew could also be imposed on following weekends, if needed. “People should not think of it as an inconvenience for them. It is in fact for their own safety,” he added. He sought to allay fears that the Capital was out of hospital beds but asked citizens to not be choosy about where to get admitted.The announcement comes a day after the city logged its highest one-day Covid-19 spike at 17,282 on Wednesday. The test positivity rate – a ratio of the number of positive cases to total tests conducted, and a measure of the scale of an outbreak in the region – has shot up from 0.59% a month ago, to 20.2% on Thursday – the highest in since June 26. Since April 1, the seven-day average of daily infections have shot up 590% and the city now has 54,309 active cases. The weekend curfew comes on top of 10pm-5am night curfew restrictions that are in place until April 30. On Thursday, the city logged 16,699 cases but the positivity rate soared to 20.22% because of lower testing the previous day as it was a public holiday. Over the weekend, restaurants will be allowed to do home deliveries and only establishments selling essential goods such as medicines, grocery or food items will be open. This means that regular markets will be open during the week, but will be shut this weekend, barring shops selling medicines or groceries. Cinemas will also be shut this weekend because only essential workers are allowed to travel.Government and judicial officials, diplomats, journalists and doctors will be allowed to travel this weekend on production of a valid identity card. People coming from or going to airports, railway stations or interstate bus terminals will be allowed on production of a valid ticket. But all other workers -- grocery shop staff, internet workers, bank staff, delivery personnel, petrol pump workers, private security staff, among others -- and people going for Covid-19 vaccination will need to show a valid curfew pass to be allowed to travel. People feeling sick, going for a Covid-19 test or in medical emergencies will be allowed.These passes will be available online on www.delhi.gov.in. A senior official said passes issued for the night curfew will be valid for movement during this weekend.“We will not allow any inconvenience to those involved in essential services like going to hospitals, railway stations or airports and also weddings. We will issue passes for their movement quickly and without harassment,” Kejriwal said.He added that steps will be taken to control crowds in all markets and public places. The government will also ensure a strict enforcement of Covd-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks.Public transport such as Delhi Metro and DTC and cluster buses will operate during the weekend but won’t allow the general public. Only essential workers will be allowed to board. The same will hold true for cabs or auto-rickshaws during the weekend.The government allowed weddings to go ahead.“This is the wedding season and many people’s weddings are also scheduled, and all preparations done. We don’t want to inconvenience them. We will allow their movement with curfew passes and they will be provided the same without any harassment,” Kejriwal said.Under existing curbs, weddings can allow a maximum of 50 guests and funerals 20 guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-tightens-curbs-as-cases-spiral-out-of-control-101618475999301.html
16-04-2021||Other||Ajit Pawar addresses poll rally in Pandharpur where Covid norms ignored||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar addressed a large gathering on Thursday in Pandharpur, where Covid norms went for a toss. Pawar was speaking at the campaign rally for Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) nominee Bhagirath Bhalke.The event was attended by at least 100 persons in a packed auditorium in Pandharpur. During the programme, local leader Kalyan Kale joined the NCP. While Pawar himself had a mask on his face, many among the audience did not have masks, a violation of the rule.While there was no case registered till evening, Arun Pawar, senior police inspector, Pandhapur police station, said that observers appointed by the tehsildar office will register a case of Covid-19 norms violation after going through all details.When asked, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope was cautious in his reaction, saying that everyone needs to follow Covid norms in view of the current situation.“There are elections in Pandharpur where Ajit Pawar addressed a meeting. Pawar is a senior leader and will not flout any norms on his own. There are times when it becomes difficult to control the crowd. However, I would like to reiterate that everyone needs to follow the Covid norms,” Tope said, speaking at press conference in Mumbai.Earlier on March 22, local police booked an NCP functionary for alleged Covid-19 violations while organising a political event, which was also attended Ajit Pawar.The event was held in Pandharpur and despite permission for 50 attendees, the crowd for the event was much larger.Later, a case was registered against Sandip Mandave, president of NCP’s Pandharpur-Mangalvedha assembly seat, under section 188 of IPC.NCP’s Bhalke, son of former MLA Bharat Bhalke, is its candidate for Pandharpur, and is pitted against BJP’s Samadhan Autade. The bypolls were necessitated for the Pandharpur-Mangalwedha seat after the demise of three- term NCP legislator Bharat Bhelke, in the last week of November||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajit-pawar-addresses-poll-rally-in-pandharpur-where-covid-norms-ignored-101617899506736.html
