17-04-2021||Mumbai||Those returning from Kumbh Mela should be quarantined for 10 days: Mumbai mayor||In the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases being detected in Haridwar at Kumbh Mela, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that those returning from Kumbh Mela should be quarantined for ten days in hotels and they should be left only if they test negative. She also said those returning may end up spreading the infection like ‘Prasad’.Meanwhile, on Saturday Mumbai reported 8,811 cases followed by 51 deaths. This took the total case tally to 571,018 and the death toll to 12,301. The city’s recovery rate is 82% with 471,080 recoveries. The city’s mortality rate is 2.15% and there are 86,433 active cases in the city.Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Pednekar said, “Those returning from Kumbh Mela may end up spreading Covid-19 like prasad, and hence we should be able to trace those returning from Kumbh Mela. We need to be religious to get strength but right now we need to develop inner strength.”Pednekar said, “We cannot stop anyone from going, but the only thing we can do is to take caution. As a mayor, my opinion is to quarantine those returning to hotels, but there are some decisions that Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) cannot take on its own. It will require guidelines from the state or the central government.”The statement of the mayor comes after over 2,000 tested positive for Covid in Haridwar after attending Kumbh Mela.According to BMC officials, they will wait for the state government to issue any such guidelines for quarantining patients coming from Kumbh Mela.A BMC official said, “We will need guidelines from the state government for quarantining patients coming from Kumbh Mela. But this exercise will also need more clarity on how to trace such travellers considering BMC does not have any data on how many have attended Kumbh Mela from Mumbai. It will be difficult to trace such patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/those-returning-from-kumbh-mela-should-be-quarantined-for-10-days-mumbai-mayor-101618683981803.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Colour-coded stickers must to ply within Mumbai: Top cop||To check on motorists taking to roads for no valid reasons or trivial work and causing traffic jams, Mumbai police commissioner (CP) Hemant Nagrale on Saturday announced self colour coding of vehicles plying in Mumbai. The police chief appealed to the citizens to follow the rule, which would come in force from Sunday 7am and will remain effective till May 1, 7am. The order came after the entry-exit points at Dahisar, Mulund and Vashi, and some other parts of the city saw long traffic jams because of police nakabandi and check on on those flouting lockdown rules. This caused interruptions in movements of ambulances and other essential service vehicles. Following this, the top brass of the police department decided to impose some restrictions on the movement of non-essential vehicles.Nagrale through a video message announced mandatory colour coding for vehicles in Mumbai to limit the vehicle flow.He said that red stickers would be a must for vehicles of the medical fraternity people like doctors, paramedics ambulance, and also for vehicles supplying medicines and medical and testing equipment.Essential service vehicles like that of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), electricity suppliers, telephone exchanges, press, and all those services which treated as essential services will be required to carry yellow stickers for easy identification.Green stickers would be required for the vehicles carrying vegetables, fruits, grocery, dairy products, bakery products, etc.All motorists (including the two wheelers) who fall under these categories have to put respective stickers on their vehicles. The stickers have to be pasted on the front and rear side of the vehicle and must be properly visible. They should be round and of a minimum of six inches in diameter. The police will also provide these stickers to the eligible motorists at the toll plazas and check posts free of cost, the commissioner said in his message.“The stickers would facilitate easy movement of essential service vehicles. If anyone tries to misuse the stickers or paste on their vehicle knowing that their vehicle doesn’t fall under the eligible categories, then those motorists would be prosecuted under relevant legal provisions,” Nagrale said.The decision aims to restrict the vehicular movement of unwanted vehicles during the lockdown and ensure no traffic jams at the entry-exit points and toll nakas for uninterrupted movement of ambulances, vehicles for doctors and nursing staffs. “Those vehicles which are coming to the city from other districts and states, and falls under the allowed categories would be given stickers by the police. The police will allow them entry into the city while rest will be barred from entering the city without any valid reasons,” said deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu, who is also the spokesperson for Mumbai Police. The deputy commissioner of police also added that the said order of colour coding has been issued under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colourcoded-stickers-must-to-ply-within-mumbai-top-cop-101618683861831.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Taxi and autorickshaw drivers demand more monetary relief||Taxi and autorickshaw unions have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking to provide a financial relief of ₹5,000 each to autorickshaw and taxi drivers in the state. They have further said that they will agitate if their demands are not met.The demand was made after the state on Tuesday imposed stricter restrictions across the state under Break the Chain initiative and declared a financial relief of ₹1,500 each for all registered auto and taxi drivers in the state.Citing the financial relief as insufficient, taxi and auto unions have asked for more monetary relief.“It is discrimination on the part of the state government. The operation of taxis in the city and state has been an old trade. Providing ₹1,500 is not enough, and the monetary relief should be increased. When the Delhi government can give ₹5,000 to drivers, why can’t the Maharashtra government? We have written to the government to provide ₹5,000 to every auto and taxi driver,” said AL Quadros, leader of Mumbai Taxi Men’s Union.Auto unions said if monetary relief is not increased, they would start agitation. “Surviving on ₹1,500 is very difficult. The situation of drivers across the state is bad. How will the drivers pay the vehicle loan amount? We had earlier asked for ₹10,000 for every driver, but we are getting just ₹1,500. This is not enough for the drivers and their families to survive. If the state government fails to increase the amount, we will be forced to start agitation,” said Shashank Rao, leader of Autorickshaw Men’s Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-taxi-and-autorickshaw-drivers-demand-more-monetary-relief-101618683801868.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 67,123 cases, highest single day count till date||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 67,123 fresh infections. The state also added 419 fatalities due to Covid-19, the highest in 197 days since October 2, when 424 deaths were reported.The death toll rose to 59,970 and the state is expected to cross the 60,000-mark on Sunday. Maharashtra continued to report over 60,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday taking the tally to 3,770,707. The active case count in the state rose to 647,933. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 8,811 fresh Covid-19 infections taking its tally to 571,018. The death toll increased by 51 fatalities, pushing it to 12,301.Even as the state is battling the second wave of Covid, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday asked the industry leaders to draw up a plan to tackle the third wave of coronavirus. Thackeray also reached out to industry leaders from the state and sought their assistance in the fight against Covid-19. The chief minister sought help in the production and supply of oxygen, increasing health infrastructure, setting up laboratories, and speeding up vaccinations. The CM appealed to the corporate community to set up oxygen production plants using modern technology in their premises and to assist the state with its supply.The virtual meeting was held with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), including Uday Kotak, Niranjan Hiranandani, Harsh Goenka, Sanjeev Bajaj, Naushad Forbes, SN Subramanian, among others. “If the third wave comes, the industries have to ensure that it does not harm the business and the economy. It should adopt the appropriate working method and set up Covid-related facilities,” Thackeray said, according to the statement from the chief ministers’ office (CMO).Thackeray further said that today nobody can predict how many such waves of Covid will come. “But now the industries in the state have to do the necessary planning, to face the coming wave,” he added. Thackeray also said that a task force consisting of industrialists for better coordination will be set up on the lines of the Covid task force.The CM further suggested them to adopt the Covid-19 appropriate working method, setting up testing and vaccination facilities, creating special systems for the health of workers and employees, setting up isolation facilities within industry premises, developing work-from-home mechanism, and staggering work hours, etc.Thackeray also said that the state is in dire need of oxygen and the government is hopeful that the Centre will provide all assistance. “We are in dire need of oxygen as the cases have surged. Currently, oxygen produced in the state is diverted for medical use. We will further need more oxygen looking at the rising cases. I wasn’t able to speak to the Prime Minister on this issue yesterday, as he is busy with the elections in West Bengal. But we are hopeful that we will receive all assistance from them,” said Thackeray, according to the CMO statement.During the meeting with industrialists, they were given an overview of the Covid situation in the state. Principal secretary of health department Dr Pradeep Vyas said that the Covid cases in the state are on the rise and the doubling rate has fallen to merely 40 days and with the cases on the rise, the requirement for oxygen is expected to go up.As cases and fatalities continue to mount in the state, the Maharashtra government is working to fill in the shortfall of medical use of oxygen and remdesivir injections. State health minister Rajesh Tope held a meeting with Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union health minister, and said that the supply of oxygen has started from other states, while adequate availability of remdesivir will happen in the next two to three days.“We have 1,500 metric ton of oxygen available with us and we use it only for medical use. A schedule has been prepared to transport oxygen from various states to Maharashtra from April 15. The Union home secretary has also directed all the states to not stop the oxygen coming to Maharashtra. We have sought help for tankers from the Centre, we have also asked to supply through cryogenic tanks on railway wagons. The Centre has given 162 oxygen generator projects to many states, we too expect that Maharashtra will get some,” he said in Jalna after the meeting.Tope added that industries are also pitching to help out the state for oxygen supply. “[Representatives from] JSW Steel has said that it would be able to provide 195MT oxygen daily after five days. Additional 200MT will also be provided by them in the coming days. Many industry heads have said that it will also provide oxygen cylinders.”On the availability of remdesivir drug, Tope said that the state has reiterated its demand to allow the use of the ready stock of the exporter. “As many as 15 exporters have finished product available and we again asked them (Centre) to supply it to Maharashtra,” he said.Meanwhile, the rising deaths are being attributed to late detection and admission to hospitals by the health department. Besides Mumbai, Ahmednagar district added 51 fatalities followed by Nagpur and Nanded districts with 34 deaths each. Pune district, which added 12,825 fresh cases, reported 30 deaths. Jalgaon district added 29 deaths, while Thane district, which has five municipal corporations and rural areas, added 27 deaths. Yavatmal district reported 13 deaths, while Latur and Osmanabad districts added 12 deaths each.Officials expect the Covid-19 cases to stabilise in a few days. TP Lahane, director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said, “The lockdown will be beneficial. We expect the numbers to come down after seven days since the strict restrictions are imposed.” Officials are expected to take a review of the situation in the next week.Even as ministers have warned of stricter restrictions and a total lockdown, Tope said that a decision would be taken after the 15-day curfew ends. “We have taken this decision even though it has inconvenienced many. We want this decision to succeed and appeal to people to not step out of their homes unless necessary. Let us first finish the 15 days and then examine the situation. We will take further decision [on extension] based on the situation at that time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-67-123-cases-highest-single-day-count-till-date-101618683741858.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||164 people arrested for violations of weekend curfew in Delhi||More than 360 cases have been registered and 164 people arrested for violations of the ongoing weekend curfew imposed by the Delhi government amid a surge in coronavirus cases, police said on Saturday."On Saturday from 8 am to 8 pm, a total of 363 FIRs have been registered and 164 people were arrested," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said.The weekend curfew in in force from Friday 10 PM to Monday morning.Police said that 2,432 challans were issued to people for violations of the curfew.Over 1,900 people were booked for allegedly violating the night curfew.According to data shared by the police, 72 cases were registered from 10 pm on Friday to 5 am on Saturday."A total of 1,950 people were booked under sections 65 (persons bound to comply with the reasonable directions of a police officer) of the Delhi Police Act, 107 (security for keeping the peace in other cases) and 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the CrPC,” Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said.The police issued 283 challans to people for violating Covid-19 norms, he said, adding that 20 cases were registered under Epidemic Act or other laws.The Delhi government had announced a seven-hour night curfew recently.The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the city.The DDMA order for night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be in force till April 30. People engaged in certain professions have been exempted from the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/164-people-arrested-for-violations-of-weekend-curfew-in-delhi-101618682380026.html
17-04-2021||Other||Site identified for public park in Ludhiana turns out to be bank property||Projected as a site for a model public park by Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey and mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu a month ago, the vacant land at the Tyre Market near Naulakha Cinema Road has turned out to be bank property.A month ago, Pandey had claimed that a public park will be set up for the area residents on the land measuring nearly one acre, amid the MLA’s scrutiny by opposition leaders for failing to bring any citizen-centric development in North constituency.But now, it has come to light that the entire area was pledged to a bank, which has started constructing a wall at the site to cordon it off. A signboard, reading that the property belongs to the bank, has also been erected on the land.Tajinder Kumar, one of the shopkeepers, while showing rent slips paid to the bank, said the property was pledged to Ludhiana Central Cooperative Bank. “When mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MLA Rakesh Pandey arrived at the site in March, I had apprised them of the land’s status. But, like other shopkeepers, I was dismissed,” he claimed.Another shopkeeper, who is paying rent to the bank, said a shopping mart was opened in the area decades ago, but after the concept failed, the bank took control of the land.Despite repeated attempts, bank officials refused to comment on the issue.When contacted, mayor Sandhu said he had marked an inquiry into the matter. “The record states that the land belongs to the municipal corporation. To clear this out, I have sought an inquiry. If the land indeed belongs to the civic body, we will take over the property, else another chunk of land will be identified for the park,” he added.Congress MLA Rakesh Pandey, who is recuperating from Covid-19, was not available for a comment.The land in question is located right in the heart of old city and connects Field Ganj, Lakkar Bazaar, Nawan Mohalla and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/site-identified-for-public-park-in-ludhiana-turns-out-to-be-bank-property-101618680982325.html
17-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents running from pillar to post for lodging of FIRs||City resident looking to get FIRs lodged are facing harassment as they are being forced to make several rounds of police stations. This, despite police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal’s directions asking police to ensure that lodging of FIRs is a hassle-free process. Raghav Singh, 15, a resident of New Nanda Nagar who lost his phone to motorcycle-borne snatchers, and his mother Neelam Singh have been making rounds of the Basti Jodhewal police station for the last four days to get an FIR lodged.Raghav said that on April 13, he was riding his cycle to the factory where his two elder sisters work, to hand over their lunch. When he reached Kailash Nagar, bikers snatched his mobile phone and fled.“I made a complaint to the police, but to no avail. We have been taking rounds of the police station almost daily. The IMEI number of the phone has been given to the police and we also arranged CCTV footage in which the faces of the accused are clearly visible. But, a case has still not been registered, ” Raghav said.“I lost my father a few years ago. My mother and two sisters are the breadwinners. One of my sisters is specially-abled and bed ridden. We five have only one phone to communicate and we can’t afford to buy another one,” he added.Inspector Goldy Virdi, station house officer (SHO) at Basti Jodhewal police station, said that the police are trying to arrest the accused. An FIR will be lodged and the phone will be recovered, he added.In another case, Sarvan Kumar of Basant Avenue, Roop Nagar, who is an electrician had lost his mobile phone to snatchers at Basant Avenue on February 22.Kumar said he has made several complaints to the police, including on the email id issued by the police to report snatchings and burglaries, but to no avail. He hasn’t even got a reply, he said.Police chief Rakesh Agrawal said that in most cases, the police lodge FIRs within 24 hours. He added that he will look into why these cases have not been registered yet.‘Report theft, snatching on e-mail’Ludhiana police relaunched the “Hassle-free FIR scheme” after nine months on August 16, 2020. They had invited residents to send their complaints regarding theft, snatchings and vehicle theft at the e-mail address: cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-running-from-pillar-to-post-for-lodging-of-firs-101618680682281.html
17-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily Covid count hits record high of 835||The district on Saturday touched a fresh peak in Covid-19 cases with 835 people testing positive for the virus – a 39% jump in its previous high of 598 cases on Friday.Saturday’s cases, which were the highest across Punjab’s 22 districts, pushed Ludhiana’s tally to 42,378, ranking on the top of the state’s caseload.The district also logged six deaths for the fourth consecutive day, taking the toll to 1,238 – also leading the state’s cumulative fatalities.With the latest infections, the active cases shot up to 4,276 for the first time ever. As many as 36,863 patients have been cured so far, a recovery rate of 86.98%, against the national average of 87.23%.April tally crosses March’s Registering 7,968 infections in just 17 days of April, Ludhiana has surpassed the 7,294 cases reported in March, when the cases started surging. At 95, the deaths this month are also inching towards March’s toll of 115.Ludhiana has logged over 500 cases on three days this month, over 400 on eight, while the daily count has remained over 300 since March 20.Four women were among six dead The latest fatalities were a 72-year-old woman from Model Town, a 65-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan, a 62-year-old woman from Urban Estate, a 62-year-old man from Rattan village, a 52-year-old woman from Ram Nagar and a 46-year-old woman from village Dhandra.Among the latest cases, 66 were contacts of positive cases, 155 were detected at OPDs of various hospitals and three were health workers.As many as 396 patients presented with influenza like illness (ILI).Currently, 73,991 people are observing home quarantine and 20 are fighting for life on ventilator support in various hospitals.‘Testing ramped up’Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the higher numbers of cases were cropping up due to increase in testing to check the spread of infection amid the latest surge. “Earlier, around 4,500 people were being sampled daily and now the number has increased to 7,500. On Saturday, too, we carried out 7,866 tests,” said Sharma.Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Covid task force, said the cases were multiplying due to UK strain of Covid-19, which had a faster transmission rate. “However, on a positive note, we have nearly doubled the daily tests. This will help us catch the infection early on, which will aid early treatment,” he added.Both Sharma and Dr Mohan urged residents to follow Covid appropriate behaviour for the safety of their family and the community at large. “Stop partying and socialising for the time-being. Wear a mask, maintain social distancing and sanitise hands frequently when venturing out in public,” Dr Mohan said.11 areas sealed Amid the surging cases, the district administration has notified 11 new micro-containment zones. These are located in parts of New Madhopuri; Omaxe, Pakhowal Road; Rupa Mistri Gali, Chaura Bazaar; Saroop Nagar, Salem Tabri; Hemant Cold Store, Salem Tabri; Phase 1, Dugri; Sant Fateh Singh Nagar, Dugri Road; BRS Nagar; and New Deep Nagar and Khazanchia Wala Bagh in Civil Lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-covid-count-hits-record-high-of-835-101618680622245.html
17-04-2021||Other||SAD (D) to meet Punjab governor over SIT chief’s resignation||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Saturday said an honest and upright police officer, IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who was heading the probe into police firing incidents had been mentally pressured to resign. He added that a delegation from his party would meet Punjab governor VPS Badnore on the issue. Dhindsa added that two Sikh men had lost their lives in the Behbal Kalan firing, as they protested against the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari. He added that his party would seek justice for those who lost their lives and for those injured. “Instead of giving justice to the Punjabis and the Panth, both Capt Amarinder Singh and the Badal family, are trying to save those involved in sacrilege and police firing on innocent Sikhs. It is no secret that only because of the dishonesty of the Capt government, the high court dismissed the investigation report SIT chief, IG Kunwar Vijay Partap,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-d-to-meet-punjab-governor-over-sit-chief-s-resignation-101618680562510.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Two booked for abetment to suicide of city-based jeweller||Two people, including a woman, were booked for abetment to suicide of Pune-based jeweller Milind alias Balwant Marathe (60) in December 2020. The two accused were investors in the jewellery chain run by the deceased man, according to the complaint lodged by his 60-year-old wife. The jeweller had died by suicide on December 27, 2020 while undergoing treatment at a hospital for injuries caused by his suicide attempt at his office. The man and woman had allegedly raised ruckus at the jeweller’s office and his residence over non-payment of returns on their gold investment in his company Pranav Marathe Private Limited, according to the complainant. The duo used to allegedly verbally abuse and ask for their money at his office, home, and through phone calls as well. On December 15, 2020, the two came to his office on Laxmi road and verbally abused him while threatening him with consequences for his family and son if he failed to return their money, according to the complaint. The man attempted suicide that evening and was declared dead while under treatment. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrambaug police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-of-city-based-jeweller-101618679841605.html
17-04-2021||Pune||12,825 new Covid cases, 30 deaths reported in Pune dist; vaccine shortage hampers inoculation drive||PUNE The district, on Saturday, reported 12,825 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths, according to the state health department.Pune district’s progressive count went up to 7.13 lakh cases, out of which 5.83 lakh have recovered, 8,827 have been declared dead, and 120,452 are active cases.Also, 34,516 beneficiaries get the Covid vaccine in the district on Saturday.In Pune rural, 13,047 beneficiaries got the jab, 14,366 beneficiaries got the vaccine in Pune city, and 7,103 got the jab in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).At least 28,304 beneficiaries got Covishield and 6,212 were vaccinated with Covaxin at 415 session sites.Sudhir Mehta, lead and coordinator, Pune platform for Covid-19 response, said that the reason for falling vaccinations is because of the shortage of vaccine stocks.Mehta said, “The falling numbers are because of the shortage of stock. We were to get 50,000 doses today (Saturday), but did not get it.”Meanwhile, out of the 12,825 new cases, Pune city reported 6,084 cases, which took the toll to 370,806 and 25 deaths were reported which took the toll to 5,004.PCMC reported 2,949 new cases which took the toll to 176,199 and one more death was reported which took the toll to 1,438.Pune rural reported 3,792 new cases which took the total cases to 166,139 and with four more deaths the toll went up to 2,330.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12825-new-covid-cases-30-deaths-reported-in-pune-dist-vaccine-shortage-hampers-inoculation-drive-101618678581496.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Every 4th sample in Delhi Covid positive, Capital adds 24,375 new cases in 24 hours||Delhi on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally with 24,375 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to nearly 828,000, according to the health department’s bulletin. More than 15,400 patients recovered and 167 succumbed to the disease during the same period, the bulletin showed. The death toll in the national capital is nearing 12,000 while recoveries and active cases have climbed to 746,239 and 69,799, respectively, it added.The positivity rate in Delhi is at 24.56 per cent, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The current positivity rate shows that every fourth sample collected in Delhi is testing positive for the disease.The bulletin also showed 99,230 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 30,024 are rapid antigen tests and the remaining 69,206 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests. The containment zones have climbed to 11,235 and 32,156 patients continue to remain under home isolation.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 17th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/yRBrFggWQPAs cases have been massively spiking in the capital, Delhi, like many other states in India, is facing a shortage of beds, oxygen supply and the anti-viral drug Remdesivir.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in Delhi is working towards increasing the number of beds and said the main aim is to create more beds for those patients who are severely infected with the disease. Kejriwal added that he spoke to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and asked for more Covid-19 beds, medical oxygen and Remdesivir.Also Read| Don't know when peak will come, says Kejriwal as Delhi reports 24K covid casesThe Delhi CM also said during the briefing the government is closely monitoring the overall Covid situation and if it worsens, then it will take whatever step is required to save the lives of people. The national Capital is placed under night curfew restrictions from 10pm to 5am which will continue till April 30. A weekend curfew has also been imposed which started from April 16, 10pm till April 19, 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/every-4th-person-in-delhi-infected-with-covid-19-24-375-new-cases-recorded-101618677427114.html
17-04-2021||Ranchi||Madhupur records 71.60% polling||Amid panic triggered by soaring cases of coronavirus infection across the state, the Madhupur by-election came to an end peacefully on Saturday with brisk polling. The assembly constituency registered 71.60 % voting, recording a decline by 2.4% against the 2019 general Assembly elections, election officials said.Six candidates, including independent ones, were in the fray for the by-election, the result of which will be declared on May 2. Chief electoral officer (CEO), K Ravi Kumar said, “The bypoll passed off peacefully. Enthusiasm among voters was visible since morning.” Even though all six candidates were confident of winning the election, the main battle, however, was witnessed between Grand Alliance candidate Hafizul Hasan Ansari and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Ganga Narayan Singh. Son of former minority welfare minister late Haji Hussain Ansari, Hasan, who was contesting the poll on the ticket of ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), claimed, “People from all castes, creed and religions have voted one-sided in the name of Haji Saab. I extend my thanks to the voters for their support.” On the other hand, BJP’s Singh also seemed also confident of his win. “People of the region have already made up their minds and they are going to make the BJP candidate win by a good margin,” said senior BJP leader Pradip Sinha. Braving the fear of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, voters, especially women, stood in beelines at polling stations since the process commenced around 7.00am amid tight security. The polling concluded around 6pm. A local Sangita Devi, who exercised her franchise at a booth in Madhupur urban area, said, “Initially, I was little worried due to the prevailing situation of coronavirus infection. However, precautionary measures taken at the booth were satisfying.” Similarly, one Md Sahud Ansari, who cast his vote at a booth set up in Doon Public School, said, “We were made to follow Covid-19 protocols upon entering the booth such as maintaining social distancing and use of mask. There was arrangement of hand sanitizers. Besides, our temperature were also measured through thermal scanner.” As many as 487 polling stations were set up and circles were marked at a distance of six feet at every booth to facilitate social distancing between voters.The Deoghar administration also set up 17 model booths. These booths were decorated with all basic needs such as toilets, drinking water, electricity, ensured. The model booths saw a decent voter turnout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/madhupur-records-71-60-polling-101618678401400.html
17-04-2021||Other||60-year-old man beheaded in Faridkot village||Residents of Deep Singh Wala village in Faridkot district found the headless body of a 60-year-old man in his house on Saturday. Unidentified miscreants chopped off the head of the victim, Harpal Singh, of the same village and took away the head, police say.Deputy superintendent of police Satvinder Singh Virk said, “It is a case of murder, where the 60-year-old was beheaded with a sharp-edged weapon inside his house, while asleep. Investigation is on to identify the accused and the motive of the murder. A murder case has been registered against unidentified persons at the Faridkot Sadar police station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60yearold-man-beheaded-in-faridkot-village-101618678221995.html
17-04-2021||Other||Guv, BJP MP, MLA test Covid-19 positive; state toll up at 1,386||Governor Droupadi Murmu and a host of political leaders tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday amid continuing hike in coronavirus toll and new cases, officials said.Murmu was admitted to Medical Super Speciality Hospital in state capital Ranchi Saturday evening. “Governor Droupadi Murmu has been admitted under Dr Vijay Kumar Mishra’s observation around 6.30pm Saturday. She has tested Covid-19 positive. Her health condition is stable and she is doing well,” Anand Srivastava, Medica spokesperson, said.Meanwhile, BJP MP and national vice-president Annapurna Devi too tested positive for the disease and shared the development on social media platform Twitter. “I have tested Covid-19 positive and request all the people coming in contact with me to get tested and stay safe,” Devi tweeted.On the other hand, health minister Banna Gupta took his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences Saturday.Meanwhile, Jamshedpur, the second biggest hot spot after Ranchi, reported 10 more Covid-19 deaths by 6pm on Saturday, taking the toll to 439. All the deaths occurred at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) between late Friday night and Saturday evening.Till Friday night, Jamshedpur recorded 2,865 active cases, with 539 new cases. Jharkhand reported 56 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 1,376 by Friday night. The state logged 23,045 active cases till Friday night of the total 155,115 confirmed cases so far, of which 130,694 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guv-bjp-mp-mla-test-covid-19-positive-state-toll-up-at-1386-101618678101455.html
17-04-2021||Other||Bihar moves to procure Remdesivir stocks, more oxygen supply as cases surge||PATNAThe Bihar government Saturday announced emergency procurement of Remdesivir (an anti-viral drug) from all the five manufacturing companies of the country even as the state reported 7,870 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak last year.The state government has authorized Bihar Medical Infrastructure Corporation Limited to procure Remdesivir under emergency procurement from all the five companies involved in making this medicine. “The state government, so far, was procuring this from three companies only,” said principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit on Saturday, while interacting with media persons. Patna reported maximum number of cases (1898) while Gaya reported 610. The number of cases also increased in Muzaffarpur, which recorded 541 cases. The total number of active cases in the state was 39,497, with Patna alone accounting for 12,118. The recovery rate in the state stands at 86.93%. According to government data, 34 people lost their life due to Covid in last 24 hours. “The infection is spreading very fast and this is the highest reporting of positive cases so far,” Amrit said. Meanwhile, the state government, in an effort to resolve the problem of oxygen shortage, set up a control room to monitor the availability and distribution in a better way. “The control room will monitor the requirement of oxygen in medical institutions of the state and ensure they get an uninterrupted supply,” said Amrit.He said oxygen containers from Bokaro will start reaching the state from Saturday night. “We have asked the two major suppliers Linde India and Inox Air Products Ltd to supply medical oxygen on a daily basis, instead of alternate days now,” said Amrit. Bihar has to essentially rely on West Bengal and Jharkhand for supply of medical oxygen through distributors. “The additional chief secretary (Industry) is also holding talks with different stakeholders for uninterrupted supply of oxygen,” he said.Govt should stop discrimination: IMA Senior vice-president of IMA (Bihar) Dr Ajay Kumar, said government should stop discrimination between registered (under Bihar Clinical Registration act) and unregistered clinical establishments run by registered doctors. “Government is utilizing services of unregistered clinics under PM Arogya Yojana, but it’s not allowing clinics having ICUs and other facilities to treat Covid patients . Since yesterday, district officers have stopped supply of oxygen to unregistered clinics threatening lives of patients admitted there,” he said.He said allowing private unregistered clinics to treat Covid patients will create an additional 1000 Covid beds and 200 ICUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-moves-to-procure-remdesivir-stocks-more-oxygen-supply-as-cases-surge-101618677801448.html
17-04-2021||Other||Decision on further steps on Sunday, says CM after all-party meeting||PATNAThe Bihar government will announce further measures to contain the spread of coronavirus on Sunday after seeking reports from all the district magistrates, chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Saturday as he emerged from the all-party meeting called by Governor Phagu Chouhan to discuss the situation.According to sources, though there was no unanimity at the meeting on enforcing a lockdown, BJP’s state president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal suggested a weekend lockdown advancing summer vacation in schools to April 18. JD-U state president Umesh Kushwaha suggested adequate stock of medicines, ventilators and oxygen. RJD’s Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav, who is leader of Opposition, was critical of the government’s preparedness and wanted adequate time to be given to people if the government wanted to enforce a lockdown. “The government may announce further strict measures to break the chain on one hand and augment testing, vaccination and facilities in hospitals on the other,” sources said. After the meeting, Kumar said the crisis management group was meeting later in the evening to discuss and decide further steps to be taken. “The number of Covid-19 cases has again risen today and the trend continues,” he said. With over 6,250 cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases has gone past 33,000 mark, a far cry from just 350 active cases health minister Mangal Pandey had said on the floor of the state Assembly earlier. As a result, hospitals in the state are under stress and shortage of important medicines and oxygen reported from many places. “In view of growing number of cases, I have already talked to Medanta Hospita chairman Dr Naresh Trehan to convert the newly built Medanta Hospital in Patna as a dedicated Covid hospital. The government is also conscious about availability of oxygen and medicines,” the CM said in his address. “Tomorrow, I will hold a video conference with all the DMs to know the status in other parts of the state, after which the government will announce further measures, as required. The suggestions received today will also be taken into account,” the CM said. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the government had briefed leaders from all the political parties of the status of health facilities for Covid, vis-à-vis last year when the pandemic was first reported in Bihar. “The unprecedented crisis has caught the entire world off-guard due to its sheer magnitude and rendered all facilities inadequate. It is time for all to contribute selflessly for the sake of humanity, not to settle scores,” he said. Tejaswhi Yadav raised the issue of inadequate testing and vaccination, besides lack of facilities in hospitals. He said if the government had any plans of announcing lockdown, it must give adequate time for the people stranded outside to return home. “I have given 30 suggestions to the government, but I doubt it would work on any of them. The government does not listen. It has failed,” he said. He had tweeted minutes before the meeting started: “Last year also, I was continuously cooperating and suggesting concrete measures, but the CM hardly cared for such positive suggestions. Even I had challenged him to speak on steps taken by him. Still, they have no sense of responsibility. May God save our Bihar.” Representatives of Congress, HAM-S, CPI-ML, CPI, VIP and others also joined the meeting, which was held online. CPI-ML wanted the age bar vaccination removed and said it did not favour lockdown due to bitter experience last time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-further-steps-on-sunday-says-cm-after-all-party-meeting-101618677562495.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Two arrested for forging RT-PCR reports in Pune||PUNE Pune police, on Saturday, arrested two men for allegedly running an illegal operation of forging RT-PCR test reports by using the name of a diagnostic laboratory based in Shivajinagar.The two arrested accused have been identified as Sagar Ashok Hande (25), a resident of Sangam chowk and a native of Nanded, and Dayanand Bhimrao Kharate (21), a resident of Warje Malwadi and a native of Usmanabad.“During the primary investigation, the two have informed us about several tests results they have forged in the past. There are other people involved in this racket,” read a statement issued by Pune police.The laboratory whose name they were misusing has been identified as Gene Path Laboratories, located on Jungli Maharaj road. The administration manager of the lab, Rupesh Shrikant Nale, had lodged a complaint at Deccan police station about forged reports.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 320 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468, 469, 471 (using forged as genuine), and 336 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-forging-rt-pcr-reports-in-pune-101618677501397.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Two held for kidnapping, extortion||Two people, including a woman were remanded to the custody of Pune police on Monday for being a part of a group of six who were booked for kidnapping and extorting an accountant working at a local nursing home by posing as police officers from the crime branch in March. The two arrested were identified as Amol Anil Gaikwad (30) and Supriya Ghadage (29), both residents of Upper Indiranagar, Bibwewadi. They have been remanded to police custody until Monday. The complainant was identified as Mandat Rajendra Mandke (24), a resident of Dhayarigaon in Pune. “The complainant is a simple guy working as an accountant. He had recently received some money from a land deal. Somebody tipped these people off about his fortune and they started plotting against him,” said police sub inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar who is investigating the case. Mandke told police that three people, including the two arrested, approached him at the hospital where he works around 12 noon on March 5. The three asked him to accompany them out of the hospital for some inquiry. As he allegedly followed them, they led him to a nearby alley where three others were awaiting them in an autorickshaw. He was beaten up in the stationary rickshaw by the six people, according to his complaint. The people then allegedly claimed that they knew of some wrongdoing committed by him at the hospital and made him sit on a motorbike on which he was taken to a hotel near Bopdev ghat. Once at the hotel, the people demanded a sum of ₹30,00,000 from him in exchange of sparing his life, according to his complaint. When Mandke agreed to pay, they took him to an ATM in Kondhwa and had him withdraw ₹65,000 using separate ATM cards and later took one of the cards from him along with its PIN. They then made him sit in an autorickshaw and asked him to go home without informing anyone. “After the amount he had withdrawn, the next day they used his card to withdraw ₹4,000 and ₹9,500 the day after that and threatened him to not talk about it,” said PSI Usgaonkar. A case under Sections 170, 364(a), 386, 323, 504, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bibwewadi police station against the unidentified people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-held-for-kidnapping-extortion-101618676901492.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Police: Citizen movement higher on third weekend lockdown||The movement of citizens on the third weekend lockdown was significantly more than the last two weekends, according to Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune city police. “We have felt the effect of this lockdown but in comparison to the last two weekends, the number of people moving out without a valid reason was higher this weekend compared to the past two weekends. Please co-operate with the police, they are putting their lives on the line at 96 check posts and patrolling various spots. They can ask you for identification and reason at any point,” said Shisve in a statement. These restrictions were brought in place in light of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city in the first week of April. Only milk shops are allowed to function in the morning and medical organisations like medical shops, laboratories are allowed to function on the weekends. Grocery shops are supposed to be shut while citizens are not allowed to move around without a valid reason. Aside from lockdown violations, so far, the police have also collected ₹14,10,34,900 in fine from 2,90,027 violators who failed to wear masks in public places.Shisve has warned of police action, including confiscating vehicles and penal action, to violators who can spread the infection. He urged citizens to show the same spirit that was shown by the citizens during the Ganesh festival, December 2020 lockdown, and the past two weekends, in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-citizen-movement-higher-on-third-weekend-lockdown-101618676781327.html
17-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees highest single-day spike of 9,046 new cases; tally crosses 4 lakh||Rajasthan recorded its biggest single-day spike of 9,046 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the tally to 404,355, while the death toll mounted to 3,109 with 37 more fatalities, according to an official report.Meanwhile, the weekend curfew remained effective on Saturday as shops and offices except essential services remained closed. The curfew will continue in the state till 5 am on Monday.The state government had announced the weekend curfew after a high-level review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday night.However, polling and election-related activities in Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand (Rajsamand) constituencies were exempted.Rajasthan now has 59,999 active novel coronavirus cases, the report said.A maximum of 1,484 new cases were reported in Jaipur, followed by 1,265 in Jodhpur, 1,049 in Kota, 783 in Udaipur, 591 in Alwar, 407 in Bhilwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-9-046-new-cases-tally-crosses-4-lakh-101618675955460.html
17-04-2021||Pune||22-year-old duped of ₹7.7 lakh by friend in job fraud||A junior college friend of a 22-year-old was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for duping him of ₹7.7 lakh under the false pretext of giving him a job in the Mantralay. The arrested man, along with his tenant, also allegedly forged papers and stamps in the process, according to the police. The arrested man was identified as Amol Atmaram Bhoir (24), a resident of Swami Vivekanand Nagar in Wakad, while the one on the run was identified as Amil Shahji Patil, also a resident of the same area. Bhoir is in police custody until April 20. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Mahesh Saudagar Raut (22), a resident of Memane Vasti in Mulshi. “Patil lived on rent in a house owned by Bhoir and Bhoir went to junior college with the complainant. Bhoir put Raut in touch with Patil who claims to be an employee at Mantralay,” said police sub inspector Mahadev Yelmar of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. While Raut is a computer application graduate, Bhoir is a commerce graduate, according to police. Between January 2020 and April 2021, the duo made Raut pay ₹4,75,000 for a job as a clerk at the Mantralay in Mumbai. “We need to check with the Mantralay if Patil really works there. The documents they provided to the complainant were photo prints of a picture. Their veracity will also need to be verified,” said PSI Yelmar. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/22yearold-duped-of-7-7-lakh-by-friend-in-job-fraud-101618676601308.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Pune police: Citizen movement higher on third weekend lockdown||PUNE: The movement of citizens on the third weekend lockdown was significantly more than the last two weekends, according to Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune city police. “We have felt the effect of this lockdown but in comparison to the last two weekends, the number of people moving out without a valid reason was higher this weekend compared to the past two weekends. Please co-operate with the police, they are putting their lives on the line at 96 check posts and patrolling various spots. They can ask you for identification and reason at any point,” said Shisve in a statement. These restrictions were brought in place in light of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city in the first week of April. Only milk shops are allowed to function in the morning and medical organisations like medical shops, laboratories are allowed to function on the weekends. Grocery shops are supposed to be shut while citizens are not allowed to move around without a valid reason. Aside from lockdown violations, so far, the police have also collected ₹14,10,34,900 in fine from 2,90,027 violators who failed to wear masks in public places.Shisve has warned of police action, including confiscating vehicles and penal action, to violators who can spread the infection. He urged citizens to show the same spirit that was shown by the citizens during the Ganesh festival, December 2020 lockdown, and the past two weekends, in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-citizen-movement-higher-on-third-weekend-lockdown-101618676001354.html
17-04-2021||Other||MP emerging as hot spot for weapon smuggling in Punjab||The seizure of 30 pistols and 32 magazines with the arrest of three Madhya Pradesh-based men, Crore Singh, Ram Singh Patwa and Chander Pal, from their home towns on Friday is not an isolated incident, say police. In 2021, there have been a slew of cases where the central state of Madhya Pradesh has figured prominently in smuggling of weapons to criminals in Punjab. “Apart from seizing 42 pistols in two operations, we have seized 30 pistols from criminals since January. After arrest, these men have told us that they had brought the weapons from MP. The state has become one of the hot spots of weapon smuggling for Punjab criminals,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Dhruv Dahiya, adding that they now wanted to break the networking chain. It started in January when the Amritsar Rural police arrested two persons, Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu, and recovered 12 pistols of .32 bore from them. Rahul of Pachori village of Burhanpur district in MP is the kingpin of smuggling weapons into Punjab. Patiala Police have also registered a case against him for involvement in a case where six pistols were seized. “Our teams are working to identify Punjab-based criminals who have been in touch with MP-based smugglers for supply of weapons,” SSP Dahiya added. Another senior police official, part of the investigation team, said, “The main hub of the weapons’ production and supply is Dhar, Khagar and Burhanpur districts in Madhya Pradesh. Some members of the Siklighar community in remote areas of these districts are actively involved. They charge between ₹15,000 and ₹20,000 per pistol from Punjab criminals. These pistols look like professional ones, are lethal and carefully designed. Many criminals arrested recently have told us that they preferred weapons from MP, as they were designed like foreign pistols.”He said, “We have found that some miscreants and gangsters lodged in Punjab jails are in touch with the key MP-based accused, Rahul. Some of these men may be arrested. After 12 pistols were seized in MP in January, the name of Akashdeep, the main accused in the drone-module case lodged in Amritsar jail, had surfaced. Akashdeep had been in contact with Rahul. Patiala Police took him into custody, when six pistols were seized.” Akashdeep is suspected to be a operative of the Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terror module that was busted in September 2019. A Tarn Taran police official said over the past two months they had arrested over a dozen criminals, who have confessed to smuggling of weapons from MP. On Friday, police had said that MP-based smugglers use social media to establish their network in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mp-emerging-as-hot-spot-for-weapon-smuggling-in-punjab-101618675221809.html
17-04-2021||Pune||PMC relaxes Covid test guidelines for hotel staff, e-commerce employees, and domestic helpers||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has relaxed its earlier guidelines by allowing employees engaged in various services to operate without a mandatory RT-PCR test. The decision was taken in light of the pressure on laboratories and testing centres at present due to the rising Covid-19 cases. In an order on Saturday, PMC Commissioner Vikram Kumar allowed employees of e-commerce companies, restaurant and hotel staff, drivers, domestic help and employees engaged in printing and circulation of newspapers to operate without undergoing Covid tests. Earlier, under the break the chain notification, the Maharashtra government had made it mandatory for persons engaged in these services along with industries to undergo a RT-PCR every fortnight. As the government made it mandatory for all these people, it led to the burden on laboratories, finally resulting in delay for others in procuring their reports. The PMC order however does not offer guidelines on test for workers engaged in various industries. Many including those with severe symptoms also complained that they were not getting their reports within 48 hours due to which their hospitalisation was also delayed. Considering this, Vikram Kumar issued a fresh circular offering the relaxations.However, the municipal commissioner appealed to them to get their vaccination done as early as possible.Kumar also allowed shops engaged in providing raw material to the industries to operate. However, these shop or suppliers have been asked only to carry out point-to-point sell and no retail trading. MCCIA welcomed the PMC decision of allowing shops to supply raw material. “We are thankful to the PMC for considering our request. The industries depend on some shops that sell critical raw material, and these are an inseparable part of the entire supply chain,” MCCIA director-general Prashant Girbane said. The municipal commissioner has allowed eateries to provide parcels until 8 PM in the evening from the earlier 6pm.Guidelines on Ramzan celebrationsThe PMC has appealed to celebrate Ramzan at home, avoiding gathering at public places. As the month of Ramazan is ongoing, PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued guidelines and asked not to celebrate the festival at masjids or public places. Usually during this month, people used to go to Masjid for namaz but they should stay at home this year. This year on the last Friday, they should stay at home only and prefer to attend the prayers online. During Ramzan, no permission will be given to carry any procession or organise any religious, social or cultural programme. The leaders from Muslim community should come forward and appeal citizens to stay at home. 100% oxygen supply to hospitals The PMC has mandated manufacturers to supply 100 per cent oxygen for medical purpose. In his order on Saturday, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar has asked manufacturers from Pune to ensure 100 per cent supply only for medical purpose as hospitals are facing an unprecedented shortage. The PMC has also allowed shops selling liquor to sell using home delivery between 7 am to 6 pm between Monday to Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-relaxes-covid-test-guidelines-for-hotel-staff-e-commerce-employees-and-domestic-helpers-101618673361226.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record 67,123 new Covid cases; Mumbai’s daily tally remains below 9,000 for 2nd straight day||Maharashtra on Saturday registered yet another highest single-day spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 67,123 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. Almost 420 people succumbed to the disease while 56,783 recovered during the same period. The state’s caseload is nearing 3.8 million with 59,970 deaths, 3,061,174 recoveries and 647,933 active cases, the bulletin showed. More than 272,000 tests were conducted across Maharashtra in the last 24 hours which led to the detection of the news cases, it added.However, Mumbai's 24-hour tally was below 9,000 for the second consecutive day at 8,811, taking the caseload to 571,018. Fifty-one people died in Maharashtra’s capital in the last 24 hours and the total deaths stand at 12,301. The active cases in Mumbai have climbed to 87,369 and nearly 470,000 people have recovered so far.Apart from Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nagpur are adding the maximum number of cases towards the state's daily tally. Pune has reported 713,144 cases till now and is the worst hit district in the state. Thane and Nagpur have seen 445,013 and 324,714 cases respectively.Being the worst-affected state across India since the beginning of the pandemic last year, Maharashtra’s health infrastructure is massively overburdened to handle the current spike in cases and deaths. In order to curb the spread of the disease, the state has been placed under night curfew, weekend lockdown and Section 144.Also Read| 'Shameless politics': Piyush Goyal to Uddhav after oxygen shortage complaintThe Maha Vikas Aghadi-led government in Maharashtra has raised the issue of shortage of oxygen and the antiviral drug Remdesivir to treat the infected patients. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray rang up Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to inform him about the shortage of these two components.But according to Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik, Thackeray was told Modi was touring Bengal for the assembly elections. Hitting out at Modi, Malik said he was busy in elections while people were dying. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) rubbished Malik’s allegations by saying PM Modi chaired a meeting to review the oxygen supply and the Centre is in touch with all states. Echoing PMO’s remarks, Union railways minister Piyush Goyal stated Maharashtra received the highest quantity of oxygen across India and accused Thackeray of playing petty politics.Shortly after this squabble broke out between the Centre and the Maharashtra government, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke to CM Thackeray and “reassured him of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen and all possible support with regard to healthcare infra, medicines and therapeutics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-67-123-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-below-9000-101618670505487.html
17-04-2021||Other||PRTC income dips 45% on free travel for women, government college students||Two weeks into the implementation of the Punjab government’s decision to implement free travel in government buses for women and government college students from April 1, the income of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has dipped by almost half (45%). The PRTC recorded daily revenue of ₹1.35 crore in March. Since April 1, however, the average daily income has been between ₹75 lakh and ₹80 lakh. In the state budget presented in the assembly on March 8, the government had expanded the scope of the scheme to cover students studying in government colleges too. The government had set aside ₹170 crore to fund the scheme. The government freebie, for now, has meant that it will struggle to meet committed expenses, including diesel cost. Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener, PRTC-linked trade unions, said, the figures of the first fortnight presented a grim financial situation, and it was going to worsen over time. “How will the corporation pay for its diesel and salaries?” Dhaliwal questioned, adding that, “The corporation spends around ₹65 lakh a day on diesel for running its full fleet of 1,073 buses, while the daily salary and pension bill is pegged at ₹55 lakh.”PRTC needs at least ₹19 crore a month to pay salaries and pensions to its employees. “With the present income, the corporation will struggle to meet its expenditure. We are going to meet the PRTC management to press upon the government to give the earmarked ₹170 crore in advance, so that the corporation is spared the financial burden,” Dhaliwal added.PRTC managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said they are taking up the matter with the government. “We will meet senior officers to apprise them of the fresh financial situation,” he said. Chairman KK Sharma said they were providing daily receipt of figures to the transport secretary. “We are working on logistics so that the corporation does any face shortage of funds,” he added.The PRTC runs buses from nine depots of Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bathinda, Budhlada, Barnala, Faridkot and Sangrur. It has also approached the state government for a ₹90 crore bailout package to compensate for losses it incurred, during and after the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The first 60 days of the complete lockdown last year had caused a loss of ₹51 crore to the PRTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prtc-income-dips-45-on-free-travel-for-women-government-college-students-101618671201684.html
17-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports biggest single day spike of 17,489 Covid cases, 80 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday logged its biggest single day spike of 17,489 new cases of Covid-19 and 80 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 11,41,998 and the toll to 13,270.The state had previously reported its biggest single day spike of 14,859 cases on Friday. A total of over 2,34,48,009 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,43,308 were tested today.Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 11,404 new cases on Saturday, a health department bulletin said.The day also saw 5,565 patients getting discharged after recovery, taking the total discharges to 10,09,549.According to the bulletin, out of 1,19,160 active cases,1,18,571 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 589 are in ICU.Among the deaths reported today, 43 are from Bengaluru Urban, Hassan and Mysuru (8), Kalaburagi and Tumakuru (3), Ballari, Bidar, Chamarajanagara and Dharwad (2), and one each from Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Kolar, Mandya, Shivamogga and Uttarakannada.Mysuru accounted for 811 fresh cases, Kalaburagi 560, Tumakuru 507, Bidar 359, Ballari 355, Dakshina Kannada 309, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 5,33,842, followed by Mysuru 60,974 and Ballari 41,853.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,41,054, followed by Mysuru 56,782 and Ballari 39,567.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-17-489-covid-cases-80-deaths-101618670531425.html
17-04-2021||Pune||PMC acts tough against food stalls for violating Covid norms||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) initiated action against four street food vendors on Laxmi road and the Shivajinagar area for not following Covid related norms. At least four stalls were sealed by the civic officials on Saturday.The officials said relaxations to food vendors is turning out to be a major source for people not following the norms.In the city, there are around 10,000 authorised street food vendors. As per current norms, food stalls are only allowed to provide parcels or takeaway services.Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment department of PMC, said, “At least 300 officials are deployed across the city and are taking action against violators. However, they are facing problems as people are giving excuses to break the curfew rules. Shops are open so people are gathering outside the shops, food stalls, and vegetable market.”From April 1 to April 16, the corporation has collected more than ₹17 lakh in fines from 4,764 people and sealed four food stalls for pulling crowds.“Collecting fine is not a routine exercise. People should understand these rules are for their safety amid the pandemic. They can also infect others, including their family members because of irresponsible behaviour,” he said.Violators have to pay a fine of ₹500 to ₹1,000 for not wearing a face mask and violating social distancing and other norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-acts-tough-against-food-stalls-for-violating-covid-norms-101618670300987.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid death certificates should have PM photo too: NCP’s swipe over vaccine doc||Amid the soaring cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik on Saturday took potshots at the government over the vaccination document given to those who take the jab. "The way PM Modi's photo is put on vaccination certificates, we demand that PM's photo should be put on death certificates also,” he told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 herePointing to the rising number of fatalities due to coronavirus and reports of crematoriums and burial grounds struggling to dispose of bodies with limited resources and staff, Nawab Malik said, “The way videos are going viral that funeral sites are running out of space to accommodate the dead, and people are in queues... The Centre is answerable for the present situation arisen due to the circumstances and it cannot run away from answering it," according to ANI.The minister’s remark comes on a day when India reported over 200,000 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row and the toll from the viral disease too remained above 1,000. The country’s total caseload due to the second wave of infections has surged past 14.5 million and 175,649 fatalities have been recorded so far.Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state, which alone recorded a spike of 63,729 Covid-19 cases, the highest one-day jump, and the daily toll neared 400 on Friday. Earlier in the day, Nawab Malik said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi to request more oxygen supply in the state for Covid-19 patients. He, however, was told that Modi was on a visit to poll-bound West Bengal, Nawab Malik said.While railways minister accused Uddhav Thackeray of "petty politics", Union health minister Harsh Vardhan updated on Twitter that he has had a word with the Maharashtra chief minister and assured all possible support. “Spoke to #Maharashtra CM Sh Uddhav Thackeray Ji. Reassured @OfficeofUT of adequate & uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen & all possible support w.r.t healthcare infra, medicines & therapeutics. Additional 1,121 ventilators are also being rushed to them given the surge in cases," the minister wrote on the microblogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-death-certificates-should-have-pm-photo-too-ncp-s-swipe-over-vaccine-doc-101618668570146.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University’s innovation championship: IIT Bombay incubated start-up funded||Incubated at the prestigious IIT Bombay society for innovation and entrepreneurship (SINE), Pacify Medical Technologies Pvt Ltd, the start-up that won Chitkara University’s India innovation championship has developed a patent pending skin spray gun that enables large wound coverage by spraying stamp-sized skin.Chitkara University recently conducted the finale of the India Innovation Challenge- 2021 — one of the largest funding fests and university-driven platforms for upcoming start-ups. Curated by Chitkara University’s centre for entrepreneurship and education development (CEED) and coached by Orbit Future Academy, the event was backed by seasoned investors — VC partners SucSeedIndovation Fund (Hyderabad) and Modular Capital, ISBA, accelerator partner 100 Watts (Pune), industry bodies like FICCI and MeitY start-up hub (GOI), the Government of Himachal Pradesh, Chitkara University’s research and innovation Network (CURIN) and Chitkara University NEW Gen-IEDC, the challenge was curated to drive entrepreneurship and accelerate promising research, innovation, demonstration and development (RID&D) in technology across India.IIC has been designed and curated to provide innovators and thinkers an opportunity to compete in a grand event to get mentored for their new and novel ventures by fast-tracking impact savvy innovations. The championship is open to innovators, entrepreneurs, designers, thinkers, students, engineers, scientists, coders, trainers, academicians from all background.Pacify Medical Technologies start-up founder and CEO Saiprasad Poyarekar, an Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kancheepuram, graduate said the start-up was incubated in January 2019. “The program helped me to understand the nuts and bolts of how to raise funding for a technology start-up. The recorded video sessions help me to improve my knowledge about all aspects of fund raising. The one-to-one sessions with mentor’s such as Nalin Singh from Orbit helped me nourish my skills.”The India Innovation Challenge, 2021, received a record 460 applications, of which 23 startups were allowed to pitch and present’ their ideas to a panel of 10 investors from India and abroad. A panel of investors led by Orbit Future Academy made an on-the -spot investment of ₹50 lakh and government grants up to ₹20 lakh for prototype development and product commercialisation were also awarded by the panel of jury members.The IIC 2021 finalists included participating teams from IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, Panjab University, Chitkara University, IIT Patna, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (Kashmir), Kongu Engineering College (Tamil Nadu), Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering (Pune), University of Florida-USA, SR University (Warangal), North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology (Itanagar), and start-ups from Bengaluru and Indore.Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “Chitkara University has a pan-India vision to support entrepreneurship and innovation while acknowledging others’ efforts and creativity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-s-innovation-championship-iit-bombay-incubated-start-up-funded-101618668864089.html
17-04-2021||Indore||Partial lockdown in Indore district extended till April 23 due to Covid-19 surge||The administration in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district has extended the partial lockdown it had imposed in light of the Covid-19 spread till April 23, an official said on Saturday. The partial lockdown has been in effect in the district since April 12. District collector Manish Singh in an order said the "corona curfew" in the limits of the urban bodies' in the district has been extended till April 23 due to the high rate of infection. According to the order, people will be allowed to buy every day essentials during the lockdown. Despite the provision of 7,000 beds in local hospitals, the district is falling short of providing beds to Covid-19, the order stated. According to the health department, the district has recorded 87,625 Covid-19 cases, including 1,040 casualties so far. The district currently has 9,848 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/partial-lockdown-in-indore-district-extended-till-april-23-due-to-covid-19-surge-101618668269972.html
17-04-2021||Dehradun||67 healthcare workers across 5 Uttarakhand districts test positive for Covid-19||Uttarakhand administration on Friday informed that 67 healthcare workers have tested positive in the state as the second wave of coronavirus prevails in the country.According to the Director of State Medical and Health Department, Dr. SK Gupta, the Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly and the surge is mainly in five districts."67 healthcare workers, in Uttarakhand, have tested positive for Covid-19. The cases are spread across Dehradun, Tehri, Haridwar, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar districts," said Gupta.Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Uttarakhand government has restricted the entry of people into the state secretariat. The order was issued by the Chief Secretary of the state Om Prakash on Friday said that only ministers and staff will be allowed to enter the secretariat. "The journalists are also not allowed to enter the secretariat," the order said.Also to contain the spread of Covid-19, the schools in Dehradun, Nainital, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Kotdwar Bhabar districts in Uttarakhand will remain closed till April 30. According to the order issued by Higher Education Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, the educational institutes in four districts including Dehradun will teach students through online mode."The schools in the remaining districts will continue in both offline and online mode amidst the Covid-19 pandemic," Rawat said in his order. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 12,484 active Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/67-healthcare-workers-across-5-uttarakhand-districts-test-positive-for-covid19-101618658582760.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Pune: Police arrest 4 for selling fake Remdesivir injections||Pune rural police have arrested four persons for allegedly selling fake Remdesivir injections in Baramati area, an official said on Saturday. Three injection vials labelled as Remdesivir, which is used for the treatment of Covid-19, but actually filled with nothing but paracetamol in liquid form were seized from them, said the senior police official. The accused were selling the fake drug at ₹35,000 per vial while its authorized market price is around ₹1,100. "We have arrested four people under relevant sections of the IPC, Essential Commodities Act, Drug & Cosmetics Act and Drugs (Price Control) Act," said Narayan Shirgavkar, deputy superintendent of police, Baramati division. After receiving a tip-off about black-marketing of Remdesivir which is in great demand, a decoy customer was sent and two persons who were offering to sell it were arrested from Baramati MIDC area, he said. They were identified as Prashant Gharat and Shankar Bhise. Their questioning led to the arrest of Dilip Gaikwad and Sandip Gaikwad. Sandip, who had worked as ward boy at various hospitals, procured used Remdesivir vials and filled them with liquid form of paracetamol while others found needy customers, the police officer said. Three fake Remdesivir doses were seized from the accused persons' possession. Shirgavkar said the police were probing whom they had sold fake drug vials. The action was a joint operation with the Food & Drug Administration, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-4-for-selling-fake-remdesivir-injections-101618665272999.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Action against hospitals, labs: Kejriwal's plan to step up Covid fight in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation of the Capital is concerning as Delhi is breaching grim milestones every day as far as the number of fresh infections is concerned. Around 24,000 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi on Saturday and nearly 19,500 cases were seen on Friday. The positivity rate has now climbed to over 24 per cent and the situation is worrying.Here is Delhi's present Covid-19 situation in 10 points1. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said there is a shortage of oxygen and the antiviral drug Remdesivir in the capital.2. Pointing out that any health infrastructure has its own limitations, Kejriwal said there are a limited number of oxygen beds and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for the infected patients. However, he assured the Aam Aadmi Party led government is working towards increasing the number of these beds.3. “Several steps are being taken by the Delhi government to increase the number of beds and I hope in the coming 2-4 days, we are able to increase them on a large scale,” Kejriwal said adding the main objective is to create more oxygen beds for the seriously infected patients.4. As the cases have been spiking in Delhi, the CM said no one knows when the peak will come and there should be no laxity and all must be fully prepared to be one step ahead of the Covid-19 disease if the situation worsens.5. Kejriwal said he spoke to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan where he highlighted the shortage of beds in Delhi and urged Vardhan to reserve 50 per cent beds of the central government hospitals. “I spoke to the health minister over the shortage of oxygen in Delhi and requested its immediate supply. I also informed him about the shortage of the Remdesivir and Tocilizumab drugs,” Kejriwal added.Also Read| Don't know when peak will come, says Kejriwal as Delhi reports 24K covid cases6. Amid reports there is black marketing of Covid-related medicines due to their shortage, CM Kejriwal said he directed officials to raid and order strict enquiry against such people who are engaged in hoarding and black marketing of the medicines.7. “Delhi is the only city in India where results of Covid-19 tests would be given in 24 hours. However, there have been complaints that in recent days, it is taking 3-4 days to produce the results of these tests. The reason for this is some labs have started picking up samples more than their capacity. Please understand the problem. Suppose if a serious patient gave his/her sample today, and if the results come after 3-4 days, the patient might die. Strict enquiry will be ordered against such labs which pick up samples over their capacity and not giving results within 24 hours,” the Delhi CM said.8. Speaking again on the beds available for Covid patients across Delhi, Kejriwal said there is an app by the government where real-time details are given to people about the number of beds occupied and vacant in a hospital. The app is not operated by the government and a password has been given to every hospital to fill details, he added.Also Read| Hospitals turning away patients despite beds availbility to face action: Sisodia9. Expanding on the previous point, Kejriwal warned strict action against those hospitals which are using the government app and don’t provide beds to patients despite availability.10. The chief minister said the weekend lockdown will be reviewed and any step will be taken to ensure the safety of the Delhi people.Also Watch| ‘Shortage of oxygen & Remdesivir in Delhi’: Arvind Kejriwal amid Covid surgeEarlier in the day, Kejriwal held a review meeting on the Covid-19 management in Delhi along with deputy chief minister and nodal minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/action-against-hospitals-labs-kejriwal-s-plan-to-step-up-covid-fight-in-delhi-101618663966708.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||‘If situation worsens…’: Arvind Kejriwal to review curfew as Delhi Covid-19 cases hit 24,000||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that people across the city were following the weekend curfew that has been imposed to break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“We will keep a close eye on the situation for some days. If the situation deteriorates, we will take whatever step is needed to save your lives,” Arvind Kejriwal said during a press briefing and urged the citizens to adhere to Covid-19 norms.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereDelhi chief minister’s remark comes on a day when he said the city has reported a daily surge of 24,000 Covid-19 cases. This will be the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic.Arvind Kejriwal said that he had a telephonic conversation with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and informed him that given the pace at which Covid-19 cases are increasing, the city is now facing a shortage of oxygen supply, Remdesivir and tocilizumab to treat the viral disease. He also pointed to the limited number of ICU beds and requested the Centre to make arrangements for the same."I hope that we add 6,000 beds in two or three days. No one knows when the peak will come. The central government gave 4,100 beds in November but this time only 1,800 beds have been given. I requested Dr Harsh Vardhan to reserve 50% beds for COVID-19 patients," Arvind Kejriwal said.Delhi is currently under a weekend curfew that ends on Monday at 5 am. However, officials quoted by news agency PTI have said a decision to extend the weekend curfew will be taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation next week.The city is observing a night curfew from 10pm to 5 am, which will remain in force till April 30. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has also ordered the closure of all gyms, spas and auditoriums till the end of the month to keep prevent the virus from spreading. The movie theatres in the national capital have been allowed to operate but at 30% of their capacity.As the restrictions will continue till April 30, dine-in facilities at all restaurants are banned and only takeaway and delivery services are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/if-situation-worsens-arvind-kejriwal-to-review-curfew-as-delhi-covid-19-cases-hit-24000-101618665072158.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi weekend curfew: Roads empty, markets shut, CM tells people to follow rules||Roads, markets, buses and metro trains were largely empty on Saturday as the national capital, grappling with soaring Covid-19 cases, observed weekend curfew, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealing to people to adhere to the restrictions.The weekend curfew, aimed at breaking the chain of spiralling coronavirus infections, was clamped at 10 pm on Friday and will continue till 5 am on Monday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Apart from those who have been exempted, a majority of Delhiites appeared to have stayed home during the weekend curfew.Only a few passengers were seen travelling on buses and metro trains in the city.Major markets, including Sadar Bazar, Chandni Chowk, Connaught Place, Khari Baoli and Karol Bagh, and industrial areas like Bawana, Narela, Okhla, wore a deserted look during the day.Brijesh Goel, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry, said the traders followed the Delhi government's direction on the new restrictions completely."All the wholesale and retail markets and factories in the city were closed. The weekend curfew was 100 per cent successful. We had talked to our traders and sought their support to the move."Traders will also follow any other measure the government takes to check the spread of COVID-19," Goel told PTI.However, there was exception near facilities like the LNJP Hospital, GTB Hospital, AIIMS and ISBTs --- Kashmiri Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan, where people were seen taking the public transport.Those going to inter-sate bus terminals, airports and railway stations, have been exempted from the weekend curfew if they show valid tickets.On Saturday, shops providing essential services, including pharmacies, grocery stores, food outlets and banks, remained open.Food delivery service agents were also seen on the roads as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has given permission to restaurants for home delivery services.A senior transport department officer said buses ran almost empty as only those associated with essential services and having valid e-pass were allowed to board."Metro services are running smoothly and all those who are authorised to travel as per the exemptions from the DDMA, are being allowed," a DMRC spokesperson said."The headway of 15 minutes being maintained in the main lines," he said.Shahdul (35), an auto-rickshaw driver looking for passengers at Green Park, said there are not many passengers on the roads from Saturday morning."Due to the curfew, there are not many passengers today. I have got two bookings since the morning," he said.Chandu Chaurasia, vice president of Capital Drivers Welfare Association, alleged that police stopped last mile connectivity vehicles like 'gramin sewa' and 'phatphat sewa' vehicles at many areas although there was no order to not allow such vehicles during the weekend curfew.The Delhi Police set up checkpoints at various points to ensure movement of only those who have been exempted by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police PRO, said all the district deputy commissioners of police were on the ground to ensure the implementation of weekend curfew."The movement of essential goods and services is being facilitated. We have placed banners on pickets and outside the gates of the colonies to tell people about the curfew and asked them not to come outside their houses unnecessarily."We are also monitoring the COVID helpline and assisting people who are facing difficulty in getting movement pass," Biswal said.On Friday, police had warned people venturing out of homes without valid reasons during the weekend curfew would face arrest and prosecution for violating anti-Covid regulations.Delhi recorded its highest-ever one-day Covid-19 figures on Friday when 19,486 cases and 141 deaths were reported, prompting Chief Minister Kejriwal to order setting up more coronavirus facilities and increase the strength of oxygen beds.The e-passes issued for already imposed night curfew will be applicable during the weekend curfew as well, the government has said.Earlier this week, Kejriwal had announced the curfew this weekend only and the closure of malls, gymnasiums and auditoriums till April 30 as part of sweeping restrictions to break the chain of the Covid-19 infection in the city.The weekend curfew would be effective from 10 pm on April 16 (Friday) to 5 am on April 19. Cinema halls would function with only 30 per cent capacity.However, officials said a decision to extend the weekend curfew will be taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation next week.In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Thursday said during the weekend curfew, the movement of people for wedding-related (up to 50 people) and funeral-related (up to 20 people) gatherings would be allowed.However, those going for vaccination will be required to apply for a curfew pass. Mediapersons have been exempted from the weekend curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weekend-curfew-roads-empty-markets-shut-cm-tells-people-to-follow-rules-101618663460546.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Daily wage workers at smaller construction sites in Pune struggle to make ends meet||PUNE As the smaller construction sites in Pune are shut due to Covid-19 related restrictions, daily wage workers looking for employment at labour pick-up points (Majur addas) in the city are finding it difficult to survive. At the same time, big construction sites are operating uninterrupted as the government has allowed the functioning of in-situ sites.The labour pick-up points at Hadapsar, Warje and Bhosari continues to have a footfall of more than 200 workers every day.“Government has given permission to continue work at big sites, but in the city, there are many small works are undertaken like – construction of gardens in housing societies or constructing a compound wall and for such small work how should we arrange accommodation for the workers. There should have been some relaxation for daily wage workers so it could have benefited all,” said Jagan Ram, a contractor who provides daily jobs to workers in Hadapsar.The order has also impacted residents in many localities as they are not allowed to call workers for the renovation work.“I have to change the floor carpet of my house. If there was a relaxation for such work then my society members would have allowed renovation work at my house,” said Rohan Patil, Sunita Parks, Kothrud.The situation is gruesome for some workers as they don’t even have money to return back home.“I earn ₹500 per day. For the last three days, I have earned nothing. Even If I plan to visit my home town in Gaya, Bihar, I don’t have money to get a railway ticket. What work I will do there is another problem. We are ready to undergo Covid test, but we should be allowed to work,” said Vikal Shinde, who works as a labourer at Hadapsar.Sanjay Hiwrale, who works as labourer at Yerawada said, “For the last seven years I have been working on construction sites. Today I went to work at Vishrantwadi with six other workers and we were sent back by police as we don’t have accommodation on the site. Even our site engineer had no option, but to stop the work. If I don’t have work for 15 days then it becomes difficult to pay rents and electric bills.”Anita Lashkare, a daily wage worker, said, “Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is not doing anything for daily wage workers. According to the 2018 GR from the state government, if person has worked for more than 90 days in a year then they should be registered with the Board of Construction Workers (BCOW), but PMC has not given any such certificates to us till now.”The state government has announced a transfer of ₹1,500 to construction workers registered with BOCW.“While welfare provisions of BOCW partly compensates it and provides basic social security net to such workers, the inaction by PMC obstructs the process condemning these workers to misery,” said B Youvraj, social activist, New Socialist Alternative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/daily-wage-workers-at-smaller-construction-sites-in-pune-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-101618662980620.html
17-04-2021||Jaipur||Covid situation turning dangerous, PM should cancel political rallies: Gehlot||Expressing concern over the spread of Covid-19 infections across the country, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the Prime Minister should stop his political programmes and rallies.“The Covid situation has become dangerous across the country. Now, this virus is spreading rapidly among the youth and children as well. The Prime Minister should now stop his political programmes, rallies and road shows,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi.He said that like before, PM Narendra Modi should make regular contact with the Chief Ministers of the states to know the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/covid-situation-turning-dangerous-pm-should-cancel-political-rallies-gehlot-101618661261115.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Education solutions for the e-classroom||Eduspace Technologies, founded by Delhi-based engineer Nishant Agarwal, has developed “Proctur”, a platform providing technologically-backed educational solutions and focusing primarily on mass digitisation in education. Incepted in November 2016, Proctur serves the organised as well as unorganised educational institutes throughout the country including schools, tuitions, and coaching centres.Agarwal comes from a middle-class Delhi family. He did his BE in Instrumentation and Control from Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology at New Delhi in 2004, and then worked at Infosys Technologies, Bengaluru, for a year after his graduation. He joined Fidelity Investments in Gurgaon as an analyst programmer and then switched to Citibank Japan as a senior technical consultant, where he worked for five years. After nine years of work experience with mostly large multinational companies in the financial domain, where Agarwal developed and managed products for consumers, he decided to do his MBA. In 2014, he got his MBA degree from IE Business School, Madrid, Spain. First “failure”Coming back from Spain and armed with his core expertise in handling management, business strategy, product management, innovation, digital marketing, and analytics, Agarwal launched his first venture Legalink. Explaining the concept, Agarwal said, “It was an email drafting service for the small and medium sized businesses in Japan. My previous work experience at Japan had prompted me to start this venture with my lawyer friend. However, that did not turn out well and I took an exit after two years of running the start-up.”How Proctur was bornAfter the exit, Agarwal was exploring opportunities. Says Agarwal, “I used to observe my sister, faculty at a coaching institute. She carried around many books and managed a myriad of tasks manually every day. In the evening, she used to call parents and inform them about their child’s attendance and marks. I realised that technology usage in the coaching classes segment is very low and that segment is in a very nascent stage.”“I did some research and thought why not digitise the coaching classes. The idea of Proctur was conceived to address the pain points of traditional coaching institutes and students. I was also concerned about the growth of students in this vicinity as they were being deprived of the benefits that come with the implementation of technology in the education sector. During my travels through the country, I realised that it was quite worrisome that a majority of the population did not have access to quality education. In fact, some areas had no access to education at all. I deeply thought about different ways in which I could help both the teachers and the students,” he stated.First step – A simple interactive platformSays Agarwal, “Initially, we developed a simple platform where tutors of coaching classes can interact with parents easily, via SMS and other communication channels, using mobile apps. We did not have any tech background. I had a strong product background and experience. So, we hired some freelance developers to develop the product. I was guiding them and it took four to six months to launch the initial version. Meanwhile, we had already started getting some clients. Hunny Tutorial in Delhi was the first coaching class which became our client. We were just walking around on a Sunday afternoon and trying to visit some coaching classes. At that time nobody was using software and our product was also “half-cooked”. Still, he believed in us and appreciates us even today.”Says Nitin Agrawal, who was the first employee, “I was hired for a sales role in Proctur. I was pretty shy, but took it as an opportunity and started my journey with Proctur. Later I moved to client servicing team as an executive and started interacting with the clients. Interacting with the tech team and improving the product life cycle, Proctur has helped me grow. Currently, I am product manager and looking after the overall product development.”As the venture started to grow, the company realised that the problem they were trying to solve was much bigger than it seemed at first glance. Says Nishant Agarwal, “We needed to address all components of the education system – including students, educators, and parents to get the desired results. We also found that it was necessary to address the educational needs as well as the non-educational needs of the students, simultaneously. From the very beginning, Proctur focused on affordability, so that the majority of the population can benefit from the venture. This is where the school segment came into the picture. All of this culminated in the creation of two verticals, catering to the vast unorganized sector of educational institutes as well as the organized sector comprising the schools.”Agarwal has been into this space for close to five years now. He says, “We now provide a unique offering of a combination of ERP and learning management system (LMS). We help coaching classes and schools to digitise their operational part like fees, attendance, exams, etc. At the same time, they are able to sell their courses online using our platform. They are able to conduct live classes, share videos with the students, online assignments, online tests, etc. We provide complete end-to-end ‘blended learning solution’ as we call it.”Shifting to PuneThe private coaching classes industry is evolving. Agarwal said, “Online educators have offline presence for sure, but there is no as such exclusive online education provider in India. Considering this fact, we thought it is better to move to a city wherein it is easy to get resources and where it is easy to access new and young minds. We decided to move to Pune which is known to be an education hub of India and a tech hub as well, probably after Bengaluru.”“Earlier we had a team strength of 40 employees in November 2020. Within a few months of shifting, we have onboarded more than hundred coaching classes from in and around Pune. Now we have doubled our team size to almost 90 members,” he added.Pandemic accelerated changesOn the effects of Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown, Agarwal says, “We always believed in ‘blended learning’. We had developed the solution of live classes, online tests solutions much before pandemic happened. Due to Covid-19, we have gone at least two to three years ahead of time. The pace at which people are adapting to our solutions, we were expecting that to happen in the next couple of years. It was good to have earlier, but now it is a must-have.”“With the uncertainty of face-to-face teaching, coaching classes have now become confident of using online software’s. They don’t even ask for a demo and directly go for the purchase. This is a big change in mindset. Also, another visible change is that the product usage has gone very high now. Earlier, institutes were using only 30 to 50 per cent of features that were provided, but now they use almost 80 to 90 per cent of them. Before Covid-19 outbreak, most classes functioned offline and hence scheduling, attendance and sharing exam marks was important task for them besides the fees collection. After Covid-19, online fees collection is most in-demand feature followed by online teaching, live platforms, video sharing and online tests,” Agarwal explained.“We have started an office in Noida in April to cater to the northern region clients. We are also hiring for offline sales team. Presently, the entire team is remote-working due to lockdowns and Covid-19 outbreak, the lead generation is done using online marketing tools and advertisements on Facebook, Google, etc. Demo is arranged through mobile or laptop for the prospective clients. They are provided with training on using different features and motivated to use them all,” he added.Future plansSays Agarwal, “We are a bootstrapped start-up. Our vision is to automate and help streamline management of educational institutes by providing app-based interfaces to key stakeholders in the education industry. We don’t want to be only a software sales company. Our mission is to build a service platform for enhancing student learning and bringing innovation to the rapidly progressing field of education. We are generating a user base on which we can start offering our value-added services. So, it won’t be B2B company but it will be B2B2C. So far we did not go for any institutional investor but now we are looking to raise funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/education-solutions-for-the-eclassroom-101618660881630.html
17-04-2021||Other||Rural doctors on Covid duty in Punjab threaten strike||At a time when the Punjab health department is facing an alarming rise in coronavirus cases, over 530 rural medical officers (RMOs) in the state have decided to boycott their Covid-19 duties from April 25.The decision was taken in view of the state government failing to extend benefits under the Dynamic Assured Career Progression Scheme (DACP) to the RMOs.Dr JP Singh Narula, state president, Federation of Association of Rural Medical Officers of Punjab, said that RMOs are serving in the rural areas of Punjab since 2006. “In 2015, the cadre became eligible for DACP, but to date, this demand of RMOs remains unfulfilled,” he said.Besides serving in rural areas, the RMOs remained on the forefront while performing Covid-related duties, he said.“All frontline duties like ICU isolation, sampling and RRT are also being performed by the cadre. But the government is denying us our legitimate right,” Dr Narula.On the other hand, rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa said that talks were on with the association members to end the current impasse. “Efforts are on to convince the doctors to withdraw the strike call,” said Bajwa.Harminder Singh Mavi, state president, Panchayat Union Punjab, has come out in support of the RMOs. He said that the people living in villages were not the priority of both the state and central governments.”“While the Centre is not withdrawing the controversial farm laws despite thousands of farmers protesting at the Singhu border at the peak of the pandemic, the state government is playing a cruel joke on the people living in villages by pulling out all the doctors from rural areas and replacing them with nurses. The doctors are also being denied increments,” said Mavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-doctors-on-covid-duty-in-punjab-threaten-strike-101618660281207.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Four arrested for selling clear liquid as Remdesivir in Baramati||PUNE Four men were arrested by Pune rural police on Saturday in Baramati for allegedly selling a clear liquid disguised as Remdesivir, a drug used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, said, police officials.The arrested accused have been identified as Prashant Gharat, Shankar Bhise, Sandeep Gaikwad and Dilip Gaikwad, according to Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police.The liquid that was in the vial in place of Remdesivir could not be immediately confirmed.“We have arrested four of them, and a case is getting registered at Baramati taluka police station. We will issue a statement in this case soon,” said Narayan Shirgoankar, deputy superintendent of police, Baramati division of Pune rural police.The vial of liquid was being sold in the black market for a cost of over ₹30,000, according to the police.While more details are awaiting, the crime is suspected to have come to light after a Covid-19 patient was administered the injection which was packaged in a vial of Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-arrested-for-selling-clear-liquid-as-remdesivir-in-baramati-101618659320464.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals refusing patients despite beds availability to face action: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed Covid-19 managament system in the national capital and said hospitals turning away patients despite availability of beds or giving wrong information about beds will face action."Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal reviewed the Covid Management System. Hospitals turning away patients despite availability of beds or giving wrong information about beds will face action. No patient should be denied treatment," Sisodia said in his Twitter handle.Hon'ble CM @ArvindKejriwal reviewed the Covid Management System. Hospitals turning away patients despite availability of beds or giving wrong information about beds will face action.No patient should be denied treatment. pic.twitter.com/By8i3T0UwGThe Delhi government is ramping up the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients and urged the Centre to do so at hospitals run by it in the national capital.Kejriwal yesterday chaired a Covid-19 review meeting which was attended by Sisodia, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and other senior officials. The chief minister directed officials to ensure that the beds shown on the Delhi Corona app are actually available in real-time at hospitals. He also said that efforts should be made to create more Covid care centres to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities.Kejriwal directed officials to ensure that the beds shown on the Delhi Corona app are actually available in real-time at hospitals. The chief minister also said that efforts should be made to create more Covid care centres to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities.Delhi on Friday recorded its highest one-day Covid-19 surge when 19,486 cases and 141 deaths were reported, prompting Kejriwal to order setting up more coronavirus facilities and increase the strength of oxygen beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-turning-away-patients-despite-beds-availbility-to-face-action-sisodia-101618657486887.html
17-04-2021||Pune||More children Covid positive in second wave||City hospitals are now witnessing an increase in the number of children turning Covid-19 positive, with severe symptoms. As reported earlier, unlike the first wave, which lasted from August to October 2020, the second wave which began in Pune from mid-February 202, is seeing more children being admitted to the hospitals with severe symptoms. The children in the family turn out to be super-spreaders, infecting senior citizens. An increased number of children are also reported ending up on a ventilator. Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, a paediatrician at three different hospitals in the city, said, “Children are definitely acting as super spreaders. In this wave, we are seeing more children positive. At the three hospitals where I am consulting, there are at least 29 children who need intensive or critical care. We can see the impact on their brain and convulsions, which was not seen in the earlier wave. We have had three babies who tested positive for a rapid antigen test, which shows a high infection rate.” He added, “We have seen in many cases that children spread the infection to their grandparents since children are less symptomatic, but more infective, which means that children might have a simple runny nose or fever. Even neonatal babies need intensive care, which is babies aged less than a month. We will need more neonatal ICU beds and medications which are scarce now. Many hospitals have even converted their paediatric wards into adult wards, but as the cases among children increase, we may run short of beds for children.” Dr Aarti Kinikar who heads the paediatric ward in Sassoon hospital, said, “We are surely seeing more children turn out positive and even the symptoms are severe. The symptoms are also serious including cardiac symptoms like high pulse rate and also diarrhoea. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have had only four deaths among children, which was mainly among those who had birth defects or comorbidities. However, as of now at two or three children need intensive care. If any adult turns out to be positive in the family they must wear a mask, because children do not wear a mask. Even if the kids are asymptomatic they should not be allowed to mingle with the grandparents as they may be asymptomatic carriers and infect the elders who are highly vulnerable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-children-covid-positive-in-second-wave-101618657160956.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Pune district reports over 11K new Covid cases, 47 deaths; 49,312 inoculated||PUNE The district, on Friday, reported 11,045 fresh Covid cases and 47 deaths in 24 hours, according to the state health department. Pune rural reported eight deaths, 36 deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and three in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).The progressive count of PMC stands at 3,64,722 Covid cases and 4,979 deaths till Friday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,73,250 cases so far and a total of 1,437 deaths. Pune rural, meanwhile, has reported 1,62,347 total cases and 2,326 deaths due to Covid. The progressive count of the Pune district stands at 7,00,319 Covid cases. Out of this, 5,74,857 patients have recovered and there have been a total of 8,797 deaths and 1,16,665 are active cases.As per the state health department, 45,335 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 30,04,391 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 81.12 per cent.Across Maharashtra, 63,729 new cases and 398 deaths were diagnosed on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.61 per cent.The state health department stated out of 2,33,08,878 laboratory samples, 37,03,584 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 15.89% of patients till Friday. Currently, 35,14,181 people are in home quarantine and 25,168 people are in institutional quarantine. The Pune district, meanwhile, reported 110 per cent vaccination at 468 centres, on Friday. At least 49,312 beneficiaries were inoculated on Friday. PMC reported 102 per cent vaccination at 188 centres, PCMC reported 124 per cent vaccination at 84 centres and Pune rural reported 113 per cent vaccination at 196 centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-11k-new-covid-cases-47-deaths-49-312-inoculated-101618656741626.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Two Covid patients share one bed, some sleep on floor while getting oxygen treatment at Sassoon hospital in Pune||On Friday, a video made rounds on social media showing two Covid-19 patients wearing masks and sitting on one hospital bed, some patients with oxygen support on the stretcher and also a few lying on the floor. These visuals were from Pune’s only state-run BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital (SGH). The video shows close to 30-35 Covid patients all with oxygen masks either lying on the floor, on the stretcher or on the bed which is being shared by another patient. A resident doctor on condition of anonymity said, “There were more than 30 serious Covid patients who needed a senior doctor to attend to them, but there were only two resident doctors attending to these many patients. The patients were made to stay in the casualty ward. The situation is dire. Doctors are willing to risk their lives, but we are also mentally exhausted and this load will only lead to more chaos.” Overflowing Covid patients have exhausted the medical facilities at Sassoon which is almost on the verge of collapse. The hospital management now plans to add another 300 beds, however, residents doctors have decided to protect the decision unless more staff is hired. Vijay Yadav, president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), BJMC, Pune chapter, said, “We have about 450 resident doctors at SGH and since March this year we have had about 80 doctors who have tested positive. With have a huge crunch of resident doctors since doctors are continuously getting infected. We have been raising this issue with the dean repeatedly and we have had about five meetings with him, but there have been only verbal assurances.”“Now, the management plans to increase the beds capacity from existing 500 to 800 beds. If the management decides to go ahead with increasing the beds without recruiting more doctors then we would stop all non-emergency works. As per discussion with the central MARD we will withdraw all non-Covid non-emergency services(OPD/ward work/routine lab work/routine radiology work) and all routine procedures with immediate effect for an indefinite period of time,” he said.“If our demands are not considered till Saturday 9 am, central MARD will take a stand in all over Maharashtra. All ICU, casualty, labour rooms, emergency surgery and all Covid services will continue,” he said.Despite repeated attempts to reach the dean of the hospital, Dr Murlidhar Tambe, did not respond to the queries regarding the video at the time of going to press.The hospital is also in the process to convert its non-Covid and non-emergency wards into Covid wards. The only patient from the psychiatric ward is now being out of the ward to accommodate Covid patients. A senior doctor attending the psychiatry department said, “There is only one female patient in the ward having schizophrenia who has been admitted presently. All other admissions have been denied unless extremely urgent. Although there is only one admission in the 30 bedded ward, the management is now planning to turn it into a Covid ward. The ward is now being made vacant to make room for Covid patients and because of this we are sending back non-Covid patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-covid-patients-share-one-bed-some-sleep-on-floor-while-getting-oxygen-treatment-at-sassoon-hospital-in-pune-101618656741102.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police intensifies patrolling on first day of weekend curfew||The Delhi Police on Saturday intensified patrolling across the city on the first day of the weekend curfew imposed by the AAP government in view of spiralling coronavirus cases.Pickets have been placed across the city and security personnel are inspecting the movement passes, officials said, adding that the movement of people involved in non-essential services is not allowed.The markets wore a deserted look with only shops selling essential goods being open.“There is curfew in Delhi today and tomorrow due to Corona. Please follow it. Together we have to defeat Corona,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, “All the district deputy commissioners of police are on the ground. The movement of essential goods and services is being facilitated. We have placed banners on pickets and outside the gates of residential colonies to inform people about the curfew and asked them not to come outside their houses unnecessarily.“We are also monitoring the COVID helpline and assisting people facing difficulty in getting movement passes,” he added.The city police had on Friday warned that people venturing out without valid reasons, during the weekend curfew, would face arrest and prosecution for not following Covid-19 guidelines.The weekend curfew aimed at breaking the chain of spiralling coronavirus infection was clamped at 10 pm on Friday and will continue till 5 am on Monday.The Delhi government and the police have issued e-passes to exempted category people who need to go out during the curfew for necessary services and activites like vaccination, going to railway stations, airports, buying grocery, fruits and vegetables.Public transport, including DTC, cluster buses and metro trains, are running at reduced capacity.On Friday, Delhi recorded its highest-ever one-day COVID-19 figures at 19,486 cases and 141 deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-intensifies-patrolling-on-first-day-of-weekend-curfew-101618656553170.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray called Modi over oxygen shortage, told PM on Bengal tour: Minister||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tried reaching Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, a drug for Covid-19 treatment, but was told he was on a visit to poll-bound West Bengal, state’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik claimed on Saturday. "Chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) is trying to contact PM Modi on phone over shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir and he was informed that the Prime Minister is on Bengal tour," Nawab Malik said and accused Modi of being busy in elections while “people are dying.”Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereNawab Malik’s attack comes at a time when political parties in West Bengal have been holding public rallies with large gatherings with each party training guns at the other over the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), however, refuted Malik’s allegation saying PM Modi himself reviewed the state of oxygen supply on Friday amid surging Covid-19 cases and that the government is in constant touch with the state governments.Also Read| Infra overrun: Scramble for ventilators, oxygen, ICU bedsSoon after reports of the Prime Minister’s alleged unavailability for Uddhav Thackeray’s call, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien took to Twitter to take potshots at Modi. “#SHOCKER Maharashtra CM @OfficeofUT called Modi requesting for urgent supply of oxygen for his State. Was informed that PM busy campaigning in Bengal. Will respond on his return,” O'Brien posted on Twitter.Maharashtra is currently the worst Covid-19 affected state in the country. Despite strict restrictions in place, the western state reported 63,729 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, which has taken the state’s infection tally past 3.7 million. As many as 398 fatalities due to the viral disease were also recorded on Friday and now the state’s death toll stands at 59,551.Also Read| Medical oxygen supply: What Centre is doing to meet demand from these 12 statesOn Friday, PM Modi held a comprehensive review meeting over the current situation of oxygen supply and the projected use in the coming fortnight across 12 high burden states – Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.The meeting came against the backdrop of the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country amid reports that people are losing their lives due to a shortage of oxygen and hospital beds. PM Modi was briefed about the country’s production capacity to meet the rising demand for oxygen and he has asked the oxygen units to increase their production, his office said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-called-modi-over-oxygen-shortage-told-pm-on-bengal-tour-minister-101618653865239.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Those returning from Kumbh will spread Covid-19 like 'prasad': Mumbai mayor||Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Saturday people coming back from the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar will have to be quarantined to stop the spread of the coronavirus infection in the city, which is already struggling with rising cases of Covid-19. Millions of people from across the country have attended the religious gathering in Haridwar even as experts have raised concerns about the spread of more contagious variants of the disease during such events.“I don’t know who has gone and who is coming back from the Kumbh Mela. But just like the event of our Muslim brothers in Delhi last year and 27 people added to the cases, those who are returning will spread the disease like prasad in every state and the situation will become worse,” she was heard saying in a video tweeted by news agency ANI.#WATCH | "Those returning from Kumbh Mela to their respective states will distribute Corona as 'prasad'," says Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar pic.twitter.com/P9UBVBv1mNKishore Pednekar was referring to the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat held during the outbreak of the pandemic in Delhi in March last year and which was termed as a superspreader. Markaz was one of the first hotspots of Covid-19 in Delhi from where the police evacuated 2458 people after a 36-hour drive on April 1, 2020. The Delhi Police charged 952 foreigners from 36 countries who took part in that gathering and stayed when lockdown was imposed in the country.According to official on Friday, 2167 people were found positive for coronavirus disease in Haridwar over the last five days. The Uttarakhand State Control Room said there were 254 Covid-19 positive cases on April 10, 386 on April 11, 408 on April 12, 594 on April 13 and 525 on April 14. Haridwar reported 539 of 2402 fresh cases in Uttarakhand on Friday and 28 seers from three akhadas tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. Haridwar’s chief medical officer, Dr SK Jha, said around 75 seers have tested positive over the last two months. The rising cases prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tweet and call to keep the religious congregation symbolic due to the pandemic.Also read | Health infrastructure falls short amid Covid-19 surgeKishori Pednekar welcomed Prime Minister Modi’s tweet appealing devotees to keep the Mahakumbh symbolic as the country reported more than 200,000 new Covid-19 infections for the third straight day in a row. “The tweet by Prime Minister Modiji is absolutely correct and it should be curtailed. But it won’t help and people should quarantine themselves to avoid infecting others. In Mumbai, we have asked hotels to quarantine them,” she said.Also read | 99,000 adolescents, 38,000 kids in Maharashtra Covid positive in 2 months: DataAkhadas, the all-powerful spiritual sects to which seers belong, have also called for ending Mahakumbh midway after several seers tested positive for Covid-19 and two chief seers, or Mahamandaleshwar, died from the viral disease. Mahakumbh, which started on April 1, is scheduled to end on April 30.“People should be faithful and it is correct but this is the time for shakti (strength). People should keep themselves safe, stay home, wear masks, wash hands and avoid going to crowded places. All this is shakti…” Kishore Pednekar said.She also said that Mumbai, which is among the worst-hit cities by the coronavirus disease, should be brought under a complete lockdown. “Ninety-five per cent of Mumbaikars are adhering to Covid-19 restrictions. The remaining 5% of people who are not following restrictions are causing problems to others. I think a complete lockdown should be imposed looking at the current Covid-19 situation,” Pednekar said, according to ANI.Also read | Mumbai Police asked for deployments to check crowding amid Covid-19 surgeMumbai, already under a partial lockdown after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray imposed a 15-day curfew on Tuesday, on Friday reported 8803 Covid-19 cases and 53 fatalities, which have pushed its tally to 562,207 and death toll to 12,250.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/those-returning-from-kumbh-will-spread-covid-19-like-prasad-mumbai-mayor-101618650855131.html
17-04-2021||Bangalore||'BJP only worried about elections, not Covid': Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly and Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday accused the Central and state government of only being concerned about elections but not about administration amid second wave of coronavirus.Taking to Twitter, Siddaramaiah charged state and Central BJP leaders and wrote, "It is really unfortunate that Central BJP and state BJP leaders were only worried about elections but not administration. Why are Karnataka BJP leaders not following the protocols which they are trying to preach to the public?""Covid-19 second wave crisis has exposed the fragile public care system under the present BJPCentral and State government. People have become helpless without any medical treatment for Covid-19," he added.Siddaramaiah accused the Central and State governments of being irresponsible even after the grave experience of Covid-19 first wave."India had a grave experience during the first wave. Yet the government has not learned any lesson. Remdesivir, widely used for Covid treatment, is not available. Why was the government not ready with the medicines?" he asked."There is also a shortage of normal and ICU beds for Covid patients. People are left to suffer without oxygen and other support systems. Government is just busy solving internal crisis rather than solving public health crisis," he added.He also urged the Chief Minister of Karnataka to make Covid-19 treatment free for all the patients referred to the private hospitals."With government hospitals full, people are heading towards private hospitals for the treatment. Many are unable to afford the private hospital charges. I urge the Chief Minister of Karnataka and state health department minister to make Covid-19 treatment free for all the patients referred to the private hospitals," he wrote.Karnataka reported 14,859 new Covid-19 cases, 4,031 discharges, and 78 deaths on Thursday as per the state health bulletin on Friday evening. With this, the total Covid tally of the state reached 11,24,509, including 1,07,315 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-only-worried-about-elections-not-covid-siddaramaiah-101618650384859.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Sena blames Centre, EC for surge in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday slammed the Centre for ignoring the second Covid-19 wave while blaming it and the Election Commission (EC) for the surge in infections. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Samaana, it said the Covid situation would have been brought under control had the Centre reduced the “political dose” and focussed on the fight against the pandemic. “The Centre is not ready to tackle the corona emergency properly... China was held responsible for the first wave of coronavirus... Election Commission and Centre are responsible for the current wave. Covid spread 500 times faster from the states where elections were held or are underway... For elections and political selfishness, the rulers of Delhi created a wave of the pandemic by not tackling Covid,” the editorial said. Also read: ‘No strategy against Covid-19’ - Rahul Gandhi’s jibe against Modi govt at CWC meetThe Sena blamed election rallies in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the surge in Covid-19 cases. It also said that the coronavirus transmission also gained pace due to the Kumbh Mela. “The vehemence of Covid continues, but the election rallies and Kumbh Mela are not being stopped. Millions of devotees congregated at Kumbh; they took a dip in the Ganga and that has led to the transmission of coronavirus across the country. Prime minister [Narendra Modi] is not ready to stop the election mela in West Bengal. Then why should the saints and seers be blamed for Kumbh?” the editorial asked. “Had the Centre reduced the political dose and kept the focus on controlling the spread of coronavirus, the situation would not have gone out of hand.” The editorial asked the Centre to keep its “ego and political gains aside” to tackle the second wave. It added it is not a result of any state’s failure but that of “the carelessness of the Centre”. There was no immediate response to the editorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-blames-centre-ec-for-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101618650561599.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||5,039 new Covid-19 cases in Thane district, 39 die||Thane, Apr 17 (PTI) With the addition of 5,039 coronavirus cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra mounted to 4,06,093, an official said on Saturday. These new cases were reported on Friday, he said. As 39 patients succumbed to the infection during the day, the death toll in the district rose to 6,864. Thane district's COVID-19 mortality rate is 1.69 per cent now, he added. So far, 3,42,069 patients have recuperated, which took the recovery rate to 84.23 per cent. There are 57,160 active cases of coronavirus in the district at present, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the COVID-19 case count has gone up to 64,453, while the death toll is 1,290 now, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5039-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-district-39-die-101618649457376.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in shops in east Delhi area||New Delhi, Apr 17 (PTI) A fire broke out in the early hours of Saturday in five shops in east Delhi's Dilshad Garden area, officials said.According to a senior fire official, they received information regarding the blaze around 1.20 am, following which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The fire was doused at 2.45 am and the cooling process was started. The cooling process came to an end around 9 am, they said.The officials said they again received information regarding the fire at 11.40 am from the spot and two fire engines were rushed there.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-shops-in-east-delhi-area-101618649213609.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Water supply in parts of Delhi likely to remain affected for a week: DJB||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Saturday said water supply in parts of the capital is likely to remain affected for a week due to "reduced availability" of raw water from the Upper Ganga Canal.The water utility said the "production" capacity at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi water treatment plants was reduced by 25 per cent to 30 per cent."Water supply in areas of East Delhi, Northeast Delhi, South Delhi and NDMC will remain affected in the evening... The situation may remain so for a week until the situation improves," it said.Delhi gets 250 million gallons of raw water a day through the Upper Ganga Canal, officials said, adding around 200 million gallons a day (MGD) is being received at present.On Wednesday, high ammonia concentration in the Yamuna and less water in the river had affected the "production" capacity at Chandrawal and Wazirabad water treatment plants -- which supply around 228 MGD drinking water to people in Delhi.At present, ammonia concentration at the Wazirabad barrage is 3 parts per million (PPM), a DJB official said.The Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants are supplying 184 MGD of drinking water currently.DJB vice chairman Raghav Chadha had on Wednesday written to the Haryana Chief Minister requesting him to address the issue of "short supply of raw water" and discharge of pollutants in the river from Haryana.Industrial waste discharged into the drains in Haryana reaches Wazirabad barrage and pollutes the Yamuna downstream, he had said in the letter to CM Manohar Lal Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-likely-to-remain-affected-for-a-week-djb-101618648452081.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana restricts physical attendance to 50% in govt offices||In order to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Haryana, the state government has restricted physical attendance to 50 per cent at all the government offices.In an order addressed to administrative Secretaries, heads of departments, Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners, Managing Directors and registrars of all the universities in Haryana, the Chief Secretary said: "Officers of the level of Under Secretary or equivalent and below be allowed to work from home and their physical attendance in office be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual overall strength.However, the concerned Divisional/ Wing Heads, who are asked to make roster in the order, can call for more than 50 per cent physical attendance of any of the categories in their wings, if required on administrative grounds."It further said that all officers of the level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent and above are to attend office on regular basis. While those residing in containment zones shall continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is de-notified.Officials who attend office shall strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask, physical distancing, use of sanitizer and frequent hand washing with soap and water, it added."Large number of corona positive cases have been reported in the state in recent time. In view of health and safety of employees, it has been felt necessary to issue following directions to be implemented by all the Government offices/departments etc," read the letter.Haryana government on April 12 imposed a night curfew in the state with immediate effect amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases.There are as many as 33,817 active cases in Haryana so far, said the Union Health Ministry today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-haryana-restricts-physical-attendance-to-50-in-govt-offices-101618648221028.html
17-04-2021||Other||Battling shortage of ICU beds, Chhattisgarh health dept sends proposal to state govt||In view of the Covid-19 surge in Chhattisgarh and shortage of hospital beds for the treatment of those infected by the deadly virus, the state government decided to reserve 50 per cent of beds at all private hospitals for Covid-19 patients, officials said on Friday. Expressing concerns over the present scenario of Covid-19 beds in the state, state health minister, TS Singhdeo said, “We certainly have a crunch of ICU beds, we have sent a proposal to the state government to acquire another 1000 ICU beds. The occupancy rate of ICU beds is very high, close to 90% as compared to the occupancy rate of beds with oxygen facility”. “We are planning to acquire another 6000-7000 oxygen beds that would enable us to have nearly 13,000 beds combining the private and government sectors. Apart from this, we have 800 functional ventilators,” Singhdeo added. Officials of the state health department claimed that out of 5,512 beds in private hospitals in Raipur district, 3,531 are reserved for Covid-19 patients. Similarly, out of a total of 1,532 beds of private hospitals in Durg district, 972 beds have been kept for Covid-19 patients and 285 beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients in Bilaspur. Chhattisgarh has been witnessing more than 10,000 Covid-19 cases daily for the past ten days. On Thursday, the state reported the highest-single day spike with 15,256 new Covid-19 cases. The total caseload now stands at 5,01,500, a health official said. With 135 deaths due to the viral infection recorded on Friday, the statewide toll mounted to 5,442. The total number of active cases in the state stands at 1,21,769. “Positivity rate on Thursday in Chhattisgarh was 28.54%, witnessing a two% drop from the day before yesterday’s 30.63%. In the last ten days, the positivity rate has been hovering between 25-30% with a cumulative death rate of 1.091%” said Singhdeo. Chhattisgarh witnessed a total of 984 deaths in the state in the last 11 days and most of them were reported in Raipur. “In Raipur, cases of deaths are high because people from all neighbouring districts come to Raipur for Covid-19 treatment,” said an official. Raipur recorded a total of 1,431 deaths while Durg’s reported 1,054 deaths till now,” said a senior health official. Videos on social media reflected the alarming situation at mortuaries across the state. On Monday, 14 new cremation centres were opened in the capital to bury victim’s bodies.“Around 34 dead bodies are in the mortuary of state-run Ambedkar Hospital in which 17 are unclaimed. The rest are given to the family members,” said a health worker working in Ambedkar hospital, requesting anonymity. On Thursday, a video went viral in which the dead bodies were seen being ferried in a truck and garbage vans in Rajnandgaon district. “These are one-off cases. Diligent guidelines have been laid out to carry and dispose of the dead and they are being followed. Media picks up the worst-case scenario but this is not the trend,” Singhdeo said. “Even after the cremation centres are open, the bodies are cremated by sweepers and some volunteers and in some cases, the bodies are dumped in cremation centres for hours. The government should increase ambulances to ferry the dead bodies and police should be deployed for cremation,” said Subhash Ghosh, a volunteer working in cremating centres of Raipur (Rural). Meanwhile, the Chhattisgarh government said on Thursday that it has distributed another consignment of 8,800 Remdesivir injections to different hospitals amid reports of an acute shortage. “We have called in bids for 90,000 vials of Remdesivir with a provision for another 45,000 vials. We will soon have these injections,” said Singhdeo. The Chhattisgarh government on Thursday banned work stoppage in all essential services in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The order, under the Chhattisgarh Urgent Service Maintenance and Prevention of Discontinuance Act 1979, prohibits work stoppage in health facilities across all government and private medical institutions besides the sale of medicines, transport, ambulance services, supply of water and electricity, and management of food and drinking water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/battling-shortage-of-icu-beds-chhattisgarh-health-dept-sends-proposal-to-state-govt-101618645760309.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||70-year-old Hoshiarpur man’s family in shock after death in US shooting||The killing of 70-year-old Jaswinder Singh in the mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, US, on Friday came as a rude shock to his family at Kotla Naudh Singh village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. One of his sons, Gurvinder Singh, with whom he stayed in the US, informed his siblings back home on Saturday morning about their father’s death. “We got a call from our brother early this morning informing us that our father had died in the violence. His body is still in police custody,” said Jatinder Singh, the victim’s younger son. Also read: Sikh community in shock after four members die in Indianapolis shooting Jatinder said that their parents had migrated to the US eight years ago to be with his middle son. “He had started working at the facility a few days ago and we are told that he had gone there to collect his payment when the shooting occurred,” Jatinder said. He said his parents talked to them two days ago and lamented that due to the Covid-19 pandemic they could not visit India soon. He said that Jaswinder had last come home two years ago. “Little did we know that he would never come again,” Jatinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70yearold-hoshiarpur-man-s-family-in-shock-after-death-in-us-shooting-101618645640633.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||117 stranded vehicles rescued from 16,000-ft Baralacha Pass||As many as 117 passenger vehicles stranded on the Manali-Leh highway were rescued after a 14-hour operation that ended around Saturday midnight. A joint team of the Border Roads Organisation, police and the district administration of Lahaul and Spiti carried out the operation as the temperature hovered around -25 degrees Celsius. “A total of 117 vehicles, including 22 Tempo Travellers, safely crossed the Baralacha Pass towards Sarchu. They were camping in Himachal Pradesh after the sudden closure of the Manali-Leh highway on the afternoon of April 4,” a BRO spokesman said. Also read: IAF chief Rakesh Bhadauria to flag off 6 Rafale fighters from France on April 21Trucks carrying goods to Leh were among the vehicles stranded. Drivers and helpers had run short of ration during this period, he said. “Four vehicles were also brought back safely from Darcha when they got stuck in the snowstorm at Baralacha Pass on Friday night,” he said. A police team brought 41 passengers stranded at Killing Sarai and Baralacha Pass when their vehicles broke down. The Leh district police confirmed the arrival of the first fleet of vehicles. The highway has been opened only for light vehicles till the weather clears up.The rescue team consisted of officers from the district administration, including Keylong SDM Rajesh Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/117-stranded-vehicles-rescued-from-16-000-ft-baralacha-pass-101618644680145.html
17-04-2021||Bangalore||JDS leader HD Kumaraswamy tests positive for Covid-19||Former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. "I request everyone who came in close contact with me over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested," the 61-year-old JD(S) leader tweeted. For the last few days, Kumaraswamy had been campaigning for the party candidate in Basavakalyan, which is going to bypoll today. He had got himself inoculated with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/jds-leader-hd-kumaraswamy-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618641744762.html
17-04-2021||Patna||Lalu Yadav granted bail in case linked to fodder scam, can walk out of jail now||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president and former chief minister of Bihar Lalu Yadav was granted bail in a case linked to the fodder scam by the Jharkhand High Court on Saturday. The leader, who is currently undergoing treatment at AIIMS Delhi, will be able to walk out of jail after being released from the hospital.The court granted bail to him in the Dumka treasury case, in which he was convicted of withdrawing ₹3.13 crore from the treasury in Jharkhand's Dumka, formerly in Bihar. The bail was granted by Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh.The court directed him neither to leave the country without permission nor change his address and mobile number during the bail period, news agency ANI reported."The bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh granted bail to Prasad on the condition that he would furnish two sureties of ₹1 lakh each and ₹10 lakh fine amount before the court below," Central Bureau of Investigation's counsel and assistant solicitor general Rajiv Sinha said.The leader was convicted in three other cases related to the fodder scam, in which he was granted bail earlier.Owing to his poor health, the 72-year-old politician has spent a lot of time in the hospital since 2017, the year he was jailed. He was flown from Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to AIIMS Delhi in January this year after his health worsened.A special CBI court sentenced the leader to 14 years of imprisonment--seven under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections and seven under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act-- in the fodder scam case.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-yadav-granted-bail-in-fodder-scam-case-by-jharkhand-high-court-101618643713744.html
17-04-2021||Lucknow||DRDO to set up two Covid hospitals in Lucknow||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is all set to establish two Covid hospitals in Lucknow – one at Haj House and the other at Golden Blossom Resort-- to create 1,000 more beds for patients in the city.The move, which has been initiated on the directives of defence minister Rajnath Singh, is expected to bring the much needed relief to the state capital that has witnessed over 36,000 cases over the last 10 days.The district administration identified Haj House on Kanpur Road and Golden Blossom Resort on Faizabad Road and helped in providing these spaces to DRDO’s representatives in UP.The DRDO team will arrive in Lucknow on Saturday to begin their work. These hospitals will include 250-350 ICU beds. The Central Command of the army will also be roped in, an official said.“Of all the proposed places for the establishment of the makeshift hospitals, we have zeroed in on Haj House and Golden Blossom, where we can set up the beds. We are in touch with the district administration and soon a letter will be sent to district magistrate, Abhishek Prakash,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh’s Lok Sabha representative, Diwakar Tripathi.DRDO officials said the team is on the job and the makeshift hospitals would be in place in a couple of weeks.“It’s a matter of few days…the makeshift Covid hospitals will be ready,” Dr Narendra Kumar Arya, director, Directorate of Public Interface (DPI), told HT.‘After these two makeshift hospitals become operational, the state capital will have total 5,000 Covid beds. Emergency services will continue as before at Trauma Centre, KGMU,’ the Chief Mister’s Office twitter handle stated on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/drdo-to-set-up-two-covid-hospitals-in-lucknow-101618641205719.html
17-04-2021||Jaipur||NSUI members protest against over BJP leader's remarks on Maharana Pratap||NSUI members on Friday held a demonstration against Rajasthan's Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria for his controversial remarks on warrior king Maharana Pratap.The Congress-affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) also burnt an effigy of the BJP leader who on Tuesday tendered an apology for his remarks that triggered outrage among Rajputs in the state.Maharana Pratap was the king of Mewar, the present-day Udaipur region.“The demonstration was held outside the main gate of the University of Rajasthan against BJP leader Kataria for what he had said for Maharana Pratap in Rajsamand recently. This reflects his mentality,” NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said.Bhati demanded that Kataria should quit as the leader of opposition on moral grounds.Addressing a public gathering in the Rajsamand constituency on Sunday, Kataria has said in Hindi: “Our ancestors fought for 100 years. The most recent example is Maharana Pratap. Was he bitten by a mad dog that he left his kingdom and fort to wander in jungles? Who had he done it for?"The remarks outraged the people from the community with Udaipur's royal family scion Lakshyaraj Singh Mewar charging that undignified language was for Maharana Pratap whose "name is synonymous with the valour and struggle".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/nsui-members-protest-against-over-bjp-leader-s-remarks-on-maharana-pratap-101618641003897.html
17-04-2021||Pune||State witnesses its highest one-day spike of 63,729 Covid cases||Amid the rampant violation of lockdown norms, the state witnessed its highest one-day spike of 63,729 Covid cases, which took the tally to 3,703,584 on Friday.Maharashtra also saw 398 deaths on Friday, the highest one-day spike in 196 days, after 424 on October 2, 2020. The toll touched 59,551, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.61%.Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state was considering tightening restrictions, while deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, too, warned Pune residents of a complete lockdown, if rules are flouted.Home minister Dilip Walse Patil also said the police force will have to strictly enforce the lockdown if people don’t pay heed.“People are flouting rules resulting in crowding at public places. A strict lockdown of 15 days is necessary. If violations continue, we will impose a stricter lockdown in the state,” said Tope. “Pune residents gave a good response to the weekend lockdown. I am hoping they will follow the rules in the upcoming days. Otherwise, as some of my fellow ministers have warned, a complete lockdown may have to be imposed. I request citizens to follow the rules and do not push the administration to take this decision. In complete lockdown, many suffered hardships,” Pawar said. “We have directed the police to restrain from using force against violators as unlike last year’s lockdown, this time we have allowed essential services. However, people are still not following the restrictions and Covid-19 protocol. In such a scenario, the police will have no option,” said Walse Patil.While the state caseload kept hovering around 60,000 cases over the past one week, the cases in Mumbai saw a slight dip after crossing the 10,000-mark thrice in the first week of the month. With 8,803 new cases on Friday, the tally stands at 562,207 and toll at 12,250, with the addition of 53 new deaths.Pune district, however, topped the chart with 11,045 cases, including 5,437 in city, 3,082 in rural parts and 2,526 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The district also logged 47 deaths, of which 36 were in the city. The number of cases remained high in cities such as Nagpur (4,190), Nashik (2,459) and Aurangabad (775). The Mumbai Metropolitan Region clocked 17,635 cases, accounting for 27.67% of the total of the cases in the state.The number of active cases in the state rose to 638,034, while the recovery rate fell to 81.12%, as the number of recovered patients is much below the daily caseload.While the state government is struggling with shortage of liquid medical oxygen, Remdesivir injections and vaccine, the state authorities have said the supply of Remdesivir is expected to be normalised in the next few days. The state has a stock of vaccine more than 1.3 million doses, which will last for three days. The state has also started mobilising the transportation to fetch the LMO stock from other states, made available by the central government.State public health minister Rajesh Tope said, “We have been consuming the entire daily production of about 1500 metric tonnes for patients and are facing shortage in the wake of rise in the number of patients. Besides the procurement from other states, we have directed collectors to use technologies like pressure swing absorption oxygen generator and oxygen concentrators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-witnesses-its-highest-one-day-spike-of-63-729-covid-cases-101618640799195.html
17-04-2021||Other||Amid Covid-19 surge, Bihar’s opposition wants panchayat polls to be postponed||Bihar’s opposition parties on Friday called for the postponement of the impending panchayat elections in the state amid the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases in the state and across the country. The state has more than 29,000 active cases at present.Leaders of opposition parties recently got worried over panchayati raj department minister Samrat Chaudhary’s statement wherein he had said that the department was ready to hold the elections, as he required spending huge budgetary allocations, amounting to ₹10,000 crore, to strengthen the rural institutions and streamline the rural water supply projects being executed under Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal scheme. “Our preparations are in the final stage and final electoral roll has been out,” said the minister.Anand Madhab, chairman of the state Congress’s manifesto committee, has urged the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the elections for the three-tier panchayat elections till the time the situation is brought under control. “Not only are people getting sick in large numbers due to Covid-19 this time, but casualty figures are also alarming,” said Madhab.Echoing similar views, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief spokesman and MLA Bhai Birendra said, “Situation would have not been so alarming had the government learnt from the past mistakes and ramped up medical facilities.”SEC officials said they were all geared up for the elections. State election commissioner Deepak Prasad, however, could not be contacted for his comments.As per the panchayati raj department, elections for six posts in each of over 8,400 panchayat bodies are scheduled for June. Accordingly, the state election commission identified about 1.14 lakh booths across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-covid-19-surge-bihar-s-opposition-wants-panchayat-polls-to-be-postponed-101618640422983.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police asked for deployments to check crowding amid Covid-19 surge||Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale has instructed his force to identify crowded places for deployments to prevent overcrowding as part of efforts to check the Covid-19 spread.He said they have received orders from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for stricter enforcement of the restrictions imposed in view of the pandemic. He added all police stations have been given directions to that effect.“We are implementing the orders effectively. Public places like grocery markets, vegetable markets that regularly see a large number of people are being given extra attention.”He said they were working in close coordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the home department, and other state authorities.Nagrale said they will not unnecessarily take any harsh action but those venturing out for trivial and unavoidable work would not be spared.With the help of a network of CCTV cameras, the police are keeping a check on crowded places.The police have appealed to traders and other stakeholders to help them in implementing the restrictions. All police stations’ in-charges and senior officers are regularly interacting with them virtually and listening to their issues and also taking suggestions for effective implementation of the restrictions.Nagrale warned people against spreading rumours and fake news about the Covid through social media. “Such elements would see stricter action,” Nagrale said.Last year, hundreds of migrants gathered outside Bandra stations following rumours about special trains being arranged to send them home. Police had to resort to mild lathi-charge to disperse the crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-asked-for-deployments-to-check-crowding-amid-covid-19-surge-101618636699886.html
17-04-2021||Patna||As Covid-19 cases surge, Bihar hospitals report oxygen shortage||Hospitals in Bihar have been reporting a shortage of oxygen amid an increase in demand for it with a surge in Covid-19 cases.Authorities at Patna’s Sahyog Hospital said the demand has doubled from 20 cylinders to 40 per day. The hospital has been unable to admit Covid-19 patients who require oxygen up to 12-15 litres per minute, said an official.Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit acknowledged the shortage over the last two days and said efforts were on to streamline the supply. “We have asked two major suppliers, Linde India and Inox Air Products Ltd, to supply medical oxygen on a daily basis instead of alternate days as is the case now,” he said.“Two oxygen generation plants, with a capacity of 250 litres oxygen per minute, are operational at the Patna Medical College Hospital and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital while those at seven other state-run medical college hospitals will be functional in a week or 10 days,” said Amrit.Bihar relies mostly on West Bengal and Jharkhand for the supply of medical oxygen.Rambabu, an operator at an oxygen production and refilling firm, said the demand for small cylinders had gone up by 10 times and for big by three to five times. “Earlier, we used to supply 50 to 60 big cylinders every day. Now, we have to supply 180-200 cylinders daily,” he said.Another supplier, Suresh Kumar, said his agency would receive a demand of 23 to 25 small cylinders, which has now gone up to 35 to 45 daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-bihar-hospitals-report-oxygen-shortage-101618635139736.html
17-04-2021||Other||BJP loses control of municipal council in heart of Goa CM’s constituency||In a blow to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, the BJP-backed chairperson of the Sankhali municipal council, a constituency that the chief minister represents in the state assembly, was ousted in a no-confidence motion on Friday. “The chief minister is behind all these tactics to ensure that they retain the chair of the council. They want to send a message that if you stand against them, they will do everything possible to harass you. What message are they sending to those who want to enter politics next,” Dharmesh Saglani, a Congressman who leads the opposition group said. Sitting chairperson Yeshwant Madkar and his group of councillors remained absent during the meeting which was called to vote on the no-confidence motion resulting in a victory for the opposition. Congress won the vote 7-0 in the 13-member council. The victory caps a flurry of developments in which the state machinery attempted to stymie the holding of the vote. It first repeatedly postponed the date of the meeting, filed a disqualification petition against an opposition councillor in a bid to get him disqualified before the vote and when he obtained a stay from the High Court, it filed a disqualification petition against another councillor who also got the stay from the HC. Another councillor was prevented from voting by issuing an arrest warrant but that attempt too failed as the councillor got anticipatory bail. North Goa’s Sanquelim town forms a crucial part of the constituency that CM Sawant represents. He is a two-term MLA from here. The BJP held a narrow majority in the council but all that changed when Damodar Ghadi, a councillor belonging to the BJP camp, passed away in November last year. Elections were held on March 20 to fill up the vacant seat in which the candidate backed by Sawant lost. However, anticipating a victory, two days before voting was held, the opposition councillors moved a no-confidence motion against incumbent Yashwant Madkar. However, rather than quickly calling for a meeting of the council to decide the motion, the Director of Municipal Administration called for the meeting to be held only on April 30 - six weeks after the motion was tabled forcing the opposition councillors to approach the Bombay High Court at Goa. “The removal of an elected office bearer on the loss of confidence is an essential feature of democracy. Such a feature cannot be defeated by the Director by simply delaying the holding of a meeting to even consider such a motion,” the High Court said while directing that the meeting be held on April 16.Faced with the possibility of losing control of the council, a disqualification petition against one of the opposition councillors, Rajesh Sawal, that was kept for hearing before the minister of urban development, Milind Naik, on April 28 was moved forward to April 14. Sawal promptly approached the High Court alleging that “from the sequence of events, it is apparent that the entire objective behind such a preponement is to disqualify [him] or disable [him] from taking part in the meeting to consider the motion of no confidence.”The High Court granted a “stay on further proceedings for disqualification of the petitioner.”While attempts to disqualify Sawal failed, late on Thursday evening, the urban development minister issued another councillor, Raya Parsekar, to be present for a hearing at a time that would clash with the meeting for the motion of no confidence. The councillor too approached the High Court and obtained a stay. Unable to prove their majority or ensure that the opposition candidates would not win the motion, the BJP backed-councillors abstained from attending the meeting allowing the opposition to win the motion 7-0. “After the High Court rescued democracy in Goa, [a] humiliating 7-0 defeat of the BJP backed Sanquelim Municipal Council Chairperson Yeshwant Madkar is a clear signal that the end of BJP government is near. Congratulations to all seven councillors of Sanquelim who remained strong and united,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted. “The BJP government is all out to finish the democracy in the country and has already adopted dictatorial governance. Dr. Pramod Sawant is completely shaken with his lost control of Sankhali Municipality which falls in his own constituency,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.“This is not the last we will hear of it. The state will continue to file cases against us which we will have to face,” Saglani said.Naik remained unreachable for a comment despite repeated attempts to get in touch with him.State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade sought to play down the implications of the defeat. “These things keep happening as a consequence of local politics. As a party president it would not be appropriate for me to offer my comments,” Tanavade said. Independent political observer Advocate Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said that Goa is fortunate that the courts intervened to allow the no-confidence motion to go ahead. “It was because of the intervention of the High Court that is sensitive to the principles of democracy that the principle of democracy was upheld. We should not take this for granted. All parties try to take advantage of the grey areas in the laws to their advantage and no party is interested in streamlining the processes,” Coutinho said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-loses-control-of-municipal-council-in-heart-of-cm-sawant-s-constituency-101618634839033.html
17-04-2021||Other||Odisha criminal who fled hospital finally arrested in Telangana||Five days after 60-year-old gangster Sk Hyder, serving a life sentence in a case of murder, escaped from a government medical college cum hospital in Odisha after drugging the policeman in charge of his security, a team of Odisha cops, with the help of Telangana Police, arrested him from a place 200 kilometres away from Hyderabad city on Thursday evening, police officials said.“An inspector from Cuttack who knew Hyder very well apprehended him. The entire operation was a combined success of human intelligence as well as technical intelligence. We thought we had almost lost him,” Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissioner of police Soumendra Priyadarshi said.The Odisha police on Friday produced the gangster before a court in Cuttack which granted it 7 days remand for further interrogation in his case of escape. The gangster, convicted in two murder cases, also faces trial in about a dozen other cases of extortion.Last Saturday, Hyder, who is serving a life sentence in a case of murder of a businessman, had fled from his cabin at the surgery ward of Sriram Chandra Bhanja (SCB) Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack after intoxicating the lone security guard on duty. The gangster was brought from Sambalpur circle jail for hydrocele surgery 18 days prior to that but used the opportunity to flee.On Saturday afternoon, a nurse at the hospital who was supposed to give a jab to the gangster first reported his disappearance. The lone armed sentry sent by the Sambalpur police to guard him was found intoxicated and disoriented. “When I arrived at the bed at 5.30 pm, I found the sentry sleeping. Hyder was not there on his bed,” said the nurse.Though initially it was suspected that the lone sentry was fed biryani spiked with some intoxicants, senior officials said the policeman may have been given water or some drink spiked with drugs. However, they admitted that there was clear laxity in the handling of the gangster’s security.Priyadarshi said Hyder was travelling on a bike in Sangareddy district on Thursday evening when the motorcycle-bound police team of Cuttack district, with the help of Telangana police, intercepted him.Senior police officials said some doctors in VIMSAR Burla as well as SCB Medical College appeared to have given exaggerated reports about the gangster’s ailments though he suffered just from hydrocele. While there were reports that he was to be operated on his gallbladder, there are contradictory reports of him having different health issues. “The role of doctors in the entire episode needs to probed,” said an official.People privy to the development said Hyder’s escape from the hospital was a result of a well-planned criminal conspiracy hatched by around 10 persons including his two sons- Azharuddin and Chuni. Yakub, one of his aides, spilt the beans about Hyder after his arrest. During the investigation, police suspected that he had moved either to Andhra Pradesh or Telangana.“During the probe, we almost zeroed down that Haider had moved to Telangana via Andhra by road. Based on information from the technical surveillance team under the supervision of Cuttack DCP, we tried to track his locations and with help of Hyderabad and Telangana police teams, we kept a close vigil on his movement. Based on police inputs about his presence at a particular place in Sangareddy district, we intercepted Haider who was riding a motorcycle. The team led by Badambadi IIC caught him on the way at around 6.00 pm on Thursday,” Priyadarshi told at the press meet.Though it is difficult to imagine the portly Hyder as a gangster, he was a renowned name in Odisha’s underworld in the late 90s due to his ability to execute crimes. In the 1980s, Hyder was earning a living by pulling a rickshaw in Kendrapara town and later worked as a truck driver. Police officials in Kendrapara say, Hyder soon got involved in petty thefts and formed a gang with two other criminals Syed Usman Ali alias Tito and Suleiman.“They sometimes worked as a gang, but also fell out with each other over small issues. Their main business was extortion, felony and tender fixing. They were often hired by contractors who did not wish rivals to get the contract for a particular civil work,” said a police officer in Kendrapara. In 2005, he became a known name in the underworld after killing Sk Chuna, brother of his friend-turned-foe Suleiman. He was arrested from Nagpur for the murder and was awarded life imprisonment in 2011. However, he got out on parole and with the help of Tito, he got Suleiman, the most educated among the three, shot dead on a road in 2012. Hyder and Tito however soon fell out and bayed for each other’s blood.Hyder was again arrested and later sentenced to life in 2015 over kidnapping and murder of mines trader Rashmi Ranjan Mahapatra. Though he was in jail, police officials said he was known to plan and execute crimes from inside the jail.In June 2017, Tito was arrested by the Crime Branch Special Task Force (STF) and since then has been living in solitary confinement.Former state DGP and BJP leader Prakash Mishra who has seen the rise of Hyder and his criminal gang over the years said that the escape of the gangster could not have been possible without the active collusion of police, jail and hospital officials. “Was the gangster’s escape planned in a manner to allow him enough time to slip past highway check gates before police issued emergency lookout orders? Some influential powers are surely behind the conspiracy,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-criminal-who-fled-hospital-finally-arrested-in-telangana-101618632079617.html
17-04-2021||Election:||Karnataka bypolls: Voting begins in Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly constituencies||By-polls for one Lok Sabha seat in Belgaum and two assembly constituencies of Basavakalyan and Maski is underway in Karnataka on Saturday. As many as 10 candidates are in the fray for the by-polls for the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat and in Basavakalyan, there are 12 candidates in the fray while Maski has eight candidates with the BJP and the Congress party looking to win in all three constituencies.Ahead of the polling, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged voters to cast their votes. PM Modi in a tweet said, “There are by-polls taking place in different parts of the country. I urge voters in the seats polling today to vote in record numbers and strengthen the festival of democracy.”The elections to the Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency were necessitated following the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last year. Basavakalyan is holding a by-poll due to the death of MLA B Narayan Rao due to Covid-19. Bypolls to Maski assembly constituency is being held due to the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda, who shifted to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after winning on a Congress ticket in 2018.The Congress has tried to corner the ruling BJP over lack of good administration, Karnataka’s Covid-19 situation, issues related to reservation of different communities and allegations of a sex scandal against one of Karnataka’s cabinet ministers R Jarkiholi. Congress won the Basavakalyan and Maski assembly constituencies in 2018 and hopes to retain it in this by-polls.Congress has fielded Satish Jarkiholi, the MLA from the Yamkanmaradi assembly constituency, against the BJP’s Mangala Suresh Angadi, wife of late Suresh Angadi for the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat.In Basavakalyan, Congress has fielded Mallamma, the wife of late legislator B Narayan Rao, against the BJP’s youth leader Sharanu Salagar. Mallikarjun Khuba, a rebel leader formerly of the BJP, who is contesting as an Independent candidate is also in the fray. Janata Dal (Secular) which has limited itself to the Basavakalyan assembly constituency in this by-polls has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri.The BJP has nominated Prathapagouda Patil in Maski, who emerged winner in 2018 against Congress’ Basanagouda Turvihal. Turvihal fought on a BJP ticket in 2018 and lost by a thin margin of 213 against Patil who was with the Congress at that time.As many as 2,268,038 voters will cast their votes across 3197 polling stations in the three constituencies. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/karnataka-bypolls-voting-begins-in-belgaum-lok-sabha-seat-maski-basavakalyan-101618627128706.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Healthcare infrastructure strained beyond measure||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/healthcare-infrastructure-strained-beyond-measure-101618618751587.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||14kg heroin, worth ₹98 crore, seized in massive drug haul at IGI Airport||Customs officers at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Wednesday arrested two people from Zambia, and recovered 14kg heroin estimated to be worth ₹98 crore that they were allegedly trying to smuggle into the country.Senior customs officers privy to the operation said this was one of the biggest seizures in recent years, and added that they were probing the role of a “large syndicate” in the operation.The officers said they had a tip-off, and the two passengers, a man and a woman, who arrived in Delhi in a Qatar Airways flight from Johannesburg via Doha early on Wednesday, were intercepted as soon as they crossed the Green Channel (nothing to declare) at Terminal 3.“Initially, they denied if they were carrying anything objectionable. They were then screened through a door frame metal detector (DFMD) which did not detect anything prohibited. Their bags were checked through an X-ray scanner, and some suspicious items were spotted. When the bags were opened, two packets, each about 7kg containing a white powder, were recovered from their bags,” said a senior customs officer who asked not to be named.“A drug detection kit confirmed that the seized substance was heroin. They told us that they were couriers who were asked to transport the drugs and hand them over to someone in Delhi,” the officer added.A second officer aware of the matter said they are investigating the source of the drugs, and the person to whom the packages were to be delivered. “It is one of the biggest drug hauls at Delhi airport. Role of a bigger syndicate behind the attempted smuggling cannot be ruled out. We are looking at the past involvement of the two persons,” the officer cited above.Shaukat Ali Nurvi, joint commissioner of Customs (Delhi airport), put the estimated value of the recovered drugs at ₹98 crore.“During questioning, the two have admitted to smuggling narcotics. The recovered goods were seized under relevant sections, and both the passengers have been arrested. Further investigation in the matter is under progress,” Nurvi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/14kg-heroin-worth-98-crore-seized-in-massive-drug-haul-at-igi-airport-101618617695477.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Passes for night curfew applicable over weekend||Hours before the weekend curfew was to come into effect at 10pm on Friday, the government and police issued orders directing district administrations to ensure strict enforcement of restrictions over the next two days.The government directed bus conductors to ensure that public buses are accessible to all essential service providers with valid identity cards and e-passes, while exempting from the curfew candidates who are scheduled to appear for examinations on Saturday and Sunday. Such candidates need only carry their admit cards, the government said.Spelling relief to essential service providers, the government on Friday clarified that e-passes issued for movement during the ongoing night curfew would suffice for travel during the weekend curfew.The Delhi Police asserted that extensive arrangements -- pickets, patrolling on bikes and in four-wheelers, and maximum deployment of personnel on streets -- are being made.“When they did not do so till late-afternoon, a few of us went to the SDM’s office and learnt that the night pass would suffice,” said Jagan Mahapatra, a grocery store owner who also supplies bottled water and milk cartons in and around south Delhi’s Khirki Extension locality.On Friday, district administration and police sent out teams across the city and chaired meetings with residents and market welfare groups, seeking their help in ensuring full compliance of curfew regulations.“Same as last year, the Delhi Police is again at the frontline to arrest the surge of Covid-19,” city police commissioner SN Shrivastava said in a virtual meeting with senior officers, including all DCPs on Friday afternoon, directing them to maintain tight vigil and prosecute anyone found wilfully disobeying the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/passes-for-night-curfew-applicable-over-weekend-101618617492838.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Residents stock up on essentials ahead of curfew||With the Delhi government announcing a weekend curfew from 10pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, several residents rushed to departmental stores in their neighbourhoods and stocked up on essentials, worried that a full lockdown may be in store.There were serpentine queues outside several departmental stores in the city on Friday.Bags of rice and atta, cartons of packaged milk, packets of salt and sugar, ready-to-eat noodles, toothpaste and mosquito repellents were among the wide range of products that residents bought from a departmental store in Malviya Nagar.“It is better to replenish our stock of day-to-day goods and groceries. You never know what happens after this weekend,” said Pawan Thakur, a 66-year-old resident of the south Delhi colony.The government’s decision to impose a curfew this weekend in the light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the Capital has sparked fears of a lockdown.While shops selling essential goods are exempted in the weekend curfew, and are most likely to remain out of the ambit of stringent restrictions, residents fear several products may go out of stock in the coming days.“It is better to buy things now. Covid-19 cases are increasing every day. The weekend curfew may turn into a full-fledged lockdown for a week or so, you never know,” said Ashok Randhawa, a resident of Kalkaji K-block, who went to a departmental store on Friday to get his stock of household essentials refilled.In the last few days, several resident welfare associations (RWA) in the city have been circulating messages on WhatsApp urging members to refill their stock of essentials at one go, preferably, so that they don’t have to step out frequently.“We have also stressed in such groups that when people go out to run errands, there is a likelihood of shops getting crowded within a short span of time. So, people must maintain social distancing and go for staggered timings by coordinating with other residents in the group,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, which is a collective of around 1,800 RWAs in the city.As a large number of people across the city stepped out to buy essentials on Friday, staffers at several departmental stores urged customers to maintain distancing and stand in queues, while screening everyone entering their premises — practices that many stores gave up after new cases dropped in February.Several vendors in prominent vegetable and spice markets were spotted requesting people to maintain distance fearing that failure to adhere to rules could potentially mean a lockdown in the coming days.“Things are scary now. Every second person is getting infected. But a lockdown would be like a major setback in such bad times. We will take all preventive steps to make sure that such a situation does not arise,” said Brijesh Mehta, owner of a prominent wholesale vegetable shop in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar-I, which witnessed relatively high footfall on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-stock-up-on-essentials-ahead-of-curfew-101618617225486.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Woman dies after being hit by shed during dust storm||A 37-year-old woman was killed and her minor daughter hospitalised with serious injuries after three persons were struck by a tin shed that flew off a building in south Delhi’s Palam village in the dust storm that swept through the Capital on Friday evening, the police said.The third person affected in the mishap was a man cycling on the road. According to the police, his injuries were minor in comparison to those sustained by the mother and daughter.Police identified the woman as Sonu and her nine-year-old daughter Nikita. Sonu was a home maker and lived with two daughters and husband in Palam village.According to Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), the mishap happened around 6pm while Sonu and her daughter were walking down the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-dies-after-being-hit-by-shed-during-dust-storm-101618616996666.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Dust storm, rain bring down mercury in Capital||A dust storm and light rain hit parts of Delhi-NCR, bringing down the temperature and affecting visibility in some areas, officials from India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Officials also forecast light rain on Saturday, which they said will bring down the temperature by two to three degrees.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the sudden thunderstorm and light rain on Friday was the result of a western disturbance.“Strong winds with speed up to 70-80 kmph prevailed today (Friday)... light rain was also reported from some places. The weather activity on account of the western disturbance will reduce and only cloudiness is expected on Saturday,” said Srivastava.A western disturbance is a storm originating in the Mediterranean region that brings sudden rain to the northern parts of the Indian subcontinent.According to IMD data, the minimum temperature in Delhi on Friday was recorded at 20.2 degree Celsius – two degrees below normal – and the maximum temperature was around 40 degree Celsius – three degrees above normal.The weekly IMD forecast says it may rain in Delhi on Saturday as well.“The dust storm in Delhi was mainly due to local convective activity associated with a western disturbance that impacted the western Himalayan region. PM 10 (coarse particulate matter) concentrations have increased significantly following dust raising winds in the region. But our models are showing PM 10 levels will come back to the moderate category by night,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist at IMD’s air quality division, referring to the dust pollution caused by the strong winds.Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Friday, with data from Central Pollution Control Board showing that the 24-hour air quality index (AQI) stood at 238. The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said the air quality will improve over the weekend.“The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated marginally to the ’poor’ category as forecasted. PM10 (dust) remain the prominent pollutant. High dust is likely at isolated places today (Friday) due to gusty winds and thunderstorms. Likely rainfall will improve AQI from poor to moderate category in the next two days,” stated the Safar bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dust-storm-rain-bring-down-mercury-in-capital-101618616699290.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||141 more lives lost to Covid-19: Toll hits peak as new cases near 20,000||On Friday, 141 people died of the coronavirus disease in the national capital, the most fatalities in one day in the city so far.The fourth wave of the infection that has stormed the Capital over the past few weeks has been the most devastating so far, with infections and deaths soaring to levels not seen at any stage since the outbreak of the pandemic. Before Friday’s fatalities hit a record, the most deaths logged in a day were on November 18, when the infection claimed 131 lives.Cases, meanwhile, have increased at an alarming rate in the Capital. Delhi hit another one-day infection record on Friday, with the city adding 19,486 cases, and the infection tally crossing the 800,000 mark.Delhi has added the last 100,000 cases in eight days. In comparison, the previous 100,000 cases were registered over 120 days.“The absolute number of deaths is expected to go up further, with cases continuing to rise. The curve of deaths usually follows that of the number of cases by five to 10 days. The proportion of deaths might also go up as the health care system gets stretched thin with the sheer number of cases – people might not reach hospital on time, might not get a bed in time, and might not receive required treatment in time,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“When the numbers of cases and deaths were low in January and February, the case fatality rate (proportion of deaths among those who test positive) reduced to less than 0.5%. It may go up again now, but I believe it will still likely stay between 1% and 1.5%,” said Dr Kishore.The city’s cumulative case fatality rate currently stands at 1.47%.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – dipped marginally to 19.69% from the previous day’s 20.22% with the number of tests increasing to 98,957 from Thursday’s 82,569.The test positivity rate is far higher than the World Health Organization’s recommendation of below 5%.Delhi’s positivity rate was below 1% for 82 days, till it crossed that mark on March 20.The surge in cases in Delhi has consequently led to an increase in the number of hospitalisations, with over 12,000 beds occupied for the first time in the city. Patients have been forced to run from pillar to post in search of beds.Meanwhile, ministers and state government officials held review meetings throughout the day. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain visited Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital and Rajiv Gandhi hospital on Friday to review the management of cases.“Met with the patients, doctors & staff. Reviewed the hospital’s management system. In these hard times, Delhi Govt. is taking swift & efficient steps to defeat the Coronavirus,” Jain tweeted.In a review meeting, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked state health department officials to scale up the number of oxygen beds reserved for Covid-19 patients.The state government also ordered all government and private laboratories to be linked with each district to ensure that all Covid-19 samples get processed within the stipulated period, amid reports of testing delays in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/141-more-lives-lost-to-covid-19-toll-hits-peak-as-new-cases-near-20000-101618616012758.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Deputy CM Sisodia named nodal minister for Covid-19 management in city||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia was on Friday appointed nodal minister for Covid-19 management and interministerial coordination, said an order issued by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, a copy of which HT has seen.It said, “Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister shall function as nodal minister for Covid-19 management and shall be responsible for interministerial coordination till further orders.”A senior official in the CM’s office said such delegation of duties was necessary because the CM is personally monitoring the health care management system round-the-clock following the surge in cases in Delhi.Soon after the appointment, Sisodia listed 10 IAS officers as nodal officials in charge of different government hospitals for Covid-19 management.“To ensure better patient management and quick decision-making, 10 IAS officers have been appointed as nodal officers for Delhi government’s Covid-19 hospitals,” Sisodia said.“The officers will exercise general superintendence, issue directions and control over the functioning of the hospitals, and MS/MD/Director of the hospital will obtain concurrence of all decisions relating to Covid-19 management from the nodal officer,” read the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deputy-cm-sisodia-named-nodal-minister-for-covid-19-management-in-city-101618615727131.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||City to get more oxygen beds for Covid-19||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after a review meeting on Friday, directed officials to add more Covid-19 beds with oxygen supply, ensure real-time updates on the availability of beds on the Delhi Corona portal, and scale up tele-consultancy and patient care services for those in home isolation.The chief minister also said hospitals must have multiple assistance numbers with a nodal officer for each number to make sure that no distress call is missed or turned down, said the government in a press statement.The statement came after Kejriwal chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation and health care infrastructure in the city with state health minister Satyendar Jain and senior government officials at the Delhi secretariat earlier in the day.“Several steps taken by the Delhi government to improve the health infrastructure of Delhi were discussed, along with increasing the bed capacity and several other infrastructure requirements in Delhi. CM Arvind Kejriwal directed officials to create more Covid facilities and to increase the strength of oxygen beds across Delhi. He also directed officials to update real-time availability of beds on the Delhi Corona app and ensure that the information on the number of beds is exact,” the statement read.As on 6pm Friday, hospitals across the national capital had 16,483 Covid-19 beds, of which 12,211 were occupied, according to the government app.Worryingly, however, 3,545 of the 3,989 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients were occupied, showed the app.The government statement also read, “He (the CM) said there should be multiple assistance numbers for each hospital and nodal persons should be appointed for all helpline numbers... He also said the health teams must reach out to every patient in home isolation and provide oximeters; the general public should receive every assistance while in home isolation.”“The focus of the Delhi government is on increasing bed capacity, which will ensure adequate treatment for people who need urgent assistance. In the meeting, bed management was discussed in detail,” said the statement.The directions came amid a large number of complaints from the public that hospitals were refusing beds to patients even though the government’s mobile app showed that there were vacant beds in those hospitals.The chief minister asked officials to ensure that hospital helpline numbers, which are also mentioned on the Delhi Corona app, should be operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-to-get-more-oxygen-beds-for-covid19-101618615532354.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Patients run from pillar to post as city hospitals packed to the rafters||With the number of daily infections nearing the 20,000 mark, Delhi is facing an acute crisis of hospital beds, with several health care facilities, including dedicated Covid facilities, now turning patients away for lack of space, a Hindustan Times spot check on Friday showed.Covid-19 hospitalisations crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time on Thursday. As on Friday evening, of the total 16,426 beds, 12,087 were occupied. Of the total 3,976 ICU beds, 3,501 were occupied, according to the Delhi Corona app at 5pm.With beds running out fast, people are increasingly taking to social media to seek help with finding space in hospitals.On Friday evening, when HT called 11 big hospitals – both government and private -- three times each to check for the availability of beds, most of the calls went unanswered. Only four of the 33 calls were answered with all of them replying -- “no beds available at the moment”.Safdarjung hospital was the only one among the six government hospitals contacted that answered the call. The person on the other end said: “There are no beds available. We are not making any waiting lists; we just do not have any beds.” According to the government app, the hospital had no ICU beds and 79 ward beds available at the time.Only three private hospitals answered the call — Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis in Vasant Kunj, and Sir Ganga Ram hospital. Telephone operators at both Max and Fortis hospitals said that there were no beds available, and disconnected before any other further inquiry could be made.There were just two beds and no ICU beds available at Max Saketm and no ward or ICU beds available at Fortis-Vasant Kunj, according to the Corona app.At Sir Ganga Ram hospital, the operator said, “We do not have any ICU beds. The ward beds might become available as we discharge more non-Covid patients.” On enquiring when the bed might become available, HT was told that it will happen next morning when the next lot of patients are discharged.According to the Corona app, there were six ward beds and two ICU beds available in Ganga Ram hospital at the time.It was not immediately clear how quickly the app is updated by hospital staff to reflect the actual situation.Managements of Max hospitals and Sir Ganga Ram refused to comment. A representative for Fortis could not be reached.A doctor from one of the private hospitals, on condition of anonymity said, “We do not have beds, what can we do. We have to turn away patients. We do not even know where to refer them to; it is not like there are hospitals in the city that have free beds.”In a meeting with senior health officials on Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed that the helpline numbers on the Delhi Corona app remain functional round-the-clock, according to a government release. “There should be multiple assistance numbers in the hospitals and nodal persons should be appointed at every helpline number. No urgent calls should be missed and turned down,” Kejriwal said.At the meeting, the CM also directed officials to ensure that hospital’s update information on beds availability regularly on the state government’s Delhi Corona portal.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital on Friday evening said, “We have 700 ward beds and 150 ICU beds. The situation is still manageable; the hospital was completely full in November. But more beds will become full with increase in the number of fresh cases.” As per the figures provided by him, only two of the available ICU beds had ventilator with the rest only providing oxygen support to the patients.As per the Delhi government app, there were 739 ward beds and only 12 ICU beds available in the hospital at the time.A doctor who works in the hospital ICU said, “The number of patients that we are receiving currently is two to three times of what we had seen in November. The hospital is already full.”Another doctor at Lok Nayak hospital said, “We have 1,500 beds. However, there is no infrastructure support, machines, and staff to run several of these beds. In addition, many of the healthcare workers in the hospital have started testing positive again. So, we cannot admit as many patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/patients-run-from-pillar-to-post-as-city-hospitals-packed-to-the-rafters-101618614284722.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Funeral homes struggle to keep up with rising deaths||The surge in Covid-19 cases in the Capital has not only burdened the city’s medical infrastructure and health care workers but also stretched thin Delhi’s crematoriums and burial grounds, which are now struggling to dispose of bodies with limited resources and staff.On Friday, Delhi reported 141 deaths, the city’s highest single-day fatality count since the pandemic began.The most deaths before this were reported on November 18 last year, when 131 died of the infection. The city has reported 597 fatalities from the infection in the last seven days, compared to 174 deaths in all of February and March.“On Thursday, we received 12 dead bodies, while there were two more from the previous day. Of these, eight were sent for cremation, but they refused one body. After we intervened personally, the crematorium agreed to take the body but said it would take time. There were six dead bodies with us and three more came on Friday morning. Out of the nine bodies, four were handed over to the families while the remaining five are still at the hospital,” said a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) during a review by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.Another doctor from AIIMS recounted that in one hospital, 17 out of the 20 beds in a ward are lying vacant as three bodies are waiting to be disposed of and no patient can be admitted in the ward before the bodies are disposed.The doctor also requested that the crematorium in Green Park be allowed to take bodies of Covid-19 patients to ease the situation. The bodies of the Covid-19 patients are handed over to the families in a leak-proof plastic bag that is sanitised with 1% hypochlorite solution to ensure the infection does not spread.The AIIMS has also instituted a mechanism for relatives to identify the dead and give a written undertaking on whether they want to take the bodies for funeral themselves or let the hospital do it. This comes after there was a mix-up last year where the body of a Muslim patient was cremated before the family realised the error.At Lok Nayak hospital, a mortuary technician said 40 dead bodies were sent for disposal on Thursday. “Sometimes, there is a delay in getting a Covid-19 test report or finding a mode of transport. The crematoria do not accept bodies after 6pm, as a result of which they have to be kept in the mortuary. However, the bodies are disposed of in the morning within a couple of hours.”The problem of transportation and adequate staff to pack the bodies delayed the process of handing over bodies at Rajeev Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital. “There are just a couple of people who handle the dead bodies and take them to the crematorium or burial ground. Sometimes, there is a delay because the ambulance allocated for carrying the dead body is already at the disposal site,” said a doctor from the hospital on the condition of anonymity.Six hospitals are attached with the Nigambodh Ghat--one of the biggest crematoriums in the city for Covid-related funerals. Suman Gupta, the general secretary of Badi Panchayat Vaishya Beese Agarwal organisation that manages the city’s main crematorium at the ghat, said around 120 bodies were cremated on Thursday, which is the highest number of cremations so far this year. “From zero Covid-related cremations on April 1, the number of cremations has now reached to around 50 per day,” said Gupta.Around 38 of the 120 platforms in the crematorium have been set aside for people who have died of Covid-19, said Gupta adding that they can cremate maximum 135 bodies per day. “If the number of fatalities rises, we may have to figure out a way to increase the number of cremations using the existing resources,” he said adding that around 70 workers do a 12-hour shift to keep the crematorium running.Officials at the Seemapuri crematorium, which is attached to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said they have also witnessed an increase in the number of cremations. Hemant Sharma, a priest at the crematorium, said sometimes, staff have to work 14-hour shifts because of the huge pile up of bodies.“The workers come at 5am and start putting the wood on the pyre so that people don’t have to wait. From two to three bodies, we are now cremating around 35 bodies per day. Earlier, we would take time but now, we have to ensure that the cremation is wrapped in less than 30 minutes so that there is no backlog. The number of bodies arriving here for cremation is more than what we saw in November,” said Sharma.Burial grounds across the city are being plagued with similar problems. With more bodies arriving at the burial ground, officials of the ITO graveyard--one of the largest burial grounds in Delhi--have brought in earth movers to dig several graves. “It has become impossible to dig graves manually. We were getting around 9-12 bodies during the third wave of the virus around October- November. The numbers have increased now,” said Mohammad Shamim, supervisor at the ITO burial ground.Meanwhile, authorities at the three civic bodies said that there were 21 facilities (crematoria and graveyards) where funerals of Covid-19 patients (confirmed and suspected both) were being carried. The facilities can collectively dispose around 400 bodies per day, said civic officials.Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said so far, there are enough resources at the cremation and burial grounds to dispose of the bodies of Covid-19 patients.“At Nigambodh Ghat, that shares the maximum load of dead bodies in the city, we have increased the number of platforms for cremation through wooden pyre from 104 to 120. Similarly, we have also inaugurated three more CNG furnaces there, bringing the total number to six. We have also written to the Delhi government to make arrangements for alternative burial sites, in case the graveyards outrun their capacity,” said Prakash.Leader of the house in South Delhi Municipal Corporation , Narendra Chawla, said there are eight facilities dedicated to Covid-19 related funerals.“We have a capacity to conduct around 200 funerals per day. Wooden pyre platforms have been increased at cremation grounds, including at the Punjabi Bagh. In February, we inaugurated a CNG crematorium in Green Park that can be used for cremating Covid-19 patients if and when the need arises,” he said.A senior official of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation said there are three cremation grounds and two graveyards in the jurisdiction of east corporation. The cumulative capacity of these facilities is above 40 per day. “ As of now, we are receiving only 20-30 bodies per day,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/funeral-homes-struggle-to-keep-up-with-rising-deaths-101618613880947.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC poll campaign picks up pace; Akali Dal, 2 splinter groups in the fray||The campaign for the upcoming Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections has picked up momentum in the national capital. The Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and its two splinter groups — SAD (Delhi) and Jago Party — are the main contenders for the polls scheduled to be held on April 25. The results will be declared two days later. Besides, the Panthic Sewa Dal, seen as a non-entity, is also in the fray. The gurdwara body with an annual budget of ₹110 crore directly manages 10 historical gurdwaras and has an indirect control over 8 gurdwaras run by the Singh Sabhas. Besides, it runs a number of schools, colleges, industrial training institutes and hospitals that are headed by its elected members for a period of 4 years. Delhi has a Sikh population of more than 10 lakh. Currently, the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal controls the management of gurdwara body. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the outgoing president, is the party’s contender for the top post. “We appeal to more and more Sikhs to vote in the polls. They should vote for the right candidates as the contest is for the management of gurdwaras,” said former National Minorities’ Commission chairman Tarlochan Singh, who also remained a Rajya Sabha member. Manjit Singh GK, who resigned from the post of president two years ago, fell out with the SAD leadership and formed the Jago Party. The then president of the SAD’s Delhi unit is a strong contender for the president’s position. Also, former DSGMC chiefs — Paramjit Singh Sarna and his brother Harvinder Singh Sarna of the SAD (Delhi) — are also in the fray for the post. The Panthic Sewa Dal, which is contesting from 25 seats, drew a blank in the last polls in 2017 when it had the support of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which has stayed away from the polls this time. “There are a total of 3.45 lakh votes with average 7,500 votes in each ward. The contenders will have to count on every single vote,” said Jaspal Singh, former Punjabi University vice chancellor who also remained associated with the DSGMC for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-poll-campaign-picks-up-pace-akali-dal-2-splinter-groups-in-the-fray-101618605917267.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap set to don lawyer’s robes||Inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who resigned from service in the wake of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing the special investigation team (SIT)’s report on the Kotkapura firing case, wants to start a new innings as a lawyer. “If needed, I will continue to assist the Punjab government in the sacrilege case — not as an IPS officer, but a lawyer. I will defend the case,” the police officer said in an interview to a Canadian radio channel on Thursday.Even as the state government has rejected his resignation, Kunwar Vijay is firm on his decision to quit. Not only this, he has also approached the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana and High Court to get a licence for practicing law. He completed his bachelor in laws (LLB) from Panjab University in 2010.“Though a formal application was not received, Kunwar Vijay had phoned the Bar Council president to enquire about getting a licence. The licence would be issued once the council gets his file with no-objection certificate (NOC) from the employer. He can join legal profession once his resignation is accepted,” said Rakesh Gupta, a member of the Bar Council governing council. Earlier, Kunwar Vijay had said he will “continue to serve society in other ways”.“I am a law graduate and university topper. I have to take up a profession, and I will go for legal practice,” he told the radio channel. That justice delayed is justice denied, the IGP said he had a grim hope of an outcome in the police firing cases as five years have already lapsed. The officer used to draft all legal documents and even vet files of sensitive cases. He is also learnt to have draft replies of all writ petitions himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-set-to-don-lawyer-s-robes-101618605860300.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||CM Amarinder has agreed to my decision to step down: IG Kunwar Vijay||Inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, whose application for voluntary retirement from service has started a political slugfest in Punjab, on Friday said chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has agreed to his decision to step down. “I was called on by the CM a few times to convince me to take back my application. I managed to convince him and he agreed to my plea,” said the IPS officer while talking to mediapersons after meeting Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore. “I have assured the CM that if the state government needs my help in its efforts in the sacrilege cases, I will be available anytime,” said the 1998-batch IPS officer, who put in his papers on April 11, two days after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed the report of the special investigation team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The high court had also directed the state government to constitute a new SIT without having the IG on board to probe the cases. The CM had issued a statement rejecting the officer’s plea, saying the border needed a “competent officer” him. Application not sent to MHA yet The Punjab government has not forwarded the officer’s application to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) yet, senior home department official said. In the application, Kunwar Vijay has sought waiving three-month notice period and has requested to relieve him from April 15. On his visiting the governor’s residence in Chandigarh, he said, “I meet him (governor) every month in personal capacity.” He said those demanding to make the findings of the SIT (headed by him) public “lack knowledge”.“The SIT has already submitted its findings in form of challans submitted in the trial court. It is a public document,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-amarinder-has-agreed-to-my-decision-to-step-down-ig-kunwar-vijay-101618605859194.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police bust illegal weapon smuggling module||The Punjab Police on Friday claimed to have busted an inter-state illicit arms smuggling module with the arrest of three people from Madhya Pradesh.The police also said it has recovered 30 illegal pistols and 32 magazines besides a car and a motorcycle from the trio.The arrested persons were identified as Crore Singh and Ram Singh Patwa, both residents of Pachori village of Burhanpur district in Madhya Pradesh and Chander Pal of Khakhnaar village of the same district, police said.The three accused were arrested on April 15 in raids carried out in two villages, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said.The DGP said Patwa had revealed that the weapons consignment had been supplied to him by a notorious MP-based arms manufacturer and smuggler, Rahul, who had figured earlier also in seizures of arms consignments by Punjab Police within the last six months.Amritsar senior superintendent of police (SSP, rural) Dhruv Dahiya stated that Rahul and the other MP-based smugglers used various social media platforms, including WhatsApp, to establish a wide network of contacts in Punjab, for illegal supply of locally manufactured weapons.These suppliers target vulnerable youth, militant elements, gangsters and radical entities lodged in various jails in the state to supply weapons, said SSP Dahiya adding that Rahul’s links had also been established earlier with an accused lodged inside the Amritsar jail in a drone module busted in 2019.The SSP said that detailed investigations were being conducted to unravel the entire weapons manufacturing, smuggling and supply network, as well as identification of the physical and financial flows associated with the recovered and past consignments into Punjab.Meanwhile, the arrests and recoveries were made part of the investigation into a December 10, 2020 FIR under sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act at Gharinda police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-bust-illegal-weapon-smuggling-module-101618605677373.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat growers worried as rough weather may delay harvesting, procurement||Inclement weather that gripped Punjab’s Malwa belt on Friday afternoon has left farmers in the region anxious as it is likely to delay wheat procurement and harvesting by four to five days in different places.Wheat procurement in Fazilka, Muktsar, Mansa, Moga and Bathinda was affected due to the weather.Gurvinder Singh, joint director, department of agriculture, said even mild rainfall may cause immense damage to the standing crop at this juncture.“An advisory has been issued to farmers through extension teams about the unfavourable conditions. Windy and rainy conditions may lead to a drop in yield and we are keeping our fingers crossed,” he said.Muktsar district food and supplies controller Vandana Kumari said climatic conditions may delay the purchase by four days.“An alert for rain was sent by the state headquarters and ample arrangements were made in advance to cover wheat gains in mandis. But as showers enhance moisture level beyond permissible limits in grains, we are not expecting any fresh purchase at most centres in the districts for the next few days,” she said.According to Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, Bathinda and adjoining districts will witness rough climatic conditions till April 21.“Most parts of the region are likely to experience light showers. South Punjab may witness wind velocity of 40km/hour in the next five days,” said Raj Kumar, an agrometeorology scientist at PAU.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Surinder Singh said that of the 2.10 lakh hectares in the district, only 40% crop has been harvested.“Harvesting may get delayed by up to four days due to the sudden change in weather conditions. Presently, the situation is not alarming,” he said.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that state government’s purchase agencies are battling a shortage of gunny bags at different centres in south Punjab.Hargobind Singh of Bajak village, who has been camping at Ghuddha procurement centre since April 8, also complained of non-availability of gunny bags.He was worried that showers would play a spoilsport for farmers further delaying crop purchase due to increased moisture content.“A district mandi official visited the centre on Wednesday and assured to start procurement from Thursday. I am worried as it is the time to start sowing cotton seeds and I am stuck at the mandi for the last eight days,” the farmer said.Another farmer at Teona purchase centre in Bathinda said he was delaying harvest on most part of his 15-acre wheat cultivation due to slow purchase at the mandi.“My brother has been waiting for his turn since procurement began officially on April 10. Gunny bags reached here yesterday and purchase is tardy this time,” he said.However, Bathinda food and civil supplies controller Jaspreet Kahlon maintained that the district was getting a regular supply of gunny bags and the field staff had been instructed to expedite the procurement process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-growers-worried-as-rough-weather-may-delay-harvesting-procurement-101618605138744.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Man stays with body for 1 week||A man struggling with mental health problems and alcoholism lived next to the decomposing body of his mother for several days before the death of the woman was discovered by her neighbours in north-east Delhi’s Usmanpur on Thursday evening, police said.Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east), said the death of the woman was due to natural causes arising from old age. “As of now, no foul play has been found. We are investigating the case,” said Sain.While the exact date of the woman’s death could not be immediately ascertained, police said the extent of decomposition suggested that she died at least a week ago. Neighbours, on the other hand, told police that they last saw the woman outside her house at least 10 days ago.According to the police, the woman lived with her 54-year-old son in a house in Usmanpur that belongs to one of her daughters, who lives in a north Delhi neighbourhood.“The woman also has one more son and a daughter. But they had limited communication with their mother or their sibling who stayed with her,” said a police officer. The man who lived with the woman is unemployed, struggling with a mental ailment, and addicted to alcohol, he added.“They sometimes lived at the goodwill of neighbours who would occasionally give them food,” said the officer.There was no interaction with the neighbours for at least 10 days until Thursday, he added.At around 7.15pm on Thursday, the police received a call from the woman’s neighbours who informed the police about a strong stench from her house.“The house was closed from inside. We got it opened and found the woman dead. Her body was heavily decomposed. Her son was found in an inebriated condition on another bed in the same room,” said the officer.The body has been sent for autopsy, and the man is underdoing a medical examination, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-stays-with-body-for-1-week-101618604190831.html
17-04-2021||Delhi||Low enforcement, compliance at airport despite soaring surge||Flyers at the Delhi airport continue to report violations of face mask and social distancing norms by fellow passengers, even as footfall at the terminals has recovered to about 60% of the pre-pandemic level, officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.At a time when the Capital is witnessing 17,000-19,000 new infections a day, experts said that if Covid-appropriate behaviour was not strictly enforced, a closed space like an airport could become a hub of virus transmission.Neha Sharma, a 30-year-old blogger who travels frequently, said violations are spotted at every step.“People are seen occupying seats that are to be left vacant. Instead of four, as directed, 6-7 people are taking the elevators. At the baggage collection belt, people do not follow social distancing and in the bus, while going to the aircraft for boarding, there are too many passengers. Authorities need to station officials at these points who can ensure there are no such violations,” Sharma said.The Indira Gandhi International airport, which resumed flight operations on May 25 last year after two months of closure due to the pandemic, is now witnessing a daily footfall of 90,000 to 100,000 passengers, said the officials cited above. The average daily flight operations have reached 800, 75-80% of the level that the airport handled before.But flyers believe that with the increased footfall, social distancing and enforcement of other Covid-related norms are the lowest priority for airport officials.Ravi Dutt, 26, who recently visited Delhi from Ranchi, said people could be seen taking selfies (photographs of themselves) without masks. “Waiting rooms were crowded. I spent more than eight hours from 8pm Saturday to 4am Sunday at T3 but I could not spot any official or enforcement teams to ensure Covid-safe behaviour,” he said.Even international travellers narrate similar experiences.Sanchit Sawhney, who travelled to Delhi from Abu Dhabi on Friday morning, said: “At many points the arriving passengers need to stand in a queue, like for registering for the mandatory RT-PCR test, at immigration, baggage collection, etc. At these points, social distancing becomes a problem as the number of passengers remains high. But I did not spot any officials enforcing social distancing or telling people to mask up.”Several passengers have taken to social media to post pictures of crowded areas at the airport and question authorities.Delhi on Friday added 19,486 fresh Covid-19 infections, the sixth consecutive day that the daily infection tally hit a record high. On Friday, 141 more people died of the viral infection in the Capital, the most in a single day in the city ever.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said for a disease that is spreading globally, there is an urgent need to put restrictions at the “port of entry”.“Despite all the lockdown and night curfew, unless enforcement is ensured at the airports, it will be difficult to contain the spread of the virus. People coming in from other countries and and cities gauge the seriousness of the restrictions outside from how strictly the rules are being imposed at the airports. Airports and air travel could be one of the transmission hubs of the virus. This is the reason why air travel was banned last year to contain the spread of the virus,” Kishore said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said an airport terminal is a closed space with high chances of transmission of the virus.“It also depends on how well ventilated the building is. Even though most of the passengers are taking flights with a negative Covid report, there is risk if there is a lack of enforcement. The arriving passengers are more at risk as they have to wait in queues for immigration, baggage collection and for the mandatory RT-PCR test. At these places social distancing may become a problem and the authorities must ensure passengers do not flout norms because then it will become difficult to contain the spread of the virus,” Kant said.Another expert, Dr T Jacob John, senior virologist and a former professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said airports have a huge amount of space, which is not as bad as small air-conditioned offices.“Spread of the virus in such a big space will not be as bad. But people tend to follow norms only when they are being watched. At the airport there are spaces like waiting rooms and baby rooms, which are closed spaces, where the chances of spread are high. Authorities must make sure that minimum two-feet distance is maintained between the flyers with their mask on at all times. Without strict enforcement, we will make air travel unsafe,” he said.Dr Gauri Aggarwal, founder of Genestrings Diagnostics, which is conducting tests of both arriving and departing passengers at the Delhi airport, said they are collecting 4,000 to 6,000 samples daily. “We have deployed our staff to make sure that when flyers queue up for registration, payment for samples, etc, they follow the rules. We also have online registration and online payment facility for those who want to avoid queueing up,” she said.To contain the spread of the virus inside the airport, the Delhi government on April 2 started fining people in terminals for violating Covid safety rules by not wearing masks properly, sitting on seats marked as to be left vacant, not maintaining social distancing, spitting or violating hygiene norms.In the past 13 days till Thursday, Delhi government officials fined close to 800 passengers inside the terminal buildings of the airport.Government data showed that 798 passengers were fined at Terminal 2 and Terminal 3. The enforcement teams comprise officials from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and are assisted by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which secures the airport.Many officials, privy to the situation at the airport, said it is clear that enforcement is not adequate. The officials also said many flyers were callous and negligent in following Covid-appropriate behaviour.Additional district magistrate (ADM) of New Delhi district, D Karthikeyan, said it was observed that people were not following the Covid safety norms as laid by the government. The ADM said many flyers turn unruly and do not cooperate. “In such cases the Delhi police are informed and a case is registered under IPC section 188 against the passenger,” he said.CISF DIF Sachin Badshah said: “We are assisting the Delhi government as and when required in enforcing the safety norms.”Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi airport) Rajeev Ranjan said such passengers would be booked for violating public order under IPC section 188 and under the Pandemic Act. More sections are added in each case as per the specifics of the offence, Ranjan said.The DCP said Delhi police are ensuring that safety norms are followed in the forecourt area of the airport outside the terminal.The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), said it has made markings on the floor to ensure social distancing is maintained inside the terminals. “Regular announcements are made asking passengers to follow Covid-19 protocols including wearing masks, frequently sanitising hands and maintaining social distance. DIAL has also installed artificial intelligence-based passenger tracking system, which alerts terminal staff about any breach of social distancing norms at the entry gates, in check-in area, at security checks and in security hold area. Apart from these, staff is also deployed to encourage passengers to abide by Covid-19 protocols,” the airport operator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/low-enforcement-compliance-at-airport-despite-soaring-surge-101618603633434.html
17-04-2021||Other||Una police crack armed robbery case, 3 in police net, more arrests likely||The Una police on Friday claimed to have cracked the March 15 armed robbery case and arrested three people, including a woman from Chandigarh.Four masked men had looted ₹9 lakh from a wine trader on gunpoint at his office in Una town.They had also fired four shots at the trader’s driver, who miraculously escaped the attack, before fleeing to Pujnab.Addressing a joint press briefing from Shimla through video conferencing, director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said this was serious crime considering the peaceful environs of the state.“I am happy that case has been solved. Keeping in view the recovery of weapons and the communication equipment it seems to be a well-organised crime and also a big achievement for Himachal police from investigation point of view,” he said.Kundu said that superintendent of police (SP) Baddi Rohit Malpani, who has expertise and a dedicated team for cracking such crimes, was specially deployed to supervise the case.SP Una Arjit Sen Thakur said the accused had come in a stolen car and after looting the wine trader the accused crossed the border within 18 minutes making it difficult to track their movement.Based on technical and field inputs, we tracked their route and identified them within eight-nine hours of the commission of crime.He said the first breakthrough came last week when the police arrested a Khanna resident Ashish Kumar on the charges of providing SIM cards to the accused on fake ID cards.Thakur said the other accused, however, continued to change their location in different states but were in touch with each other.“They would change their location frequently. The cyber team of Baddi police helped analysed their movement and pinpointed their location in a flat at Sector 49 in Chandigarh,” he said.The three accused were arrested in a joint operation of Una and Baddi police and support of Chandigarh police, he said.He said, the police have also recovered four country made pistols, 98 live cartridges ₹ 2.28 lakh cash, six mobile phones, one tab and one laptop.He said the specific roles the three accused played in the robbery is yet to be ascertained. He said the arrested woman claims herself to be wife of one of the accused.“Investigations have found their link with a bigger inter-state gang and more arrests would follow soon,” said Thakur.The SP said that the police couldn’t share the exact details as the investigation in this case was still on. He said the person who rented out the flat to the accused in Chandigarh has also been associated in the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/una-police-crack-armed-robbery-case-3-in-police-net-more-arrests-likely-101618603637227.html
17-04-2021||Other||Catch a glimpse of decked up Vaishno Devi shrine on TV this weekend||With the pandemic casting a shadow on Navratri celebrations, the Vaishno Devi shrine board on Friday decided to telecast the floral arrangements and colourful illumination of the sanctum sanctorum for the benefit of devotees across the world who could not visit the holy cave shrine this time.The telecast will be available on Mh One Prime and Shraddha Mh One channels for three days starting April 17. Mh One Prime will telecast this twice a day – at 5pm and 6.30pm – on all three days. Ramesh Kumar, the chief executive officer of the shrine board, said a number of initiatives have been taken for the benefit of devotees. These include live telecast of Shat Chandi Maha Yagya from 11.30am to 1pm everyday during Navratras, live telecast of the morning and evening Atka Aarti and live darshans of Maa Vaishno Devi’s Pindi Roop every morning. Besides, elaborate arrangements have also been made for the pilgrims visiting the Holy Shrine, especially the Bhawan of Vaishno Devi, Atka and the area surrounding it, during Navratras. The tracks leading to the shrine and nearby buildings have been decorated with exquisite fresh flowers of varied varieties brought from various parts of the country and abroad. The breathtaking and festive decorations are a special visual delight for pilgrims who trek for about 12km from Katra to Bhawan, Kumar added.Low footfall this time On Thursday, as many as 10,119 pilgrims arrived in Katra while the day before, around 11,000 pilgrims had come. On Tuesday, the first day of the nine-day long Navratri festival, 14, 281 pilgrims paid a visit. During pre-pandemic times, the average footfall during Navratras used to be around 25,000 to 30,000 pilgrims a day. Last year, the shrine had been closed on March 18 and re-opened on August 16 after a hiatus of almost five months. A health official said 71 travelers had tested positive in Katra on the first day of the festival. This year, the administration has fixed a ceiling of 25, 000 pilgrims a day. Pilgrims arriving in trains are to undergo rapid antigen tests (RATs) at the Katra railway station where Covid kiosks have been set up. Those arriving via road will undergo the test at Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir. Local devotees will be tested at Banganga and those flying in will be tested at the Jammu airport. However, it is advisable for pilgrims coming from outside J&K to bring their Covid-19 negative reports, preferably RT-PCR test, not older than 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/see-decked-up-vaishno-devi-shrine-on-tv-this-weekend-101618603457557.html
17-04-2021||Patna||Fear grips administrative officials in Bihar as Covid-19 cases rise in secretariat||Work at the Bihar secretariat has been hit hard with the spread of the Covid-19 infection among the staff of major departments like finance, general administration and land revenue.People familiar with the developments said around 15 staff members in the general administration department, five in the cabinet, half a dozen in finance, agriculture and land revenue department have tested positive for the coronavirus in the last few days, leading to a sense of fear among officials who are going to office on a rotational basis.Since Tuesday, all departments at the secretariat (both old and new) are functioning with 33% of the workforce.“In GAD, we had carried out a RT-PCR test of all staff and senior officials. Around 15 have tested positive. All precautions are being taken. The department cannot be shut as it deals with all transfers and postings,” said an official in GAD, not wishing to be named.Principal Secretary (GAD) Chanchal Kumar could not be reached for comment.Panic has gripped the staff members attending office. “I get anxiety by the very thought that I might get the infection,” a finance department official said while suggesting that the number of employees being called to office be curtailed further.Political parties too have started avoiding public meetings and stopped interaction at their offices. Offices of RJD and JD (U) at Beer Chand Patel Marg have been closed for visitors. “We have closed the party office till April 20. All district presidents have also been intimated about the same,” said Navin Arya, a JD(U) functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fear-grips-administrative-officials-in-bihar-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-secretariat-101618603397204.html
17-04-2021||Other||Released from Naxal captivity, CRPF commando reunites with kin in Jammu||CRPF commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who was abducted by Naxals on Bijapur-Sukma border before being released on April 8, was reunited with his family members in Jammu on Friday. On his arrival at the Jammu airport, the CRPF commando was accorded a rousing reception by his family members, relatives and friends. “I am very happy to be with my family again. I missed my family, especially my daughter, while I was in captivity. I was not even sure if I would be released,” he said while speaking to the media. He added that his heart goes out to the families of the 22 bravehearts who died in the attack. “Their supreme sacrifice can never be forgotten. Each one of them was a brave and patriotic jawan of the nation,” Manhas said.The commando’s family members thanked the mediators, mediapersons, Centre, and Chattisgarh government for their efforts in bringing him back. His wife Meenu said, “I am very happy today. All the efforts have paid rich dividends today. I thank the government, CRPF, media and everyone who played a role in the release of my husband.” After remaining in captivity for five days, the CRPF commando was freed by Naxals in Chattisgarh’s Bijapur on April 8. Manhas, 35, a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando had gone missing during a deadly encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur on April 3. According to reports, Soni Sori, a social activist from Bastar, was in talks with Maoists. Manhas had joined the CRPF in March 2011. A jawan from Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) of the CRPF, Manhas was transferred to Chattisgarh three months ago. Earlier he was posted in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/released-from-naxal-captivity-crpf-commando-reunites-with-kin-in-jammu-101618603217247.html
17-04-2021||Other||Punam Grover elected Solan’s first mayor, Rajiv Kaura to be her deputy||Congress’ Punam Grover became the first mayor of Solan municipal corporation on Friday as she defeated Bharatiya Janata Party’s Manish Kumar by one vote in the 17-member House on Friday. While Grover received nine votes, Kumar got eight. The grand old party also secured the deputy mayor’s post as its nominee Rajiv Kaura bagged eight out of the total 17 votes. He had been pitted against saffron party’s Shailender Gupta.Grover had defeated BJP’s former municipal council president Pawan Gupta in the municipal corporation elections held on April 7. The BJP had projected Manish Kumar, an expelled party leader who had fought the election as an Independent, for the mayor’s post, hoping to win through cross voting. The election for the mayor and deputy mayor, earlier slated for April 13, was deferred amid high drama after the Congress members failed to turn up for oath ceremony at the scheduled time. However, they later came with convener Rajinder Rana, who alleged that the administration was acting at the behest of the government.After the controversy, the additional deputy commissioner administered the oath of office to the Congress councillors but elections were deferred as the BJP members and one independent were not sworn in. In the intervening period, Congress leaders Rajendra Rana, Harshwardhan Chauhan and Solan legislator Dhani Ram Shandil kept their councillors at a resort near Shimla to prevent them from jumping the ship. They arrived at the venue of election at a scheduled time and won the top posts.Infighting among various factions had led to the BJP’s defeat in the Solan municipal corporation. Even their poll in-charge and Nahan legislator Rajiv Bindal failed to keep the House intact while his trusted lieutenants lost the poll battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punam-grover-elected-solan-s-first-mayor-rajiv-kaura-to-be-her-deputy-101618603096995.html
17-04-2021||Other||HP’s toll touches 1,155 as 9 more succumb to virus||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 842 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s caseload to 74,195. The death toll climbed to 1,155 after nine patients succumbed to the contagion in the last 24 hours, health officials said.Of the new cases, 211 were reported in Kangra, 106 in Solan, 102 in Shimla, 100 in Mandi, 85 in Una, 77 in Lahaul-Spiti, 71 in Sirmaur, 63 in Kullu, 17 in Bilaspur and eight in Chamba.The active cases shot up to 7, 711 while recoveries reached 65, 291 after 483 patients recuperated.There are enough medicines, oxygenated beds: CM Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur chaired a high-level meeting on Friday to review the current status of Covid-19 in the state and took stock of various arrangements.He said that there were enough medicines, oxygenated beds, masks and sanitizers etc. in the state and directed the health department to enhance the capacity of oxygenated beds.Jai Ram Thakur said that so far 13, 60, 794 people have been screened for Covid-19 through RT-PCR, rapid antigen test, True-Nat and CV-Nat and the testing rate of the state was 1, 94, 399 per 10 lakh. He added that 11, 87, 275 doses of Covid vaccines have been provided so far in the state.The CM said he himself was touring various districts of the state to take stock of the situation.Jai Ram Thakur said that along-with a dedicated helpline for Covid-19 patients in home isolation, the use of e-Sanjeevani and telephone number 104 was being encouraged. He also instructed the doctors to contact the Covid patients in home isolation for counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hps-toll-touches-1-155-as-9-more-succumb-to-virus-101618602976518.html
17-04-2021||Other||J&K records 1, 000+ cases for 4th day in row||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday reported two Covid-19 deaths while as many as 1, 144 persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the UT’s case tally to 1, 44, 021.Both Kashmir and Jammu divisions recorded one death each. With this, the UT’s toll has gone up to 2, 048. This month alone, 54 people have lost their lives to the contagion.On Thursday, Jammu and Kashmir’s active cases had crossed the 10,000-mark again after 1, 141 fresh novel coronavirus infections were reported. The number of active cases, which has been steadily rising over the last two months, reached 10, 620 on Friday, officials said. Since February 8, when active cases were at the lowest at 593, the UT has added 9, 447 active cases in just 66 days.For the last four days, the UT has recorded above 1, 000 cases with this year’s highest daily count of 1, 269 cases being recorded on Tuesday.Of the new cases, 730 are from Kashmir division while 414 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 180 are travelers.Officials said with 407 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 223 in Jammu district.On Friday, 562 patients were discharged from various hospitals, including 401 from Kashmir and 161 from Jammu.As many as 1, 31, 353 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 91.86 % from the highest of around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.68 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-records-1-000-cases-for-4th-day-in-row-101618602737120.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||51 more deaths, 3,915 Covid cases in Punjab||The Covid-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 7,772 on Friday with 51 more fatalities, while 3,915 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,90,707, a medical bulletin said. The number of active cases rose to 30,745 from 30,033 on Thursday, it said. Of the new fatalities, seven people died in Amritsar, six in Ludhiana, five in Sangrur and four in Gurdaspur, the bulletin said.Among the fresh cases, Ludhiana recorded 598 infections, the maximum in the state, followed by 560 in Mohali, 412 in Amritsar and 405 in Jalandhar and 367 in Patiala.A total of 3,129 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 2,52,190, as per bulletin.There are 43 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 386 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 65,17,986 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, the Mohali district administration on Friday announced imposition of further curbs by restricting gatherings at marriages and funerals to 20, amid rising Covid-19 cases. Earlier, 50 people were allowed indoors and 100 outdoors, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/51-more-deaths-3-915-covid-cases-in-punjab-101618602497143.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||CM’s meet on SIT: Punjab govt to wait for HC order before taking any recourse||Amid growing criticism from within the Congress and outside over the setback suffered in the 2015 Kotkapura case, the Punjab government plans to wait for the high court order before taking any legal or administrative recourse even as it decided to go for damage control politically. The issue was by discussed by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh with Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Sunil Jakhar, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh and some MLAs, including Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon and Navtej Singh Cheema, at a meeting here on Friday. The ministers and Congress leaders present in the meeting were of the view that the government needs to wait for the high court order before deciding anything even as some of them spoke about the adverse political fallout of the quashing of the SIT probe report. “The government can hold legal consultations and take any decision only after the contents of the high court order are known. The grounds on which the court took the decision are still not clear. There was near consensus that we should wait for the order,” two Congress leaders, including a minister, who attended the meeting, said on condition of anonymity. The Punjab and Haryana high court had last week quashed the probe reports submitted by the Punjab Police SIT in two FIRs registered in connection with the Kotkapura violence, directing the state government to constitute a new SIT, excluding inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The IPS officer, who led the probe, has sought voluntary retirement since and stuck to his decision even after the chief minister turned down his request. The legal setback in the politically-sensitive case has led to a barrage of criticism, particularly from within the Congress, over the state government’s handling of the matter. Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa have hit out at the state government, with the former accusing it of cheating the people on its promise of delivering justice in sacrilege cases. Bajwa has demanded the advocate general Atul Nanda’s resignation. Several other party leaders are also anxious about the political fallout and want the government to move quickly to control the damage. These concerns were mentioned by a minister at the meeting. A Congress MLA said there was no discussion on Sidhu and Bajwa. Both Amarinder and Jakhar could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cms-meet-on-sit-punjab-govt-to-wait-for-hc-order-before-taking-any-recourse-101618602376936.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Set up new SIT to ensure justice to Kotkapura victims: Bajwa||Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday sought the constitution of a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the Kotkapura police firing case to give justice to the victims at the earliest. In a statement here, Bajwa said the material collected during the investigation of the case was already with the government and the previous SIT and the new team will be able to complete its probe within a given timeframe of one month and file challans against the culprits. The Punjab and Haryana high court had last week quashed the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police in two FIRs registered in connection with the 2015 violence, directing the state government to constitute a new SIT, excluding inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The Rajya Sabha MP said one of the options being considered by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was to challenge the high court verdict in the Supreme Court. “It is obvious that even if a stay is granted on the impugned order of the high court, the final decision would take time, thus hampering the investigation and delaying justice to the victims of the Kotkapura case. Therefore, even in the best possible situation of getting a stay, the ultimate aim of giving justice to the victims even after five years would remain elusive,” he said, supporting the constitution of another SIT as the second option available in the interim. Bajwa, who earlier termed the quashing of the SIT report a loss of face for the Congress government, said the high court verdict was a monumental failure of the state advocate general Atul Nanda and his office. The AG and his team of lawyers were unable to defend the interests of the state despite the professional and efficient investigation done by Kunwar Vijay and the SIT team, he said, adding that the SIT had done its duty to investigate this sensitive issue for over two years and the government must look for a solution. On Wednesday, Bajwa had demanded Nanda’s resignation in the wake of the setback suffered by the state government in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/set-up-new-sit-to-ensure-justice-to-kotkapura-victims-bajwa-101618602197099.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||US senator greets Sikhs on Baisakhi, Guru Teg Bahadur’s birth anniversary||Noting that Sikhs share a strong sense of community, family and selfless service, a senior US senator has greeted members of the community from across the world as two important celebrations are taking place this week: Baisakhi and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur.“I extend my best wishes to the Sikh community for the joyous celebrations of Baisakhi and the 400th anniversary of the birth of Guru Teg Bahadur,” senator Pat Toomey from Pennsylvania said on the senate floor.Toomey said Sikhism traces its origins to the Punjab region of India and has flourished around the world for nearly 600 years. He said Sikh tradition is built on ideals of peace, respect, and equality.Further, Sikhs are dedicated to the principle that every person is created equal before God, no matter their race, gender, religion, or creed.Today, the Sikh population in the world stands at 30 million, making it one of the world’s major religions. Nearly 700,000 Sikhs live in the United States, and many of them have made Pennsylvania their home, Toomey said.Sikhs share a strong sense of community, family, and selfless service, as evidenced by their commitment to welcoming and serving individuals from all religious, cultural, and ethnic backgrounds, he said.During the Covid-19 pandemic, Sikh communities across the country, including Pennsylvania, mobilised to deliver meals, groceries, masks, and other supplies to tens of thousands of families in need, he added.“In my own travels across the Commonwealth, I have witnessed firsthand the spirit of this community when meeting with Sikh constituents. It is clear they have enriched their neighbourhoods and contributed in numerous ways to the growth and vitality of Pennsylvania and the United States,” Toomey said.“As a proud member of the American Sikh Congressional Caucus, each year, I join many voices across Congress and the United States in commemorating the holiday of Baisakhi, which took place on April 13 this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/us-senator-greets-sikhs-on-baisakhi-guru-teg-bahadur-s-birth-anniversary-101618602017456.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin woman among injured in Indianapolis shooting||A Punjab-origin man has said his niece was among those who were injured in a mass shooting incident at the FedEx facility in the US city of Indianapolis that left eight people dead, according to a media report.The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) said at least eight people died and several others were wounded during the shooting on Thursday night.The girl, who was not named, was sitting in her car in the driver’s seat when the gunfire erupted, her uncle Parminder Singh told local WTTV.“She called as I was asleep at home. She said there was a shooting in the FedEx. So we just drove from Brownsburg,” said Singh, adding she got shot on her left arm. “She’s fine and in the hospital now,” he said. IMPD said the shooting happened at the FedEx facility in the 8900 block of Mirabel Road. When officers arrived around 11 pm, they encountered an active shooter incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-woman-among-injured-in-indianapolis-shooting-101618601777155.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||3 labourers dead, four injured in wall collapse at Bhiwandi, Mumbai||Three labourers died and four were injured in a wall collapse at Bhiwandi on Friday. The incident took place at Tukaram compound at Katai village where the wall of Loom Shed company which was under repair collapsed. “The huge wall collapsed on the labourers who were working there. They were rushed to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital, where three were declared dead. Four others who suffered injuries were sent to PD Memorial Hospital,” said Santosh Kadam, chief of regional disaster management cell, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).The company was shut since the past four days and the work of the wall was being carried out. Meanwhile, Nizampur police took note of the incident and initiated a probe.Earlier in February, two died and four were injured in a godown collapse incident at Harihar compound, Rapoda village Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-labourers-dead-four-injured-in-wall-collapse-at-bhiwandi-mumbai-101618601596352.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants bail to man arrested with around 8kg ganja||The Bombay high court (HC) recently held that a man booked and arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for possessing contraband less than commercial quantity could be granted bail, as ascertaining whether the quantity was more than permissible limits was the prerogative of the trial court and that the man had been in jail since 2019. A single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of Santosh Shinde, was informed by advocate Ganesh Gupta that his client had been arrested along with two others by Navi Mumbai crime branch and each of them were in possession of different quantities of marijuana. Gupta submitted that while the crime branch officers recovered around 2.4 kg and 13.8 kg marijuana from the other two, his client was found to be in possession of 8.4 kgs of the drug, which was much lesser than the permitted commercial quantity, hence his client should be granted bail. The offence occurred on August 1, 2019 when crime branch officers, based on a tip-off, apprehended a woman with marijuana. She led the officers to a larger stash from the house of the second accused. He, in turn, led the investigators to Shinde who was seated in van which contained the contraband. After Shinde’s effort to flee failed, he was arrested and booked under NDPS Act and has been in jail since then. Gupta submitted that as the investigation was over and a charge sheet was filed, Shinde could be released on bail. However, additional public prosecutor AA Takalkar opposed the application saying though the marijuana recovered from the applicant was less than the commercial quantity, the same seized in the connected raids had to be taken into consideration, and as the seized material was more than the permitted amount, the applicant should not be granted bail. After hearing the submissions, the court held that it was not clear whether the marijuana belonged to Shinde and though he tried to flee, it was up to the trial court to decide on his role. It added that as he had been in jail since 2019, it was granting Shinde bail on a personal bond of ₹30,000 and sureties of the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-arrested-with-around-8kg-ganja-101618601477369.html
17-04-2021||Other||Taj Mahal, other ASI-protected sites closed amid Covid surge||AGRA In wake of the Covid surge in the country, the culture ministry on Friday decided to shut down ASI-protected monuments, including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. The ‘monument of love’ was already witnessing a decline in footfall since the beginning of April. Tourism trade pundits questioned the closure of the monument at a time when elections were also taking place in different parts of India.“Taj Mahal and other ASI-protected sites all over the nation will remain closed for public viewing till May 15, stated Amarnath Gupta, conservation assistant for Archaeological Survey of India at Taj Mahal. The monument had remained closed for nearly seven months during the first wave of the pandemic. In February 2020, Taj Mahal was in the headlines when the then US President Donald Trump visited the heritage site. On March 2, Agra reported UP’s first Covid positive cases and by March 17, Taj Mahal gates were closed even before the nation went into total lockdown later in March.Taj Mahal gates remained closed despite lockdown lifted in mid 2020 and tourist trade in Agra kept on pressing demand to re-open Taj Mahal. Finally decision was taken to open Taj Mahal on 21st September 2020 but with limited number of visitors allowed. This capping however was removed later on.In March 2021, around 15,000 tourists were visiting Taj Mahal in a day, but the numbers fell when April began. Only 2,512 tourists visited the monument on Thursday, a day prior to closure.“Lakhs of people are attending the Kumbh while elections are on in different parts of the nation. It is ironic that Taj Mahal that sees a footfall of only 2,500 people a day, has been closed,” stated Rakesh Chauhan, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taj-mahal-other-asi-protected-sites-closed-amid-covid-surge-101618601416362.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||NCB busts marijuana racket operating from 2BHK flat at Dombivli||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday busted an indoor marijuana unit being run from a 2BHK flat at Dombivli where two persons were cultivating hybrid marijuana through hydroponic technique — without soil, using artificial light for photosynthesis and air circulation system.The arrested accused are Javed Jahangir Shaikh and Arshad Khatri. NCB allegedly seized more than 1kg hybrid cannabis worth ₹80 lakh from the duo as well as equipment used to cultivate the contraband.NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said, “Hydroponic weed is referred to cannabis and is grown without soil. The accused had procured the seeds from Amsterdam and the Netherlands through the dark web and sold the contraband material to suppliers in Mumbai and Pune at the rate of around ₹5,000 per gram. The peddlers, in turn, sold it to consumers at around ₹8,000 per gram.”Shaikh and Khatri were nabbed from Dombivli. During interrogation, they disclosed the location of the flat where they cultivated marijuana. “We then raided the flat. Apart from drugs, we also seized several materials for cultivation, PH regulators, plant nutrients, clay pebbles, water pumps, air circulation systems, CO2 gas cylinders, photosynthesis lighting systems etc,” said Wankhede.During interrogation, the agency learnt that the accused were allegedly producing drugs for more than a year in the flat owned by Rehan Khan, who lives in Saudi Arabia and allegedly financed the activity. “Khan is a relative of Shaikh and financed the racket. Khatri is an expert in hydroponic cultivation while Shaikh used to manage distribution of harvest. We have been investigating to find out their entire network and connection with wanted accused Sahil Flacko,” police said. The sale and purchase of drugs was done in cash and at times also in crypto currency. The drug suppliers mostly approached the customers through social media apps like snapchat and WhatsApp, Wankhede added.The agency learnt about the drug unit run by Shaikh and Khatri during an interrogation of two drug suppliers — Ganesh Sakharam Shere and Siddarnth Amin — who were arrested with 310 gram hydroponic marijuana from Parel on April 12. Both peddlers were supplying the contraband which is highly expensive and are allegedly connected with drug supplier Sahil Shah alias Sahil Flacko, who is in the wanted list from August last year in connection with the drug link to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. In another operation, the agency arrested African national Onurah Samuel Mike from Versova and allegedly seized 30 grams of cocaine from him. During interrogation, Mike revealed that Nigerian national Celestian is a frequent visitor to Mumbai and brings cocaine. Celestian had given him 50 capsules (500 grams) during his last visit, which he then sold in Andheri, Bandra and Santacruz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-busts-marijuana-racket-operating-from-2bhk-flat-at-dombivli-101618601297539.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Jain temples to cook, deliver food during 9-day fast||In a relief for the Jain community in Mumbai, Pune and Nashik, the Bombay high court (HC) has permitted Jain temple trusts to cook pious food in their kitchens during the nine-day Ayambil Oli Tap fasting observed from April 19 to 27 and distribute the food through volunteers or delivery agents, not exceeding seven in number.The HC directed the petitioner trusts to ensure that the volunteers followed Covid-related standard operating procedures (SOPs) and to furnish the list of volunteers to jurisdictional police station. A vacation bench of justice Suresh Gupte and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing petitions filed by two temple trusts — Shree Trust Atman Kamal Labdhisurishwarji Jain Gyanmandir Trust and Sheth Motisha Religious and Charitable Trust, was informed by advocate Prafulla Shah that as per the court’s suggestion on Thursday, the trusts were willing to deliver the pious food to the homes of devotees through volunteers/delivery agencies. Shah submitted that the number of volunteers for delivery should be according to the size of the dining halls, which varied across different temples. Shah also informed the bench that apart from the two temple trusts, the petition was seeking similar reliefs for 58 Jain temples in the city.Additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan objected to the variation in the number of volunteers or delivery agents, and stated the same should be uniform across all temples due to the current situation. He further said it was agreeable to permit five volunteers or delivery agents for every temple. After hearing the submissions, the court held the SOP of the state did not permit any dining hall to operate hence it was accepting the amendment of the petitioners to include catering the special food through takeaway mode. “Considering that the state has permitted restaurants and other food joints to cater to public through home delivery services and not through dine-in, it would be clearly in the interest of justice to allow these Jain charities to deliver food through home delivery services,” the court noted in its order. It further observed that each of the petitioners and trusts could organise delivery of such cooked food through a team of volunteers not exceeding seven persons or through professional distributions service agencies permitted by SOPs of state. The court further held that, “In preparing food and executing deliveries to devotees, the petitioners and its agents shall abide by the guidelines issued by the state in SOP of April 13, and under no circumstances shall devotees be allowed to enter temple premises for taking away pious food allowed by this order.” The bench also directed the trusts operating delivery system to communicate names and particulars of delivery agents/volunteers to the jurisdictional police station/concerned authority under Disaster Management Act. The court said the order would apply to Jain temples in Pune and Nashik as well, as disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-jain-temples-to-cook-deliver-food-during-9-day-fast-101618600998013.html
17-04-2021||Other||DRDO to set up two Covid hosps in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is all set to establish two Covid hospitals in Lucknow – one at Haj House and the other at Golden Blossom Resort-- to create 1,000 more beds for patients in the city. The move, which has been initiated on the directives of defence minister Rajnath Singh, is expected to bring the much needed relief to the state capital that has witnessed over 36,000 cases over the last 10 days. The district administration identified Haj House on Kanpur Road and Golden Blossom Resort on Faizabad Road and helped in providing these spaces to DRDO’s representatives in UP. The DRDO team will arrive in Lucknow on Saturday to begin their work. These hospitals will include 250-350 ICU beds. The Central Command of the army will also be roped in, an official said.“Of all the proposed places for the establishment of the makeshift hospitals, we have zeroed in on Haj House and Golden Blossom, where we can set up the beds. We are in touch with the district administration and soon a letter will be sent to district magistrate, Abhishek Prakash,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh’s Lok Sabha representative, Diwakar Tripathi. DRDO officials said the team is on the job and the makeshift hospitals would be in place in a couple of weeks. “It’s a matter of few days…the makeshift Covid hospitals will be ready,” Dr Narendra Kumar Arya, director, Directorate of Public Interface (DPI), told HT. ‘After these two makeshift hospitals become operational, the state capital will have total 5,000 Covid beds. Emergency services will continue as before at Trauma Centre, KGMU,’ the Chief Mister’s Office twitter handle stated on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdo-to-set-up-two-covid-hosps-in-lucknow-101618600936290.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cop suspended for rape of colleague, threatening her of acid attack||A constable attached to Malabar Hill traffic police division has been suspended after his colleague lodged a complaint against him, alleging that he had raped her on multiple occasions, threatened to throw acid on her face and also uploaded her videos on social media. The accused also stalked the complainant and sent her objectionable content to the man who was to marry her, in order to foil her marriage. Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (traffic) said constable Madhav Krishna Vasave was recently suspended pending departmental inquiry. In her complaint to Byculla police last month, the woman constable had alleged that Vasave had befriended her some years ago, and on the pretext of marrying her, raped her on multiple instances. Later the complainant decided to marry another man, said a police source. On learning this, Vasave allegedly threatened her against marrying the other man. “Vasave used to stalk her, abuse her and also threatened to throw acid on her face and to upload videos of their intimate moments, on social media,” said a police officer. The woman constable then filed a complaint against Vasave and a first information report (FIR) was registered against him under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. The traffic branch was informed about the FIR against their unit member, following which senior officers suspended him. The suspension order states that Vasave’s acts amounts to indiscipline and irresponsible behaviour and maligns the image of the police department in the society. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) Paramjit Singh Dahiya said Vasave has secured interim relief from the arrest from court after seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cop-suspended-for-rape-of-colleague-threatening-her-of-acid-attack-101618600576789.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Dreams Mall fire: Admin, MFB were aware of lack of fire safety||Nearly a month after nine patients lost their lives in a tragic fire in Sunrise Hospital located on the top floor of Bhandup’s Dreams Mall, it has come to light that both the court-appointed administrator in-charge of the premises and the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) were aware of the absence of fire safety norms back in November 2020, and even exchanged letters but nothing came of that. Rahul Sahasrabuddhe, who was appointed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to manage the affairs of the mall after non-payment of taxes by Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL, which owned Dreams Mall), said he had written to MFB in November stating he was “astonished” that the hospital had been issued a Fire Safety certificate, and that compliance to fire safety norms in the “common area” of the mall would be carried out subject to collection of maintenance charges from shop owners. MFB’s fire officer RB Ghadge, however, said the department carried out an inspection in the mall and not in the hospital in November, and that non-compliances were highlighted in the fire safety report filed by the department, a copy of which was given to Sahasrabuddhe. A fire broke out in Dreams Mall, which housed the Covid-designated hospital in its third floor, in the intervening night of March 25-26. The fire, which raged for over 40 hours, claimed nine lives, including of patients who were on ventilator support. The police booked several people, including directors of HDIL Rakeshkumar Wadhawan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan, Sarang Wadhawan, Deepak Shirke and directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited (which owns Sunrise Hospital) Amitsingh Trehan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain, among others, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In a letter dated November 12, Sahasrabuddhe wrote to MFB: “The undersigned further understands that the NOC/ Fire Safety Certificates have been issued to the premises owned/ managed/ occupied by HDIL, Privilege Health Care Private Limited (Sunrise Hospital), which are inside the premises of the Dreams Mall. The undersigned is astonished with the fact that all these premises which itself forms part of the area of the Dreams Mall have been considered safe, while the common area of the Dreams Mall have been considered unsafe.” “In spite of all the above, the undersigned understands the gravity of the matter and therefore undersigned undertakes to comply with possible measures ordered by you in terms of having adequate fire safety, subject to the adequate collection of common area maintenance charges and required support from the shop owners of the Dreams Mall,” he wrote. HT has seen a copy of the letter. “The inspection was carried out in the mall and there was no inspection carried inside the hospital on November 3, 2020 [as stated in the Sahasrabuddhe’s letter], considering it had Covid-19 patients. The fire safety compliances of the hospital were dealt separately by the department. Also, it is not correct to connect the functioning of the hospital and that of the mall considering the permissions and fire compliances for both are different. The fact remains that there were certain non-compliances inside the mall premises, which were highlighted by me in the report after the fire safety inspection,” Ghadge said. Asked if it was his duty to ensure compliance of MFB guidelines, Sahasrabuddhe said: “I was doing all possible compliance from the revenue that was coming in from the maintenance given by the shop owners.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in May 2020 had given a provisional occupation certificate to Sunrise Hospital owing to Covid-19 outbreak. The hospital began operations in October with 100 beds. Prabhat S Rahangdale, deputy municipal commissioner of BMC’s disaster management cell, which is conducting a probe into the fire, said, “The investigation is ongoing, and currently we are recording statements of all concerned. The investigation will be concluded soon.” Spokesperson of Sunrise Hospital did not respond to queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dreams-mall-fire-admin-mfb-were-aware-of-lack-of-fire-safety-101618600396783.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dumping ground will be cleared in a year, says new Mohali mayor||Mohali mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu on Friday visited the dumping ground in Phase 8-B and said the company, Eco Stan, will process two-three lakh tonnes of garbage at the dumping ground within a year and convert it into a plain terrain. Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present along with other officials.Sidhu also instructed officials to hand over the work order to the company on Friday and install the machines here within a month.It may be recalled that health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had agreed to the demand of the industrialists and residents of Phase 8B and hence this contract is finalised.Corporation officials told the mayor that two heavy machines would be installed by the same company to dispose of 50 tonnes of garbage every hour. Officials said that regular work orders are being issued to the company, which has acquired the work at a cost of ₹4.35 crore (9% less). The mayor assured the people of Mohali that the work would be completed within a year and it would not only benefit the industrialists and people of the residential area, but also beautify the surroundings of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur War Memorial in Chappar Chiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dumping-ground-will-be-cleared-in-a-year-says-new-mohali-mayor-101618600156855.html
17-04-2021||Other||Law to guarantee MSP in country will go against farmers of Haryana, Punjab: Dhankar||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana unit chief OP Dhankar said that if a new law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) to all farmers in country is enacted, it will affect farmers of Punjab and Haryana.“Since farmers of Haryana and Punjab are already getting benefits of MSP, if a new law (being demanded by the farmer leaders) is enacted it will affect farmers of these states as government has limits for procurements. If it procures foodgrains from all states, government agencies will not be able to procure the entire produce of farmers from Haryana and Punjab,” he said.He added that the government’s decision to continue with the present system shows its “love for farmers of Haryana and Punjab”.He said that the government had already given proposal to defer the laws for one-and-a-half year and the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation, but some people are agitating over predictions.He alleged that some people and political parties, especially Congress, have their political agendas behind this agitation. “Congress and the comrades are behind this agitation. They are hiding behind flags of farm unions,” he added.He said that farm leaders from Punjab should fight for their rights with their state government by holding protests against their government over hike in sugarcane prices and procurement of six crops on MSP on pattern of Haryana.Dhankar refuted the reports that Centre has asked Haryana government to remove protesting farmers from Delhi borders due to rising cases of Covid-19. “These reports are false,” he said.Dhankar faced protests from farmers when he reached Kurukshetra to attend a party workers’ meeting. Police had to use mild force to remove the protesters and hundreds of farmers were detained.Amid heavy police deployment and barricading, farmers managed to reach near the meeting venue at Ambedkar Bhawan.The sloganeering farmers also tried to jump the barricades.BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains condemned the use of police to remove protesting farmers.Kurukshetra DSP Ravinder Singh Tomar said police made repeated requests to farmers but they were adamant and tried to remove the barricades, so we had to detain them. He refuted the allegations of police misbehaviour with the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/law-to-guarantee-msp-in-country-will-go-against-farmers-of-haryana-punjab-dhankar-101618600038219.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala’s LPG crematorium used for first time in four months||Four months after an LPG-based crematorium worth ₹60 lakh was made ready to use in Ambala for cremating bodies of Covid patients, first such cremation took place on Thursday. The health department and a religious body tasked with maintaining the Gobindpuri cremation ground on Ram Bagh road in the city have been struggling to convince locals for pollution-free cremation at this gas machine. The machine that works on electricity using LPG cylinders remained unused in a hall specially constructed for it in November. However, after repeated requests and an offer by the Khatri Mahasabha for partial monetary help in the LPG cremation, a 52-year-old male patient, who died of infection, was cremated here. Surender Malhotra, general secretary of the mahasabha, said most of the families they had approached refused cremation in the machine citing religious rituals and customs. “This cremation is faster but costly, so we decided to donate ₹2,600 per cremation to every family. Cremation in this machine costs up to ₹5,000 as compared to regular cremation that costs ₹3,100,” he added. Ambala municipal commissioner Parth Gupta said at least four MC employees are assisting in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalas-lpg-crematorium-used-for-first-time-in-four-months-101618600036713.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Five held for carjacking, kidnapping at gunpoint in Panchkula||The Panchkula police crime branch have arrested five persons, including a driver, for robbery, carjacking and abduction at gunpoint in Raipur Rani. The accused are Satinder Singh alias Sonu, 25; Ravi Sharma alias Pander, 25; Kamaljeet Singh alias Sucha; Jaswinder Singh alias Jassi, 26, (all residents of Dera Bassi); and Yajur Pandey alias Noni, 26, of Ludhiana, who had been living in Zirakpur. They were produced in a court and sent to three-day police custody on Friday. The complaint against them was lodged on April 13 at the Raipur Rani police station by Nisha Chaudhary of Zirakpur. She told the police that she worked in Chandigarh and had left for Dehradun along with her son’s friend Rahul and driver Satwinder Singh. Nisha was in the rear seat, while Rahul was in the front. They were about 6km ahead of Raipur Rani when a Chevrolet car intercepted their Hyundai Creta. The complainant said that three people got down, pulled Sonu and Rahul out and assaulted them. The accused then got into the Creta and drove the vehicle towards Naraingarh, Nisha alleged, adding that they were armed with pistol and knife with which they threatened to kill her. As per the complainant, one of the accused also slapped her. She alleged that the accused took away her five credit and debit cards besides her gold chain, two mobile phones ₹4 lakh, a diamond pendent, two diamond rings and a watch. The accused then pushed her out the vehicle in jungle near Raipur Rani and drove away. An FIR was registered under sections 364, 392, and 394 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-held-for-carjacking-kidnapping-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula-101618599976989.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Decline in infection, vaccine made people reckless says Haryana ACS (health)||Haryana’s national capital region (NCR) districts get impacted due to the spread of coronavirus infection in Delhi. Though the fresh surge of virus this time started in the northern districts, Gurugram, and Faridabad in NCR got impacted the moment the virus surged in Delhi. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora in an interview said the situation in NCR districts is pretty much akin to what is happening in Delhi. He also spoke about government’s strategy and preparedness to contain the virus spread. Excerpts:What contrast do you see in the first and second waves in terms of people’s behaviour?The latest surge has broken a lot of myths. The drastic decrease of cases in January-February and introduction of vaccine gave a false sense of confidence to people, leading to recklessness. People thought everything is hunky-dory and the virus is now gone for good. That’s why this time the level of panic reaction is far more than in earlier cases. It may be a while before a major part of the population is vaccinated and only then one can make any authentic observation.Infections are at an all-time high not only in NCR, but the virus is also spreading towards north as well.Definitely, the numbers are looking frightening and belying all projections. But I’m sure that within 7-10 days, the infections will start stabilising as already happened in Kurukshetra, Karnal and Ambala.With limited restrictions in place, the challenge to control the spread has become bigger. What’s your strategy?In the last 15 days, the restrictions have been increased over the mobility of people. Gatherings of all kinds have been capped; schools have been shut down. The fresh surge in northern districts started from schools in Karnal and Kurukshetra. There were more than 1,500 cases only in schools and those would have a multiplier effect on their families. So, these curbs will help in checking the spread.But are curfews and lockdowns an answer?What we need more is self-imposed restrictions. Self-discipline has taken the countries through.NCR districts are scoring high on infection rate. Is there a specific strategy for them?Besides, the traditional strategy, we now have the vaccine. Both these districts have performed very well in terms of vaccination. The fatality rate this time is lower than the previous surge in the NCR when the number of cases was comparatively less. The latest guidelines for Covishield vaccine provide for second jab to be administered at 8-12 weeks. This means the first dose of vaccine will be available to more people. It will definitely have an impact.How much is the bed capacity in the state and ventilators? Are you planning to increase the capacity?See almost 70-75% of the active cases are in home isolation. Home isolation protocols have played an important role for us. As of now, we are managing well. We have ensured oxygen availability for every bed in government medical institutions. Most of the government hospitals in districts have been provided with ventilators and trained manpower. In the last four days, we vaccinated 6.37 lakh individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decline-in-infection-vaccine-made-people-reckless-says-haryana-acs-health-101618599920497.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||After Shiv Sena, NCP backs MES candidate for Belgaum bypoll||After the Shiv Sena, its coalition partner Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) too has extended support to Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidate Shubham Shelke in Belgaum Lok Sabha by-election in Karnataka. Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil visited Belgaum on Friday to support Shelke in the bypoll necessitated after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Suresh Angadi died due to Covid-19 in September last year. Belgaum has a significant number of Marathi-speaking population which has been struggling for half a century for inclusion in Maharashtra. MES, which represents this population, fielded its candidate opposite candidates from the BJP and Congress. It has contested elections in the past and has elected members to the Karnataka Assembly.Patil reached Belgaum a day after the Sena extended full support to Shelke for the bypoll scheduled on April 17. Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut even held a public rally and a roadshow for Shelke on April 15.Patil accused the BJP of working against the interest of the Marathi-speaking population in Belgaum. “The BJP is not standing with Marathi-speaking people. This has been proved after Devendra Fadanavis (Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra) visited Belgaum and campaigned against MES candidate Shubham Shelke. Fadnavis has always tried to please those sitting in Delhi and doesn’t talk in Maharashtra’s favour,” said Patil who is also Maharashtra water resources minister.Patil was referring to Fadnavis’s campaign to support BJP candidate Mangala Angadi, wife of a former MP, on Thursday. Fadnavis had slammed the Sena and said that Raut had come to Belgaum to target “Hinduism” by playing language politics, and added that Marathi-speaking people should teach him a lesson.Meanwhile, Pandharpur-Mangalwedha Assembly seat in Solapur in Maharashtrais, which will see a fight between NCP and BJP, is going for bypoll on April 17. Counting of votes will be held on May 2 and results will be out on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-shiv-sena-ncp-backs-mes-candidate-for-belgaum-bypoll-101618599857536.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||10 succumb to Covid, 1.4K test positive in Chandigarh tricity||A day after recording an all-time high of 1,587 Covid-19 cases, the tricity saw a dip to 1,400 cases on Friday. The number of fatalities stood at 10, with Mohali reporting seven, followed by two in Panchkula and one in Chandigarh.With 481 fresh cases, Chandigarh saw the biggest single-day spike since the outbreak, as it surpassed 449 cases reported on September 13.Meanwhile, Mohali district reported 605 fresh cases, while the number stood at 314 in Panchkula. Both districts had registered their biggest single-day spike on Thursday, with 860 and 315 cases, respectively.Mohali district, which has seen a steep spike in Covid-19 deaths as well, reported seven more fatalities on Friday, which took the death toll to 61 in April. Mohali city continued to report bulk of the cases, with 252 surfacing on Friday, followed by 207 in Dhakoli and 79 in Kharar. The total has reached 34,449, of which 5,515 are active. While 28,440 (82.6%) patients have recovered, including 309 discharged on Friday, 494 have succumbed to the virus.The death of two men, aged 43 and 56, took Panchkula district’s death toll to 162 on Friday. The younger of the two, a resident of Sector 20, had no co-morbidity, said the health department.As many as 16,260 people have tested positive in the district, of whom 14,267 (87.7%) have recovered and 1,831 are still undergoing treatment. A 53-year-old man from Sector 24 was the lone fatality reported in Chandigarh. The UT has reported 32,878 cases so far, of which 3,423 are active. While 28,047 (85.3%) patients have recovered, 408 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-succumb-to-covid-1-4k-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101618599797300.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vehicles violating night curfew to be impounded in Mohali||Any vehicle found plying on Mohali roads during night curfew will be impounded if the person driving it is not among the exempted categories. Amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, the district administration has announced a slew of stringent measures to ensure safety protocol compliance. The treatment, vaccination and outreach activities have also increased multifold, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Friday. Dayalan said attendance at marriage functions and funerals has now been restricted to 20 people, and regular inspections will be held at marriage palaces. “Not only the guests found violating safety protocols would be penalised, but action would also be taken against the owners of marriage palaces,” he said.Special nakas are being set up around containment zones to maintain a strict vigil on unauthorised movement, and teams comprising police and revenue officers will also conduct surprise checking at markets and other crowded areas to challan the protocol violators, he said. Police will also ensure strict enforcement of curfew from 9pm to 5am, including impounding of vehicles and shutting of liquor vends. “We have constituted 10 additional rapid response teams per subdivision for quick response to distress calls. They will ensure Covid kit distribution and monitor health of the patients,” said the DC. Joint teams of civil and police officers will also keep a tab on patients under home isolation to ensure there is no breach. Additional IT teams have been deployed for better data management of patients, including data entry, removal of duplicate entries, weeding out outside cases and mapping cases to identify hotspots. Pvt hospitals to reserve 50% beds for Covid careReassuring the public that there is no reason to panic as there are sufficient Covid care beds in Mohali, Dayalan said private hospitals have been ordered to reserve at least 50% beds for Covid patients needing critical care as a cautionary measure. Seven hospitals that have been assessed by experts to have provided quality Covid care in the past, including Max, Fortis, Ivy, Indus, Sohana, Grecian and Mayo, have been directed to comply, he said. These hospitals will also deploy some ambulances exclusively for Covid patients. Failure to adhere to these directions will attract criminal penalty as per provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code, he said.  “We are also monitoring oxygen supply to prevent shortage and overpricing,” said the DC. PUDA, GMADA suspend public dealingPunjab Urban Planning and Development Authority and Greater Mohali Area Development Authority have suspend public dealing at their offices in Sector 62 up to April 30.However, the single-window service counter will remain operationalfor dispensing various public services. To take up various public complaints and issue required receipts, another counter has been set up at the ground floor of the office building, said a spokesperson.People can also request for urgent appointment by stating the reason and name of the official concerned through an email to pudagmada.appointments@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vehicles-violating-night-curfew-to-be-impounded-in-mohali-101618599736802.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||70-year-old murdered at her home in Mumbai||A 70-year-old woman was found dead in her house at Bhandup on Thursday. Some unknown person killed the woman by slitting her throat with a sharp object and fled after stealing gold ornaments and cash worth ₹3.5 lakh from her house. Bhandup police registered a case of murder and robbery against unknown assailant.The deceased, Ratanben Jain, lived in a chawl alone as her husband died a few years ago.The incident came to light on Thursday around 12.30pm when Jain’s house help came home and found her lying in a pool of blood. She alerted neighbours as well as Jain’s daughter about the incident. Police was also informed about the murder. Police said it appeared that some unknown person entered her house between Wednesday evening and Thursday afternoon with the intension of robbery and killed her. The accused might have carried a big knife as the wound does not match that of a kitchen knife, said senior inspector Shyam Shinde of Bhandup police station. Police recorded statements of her neighbours but no one has seen anyone entering the house. However, the door was not locked from inside when maid went, said the officer.“The woman’s body has been sent to Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar for post-mortem. We have found footage of CCTV camera installed near her house. A police team is scrutinising the footage to ascertain as to who could have visited her residence. Another team is also conducting an inquiry with few people who have past criminal records in the area,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/70yearold-murdered-at-her-home-in-mumbai-101618599676643.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC starts putting reflective tape around cattle to prevent road mishaps||The municipal corporation has started putting reflective tapes around stray cattle on city roads to prevent road mishaps at night. The project was started from the Haibowal area on Thursday evening and the officials said that the belts will be put around over 100 animals in the first phase.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “We are planning to purchase 5,000 belts which cost ₹100 each. But, we need approval from the MC general House before that.”With the MC facing shortage of space at animal shelters, hundreds of stray cattle can be seen roaming on city roads, including residential area. This results in road accidents. Recently, the MC had built a shed at Burj Powat village in Machhiwara, which has a capacity to shelter around 150 animals. The civic body has entered into an agreement with an NGO for the upkeep of the animals. But, the arrangement is not sufficient to deal with the stray menace, even though the MC collects around ₹30 lakh as cow cess every month. Govind Godham on Hambran Road is taking care of over 1,300 animals for MC in exchange of monthly fee, but their management has also stopped lifting cattle, citing shortage of space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-starts-putting-reflective-tape-around-cattle-to-prevent-road-mishaps-101618599621843.html
17-04-2021||Other||IMD:Maharashtra to get normal to near-normal rainfall||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) long-range forecast for the upcoming monsoon season suggests that most of Maharashtra, including Mumbai and Pune, are likely to receive ‘normal’ to ‘near normal’ levels of rainfall between June and September this year. Officials said these predictions are purely indicative at this stage and will be refined in an updated forecast to be issued by May-end.Overall, the country is expected to receive normal or above normal rainfall, with reference to the long period average (LPA) – which refers to the average rainfall recorded over 40 years (1961 to 2010). India’s LPA is 880mm. The range for ‘normal’ rainfall is between 96-104% of LPA. “Quantitatively, the monsoon seasonal (June to September) rainfall is likely to be 98% of LPA,” IMD said in a statement on Friday.While a site-specific forecast for the ‘monsoon core zone (MCZ)’, which includes most of Maharashtra, is expected along with the updated forecast in May, a chart, ‘Probability forecast of tercile categories for the seasonal rainfall over India,’ released on Friday by IMD shows that most parts of Maharashtra, particularly the Konkan coast and the drought-prone regions of Vidarbha and Marathwada, are set to receive normal to above normal rainfall.“Most of the interior and coastal Maharashtra looks like it will receive good rainfall this year. Vidarbha and Marathwada may get above normal rainfall. But this forecast is only a stage-one forecast. It is to help policy makers, particularly in agriculture, and it does not give any indication of extreme weather events. For that, the daily operational forecast will come in handy, though authorities can now expect healthy rains, and take stock of disaster management or flood control measures if needed,” said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, scientist, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imdmaharashtra-to-get-normal-to-near-normal-rainfall-101618599556068.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks info on safety of Maharashtra prisoners after HT report||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday took cognizance of a news report in Hindustan Times on April 16 about the growing cases of Covid-19 among prisoners and prison staff and initiated a suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) and asked the state to inform it by April 20 about measures it has taken to safeguard the prisoners and staff.A vacation bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang on Friday called on the state and sought to know from advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni regarding the news reports of a rise in Covid-19 cases in March and April 2021 in the prisons across the state.“Newspaper reports, more particularly, Hindustan Times dated 16 April 2021 (Annexure 1) and Free Press Journal dated 16 April 2021 (Annexure 2), have highlighted an alarming rise in the Covid-19 cases in the last few days in the prisons of Maharashtra. It is reported that almost 200 prisoners amongst 47 prisons in the state have tested positive as of 14 April 2021. This number has gone up from 42 to 200 within nearly a month. It is stated that 86 staff members working in the prisons have also tested positive,” observed the bench. Kumbhakoni representing the state government submitted that the HC had taken up a similar cause in July 2020 and had noted the measures taken by the state government to safeguard prisoners and staff and had issued certain directions. He added that the current situation would be dealt with similarly. Thereafter the bench noted, “The reports, however, show a sudden rise of the Covid-19 cases in the state prisons, indicating a need for the court’s intervention to revisit the measures. This is a fit case where the court should take note of this situation and take up the cause in the public interest.” The court asked the state government and prison authorities to place before it details about the status of Covid-19 status of prison staff, inmates and measures taken or proposed to be taken to control the Covid-19 spread and decongest jails. The court also directed the registry to issue notices to secretaries of the state home department and revenue department, director-general of police, director-general of prisons seeking details on the status of prisoners and jail staff in the next hearing on April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-info-on-safety-of-maharashtra-prisoners-after-ht-report-101618599256127.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders oppose weekend curfew||City traders have opposed the administration’s decision to clamp lockdown on the weekend, saying that the fresh curbs will cause losses to their business, which had barely recovered from the previous year’s crises. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh said, “The traders are sure to lose out on business. The small traders will be the worst-hit.”The administration in its war room meeting had also said that action must be taken against the shopkeepers attending to customers without masks, which Charanjiv termed an “undemocratic” step. “We insist our customers on covering their faces and even hand out masks for free to those who come without it. However, many a time customers just refuse to comply, which lead to arguments and even more,” he added.Also read: 55-hour weekend curfew clamped in ChandigarhPresident of Sector-11 Market Welfare Association (MWA) and chief spokesperson of the Beopar Mandal, Diwakar Sahoonja, said, “Traders are organising awareness campaigns and distributing masks and sanitisers. It is not right on the administration’s part to alienate us this way.”Meanwhile, following the latest guidelines, large crowds gathered at the Sector-26 grain market on Friday. One of the wholesale traders here, Tarsem Kumar, said, “The lockdown poses great challenges for traders like me, who stay in Panchkula and have to travel to work. Last year too, we faced problems due to this and some panic buying could be seen here again.”However, in most of the markets, footfall continued to remain on the lower side. President of Sector-46 MWA, Balwinder Singh, said, “We understand that cases are rising, but such curbs will destroy our business. Some concessions must be made for the markets.”Punjab Mandi Board has also written to its Chandigarh staff to keep the apni mandis closed on Saturday and Sunday. Residents divided over weekend lockdownBaljinder Bittu, chairman of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “The weekend lockdown is a half-baked measure. Covid can spread on the weekdays as well, so what’s the point of restricting movement for just two days.” Meanwhile, chairman of Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) Hitesh Puri said, “The weekend lockdown is a result of refusal of people to adhere to the SOPs. The administration has taken this measure to send out a warning that people need to take the rules more seriously.”Meanwhile, closure of factories has elicited sharp response from the industry. “Even in Delhi and Mumbai, the industry is not closed during lockdown. With SOPs in place, the industry should be allowed to operate like essential services. The manufacturing activity had just started to gain momentum. The shutdown will be a big blow to the SMEs in particular and the whole economy in general. There will be loss in revenues, including GST. Any additional restrictions can lead to migration of labour as well,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traders-oppose-weekend-curfew-101618599197465.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||ICSE, ISC exams deferred; Cambridge cancels exams||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has deferred its ICSE (Class 10) and ISC (Class 12) exams which were earlier scheduled to take place from the first week of May due to growing Covid-19 cases across the country.In its official release, the board stated that it will wait until the first week of June to take a review of the situation and decide on the conduct of exams. “ICSE students, however, can currently choose between two options- to write the exams along with the ISC candidates or to not write the exam. In case they choose the latter, the board will develop a fair and unbiased criterion while preparing the results of such candidates,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the board in the release. Parents welcomed the decision and said it will help students who have already decided their future options escape the uncertainty of exams. “Many students wish to take admission in small science colleges run by coaching classes where they are already studying. There are also quite a few who wish to continue in their respective schools. For such students, internal assessments will be the best possible solution. Students who wish to take the exams can still do so,” said a parent from Andheri. Over 23,000 students from Maharashtra took the ICSE exam in 2020 while 3,150 students wrote their ISC exams last year. This year, ICSE exams were earlier scheduled between May 5 and June 7 and ISC exams were to be held between May 5 and June 16. Meanwhile, Cambridge International has announced late Friday evening that all its exams including IGCSE which were scheduled for next week will be cancelled. “Given the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the country, we have decided to switch Cambridge International schools in India, from exams to school-assessed grades, so that students can receive certification and progress with their education,” said the board in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icse-isc-exams-deferred-cambridge-cancels-exams-101618599196102.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||99,000 adolescents, 38,000 kids in Maharashtra Covid positive in 2 months: Data||Over 99,000 adolescents tested positive for Covid-19 and over 38,000 children up to 10 years were infected with coronavirus between February 15 and April 15 in the state. Between the period, 99,022 people between the age group of 11 to 20 and 38,265 children up to age 10 have tested positive in Maharashtra. The two categories constituted 137,287 or 9.06% of the total positive 1,513,882 cases, clocked in the state in the last two months. Data showed that children and adolescents are getting more affected in the second Covid-19 wave compared to the first wave in the state. The data from the state medical education and drugs department (MEDD) revealed that between August 15 and October 15, when Maharashtra hit its first peak, the number of children infected were 34,154 and adolescents infected were 66,272. State health department officials blamed the rise in cases among the age group to “moving population” between the age of 21 to 40, which “bring home the infection”. Officials added that the fatality in the age group is low owing to better immunity.“The cases among children and adolescents have increased in the second wave compared to the first one. The moving population do not follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour properly. As they move out and about, they bring home the infection. Therefore, one has to be extremely careful while moving out,” said Dr TP Lahane, director of directorate of medical education and research (DMER).Lahane added that the symptoms have changed in the age group from the last wave. He added that most children largely remained asymptomatic in the first wave, but now show mild symptoms. “The disease is mild in 80% of the cases. But slight change has been observed in symptoms. Such as patients getting loose motions, nasal watering, stomach-related issues, recurring fever, etc. however the fatality is very low,” said Lahane.Dr Soonu Udani, a paediatrician and critical care specialist at SRCC Children’s Hospital, said that the number of children being hospitalised has increased from the first wave. She added that the symptoms too have changed from the previous wave. She added that the biggest change from the previous wave was in the symptoms and the number of “very sick” cases that land up in the hospital.“In the first wave, we saw children with mild fever and few were very sick. From the 120 children, we saw last year, five or six were sick. This time, it is just the opposite. Our figures show that from April 1 to today, we have had 17 or 18 admissions, including a newborn and a five-year-old. Of them, nine patients are very sick. They are coming with different symptoms from last time, like pneumonia, convulsions, encephalopathy, which is drowsiness, stupor, unresponsiveness, etc. Also, mild ones have had diarrhoea. Unless they are dehydrated, we don’t admit them, but the number of such cases is high,” she said.Dr Lancelot Pinto, epidemiologist, who is attached to PD Hinduja Hospital, said that the high number of cases is a reflection of the demographic. “Our median age is 27 years, if the virus is affecting every second person, it is bound to affect children as well. Besides that, many people have been stepping out of the home, so children have contracted the infection too.” He added that children have a better immune system than adults and therefore they will recover faster. “For most of the children, it is like any other mild respiratory tract infection which lasts for three days. An extremely small percentage of people need to be admitted to hospitals and even a low percentage of children die with Covid, across the world. However, we need to see if children develop any inflammatory syndrome MIS-C (Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children) after a month,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/99000-adolescents-38-000-kids-in-maharashtra-covid-positive-in-2-months-data-101618599078398.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body reverses decisions to convert Jaslok Hospital into complete Covid-19 facility||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday reversed its order of converting Jaslok Hospital in south Mumbai into a complete Covid-19 hospital. The order was revised as 52 critical patients are undergoing cancer treatment at the hospital and they cannot be shifted out of it.Due to this, instead of all 227 beds, 175 beds of the hospital will now be for Covid and the remaining 52 beds will continue to remain for non-Covid patients where critical patients are currently admitted, the BMC said in a circular on Friday.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had in a circular issued on Thursday said that the hospital should be converted into a complete Covid-19 hospital and within 48 hours all non-Covid-19 patients should be shifted out to nearby hospitals. This decision was taken in the light of increasing cases in the city that increased demand for hospital beds.However, on Friday the order was reversed by the BMC. In a circular, the BMC said, “Given the current surge in Covid-19 patients in urgent need of hospitalisation, it was decided to convert Jaslok Hospital into dedicated Covid-19 hospital, catering to Covid patients only and order to that effect was communicated to the management of Jaslok Hospital on April 14. However, it has been brought to the notice of BMC by the said management that presently 30 critical patients undergoing cancer treatment and another 22 critical patients undergoing treatment are already admitted to the hospital. Considering their medical condition, shifting them to other hospitals at this juncture, may prove fatal. Hence, it is imperative on part of BMC not to risk the lives of these 52 critical non-Covid patients, presently admitted in Jaslok hospital.”Post detailed discussion with BMC today, Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai has increased its Covid-19 bed capacity to 175. In a statement issued on Friday, Jaslok Hospital, said, “Together, we stand by the Government in this fight against the second Covid-19 wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-reverses-decisions-to-convert-jaslok-hospital-into-complete-covid-19-facility-101618598896083.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt school in Ludhiana found open despite govt orders, edu dept marks inquiry||The state education department on Friday marked an inquiry after a private school on Tibba Road was found open in violation of government orders.The Punjab government on April 7 had ordered closure of all educational institutions till April 30 in view of the surging Covid-19 cases across the state.The inquiry was marked to district education officer (secondary) Harjit Singh after 37 students were found attending classes at Galaxy School on Tibba Road.The school, having a strength of 40 students in Classes 1 to 6, is not affiliated with any board, it is learnt. It charges ₹400 per month from students and has two teachers.On the school’s part, principal Ashwani said the students were only called for homework assignments and no classes were held. “Following instructions from the education secretary’s office, we visited the school and found the authorities violating the Covid-19 norms and defying the state government’s orders. We have submitted a report to the office for further action,” said Harjit Singh, DEO (secondary). Last year on June 4, the principal of Navyug Public Senior Secondary School was arrested after the school was found holding classes in violation of the state government’s directions.Similarly, on March 20, the Dugri Police had booked the director of Gaurav Ghai Public School for opening the school amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-school-in-ludhiana-found-open-despite-govt-orders-edu-dept-marks-inquiry-101618598717402.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends interim orders staying eviction, demolition, dispossession till May 7||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday evening extended interim orders pertaining to eviction, demolition or dispossession passed after April 9 by various courts and authorities in Maharashtra till May 7 or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The decision was taken by the four-judge bench of HC in a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) given the alarming situation in the state due to the exponential rise in active Covid-19 cases. The court said that the interim orders shall remain in abeyance till May 7. The full bench comprising of chief justice Dipankar Datta, justices AA Sayed, SS Shinde and PB Varale passed the order and said that all interim orders passed earlier by various courts on April 9, 12, 15 and expiring on April 19 or soon thereafter would be unconditionally extended till May 7 or until further orders unless specifically dealt with by any judicial order to the contrary. Soon after the situation had improved last year, in December 2020, the full bench, had held that as citizens would be able to access various courts thereafter had said that the abeyance orders passed soon after the lockdown was announced last year and was extended from time to time need not be extended beyond January 31, 2021. On Friday, the bench noted, “The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, has been wreaking havoc just as the first wave did in the year that went by.” The bench further held that in light of the situation, measures and restrictions imposed by the state government had imposed rendered it difficult to conduct judicial proceedings in HC as well as other courts/tribunals in the districts/talukas in the physical presence of advocates, litigants and other stakeholders, and with the full complement of officers/staff. “As an obvious consequence, access to justice has been hindered,” observed the full bench. The bench also opined that it would be desirable that until May 7 or until further orders, whichever is earlier, removal of encroachers without notice was not resorted to and posted further hearing to May 6. With regards to the functioning of HC and lower courts, a committee comprising administrative judges of the HC along with representatives of central and state government and various lawyer associations decided that subordinate courts would work in one shift of two and a half hours from April 19 and trial courts would take up cases of remand, bail and urgent criminal and civil matters through physical hearing. The committee further decided that a limited number of benches of HC would conduct virtual hearings on urgent matters and set aside the regular hearings scheduled after April 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-interim-orders-staying-eviction-demolition-dispossession-till-may-7-101618598597364.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC razes 22 encroachments along Buddha Nullah||Continuing the crackdown on illegal encroachments along the Buddha Nullah, a municipal corporation (MC) team on Friday razed 22 structures in the form of houses at Gopal Nagar and Upkar Nagar.Officials said that the encroachments had to be removed as the civic body is planning to construct a road along the nullah and install an iron fencing to stop residents from dumping waste. Residents of the houses which were razed said they had been living there for over two decades and MC has demolished their homes without prior notice. They also accused the civic body of adopting a pick-and-choose policy while taking action against encroachments and added that no action is being taken against influential or high income families.Officials said that the encroachers had been given a chance to leave the site, when the MC teams marked illegal structures around two weeks ago, but they didn’t do so.Assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said, “The MC has identified over 950 encroachments along the nullah and they are being removed in phases. Action will also be taken against the other encroachments.”Drive in Shivpuri postponed amid resistanceThe MC teams also went to demolish a building in Shivpuri on Friday but had to postpone the drive after residents gathered at the spot and showed resistance. Members of Jagriti Sena also joined the protesting residents.President of Jagriti Sena Parveen Dang said, “The MC team came to demolish the buildings without giving any notice. The owners have documents of ownership and MC should give them a chance to present them. If anyone is found encroaching upon the nullah land, then action can be taken against his building.” Encroachers seek flats under BSUP Scheme At a time when the state government is giving proprietary rights to the slum dwellers in the state, the encroachers demanded that they are allotted flats constructed under the Basic Services for Urban Poor (BSUP) Scheme. The MC has been allotting flats constructed in Giaspura and Mundiyan areas to slum dwellers who were removed from government landsOne of the encroachers, Harpreet Kaur, who works as caretaker said, “I have two sons to look after. Where will I go after MC demolished my house without notice. Our family has been living in this house since 1987. We will approach mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu seeking allotment of flats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-razes-22-encroachments-along-buddha-nullah-101618598596855.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Congress goes on publicity blitz over Ludhiana’s Sidhwan Canal Bridge project||In an attempt by Congress leaders to seemingly blow their own trumpet, two weeks after the BRS Nagar Sidhwan Canal Bridge was thrown open to the public, huge billboards featuring Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu have been erected on both sides of the bridge, with messages that read: “We promised & delivered”.The billboards, three on one side and two on the other, instantly catch one’s attention and can’t be missed.A party insider said these were installed following a meeting with Congress’ poll strategist Prashant Kishore, in which he instructed Congress leaders to project the development works being carried out by them at their respective assembly constituencies.While civic body officials say they are not involved with the hoardings being installed, Charanjit Singh, superintendent with the MC, who deals with outdoor advertisements, said government advertisements were routed through the district public relations officer (DPRO).On the other hand, DPRO Puneetpal Singh Gill said no such advertisement was placed by the government.Shavinder Singh Sandhu, co-founder of LeafBerry, the firm which has been given the contract for outdoor advertising in the city, said that it was a paid ad for one day. “However, we did not receive any new booking and so, the posters were not taken down,” Sandhu said. However, he did not share details on who had booked the space.The outdoor advertisement contractor was recently in news after the civic body chose to waive its dues of around ₹8 crore during the MC general House meeting.Shiromani Akali Dal spokesperson Maheshinder Singh Grewal termed it as a classic case of quid pro quo. “The government favoured the outdoor advertiser and in return, the firm is favouring the minister.”Ashu refused to comment and said that the mayor should be asked about anything related to advertising.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said the advertisement was the prerogative of the outdoor advertiser and the civic body has nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-goes-on-publicity-blitz-over-ludhiana-s-sidhwan-canal-bridge-project-101618598482117.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bandra, Goregaon. Colaba see highest Covid-19 growth rate in a week||The city on Friday reported 8,803 Covid-19 cases and 53 deaths, taking the case tally to 562,207, and the toll to 12,250. There are now 84,378 active cases in the city. The cumulative case fatality rate (CFR) in the city is now 1.39%. In the past 16 days of April, Mumbai has reported 147,434 cases, and 560 deaths. Areas of Bandra West, Goregaon, Colaba, Malabar Hill and Grant Road, Matunga and Andheri have reported the highest growth rate in the past week. Mumbai has an average growth rate of 1.6%. Administrative wards corresponding to Bandra West and Goregaon have shown growth rates above 2%, followed by Malabar Hill with a growth rate of 1.9% and Colaba with a growth rate of 1.88%. The lowest growth rates are reported in Mohammad Ali Road at 1.1%, Parel with 1.3%, and Marine Lines with 1.3%. Fourteen out of 24 wards have reported growth above Mumbai’s average growth rate.However, the highest number of active cases is in Andheri West (7,167), followed by Andheri East (6,067), Kandivli (5,735), Borivli (5,664) and Malad (5,605). This is as per data available for 87,443 active Covid-19 cases as of Thursday.The BMC on Friday conducted 50,533 Covid-19 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 17.4%. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases as a percent of the total tests done. So far, the BMC has conducted 4,851,752 tests, with a cumulative positivity rate of 11%.On Friday, 9,033 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged in Mumbai. As of Thursday, 80% of the total active cases in the city were asymptomatic patients, 18.3% are symptomatic, and 1.5% are critical. As of Thursday, Mumbai has 20,044 hospital beds, of which 16,308 are occupied. Of the total ICU bed capacity of 2,692, only 40 beds are vacant. Of the 1,349 ventilator beds available, 40 are vacant; of the 10,183 oxygen beds available, 1,221 are vacant.The recovery rate in the city is 82%. The overall doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is now 43 days.In the past six months, the BMC has collected ₹24,89,100 in fines for spitting in public. A statement released by the civic body on Friday said, “In view of the fact that spitting in public places can spread diseases like corona virus, tuberculosis, punitive action is regularly taken by BMC at public places.” The fine per person is ₹200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bandra-goregaon-colaba-see-highest-covid-19-growth-rate-in-a-week-101618598296011.html
17-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Laboratories must give reports at earliest, says CM||Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray took stock of the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai and directed civic officials on the 24-hour turnaround time for the Covid-19 test reports, hospital bed management, managing oxygen supply and better coordination with authorities. Thackeray said that a quick turnaround of reports will help detect cases faster and prevent the second wave from getting bigger.“The number of cases are quickly increasing. In such a scenario, early detection will help to contain the spread of coronavirus. Therefore, all laboratories must be asked to give reports in the least possible turnaround. Similarly, looking at the surge, augmenting bed capacity should also be done,” Thackeray said in the meeting.State environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the guardian minister of Mumbai suburban district, said that people working in the corporate sector should go for rapid antigen test, which will help to identify positive cases quickly and also reduce the load on RT-PCR laboratories, a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.According to a statement, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal apprised the CM that the city’s total bed capacity will reach 22,000 from the existing 20,400. He also said that 3,900 beds are currently available in the city, and since February 10, the civic body has added 1,050 intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the city.Senior government officials said that the availability of hospital is not an issue at the moment as the number of cases registered and discharges recorded are around the same. The official added though the city is showing early signs of stabilising in terms of daily cases, the chief minister has warned the authorities to not remain negligent.CM Thackeray also took stock of the availability and adequate supply of and medical oxygen and Remdesivir, the life-saving antiviral drug. The BMC has appointed six civic officials as coordinators between oxygen suppliers and assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring it is used judiciously.Chahal, according to the CMO statement, also added that the BMC has placed an order for 200,000 remdesivir injections, of which 25,000 have been received and the civic body is following up to procure the remaining drug at the earliest.Thackeray on Friday also directed BMC to complete all the pre-monsoon work before May 31 and ensure that it does not get affected due to the rising Covid cases. BMC officials said that around 406 possible waterlogging places have been identified and the works have been commenced at these places. This year, 470 pumps will be hired to pump out water in the monsoon, said an official. He also instructed the health department that measures should be taken to control monsoon-related communicable diseases during the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-laboratories-must-give-reports-at-earliest-says-cm-101618598176732.html
17-04-2021||Other||Pandemic effect: IITs see fewer job offers this placement season||The pandemic has hit the ongoing placements season at the premiere Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), with several of these institutes bracing for poor recruitment statistics this year. At IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), a bulk of all jobs were offered during the first phase of placements in December last year. In the second phase, which kicked off in January, 125 students have been placed so far. “We are striving to minimise the negative impact on campus recruitment process due to the pandemic situation,” said BV Ravi Shankar, training and placement officer. Shankar said a similar number of companies had participated in the placement drive as compared to last year, with a few new firms joining the league. However, the overall statistics of recruitment may be poorer this year. “Due to market conditions, international placements, university faculty (PhD) and public sector undertakings (PSU) recruitments have been fewer this year, and this [has] affected our overall statistics,” he added. During the 15-day phase I of placements in December, the institute saw an 18% drop in the number of job offers from 2019. Fewer PSUs or government organisations shopped for talent this year, said many IITs. The Madras campus saw four PSUs recruit students, while the Guwahati campus hosted two PSUs. At IIT-Delhi, the number of PSUs that participated in the placement drive was in single digits, said Anishya Madan, head, office of career services, IIT-Delhi, where so far around 1,000 students have secured jobs. “[There have been] fewer number of selections per company. Some companies have deferred hiring this year because of the pandemic,” said Madan. IIT-Patna, where 109 out of 178 registered students are placed, said that placements were off to an erratic start but corrected their course over time. “At the start of the pandemic, some companies were very reluctant to conduct the placement process due to the sudden slump in the economy and the uncertainty all around. Hence, compared to the placement season of 2020, some companies were missed out. However, this year we also saw over 45 new recruiters,” said Kripa Shankar Singh, training and placement officer, IIT-Patna. Last year, when the pandemic broke out, many companies rescinded their offers made to students during the placement drive of 2019-20. Therefore, institutes have been careful this year to avoid such a situation. “We are in talks with companies to ensure that job offers made during the placement season are honoured,” said Shankar from IIT-B. “The institute was in constant communication with all the recruiters and only those companies that showed confidence in their hiring process this year were invited for placement,” said Abhishek Kumar, head, Centre for Career Development at IIT-Guwahati, where 28 offers were rescinded last year. Many IITs allowed students with rescinded offers to sit for placements this year. At IIT-Guwahati, eight such students received on-campus jobs and others received off-campus jobs. IIT-Madras allowed 157 students from the 2020 batch to register for placements this year. “Of these, 27 have been placed,” said CS Shankar Ram, advisor (training and placement), IIT-Madras, where 838 of the 1,470 registered students have secured jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-effect-iits-see-fewer-job-offers-this-placement-season-101618598176021.html
17-04-2021||Other||Antilia explosives scare: Suspended Mumbai cop Riyazuddin Kazi in judicial custody till April 23||The special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Friday remanded suspended assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi to judicial custody till April 23. The court has directed Taloja jail authorities to take the necessary measures to ensure Kazi’s security. He was arrested on April 11 for his alleged involvement in conspiracy and destruction of evidence with another suspended cop Sachin Vaze – the main accused and in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. Kazi was earlier remanded to NIA custody till Friday. He was produced before the special court as his NIA custody ended on Friday. NIA said that it did not require the further custody of the suspended Mumbai Police officer and urged the court to remand him to judicial custody. Kazi’s lawyer, advocate Hasnain Kazi, moved an application expressing threat perception for his client while in jail, and pleaded that his security aspect be appropriately considered by the prison authorities. The court then directed the jail authorities to take proper care of Kazi’s security. Kazi was moved to Taloja prison after the demand proceeding. According to NIA, Kazi was working as assistant police inspector in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) and was well aware about Vaze’s plan to create a security scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence. The federal agency also claimed that Kazi was aware of the design and the things that transpired after the case was transferred to NIA, and hence, started destroying evidence such as CPU (central processing unit) and DVR (digital video recorder). Kazi was also along with Vaze while recovering evidence in the case, which Vaze was probing initially. On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned near Antilia on Carmichael Road in south Mumbai with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to Ambani. Meanwhile, the court granted permission to Vaze, who is also lodged at Taloja jail, to speak to his lawyer from the prison. Vaze had pleaded that he needs to speak to his lawyer to discuss further legal remedies. He had also alleged that on April 12 and April 15, he was allowed to speak to his lawyer only for five minutes, after which the call was disconnected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-explosives-scare-suspended-mumbai-cop-riyazuddin-kazi-in-judicial-custody-till-april-23-101618597817515.html
17-04-2021||Other||DRI seizes container with plywood, sunmica worth ₹1 crore in Ludhiana||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Friday seized a container imported by a local firm through deceptive methods. According to DRI, the firm had claimed that the container contained heavy metal scrap, while plywood and sunmica was found in it.DRI additional director general Nitin Saini said the firm, Yuvraj Traders, had imported the container from Canada four months ago, and it was since lying at the Container Freight station for clearance.During inspection, plywood and sunmica worth ₹1 crore was found in it, he said, adding that the DRI will investigate other material imported by the company in the past.On April 13, the directorate had confiscated two containers with old Photostat machines (e-scrap) instead of the declared metal scrap.Similarly, on April 12, imported shoes, earphones and mobile accessories worth over ₹1 crore were found in a container, while only mobile covers worth ₹15 lakh were declared by the firm concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dri-seizes-container-with-plywood-sunmica-worth-1-crore-in-ludhiana-101618597816864.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||Court issues warrants against Ludhiana woman who accused teen of rape||A local court has issued bailable warrants against a woman, who had accused a 17-year-old boy of raping her in October 2018.The court acted on the plea of Ludhiana police’s special branch that submitted that as the woman was 22 years old when she filed the complaint and the accused was a minor, action should be taken against her.Challenging the charge-sheet submitted by the Division Number 5 police in court, the branch said it needed to investigate some more points, which could change the case.The woman, a resident of Lalowal village, Rahon, had filed a rape complaint against the teenager, who lives in Talwandi Sabo, Nawanshahr, on October 25, 2018.She had claimed that the boy had taken her to a hotel near the Ludhiana bus stand on the pretext of marriage and raped her after drugging her on January 16, 2018.On her complaint, the Division Number 5 police had booked the boy under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and apprehended him. Thereon, police filed a charge-sheet against the boy within days.Boy sought probe through police chiefChallenging the woman’s claims, on February 18, 2020, the boy filed a complaint to the commissioner of police, seeking a probe into the matter. The boy had alleged that it was in fact the woman who had been sexually exploiting him for two years after offering to help him in studies.He had claimed that contrary to her claims, she herself took him to the hotel and sexually assaulted him, while threatening to share his objectionable pictures with his parents.The teenager had confided in his relatives, following which they approached the woman’s family and they decided to get them married once he was 18. But, the woman filed a police complaint against him out of nowhere, he alleged.The commissioner of police had then marked an inquiry to the special branch, which took note of the age of the boy and the woman, and moved an application in court for further investigation. Since then, the woman has been skipping court hearings, the branch officials said, while refusing to provide more details about the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-issues-warrants-against-ludhiana-woman-who-accuses-teen-of-rape-101618596196510.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar warns Pune of complete lockdown if curfew rules are not followed||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar warned Pune residents of a complete lockdown if curfew rules are not followed. Pawar said that if people do not cooperate even after the imposition of curfew then the administration may have to impose complete lockdown like last year unwillingly. “Pune residents gave a good response to the weekend lockdown. I am hoping that they will follow the rules in the upcoming days. Otherwise as some of my fellow ministers have warned, a complete lockdown like last year may have to be imposed. I request citizens to follow the rules and do not push the administration to take this decision. In complete lockdown, many suffered a great deal of hardships,” Pawar said. The curfew has been receiving a lukewarm response in Pune. Pawar approved ₹1 crore to each of the 288 MLAs in Maharashtra for immediate spending on Covid-related issues. After taking a review of the Covid situation in Pune, Pawar told reporters that a total of ₹350 crore has been sanctioned under local area development fund for legislators. “There was an increasing demand from members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) and the legislative council to get permission to spend a portion of their local area development fund for Covid relief work. Last year, the quota of MLAs local area fund was ₹3 crore and they were granted permission to spend ₹50 lakh of it for Covid work. Of the ₹4 crore funds for the local area development, they can now spend ₹1 crore for immediate Covid relief work in their constituencies,” Pawar said. “A total of ₹350 crore has been granted for immediate Covid relief work for all the districts in Maharashtra through the MLA’s local area development funds,” said Pawar. Pawar also asked the resident doctors of Sassoon hospital who had threatened to go on a strike citing various demands to adopt a humanitarian approach and cooperate in the time of crisis. “I have scheduled a meeting of the concerned authorities with these doctors. They will listen to what they have to say. If they have valid reasons, then we will consider those. If they take extreme steps, then we will have to take decisions accordingly. I request them to cooperate and do not stretch this matter,” Pawar said. He assured that all the efforts will be made to ensure a sufficient oxygen supply to the district. “We have spoken to industrialists, and they have promised to help. If necessary, oxygen will be brought to Pune from Raigad district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-warns-pune-of-complete-lockdown-if-curfew-rules-are-not-followed-101618591635744.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s famous auditorium to house 100 oxygen beds for Covid patients||PUNE Ganesh Kala Krida Manch at Swargate is being converted into a 100-bed Covid facility in the light of the surge in cases, said, civic officials.Ganesh Kala Krida was earlier an open theatre that was erected for organising the Ganesh festival. Later, it was converted into a closed auditorium. It is in the heart of the city and has enough parking facilities.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the help of private doctors has erected the Covid facility in the basement of the auditorium.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Dr Rutuparna Shinde and his team came forward to run this facility. The civic body is looking after the infrastructure work like erecting toilets and laying oxygen pipelines. Beds and other medical equipment would be available under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund.”Aba Bagul, Congress leader, said, “Ganesh Kala Krida Manch will be converted into a Covid facility to treat patients during this pandemic. Amid a shortage in oxygen beds, Dr Shinde and their team came forward and decided to join hands with the civic body for this initiative.”Bagul said, “At least 100 oxygen beds will be made available at this facility. A team of expert doctors and medical staff will be employed here. The work of installing oxygen pipeline and toilets is in progress.”Mohol said, “In the next four to five days, we are expecting to start admissions at this facility.”Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar also visited the auditorium and checked the progress of the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/100-oxygen-beds-to-be-made-available-at-ganesh-kala-krida-manch-in-pune-101618588095482.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Distress calls, anxiety likely to increase post second wave, psychiatrists say||The second Covid-19 wave that has distrubed normalcy and adding an unprecedented burden on healthcare is expected to cause more damages. According to city-based psychiatrists, there is a fear of a sudden increase in psychological cases after the second wave by at least 30 per cent. “At this time, we have been receiving getting calls regarding Covid anxiety, phobia, and financial insecurities for the past 10 to 15 days, even before the lockdown was announced. There is a definite increase of 10 to 20 per cent these days taking new cases to more than 30 per cent after the first lockdown,” said Dr Dhananjay Ashturkar, psychiatrist, Asthaa hospital, Chinchwad. Following the first wave, the divisional commissioner of Pune had announced post-Covid 19 counseling centres for dealing with psychological problems in September 2020, whereupon at least 12 per cent of the 2 lakh discharged patients sought help. However, according to psychiatrists, this time the number might go up post the second wave of Covid-19 and lockdown. He further added that they are expecting more calls post the 15-day lockdown. “The people have still not recovered from the first lockdown and just gotten back to their regular way of life when suddenly this lockdown has been announced. It is a major setback. Everybody is affected in one way or another, but my advice would be to follow the government instructions, stay at home and if anyone feels anxious, call a doctor for help,” he added. Dr Archana Jawadekar, psychiatrist and professor with DY Patil medical college also stressed that the impact of the first wave of Covid-19 and the lockdown was still there and this extended lockdown has hampered their health. “There is a mixed reaction to this lockdown and yes, there is an immense fear and anxiety among people, especially the youth about job security,” she said. Jawadekar has also researched the psychological impact on people and found that women had more anxiety attacks and problems as well as youth who are now uncertain about their future. Psychiatrists feel that the government is concentrating on the health sector and getting oxygen beds and ventilators and completely brushed aside the psychological effect on the people in general. According to Dr Purva Deshpande, consultant psychotherapist and private practioner, there’s a rise in anxiety and people are seeking help and intervention for better mental health not only for themselves but also for the whole family. ] “The second wave has pushed people to mainly two polar opposites. The first one is people getting anxious to the core of their survival, and second, of those who have absolutely started denying any concern over health as the anxiety is paralysing and paramount,” she said.Dr Deshpande added, however, the disguised presentation of this denial can be seen in everyday behaviour in the form of increased irritability, disturbed sleep and pervasive feeling of helplessness. “The way emotional reactions are formed, dealt and dissolved depends to a great extent on the age and the resilience of the person,” said Dr Deshpande. Box Connecting NGO offers support The rising Covid-19 cases and the grim situation surrounding healthcare are forcing many in need of emotional support. In its endeavour to provide mental and emotional support, Connecting NGO is offering free support services. “Over the past financial year Connecting Trust has received an average of 202 calls per month and has answered an average of 59 emails per month. It’s important for individuals to know that if they feel low, distressed, and/or suicidal, they are not alone. It’s okay not to be okay. We’re here to listen,” said Liyaan Sataravala, chief executive officer, Connecting NGO. If you feel low, distressed and/or suicidal, you are not alone, you can call- 9922004305 | 9922001122 (all days, 12pm - 8pm) or write to distressmailsconnecting@gmail.com. For volunteer opportunities, emails can be sent at connectingngo@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/distress-calls-anxiety-likely-to-increase-post-second-wave-psychiatrists-say-101618587795400.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Rakshaknagar–Kharadi Covid centre plays key role in isolating symptomatic patients||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun four Covid-19 care centres (CCC) to treat mildly symptomatic patients and keep them isolated. The Rakshaknagar-Kharadi centre plays an important role to provide relief to symptomatic patients of the Ahmednagar road area.Though, the PMC has advised mildly symptomatic patients to home isolate, many don’t have the facility for home isolation. Therefore, the PMC has started the four centres which consists of a total 1,200 isolation beds. These centres don’t have oxygen facilities. Thecentres provide proper food medicine and isolation facilities to Covid-19 symptomatic patients. The Kharadi Covid centre, until recently, was the only Covid centre operating in the city. With the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the PMC started Gangadham (Katraj), Bankar School (Hadapsar) and Sant Dyneshwar government hostel (Vishrantwadi). Rakshaknagar-Kharadi centre has been operating from the first week of March with a capacity of 250 isolation beds. There is a swab centre and daily, a total of 250-300 swabs are collected. Dr Tirupati Panchal, ward medical officer Rakshaknagar-Kharadi centre said, “We provide basic medicine, isolation facilities. We have a staff of nine doctors and six nurses. Till date, more than 600 patients have recovered and been discharged from the centre.” At present, there are 236 patients admitted to the centre. “We are admitting patients from Vadgaonsheri, Vimannagar, Kharadi, Chandannagar, and Wagholi,” Panchal said. Bhaiyyasaheb Jadhav, local corporator of Nationalist Congress party (NCP) said, “Rakshaknagar centre is providing good isolation facility to needy patients. However, there is no oxygen bed. So, we have asked the PMC commissioner and chief health officer to provide an oxygen bed facility.” Devidas Deshpande, who was discharged from the centre, said, “When I tested positive, I approached the PMC and they advised me to stay at the Kharadi Covid centre as it was the only centre operating in the city. The centre is spacious, it has good ventilation. In one hall, there are six patients. PMC provides the meals. Doctors visit regularly for check-ups. Overall, it was a good experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rakshaknagarkharadi-covid-centre-plays-key-role-in-isolating-symptomatic-patients-101618587615338.html
17-04-2021||Pune||SPPU online exams see good turnout, students happy with improved tech||Despite the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the percentage of students appearing for the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) first semester online examination has not been impacted at this time. In fact, since the exams began on April 10, there has been an increasing graph of students appearing for the exams. Students say, in comparison to last year, there are fewer technical issues or glitches this year. On the first day of the exams on April 10, a total of 25,356 students appeared for the exam on various subjects from across the departments. While today on April 16, a total of 1, 35,364 students appeared with a total attendance percentage of 94.97 per cent. The first semester examination is being held online for students from first to last year of all courses. The exam is conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. The university’s own SPPU Edutech Foundation company is conducting the exam. “In comparison to last year’s experience with technical issues and problems faced by students, it’s been better this year. Students are happy about the management done by the university to conduct the exams in online mode. I will still suggest improving the helpline number management system in terms of getting a quick response, said Kamlakar Shete, an SPPU student. Indrakumar Shinde, another student said, “I am appearing for the second-year commerce exams, and it was a good experience for me. When I login for the examination, the system is smooth and we can easily appear, give the answers and submit the exam in time.” Last year from October 12, 2020, SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day onwards both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for one-hour duration. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “The current first semester exams are going on smoothly and our helpline numbers and staff are working hard to solve any issues faced by students. We hope that the first semester online exams are carried out well.” BOX April 10 Expected – 28,131 Appeared – 25,356 Absent – 2,775 Attendance percentage - 90.14 April 11 Holiday April 12 Expected – 29,885 Appeared – 27,722 Absent – 2,163 Attendance percentage - 92 April 13 and 14 Holiday April 15 Expected – 43,068 Appeared – 39,483 Absent – 3,585 Attendance percentage - 91.68 April 16 Expected – 1,42,540 Appeared – 1,35,364 Absent – 7,176 Attendance percentage - 94.97||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-online-exams-see-good-turnout-students-happy-with-improved-tech-101618587435468.html
17-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s Giripremi mountaineers scale Mt Annapurna-1, world’s 10th tallest peak||PUNE Giripremi’s mountaineers, Bhushan Harshe, Dr Sumeet Mandale and Jitendra Gaware, part of a team led by Umesh Zirpe, scaled Mt. Annapurna-1, an 8,091-metre tall mountain, the world’s 10th tallest, on April 16.This marks the Pune mountaineering club’s, eighth successful expedition where a peak 8000-mts and taller has been scaled.Mt. Annapurna-1 comes after Mt Everest in 2012, Mt Lhotse (fourth tallest in the world) in 2013; Mt Makalu (fifth tallest in the world) in 2014; Mt Cho Oyu (sixth tallest in the world); Mt Dhaulagiri (seventh tallest in the world) in 2016; Mt Manaslu (eighth tallest in the world) in 2017; and Mt. Kanchenjunga (third tallest in the world) in 2019.Umesh Zirpe of Giripremi said via mail that after terrible snowfall, the summit push commenced at midnight on Thursday, with the mountaineers facing gushing winds throughout the climb till dawn. Due to a shortage of rope just 800 metres below the summit, the leading team had to stop their climb midway and returned to camp four on April 15. “Chhang Dawa Sherpa and I, who were operating from base camp, arranged the necessary equipment from Kathmandu to camp four on war footing. This ensured the second attempt of the route. Considering the weather forecast and the slim weather window, Giripremi’s team followed the lead team for their summit push. The cloud cover gathering near the summit in the morning affected the pace of the climbers. However, after overcoming all the challenges, Giripremi’s Bhushan, Sumeet and Jitendra unfurled the Indian tricolor on the summit of Mt. Annapurna-1,” Zirpe said.Mt. Annapurna-1 is located in Nepal Himalaya’s Annapurna massif. This massif is home to several tall mountains. The Annapurna massif is 55km long, surrounded by Gandki and Marshyangadi glaciers. Long ridges, avalanche-prone areas are characteristic of the massif, which makes climbing extremely difficult. To date, 250 climbers have reached the summit of Mt. Annapurna-1 successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/giripremi-mountaineers-scale-mt-annapurna-1-world-s-10th-tallest-peak-101618582156643.html
17-04-2021||Chandigarh||55-hour weekend curfew clamped in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration imposed weekend curfew in the city on Friday amid a record spike in Covid-19 cases. As many as 481 people have tested positive in the past 24 hours, which is the biggest single-day spike that surpassed 449 cases registered during the first wave on September 13.The curfew will remain in force for 55 hours, from 10pm on Friday till 5am on Monday. Except for some exemptions, all public movement has been prohibited. While the night curfew from 10pm to 5am will continue thereon, the administration has also introduced other restrictions that will stay in force till April 30 (see box). The decision was taken in the Covid-19 review meeting chaired by UT administrator on Friday. Also read: Chandigarh traders oppose weekend curfewThe order issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida under the Disaster Management Act states: “The residents must stay indoors during the lockdown period. Only essential activities will be allowed.” “No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the lockdown period,” states the order issued by deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code.Parida said the decision has been taken to restrict the spread of infection in “avoidable travel or gatherings” during weekends. “We will see if we can break the chain,” he said. Any breach of the order will invite action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code along with other appropriate laws. Only home delivery allowedAll essential commodity shops and restaurants will be allowed to remain open during the weekend curfew. However, only home delivery will be allowed. These include shops and vendors dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy, meat, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment.For the home delivery staff, their identity card will suffice for movement, said Brar.All private offices will remain closed, and only industries manufacturing essential products, such as masks, sanitisers and medicines, can operate during the weekend. Those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass are also exempted. Brar said the movement pass can be availed on the official website of the administration: http://admser.chd.nic.in/dpc. Officials are also available on 0172-2700076 and 0172-2700341. As far as the people commuting from other parts of the tricity are concerned, Parida said: “Curfew is valid for the capital city. For essential travel to the city from Panchkula and Mohali, commuters will have to satisfy the police authorities about their purpose of visit to be allowed entry.” Meanwhile, Sampark Centres will remain closed during the weekend curfew. All online services will be available on www.sampark.chd.nic.and esampark mobile app. Sharp increase in casesThe administration had imposed curfew in the city soon after the outbreak in March last year. However, along with the rest of India, it started easing the restrictions from May onwards. While the weekend lockdown was lifted on August 28, restrictions of gatherings were done way with on January 30 this year.A sharp rise in Covid-19 cases has prompted it to impose fresh restrictions. Just 16 days into April, the city has recorded 5,979 cases and 29 deaths, up from 5,229 and 27, respectively, recorded throughout March.Also, 70% of the 60 Covid-19 samples sent by the PGIMER for genome sequencing in March have turned positive for the UK variant of COVID- 19. One of the samples was also found to have double mutation. The administration had earlier announced weekend closure of Sukhna Lake and indefinite shutdown of Rock Garden on Tuesday. Even night curfew was extended from 10pm to 5am, instead of 10:30pm to 5am. Education dept postpones examsAfter the announcement of the weekend curfew, the education department postponed all exams scheduled on Saturday.Class 9 students are still left with their Hindi exam while the biology exam of Class11 is pending. According to the order issued by UT education secretary SS Gill, even teachers will get an off on Saturday.The order also stated that any student from a containment zone or who gets quarantined or tests positive can appear for the exams later. Meanwhile, public libraries and coaching centres will remain closed till April 30, though online coaching is allowed. Earlier, during the meeting, Badnore expressed serious concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases and the high fatality being observed. All patients presently under home quarantine must be regularly contacted and provided with necessary assistance, he said. Helpline numbers for such patients are: 0172-2752038, 2634074, 2738087, 9646121642, 9779558282 and 7087577447. Badnore also directed all three medical institutes to ramp up their facilities to accommodate the increasing number of Covid-19 patients, and said the hospital at Sector 48 should be made fully functional. The administrator also stressed on increased testing at crowded places and enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour in markets and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/weekend-curfew-in-chandigarh-from-10pm-tonight-to-5am-on-monday-101618570875080.html
17-04-2021||Lucknow||Institute for Competitiveness Report studies UP government's handling of migrant crisis||The handling of the migrant crisis by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh (UP) has been studied in detail by the Institute for Competitiveness (IFC), which has submitted a report on the same to the government.An official government spokesperson, while sharing details of the study last week, said it highlighted the humanitarian crisis of migrant labourers that unfolded in 2020, and focused on how the UP government handled the migrant crisis. While the spokesperson referred to it as a Harvard study in a statement, the Institute for Competitiveness said subsequently that it is only part of the Microeconomics of Competitiveness network of the Institute of Strategy and Competitiveness at the Harvard Business School and that it is “inaccurate” to refer to it as a “Harvard study”.The government spokesperson said the Yogi government worked towards the multifold agenda of providing transportation facilities, delivering ration kits, and running health care centres for outbreak prevention.The migrant labourers mainly relied on daily wages for survival and the state government announced schemes to provide free ration to the migrants, according to him.The report, IFC said, documented efforts by the UP government on three parameters: migrant support, health infastructure, and livelihood opportunities.The state government formulated a plan to ensure the safe return of migrants and create employment opportunities. UP government in consonance with the central government took a holistic approach towards addressing the crisis, the government statement said.Besides providing buses and train services for stranded migrants, the state government also arranged transportation facilities for within-state travel and made efforts to publicise the schemes of the government, the report enumerated.The state government collaborated with Indian railways and arranged 1604 trains and brought back over 2.1 million migrants through Shramik trains i.e. 80 % of the total migrants who returned to the state.The state government also set up 18,140 quarantine facilities as per the guidelines issued by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and a total of 1.5 million migrants were quarantined at different points in time.According to the report, a total of ₹151 crore was transferred to the account of 1.5 million migrants .IFC said that the report isn’t a comparative study and looks into how the UP government handled the crisis.(This article, which was originally published in the Lucknow edition of Hindustan Times, has been edited for accuracy. An earlier version referred to the IFC report as a Harvard study, quoting a state government release)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/institute-for-competitiveness-report-studies-up-government-s-handling-of-migrant-crisis-101617735140843.html
