19-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG signs agreement for private firm to maintain Aravalli park||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Hero Motorcorp Limited signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the ecological restoration and conservation of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park till 2031, an official release by the civic body on Monday stated. According to MCG officials, Hero Motorcorp Limited will maintain and beautify the Aravalli Biodiversity Park for a period of 10 years and spend ₹1.25 crore annually for maintaining the park under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also attended the meeting via videoconference, said MCG officials.The MoU was signed by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and representatives of the motorcycle and scooter manufacturing company at the PWD Rest House in Civil Lines. “This is an excellent example of a public and private partnership which will not only support the ecological restoration of the vast park, protect its existing wildlife and forest reserves also but continue to be a source of providing fresh air to the city and help check localised air pollution,” said Singh.The Aravalli Biodiversity Park is spread across 390 acres and has semi-arid vegetation, with around 300 native plants, 101,000 trees, 43,000 shrubs, and 185 different types of birds. IAmGurgaon, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), was looking after the maintenance of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park from 2014 till December last year until its contract with the MCG expired. The MCG’s horticulture wing was maintaining the park in the interim. The park was opened on June 5, 2010, on World Environment Day. Before it became a full-fledged urban forest, it was an abandoned mining site. In November 2002, the Supreme Court banned all mining activities in the Aravalli mountains, a month after which the Haryana government had also issued a similar order. “Proper maintenance of the park is essential as the park is the city’s main source of clean air. The MCG should now shift its focus on ensuring it is no longer used as a venue for hosting cultural festivals and also deal with encroachment on the outskirts of the park, especially near Nathupur, where cases of tree felling, rampant construction, and illegal borewells have been reported,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist.“Haryana is the home of Hero MotoCorp, and we consider this our utmost responsibility and duty to preserve the natural ecosystem and the habitat within the state. We look forward to continuing working closely with the local administration and communities in making Gurugram and the state of Haryana a role model in creating a green and sustainable natural habitat,” said Dr Pawan Munjal, chairman and chief executive officer, Hero MotoCorp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-signs-agreement-for-private-firm-to-maintain-aravalli-park-101618855353494.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||Remdesivir black marketing a major concern in Gurugram||Having exhausted all avenues for procuring remdesivir, a broad-spectrum antiviral drug, 43-year-old Jacqueline Jindal, a city-based social entrepreneur, posted a message on social media seeking help to treat her son, who was in a critical state after testing positive for Covid-19. Within hours, she started getting calls from suspected black marketeers, who offered to arrange six vials of the drug for as high as ₹1.5 lakh.“I went to more than 20 hospitals, chemists and stockists, but there was not even a single vial of the injection available. I was in a panic as people were calling me and offering injections for high prices. Some people offered it for ₹25,000 and others for ₹40,000, while one caller from Delhi asked for ₹1.5 lakh, claiming he had picked up a major stock of injections from the manufacturer,” she said.However, Jindal did not have to revert to the callers as her appeal to the district drug controller was successful and the drug was provided at the government approved price of ₹4,000. Her son was shifted to the general ward from the intensive care unit (ICU) after five days and is reported stable.The use of remdesivir shot up due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the country over the last month. While hospitals are running low on remdesivir stocks, black marketeers are hoarding stocks and are making a quick buck by selling them for high prices, the police said.Another resident, Vikram Singh, who lives in a housing society on Sohna Road, said he paid ₹40,000 to procure the drug and save his mother’s life. He also was contacted on social media.Vineet Singh, a resident of Sector 57, said that he bought injections for ₹30,000 for his brother who was critical and was admitted to a hospital in Manesar. “I had posted on my Facebook page, after which four men contacted me and gave different prices. As ₹30,000 was the lowest, I requested him to deliver the injection. He called me to Rajeev Chowk, took the payment and left on a motorbike,” he said.To be sure, seven companies producing remdesivir in India have slashed prices by an average of 39%, with the costliest variant being offered by Hetero Healthcare at ₹3,490 for a 100mg vial.Even as residents rush to procure remdesivir, experts said that it is not a sure-shot treatment.Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi, on Monday, asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing remdesivir to patients and said that the drug is not a “magic bullet”. He said that remdesivir does not reduce mortality and is not useful to treat patients with mild symptoms.“It is important to understand that remdesivir is not a magic bullet and is not a drug that decreases mortality. We may use it due to lack of an antiviral drug and it is useless if given at an early state to asymptomatic individuals or to patients with mild symptoms. It is also ineffective if administered late,” Guleria was quoted saying by news agency ANI.How hoarders are making a quick buckKK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that people are taking advantage of the situation and minting money.In one instance on Saturday, a resident tagged the senior district officials on Twitter, complaining of illegal sales after being forced to pay ₹14,000 to purchase the same. The deputy commissioner forwarded the complaint to the drugs control officer.The complainant, requesting anonymity, offered to provide officials with the contact details of the seller, following which the officials detained them.Amandeep Chauhan, the drugs control officer for Gurugram, said, “We called the number and asked the person for remdesivir. He asked ₹25,000 for each vial. We prepared a decoy customer,” he said.Yadav said the suspect asked the decoy to reach Ardee City gate in Sector 52 and was detained on the spot upon arrival. “During questioning, he revealed two more names and said he purchased from them. They were asked to produce retail sale drugs licence or wholesale drugs licence, in compliance with Section 18(c) of the Drugs Cosmetics Act, but they did not have one. The injection recovered from their possession was for supply to the Northern Railways and not for sale. Hence, this injection was from the government supply. There is pilferage somewhere and this needs investigation,” he said.Police commissioner Rao said, “We have started an investigation and are scanning their call detail records and social media accounts to get the exact number of people contacted. Also, we will get to know who else was involved with them.”The suspects were identified as Jitender of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Rajkumar of Bharatpur and Kamal Kishore Singh of Pipli, in Rajasthan. They were employees of medical companies providing home isolation and medical deliveries. The police said the suspects were active on social media and respond quickly, offering the drugs at higher prices.The police officials said they have deployed informers and are expecting to make more arrests soon.Yadav said that the drug is available at hospitals and will shortly be available at chemist stores also. “Right now, our prime concern is that patients admitted should get these injections and there should be no black marketing. The stocks are ready for supply and the issue will be resolved in a day or two,” he said.However, doctors of private hospitals said that there is a shortage of remdesivir at present. “We heard that we will get the stock of injections this week and even the prices have been reduced. Earlier, there was no cap and patients even bought the injections for ₹30,000. It becomes difficult for the hospitals also to manage such situations where the patient is critical and in dire need of the injection,” said a city-based doctor, requesting anonymity.Doctors said the injection is an important component for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “It is antiviral and it reduces viral load in the body so that it reduces further complications during high fever, which is common in Covid-19,” said Dr MK Singh, medicine specialist with W Pratiskha hospital in Sector 56.The government officials said that they are going to massively scale up the production of remdesivir injection due to the rapid surge of cases in the country. “As for remdesivir production, it had gone down but now from 26 lakh (2.6 million) vials a month, it has been scaled up to 40 lakh (4 million) vials per month while aiming for 76 lakh (7.6 million) vials each month,” Dr VK Paul, member-health, Niti Aayog posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/remdesivir-black-marketing-a-major-concern-in-gurugram-101618855352792.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||Liquor store collection agent robbed of ₹6 lakh outside bank||The collection agent of a chain of liquor stores was allegedly robbed at gunpoint by four armed persons in Sector 18, near a bank, on Monday, as per a complaint filed with the police. The robbers took ₹6 lakh in the incident, the police said.The police said that one of the suspects fired two gunshots in the air to intimidate the victim, before fleeing with the money in a car. The police said the car, a Swift Dzire, was recovered from a Palam Vihar road an hour after the incident was reported. The police said that the victim was on the way to the bank after collecting cash from different outlets. The incident took place around 3.45pm, when the employee, identified as Prem, along with a driver, approached a private bank branch in Sector 18. The suspects surrounded them and tried to snatch the bag and when the agent tried to raise the alarm, they fired shots in the air before making off with the bag. The victim called the police control room immediately, following which a team was sent to the spot.Sudhir Kumar, station house officer of Sector 18 police station, said that they have registered a robbery case and crime investigation teams have been roped in to trace the suspects. “There was a rush in the liquor shops today and the sale had suddenly increased, which could have been the reason behind the robbery. The suspects were already outside the bank or there are possibilities that one of their accomplices was following the liquor shop employee and was aware of the cash transaction,” he said. The police said they are scanning CCTV footage from nearby areas to identify the suspects and the Dzire car they used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/liquor-store-collection-agent-robbed-of-6-lakh-outside-bank-101618855352174.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||‘Health facilities will be ramped up this week’||Deputy commissioner Yash Garg spoke to Archana Mishra about the shortfall in hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and the possible solutions being explored by the district administration.How is the district administration planning to address the Covid-19 burden on the existing healthcare infrastructure? Hospital facilities will be ramped up this week. Besides the existing 2,600 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, we have tied up with ESIC Hospital for at least 72 beds, and the addition of over 500 beds in SGT Medical College, 150 beds in World College of Medical Sciences and Hospital, Jhajjar, and 120 beds in Medeor Hospital. These facilities will be upgraded in the next three to five days to treat moderate to severely ill Covid-19 patients. Did the administration not anticipate the load on healthcare infrastructure due to the surge in cases? Across the country, the healthcare infrastructure has been overwhelmed with rising Covid-19 cases. It is in the last seven to eight days that cases have exponentially increased in Gurugram. The spread has been too fast. Still, hospitals are in the continuous process of upgrading reserved bed capacity to accommodate patients. Strengthening a hospital infrastructure requires time. More than 91% of the active cases in the district are home isolated, but it is still difficult to find a hospital bed. Why is that? Gurugram caters to the entire Delhi-NCR, parts of Haryana and other nearby states. Since the city has some of the best hospitals, people from other cities want to be admitted (to the facilities) here. Even patients with mild symptoms, who do not require hospitalisation and can be home isolated, are also admitted to hospitals. We have requested hospitals to first consider city-based serious Covid-19 cases. But for a doctor, a patient cannot be looked at on the basis of city or state. Therefore, we are making an effort to upgrade the existing infrastructure to accommodate every serious case. You have formed 10 teams to keep a close watch on bed occupancy in big hospitals of the city. What has been the outcome so far? We were able to vacate roughly about 90 beds that were occupied by cases that did not require hospitalisation. Till Sunday, we were able to arrange beds for 200 patients as these teams have been closely monitoring hospitals’ discharge policies and bed availability. With respect to the current situation, what message would you like to convey to citizens? People should not panic and rush to hospitals if they test positive for Covid-19. Over 90% of cases can be managed at home by isolating. Visit hospitals only if it is required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/health-facilities-will-be-ramped-up-this-week-101618855294869.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents seek more beds for Covid-19 patients||City residents are finding it hard to secure institutional treatment for their family members suffering from the coronavirus disease, with the recent spike in cases necessitating augmentation of health infrastructure in the district.During a visit to several hospitals on Monday, when the city had over 12,000 active cases, an HT team found that neither oxygen nor intensive care unit beds were available at most locations. With no luck at local hospitals, some city residents had to travel to other districts to get themselves admitted to a hospital. Paras Jain, who admitted his 20-year-old sister to a hospital in Panipat, said, “Even though my sister’s oxygen levels are stable today (Monday), on Sunday night, it seemed that the situation could go out of hand. We tried finding a bed in both Delhi and Gurugram, thinking we will get good treatment, but we were not able to secure one. Then we learnt that there was a bed available in Panipat, so we rushed and got my sister admitted after midnight.” Family members of patients said that after failing to secure beds in nearby hospitals, they resorted to setting up healthcare systems at home. Sangeeta Mahajan, a 49-year-old resident of DLF Phase-1, said, “The whole of the weekend, I tried to find a bed for myself and my husband, but we did not get any positive response. Every place was full, so we decided to set up a healthcare system at home with guidance from our doctor. Our oxygen levels are stable for now.” Vaibhav Kumar, a 17-year-old resident of DLF Phase-1, said, “For the past two days, I have been trying to find a bed in a hospital in Gurugram for a friend’s grandmother who is aged above 80 years as her oxygen level has been fluctuating constantly, but we have had no luck so far.” At four private hospitals in the city, no beds were available for Covid-19 patients as of Monday afternoon, even as more people continued to line up to get themselves tested. Arun Kumar, a symptomatic suspected patient, who was waiting to get himself tested at a private hospital, said, “I had been trying to get myself tested for two days, but either there were no slots or there was a delay in reports. Now, I have come here as I heard from a few friends that they give the report within 24 hours and a maximum of 48 hours.” The health department last week advised hospitals to admit only seriously ill patients. The district administration has also launched a portal — covidggn.com/public/pages/gurugram-hospitals — where people can track bed availability in real time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-seek-more-beds-for-covid-19-patients-101618855294231.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||Rush at liquor stores as Delhi lockdown sparks fears||Soon after the Delhi government announced a six-day lockdown, liquor shops in the city were flooded with buyers on Monday, much like the scene in the Capital. While many from Delhi who work in the city lined up to stock up on liquor for the lockdown, city residents also started gathering at these stores fearing the possibility of a lockdown due to the rise in Covid-19 cases over the last month.However, learning from past experiences, the police deployed more than 1,000 personnel at liquor vends across the district on Monday. Ankit Kumar, a resident of Vasant Vihar in Delhi, said he worked in Udyog Vihar and as soon the lockdown was announced, his friends started calling him informing him about the long queues in the Capital. “They asked me to buy liquor for them as well and I received more than 20 messages from different people, who sent money through e-wallets to ensure I didn’t miss their demands,” he said. Another Delhi resident, Shveta Tiwari, of Mayapuri, who works in an office on Golf Course Road, said that she received more than 30 calls to buy liquor before leaving for home. “My friends had bought booze mostly by paying double the price last year. So, this time, everyone wanted to be safe and wise,” she said. Police commissioner KK Rao said that they asked liquor shops to ensure no one was allowed to enter without face masks and to ensure social distancing. “As the cases are rising, we want to take all possible precautions to ensure the safety of people,” he said. Shopkeepers said people bought liquor in bulk on Monday. “We were shocked when people suddenly started coming and asking for cases of Scotch, whiskey and beer. Generally, people buy beer from Delhi as it’s cheaper there but due to the sudden lockdown and no stock of beer, people are buying from Gurugram,” said Rakesh Kumar, a salesman at a liquor shop on MG Road. VK Beniwal, the deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), however, said that they did not receive any information related to rush at liquor shops. “We have all arrangements in place and excise teams are keeping a close watch on all precautionary measures at liquor shops,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rush-at-liquor-stores-as-delhi-lockdown-sparks-fears-101618855293604.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 2,000 positive patients remain untraceable||At least 2,139 Covid-19 patients of the 12,000-odd active cases in the district remain untraceable, with their mobile phone numbers and addresses turning out to be incorrect, senior government officials involved in Covid-19 duties said.“Out of the 12,000 active Covid-19 cases, nearly 2,139 are yet to be traced due to wrong contact details. It takes almost four to five days to track such cases, with the help of the police department,” said a senior official privy to the matter. Even during a review meeting held with the state-appointed nodal officer for Covid-19, TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, mines and geology, employment, and housing, the details were shared by Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, who has designated with the task of handling testing and confirmation of positive cases. In a statement issued by the district administration, Kaur said that in the past week, details of 3,300 people have been shared with the police department, of which 1,200 positives were tracked. The list of positive cases prepared by the MCG’s health team is provided to different urban primary health centres to trace and isolate cases. In some cases, due to incorrect contact details and no response through telephonic calls, positive cases go untraceable. Usha Kundu, an assistant commissioner of police, who was also present at the meeting, said five teams were deployed for each zone to identify such patients. With the administration conducting almost 10,000 tests every day, the district has been reporting more than 2,000 cases every day. On Monday, at least 1,809 new Covid-19 cases were confirmed, taking the active case count to 12, 772, of whom 11,965 are in home isolation, over 144 at Covid care facilities and at least 663 in different hospitals. Five people succumbed to the illness on the day, taking the death count to 383. The last time the district reported five deaths was last year, on December 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-2-000-positive-patients-remain-untraceable-101618855292911.html
19-04-2021||Gurugram||1,809 new cases, 800 beds to be added||The district administration on Monday decided to add 800 additional beds with oxygen support within five days through tie-ups with private medical colleges as the city continues to struggle with a stressed healthcare system in the absence of adequate government facilities. On Monday, 1,809 new cases were reported, compounding the situation.“The state and district administration is handling the bed management on a war scale now. The plan is to make all 800 beds available to people by April 22 evening. Every day, bed capacity will be strengthened to ensure moderate to severely ill Covid-19 patients do not face difficulties in getting beds for treatment,” said TC Gupta, additional chief secretary, mines and geology, employment, and housing, who has been appointed as the Covid-19 officer for Gurugram by the Haryana government. Currently, almost 2,600 reserved beds for Covid-19 cases have been occupied. As per the data available on the government website, only 128 of 1,873 oxygen beds are vacant across 41 hospitals. Likewise, only nine ICU beds of 527 and three ventilator beds of 237 are available. According to the health department, more than 50% of beds are occupied by patients from across Delhi-NCR, other parts of Haryana and neighbouring states. Going by the district health bulletin on Monday, as many as 663 patients from Gurugram are undergoing treatment in various private hospitals. Providing adequate beds for timely treatment has become critical as the district on Monday reported five Covid-19 deaths within 24 hours, taking the toll to 383. To tackle the situation, Gupta held a meeting with senior officials of government departments that have been allotted Covid-19 duties, such as bed management, testing, tracking home-isolated patients and ambulance fleet management. In the meeting, Gupta announced that 800 beds would be added.Of the 800, 500 will be added at SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera, at least 150 beds in World College of Medical Sciences Research and Hospital, Jhajjar, and at least 56 in Medeor Hospital, which is the Covid-19 designated facility for seriously ill patients. At present, the Medeor Hospital has 64 occupants, which is the current maximum capacity.“There are only limited beds, nearly 95, in government facilities which include Civil Hospital and ESIC Hospital. By tying up with medical colleges, the government Covid-19 bed capacity will dramatically increase in the state to cater to people who cannot afford private hospitals or lack health insurance. It is being ensured that these facilities are provided with enough medical supplies, oxygen support and health staff to handle patients,” said Gupta. Medeor Hospital, the designated Covid-19 facility, has also been provided with at least 60 paramedic staff, who will be joining this week, by the state administration. “The hospital has also been asked to submit its current requirement of doctors. The state has agreed to provide adequate staff,” said Gupta. Dr Sanjay Gupta, head, internal medicine and medical superintendent, Medeor Hospital, said, “All 64 beds are occupied. A lot of people have been approaching us, almost double our capacity, to get admitted. These are moderate to severely ill patients who need immediate hospitalisation. The facility will add more beds in the next 48 hours as we have asked the administration to provide us with adequate staff.” Due to the fast occupancy of beds, the additional chief secretary also stressed updating real time data regarding availability on the government portal (covidggn.com). The portal shows the number of vacant oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds at private and government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/1809-new-cases-800-beds-to-be-added-101618855292264.html
19-04-2021||Pune||9,559 positive cases reported on Monday, 6 deaths in Pune||Pune: Pune district on Monday reported 9,559 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. Pune district reported 7,35,378 progressive cases, of which 6,01,403 have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,879 and 1,25,096 is the active number of cases. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 2,691 new cases, taking the total to 1,72,232. With two deaths on Monday, the death toll went up to 2,341. Pune city reported 4,616 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 3,81,963. Only one death was reported on Monday, which puts the death toll at 5,041. While PCMC reported 2,552 new Covid-19 cases. With three deaths reported on Monday, the toll went up to 1,442. Pune district also saw higher vaccination numbers with 58,628 beneficiaries receive the vaccine on Monday. Pune city saw 19,675 vaccinations, Pune rural saw 31,138 and PCMC saw 7,815 beneficiaries get the jab. Of the 58,628 beneficiaries, 52,470 got Covisheild and 6,158 got Covaxin doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9559-positive-cases-reported-on-monday-6-deaths-in-pune-101618855172219.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Night curfew extended till April 30 in Noida||The administration on Monday extended the night curfew in Noida and Greater Noida till April 30 in a bid to check the spread of COVID-19 infection.Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L Y said in a order, "The curfew which was earlier imposed till April 17 will be in force from 8 pm to 7 am till April 30 across the district, including Noida and Greater Noida."According to the order, the restrictions imposed in the past during the night curfew will remain in force.The movement of essential goods or commodities and medical and other essential services shall be exempted besides central and state government officials and medical staff.Pregnant women and those in need of medical help are also exempted, according to the order.Travellers going to airport, railway station and bus stand will be allowed movement during night time if they show valid travel tickets, according to the order.Print and electronic media personnel are also exempted.People violating the order will be punished under rules of the Disaster Management Act 2005, the administration warned.Gautam Buddh Nagar is one of the worst-hit districts of Uttar Pradesh with nearly 31,000 positive cases of COVID-19 so far, besides 106 deaths linked to the pandemic, according to official figures updated till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-night-curfew-extended-till-april-30-in-noida-101618854687156.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||First ‘Oxygen Express’ takes off from Mumbai to get medical oxygen from Vizag||Indian Railways’ Oxygen Express, with seven empty tankers loaded on a roll-on-roll-off (Ro-Ro) train, left Navi Mumbai’s Kalamboli Goods Yard on Monday for Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh where it will be loaded with liquid medical oxygen for Maharashtra.“The Ro-Ro service with seven empty tankers departed from Kalamboli goods yard for Visakhapatnam steel plant siding at 8.05 pm today. This train will move via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Raipur Jn to Visakhapatnam steel plant siding in ECoR zone where it will be loaded with liquid medical oxygen,” the railways said.The Indian Railways will deploy the first of its kind ‘Oxygen Express’ trains over the next few days to transport Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders in bulk along key corridors, amid high demand from states grappling with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.With several states reporting a shortage of medical oxygen, the government on Friday directed them to ensure uninterrupted movement of medical oxygen-carrying vehicles along their borders and said they must not impose any curb on production and supply of the essential public health commodity anywhere.The railway ministry on Friday approved transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its Ro-Ro model as a special case following a request from the Maharashtra government.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine for everyone above 18 from May 1, PM Modi gives go aheadTentatively, a movement plan was made for dispatching 10 empty tankers on Monday, the railway ministry said, adding that the transport secretary, Maharashtra, has assured to provide the tankers.A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and state transport commissioners and representatives of the industry on April 17 on issues related to transportation of liquid medical oxygen.“Instructions have been issued to zonal railways to ensure readiness to receive the trailers and load them. Ramps have to be built at Vizag, Angul and Bhilai and the existing ramp at Kalamboli is to be strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-oxygen-express-takes-off-from-mumbai-to-get-medical-oxygen-from-vizag-101618853792655.html
19-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to announce strict Covid-19 measures on Tuesday||Karnataka government would announce strict Covid-19 containment measures in the State on Tuesday after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's meeting with the Governor Vajubhai Vala and leaders of political parties.There are indications that there may not be a complete lockdown with opposition to it from within the government and also from the opposition parties."Legislators and leaders suggested to not go into lockdown as it will affect the poor. The Chief Minister, undergoing treatment (for Covid-19) at a hospital, participated in the meeting today and took note of the suggestions," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said.After meeting with MLAs, MPs and Ministers from Bengaluru on the Covid-19 spike in the city, he told reporters that the Chief Minister would have a virtual discussion with the Governor and opposition parties on Tuesday after which he would announce the Covid-19 control measures."The next two months are crucial to manage things during this period and to take certain stringent steps, meetings are being held with leaders of all parties today and tomorrow," he said.The Governor would preside over a virtual meeting with floor leaders of both Houses of the State Legislature on April 20 to discuss the Covid-19 situation.Meanwhile, a copy of guidelines imposing State-wide night curfew was circulated in the social media and whatsapp groups, but the Chief Minister's office said no such guidelines were issued.The corona curfew between 10 PM and 5 AM, currently in place in seven district centres, along with Manipal, comes to an end on Tuesday.The Revenue Minister said while some legislators were in favour of extending night curfew, some opposed it. But no one spoke about the weekend lockdown, he said.Senior Congress legislator and former Minister Ramalinga Reddy hit out at the government for not taking adequate measures or preparations for the second wave of the virus."There are no answers to the questions posed to the government. To cover up their failures, they have symbolically called us for a meeting. If you (govt) impose lockdown, give ₹25,000 for every family as was sought by us," he said.Another senior Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda said, "At the meeting, we asked as to why precautionary measures were not taken during the last two months despite the threats of a second wave looming large. It looked like they had called the meeting to escape from its responsibility," he said.Giving details of the meeting, Ashoka claimed MLAs appreciated the measures taken by the government during the first wave and sought similar measures during the second wave.Concerns over shortage of oxygen supply were expressed, he said."We have enough oxygen, but hospitals don't have capacity to store it. There is no issue with the big hospitals, but with small hospitals, yes the oxygen has to go in cylinders, so we have appointed nodal officers and have ordered for supplying cylinders three times a day to such hospitals," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-to-announce-strict-covid-19-measures-on-tuesday-101618852461692.html
19-04-2021||Other||Agra’s recovery rate falls, records spike in death toll||With 469 new cases testing positive for Covid-19, the number of active cases in the Agra district rose to 2653. As a matter of concern, the death toll also increased and touched the 196-mark on Monday. Meanwhile, the recovery rate fell further below 80%.“In all, 690166 samples have been tested in Agra district which has a sample positivity rate of 2.03%. Comprehensively, 11148 patients testing positive for Covid-19 have been cured and discharged but because of a heavy number of patients testing positive, the recovery rate has fallen below 80% and was recorded 79.65% in Agra district,” stated district magistrate Prabhu N Singh.A total of 13997 cases have been tested positive in Agra, which includes 2653 active cases. The sample positivity rate for April in the district had been 7.68% reflecting the grim situation.Agra has a case fatality rate of 1.40% and an overall sample positivity rate of 2.03%, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agras-recovery-rate-falls-records-spike-in-death-toll-101618852651919.html
19-04-2021||Dehradun||Despite HC order of 50k daily Covid-19 tests, Haridwar conducted over 21k since April 1||Despite Uttarakhand High Court’s order of 50,000 daily testings for Covid-19, Haridwar reported around 21,000 daily tests on an average since April 1 when the Mahakumbh mela started. The mega religious congregation will end on April 30. Between April 1 and April 18, a total of 3,77,555 Covid-19 tests were conducted in Uttarakhand which totals to around 20,975 tests per day on an average since the mega fair commenced earlier this year. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities, who has been analysing the Covid-19 pandemic, said the testing numbers in Haridwar need to be scaled up to around 50,000 as per the HC’s directions. “Haridwar has witnessed pilgrim influx in millions, including 1.3 million on Shahi Snan on April 14, at a time when the whole country is witnessing a huge surge in Covid cases. The best strategy to deal with Mahakumbh not emerging as a super-spreader is to increase the testing which is not being done. In the past 18 days, the average daily testing has been around 21,000, which is clearly not enough for a sensitive area like Mahakumbh,” he said. A day ahead of Mahakumbh, on March 31, the Uttarakhand High Court directed the state government to increase the daily Covid-19 testing from daily 5,000 to 50,000 in Haridwar to check the spread of the virus in Mahakumbh, the biggest religious congregation on the planet. The HC gave directions while hearing a bunch of PILs filed related to various issues regarding the fight against the pandemic in the state. Also, between April 1 and April 18, the number of cases in Haridwar jumped from 1,522 to 21303, while the active cases in the same period surged from 149 to 4,893. While 149 cases were reported on April 1, the number of cases reported on April 18 was 572. For the last few days, Dehradun and Haridwar are witnessing a major spike in daily cases. Between April 1 and April 18, the Haridwar district reported an increase of 19,781 cases. With Haridwar and Dehradun emerging as Covid-19 hotspots in the state, some Akhada saints have opted for symbolic bathing rituals for the rest of the Mahakumbh period and many are already leaving the Kumbh area. According to Mahant Devendra Shastri, secretary of Shri Nirmal Panchayati Akhada, around six hundred seers have left Kumbh city after the third Shahi Snan on April 14 and many will leave in the coming days. Of the 2,630 fresh cases reported by the state on Sunday, 1,281 were from Dehradun and 572 from Haridwar district. Dehradun district has reported a maximum of 41,254 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (21303). Given the surge in cases, night curfew and Sunday curfew have also been imposed in Haridwar district from April 17 with district administration making it clear that curfew restrictions will be waived on festive days and Shahi Snan of April 27 in Haridwar Kumbh Mela area. On March 5, the HC constituted a committee with the mandate to inspect the preparations and status of various arrangements and infrastructural works in Mahakumbh on March 14 and submit their reports with photographic evidence. The team included district judge Haridwar, Mela Adhikari, petitioner’s counsel Shiv Bhatt and chief standing counsel. On March 24, the HC directed the state government to ensure that pilgrims coming for Mahakumbh carry negative RT-PCR test not more than 72 hours old. The development followed members of the court-appointed committee to check the situation in Mahakumbh and submit their reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/despite-hc-order-of-50k-daily-covid-19-tests-haridwar-conducted-over-21k-since-april-1-101618852593313.html
19-04-2021||Other||Varanasi: Strict action will be taken against black marketeers, says Police commissioner||Commissioner of Police of Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh on Monday said that strict action would be taken if any retailer or medicine supplier is found indulged in black marketing of life-saving medicines. Ganesh held a virtual meeting with the office bearers of different associations of the medicine suppliers, chemists and druggist associations and appealed to them to ensure uninterrupted supply of life-saving drugs to the people and Covid patients.The meeting was attended by Dawa Vikreta Samiti president Dinesh Kumar, Kashi Aushadhi Sangh president Vibha Shankar, chemist druggist association state vice-president Sandeep Chaturvedi, president chemist and druggist association Manoj Khanna and Dawa Vikreta Samiti secretary Sanjay Singh.Ganesh asked the medicine suppliers to ensure an uninterrupted supply of life-saving drugs to the common people. He told the medicine suppliers to make sure that the life-saving medicines are sold at the stipulated price. In case, any retailer charges more than the stipulated prices for the medicines, strict action would be taken against him.He said that office-bearers of different medicine supplier associations will hold a virtual meeting among them and circulate this message among the retailers so that there is no black marketing of the medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-strict-action-will-be-taken-against-black-marketeers-says-police-commissioner-101618852591911.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers received ₹202 crores MSP payment via DBT in last 1 week: Centre||For the first time, Punjab farmers are getting direct bank transfer of payment against sale of rabi crops, and about ₹202.69 crore has already been transferred in the last one week, the Union Food Ministry said.   After much persuasion, the Punjab government has agreed to implement direct bank transfer (DBT) of payment of minimum support price (MSP) against sale of rabi (winter) crops such as wheat from April 10 onwards.Currently, wheat procurement is underway in Punjab and other states."For the first time, farmers of Punjab have started receiving payments directly into their bank accounts against sale of their rabi crops," the ministry said in a statement.    This year, a new chapter has been added in the history of public procurement as Haryana and Punjab have also switched to direct online transfer of MSP payment to farmers' bank accounts following the central government's direction, it said.   This is being celebrated by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana as for the first time they are receiving direct benefits against sale of their hard toiled crops without any delay, it added.   About 41.8 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured from Punjab in the ongoing 2021-22 marketing season (April-March).Till April 18, about ₹202.69 crore in Punjab and about ₹1,417 crore in Haryana has been transferred directly into farmers’ accounts, it said.The total wheat procurement in the country so far has reached 121.7 lakh tonnes, as per the ministry's latest data.  About 44.8 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured from Haryana and 28.5 lakh tonnes from Madhya Pradesh till April 18.  Overall, about 11.6 lakh farmers across the country have benefitted from the procurement operations, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-received-rs-202-crores-msp-payment-via-dbt-in-last-1-week-centre-101618851251393.html
19-04-2021||Other||Infected man found hanging at Garhwa Covid care centre||A 29-year-old infected man admitted at a Covid care centre in Garhwa district was found hanging from an iron grill on Monday, police said, adding that it was a probable case of death by suicide. Patients at facility in Garhwa Sadar Hospital alerted authorities of the incident on Monday morning. Taking cognizance, state Cabinet minister Mithilesh Thakur directed the district administration to conduct a thorough probe in the matter. “The deputy commissioner has been asked to conduct a thorough probe. Those found guilty in the inquiry report will not be spared,” the minister wrote on social media platform Twitter.The deceased was a resident of Karkata village under Manjhianw police station area of the district. He was admitted to the Covid-19 centre on April 14 after testing positive. According to other patients admitted in the same ward as his, the deceased man was complaining of suffocation on Sunday and demanded that oxygen be given to himGarhwa superintendent of police (SP) Shrikant S Khotre said, “Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide. However, before arriving at any conclusion, we are waiting for autopsy report and findings of a detailed investigation that is presently underway.”Meanwhile, Garhwa deputy commissioner (DC) Rajesh Pathak formed a medical board for conducting postmortem examination of the body. Besides, the health workers on duty at the time of the incident were also issued show cause notices for failing to notice the development, civil surgeon Dr Dinesh Singh said “The man also looked restless and was crying on Sunday. But unfortunately, no one heeded to his persistent demand for oxygen,” said one of the patients in his ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infected-man-found-hanging-at-garhwa-covid-care-centre-101618851391890.html
19-04-2021||Ranchi||State bar council imposes self-lockdown; Lalu’s release deferred||The Jharkhand state bar council (JSBC), lawyers’ apex body, has decided to impose self-lockdown for a week from Sunday in wake of rapid hike in Covid-19 cases and “poor health service” in the state.In a notice issued in this regard, the council said, “Advocates across the state should completely restrain themselves and their support staff from court works, including both physical and online hearing of cases.”Taking note of the fact that many lawyers and their support staff fell ill due to coronavirus infection, the council asked the legal fraternity to refrain from attending all courts.The notice, issued to all district bar associations and other advocates’ associations, stated that a review meeting will be held on April 25 to decide on the further course of action. It stressed that non-compliance with its decision by any member will tantamount to misconduct.The advocates’ self-lockdown, however, was likely to pose difficulty in release of prisoners, including incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who recently secured bail last week but still was not released. “We are yet to get a certified order of the high court, that granted bail to Lalu Prasad last Saturday. In the wake of the council’s decision, Prasad will now be released next week,” said Prasad’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar.The Jharkhand high court on April 17 granted bail to Prasad in the Dumka treasury case of the multi-crore fodder scam, paving way for his release from jail after three years of incarceration. The high court asked the 73-year-old leader to submit two sureties of ₹1 lakh each and a penalty of ₹10 lakh before the court below to secure his bail.Prasad was currently undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi while in custody.Meanwhile, JSBC’s vice-chairperson Rajesh Shukla supported the council’s decision saying, “It is the lawyers who are going to incur economic losses due to complete lockdown in courts. But, we have to take this decision due to the prevailing condition. The health services are grossly unsatisfactory. Many advocates and their staff have already fallen ill. In last few days, many advocates have died due to the infection. Our priority is to save precious lives and break the chain of infection in the larger interest of public. There is no intension to harass anyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-bar-council-imposes-self-lockdown-lalu-s-release-deferred-101618851331907.html
19-04-2021||Ranchi||State trade body announces self-imposed lockdown from April 21||Strap: Major markets in Ranchi go under self-imposed lockdown due to surge in Covid-19 cases; Ranchi records 14,552 new cases, 97 deaths between April 1 and 18 Concerned over unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases and reports of chaos in hospitals, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) on Monday announced self-imposed lockdown in markets across the state from April 21 to 25.“In a bid to break the chain of infection, lockdown is the need of the hour. While the government is in a Catch-22 situation over it, we need to play our role in this regard. So, I will like to appeal all traders and business establishments to impose self-lockdown for five days from April 21 to 25,” FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chhabra. He said the move will help reduce cases of the disease and burden on hospitals.Several major markets in state capital Ranchi have already started observing self-imposed lockdown from Monday.One of the biggest retail cloth markets in Ranchi having more than 110 shops, Shastri Market located in the heart of the city near Albert Ekka Chowk went under self-imposed lockdown from Monday till April 25. Joint secretary of Shastri Market Association, Kishor Pabneja, said, “Covid-19 is spreading very fast and this time it is more lethal. There are 500 traders and staff working in the market. We are concerned about health of shopkeepers and customers. So, we discussed about self-imposed lockdown with shopkeepers and almost everyone agreed to the proposal, despite the fact that traders might face huge loss due to upcoming Eid festival.”He said, “We will assess the situation after April 25. If it does not improve, the lockdown period can be increased.”Similarly, shopkeepers of Lalji-Heerji road shut their shops from 1pm on Monday and went under self-imposed lockdown till April 24. “Only emergency services will be available in the market,” said Deepak Maroo, a shop owner.Ranchi registered 14,552 cases between April 1 and 18. As many as 97 people lost their lives in the district during this period. The city recorded 1,073 cases in a day till Sunday night and 11 deaths.RIMS OPD closes till further order Out patient department (OPD) services of all departments at state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) were shut in view of soaring Covid cases in the state from Monday, officials said. However, hospital authorities said they will run e-OPD service, adding that the move came in a bid to maintain physical distancing, which was a a challenge in OPD.State secretariat union members go for mass leave Rising Covid-19 cases pushed secretariat staff under banner of Jharkhand Sachivalaya Seva Sangh (JSSS) to go on mass leave from Monday till April 23, officials said.JSSS general secretary Pikesh Kumar Singh said, “Social distancing is need of the hour to break the chain of virus. We demanded mini-lockdown from the government to curb the spread of the disease. Since the government did not come out with any such decision, we decided for self-imposed lockdown to save lives of our people. Over 150 people of the secretariat have tested positive till now, while some have also died.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-trade-body-announces-self-imposed-lockdown-from-april-21-101618851272938.html
19-04-2021||Other||Alert by school girl foils jail break bid in Muzaffarpur||MuzaffarpurA timely alert by school girl helped authorities foil jail break bid by a few inmates at the Shahid Khudi Ram Bose Central Jail of Muzaffarpur in the nick of time on Sunday evening.Talking to the media persons, jail superintendent Rajiv Kumar said five inmates were found missing on Sunday evening. “We launched a search operation immediately. While it was under way, we got a call from a woman, who had seen two men climbing down from the inner boundary wall of the prison. She told us those men were hiding in a ditch full with water inside the campus. Both were apprehended from there. They revealed names of there more inmates who were about the flee from the jail,” he said.Four jail staff members, including a head warden, have been suspended and another head warden has been issued show cause for security lapse, Kumar said.“Head warden Narendra Singh, wardens Ramesh Rai, Sanjiv Kumar and Pradeep Singh have been put on suspension with immediate effect while head warden Harendra Shamra has been served a show cause notice. Sharma has to file his response within a week,” said the jail superintendent.Giving details of the role played by the girl, a class XI student, Kumar said she was taking a stroll on the roof of her house in the vicinity around 8 pm when she spotted two men climbing down from main wall of the jail and then crawling into a ditch full with water. “I informed my mother and father about it. My mother informed one of the jail officials who she knows. In the meantime, some other locals also raised an alarm, which helped jail authorities,” said the girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alert-by-school-girl-foils-jail-break-bid-in-muzaffarpur-101618851091883.html
19-04-2021||Other||States should take care of migrants, not press them to return: Bihar Speaker||PATNABihar’s Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Monday said people from the state working elsewhere in the country as well as students should not be subjected to undue pressure to return to the state in the midst of the pandemic, which has acquired alarming proportions in the last one month across the country. He was speaking at the presiding officers’ virtual meeting under the chairmanship of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on the topic “Role of public representatives in the prevailing Covid-19 situation”. This comes barely a day after chief minister Nitish Kumar appealed to all the Bihar migrants living in other states to return as early as possible, if they so wished. Sinha said that in this hour of crisis, the respective state governments should make adequate arrangement and take care of the migrants so that they did not have the feeling of alienation. “The Bihari migrants who are in jobs or work as labourers and the students should also be provided medical facilities in the states they have been staying in,” he said. Sinha said that on the advice of Om Birla, Bihar Legislative Assembly would soon set up a control room. “I appeal to all the members of the Vidhan Sabha to set up a control room in their respective constituencies,” he said. Earlier this week, Speaker had also ordered closure of Bihar Assembly secretariat till April 25 after 44 officials and staff tested positive within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/states-should-take-care-of-migrants-not-press-them-to-return-bihar-speaker-101618851034482.html
19-04-2021||Other||After CM’s appeal, Bihar braces for another rush of migrants||PATNAWith chief minister Nitish Kumar issuing an appeal to Bihar natives working in other states to return home at the earliest if they so wished, the state government’s labour department, which has so far been relaxed with a modest flow of people coming from outside, has started gearing up for the rush. “CM’s appeal likely to have an impact and migrants may start returning in large numbers, as the situation is turning worse in Delhi, Maharasthra and other parts, where most of them go for livelihood,” said labour minister Jibesh Mishra, adding the disaster management department (DMD) has already got into action.. “We don’t have any figures, but what we have gathered from other sources is that not more than 2-2.5-lakh people may have returned so far, but this could gather momentum following the CM’s appeal,” he said. CM’s appeal to migrants to return early is being viewed as a hint of tougher measures in the days to come should the current Covid-19 wave persist. “I have asked the labour enforcement offices (LEOs) to keep track of migrants’ flow at the block level. The old system of putting the migrants in the quarantine centres will be revived to check the spread in the rural areas,” the minister said. Mishra said a toll-free number has also been announced for the migrant workers to get information and help.Last year, there was a sea of humanity in the bordering towns like Nawada, Gaya, Kaimur, Banka, Gopalganj, Siwan and Champaran, as panicky migrant labourers had started pouring in through whatever mode they could from Delhi, UP, West Bengal, Haryana, Punjab, Chhatisgarh, Orisha, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh etc. The government estimates had put their number at around 25 lakh, of which around 15 lakh returned by special trains and 10 lakh by buses and other modes. “With sources of their livelihood closing down, migrants suddenly become alien outside and want to return home. If they choose to return, it could pose challenge to the government on multiple fronts. The pandemic has aggravated the rate of unemployment and created an unprecedented situation of forced return of migrants to their native states. Now a repeat could be more difficult,” said social analyst DM Diwakar. Citing a 2020 report “Mapping Inequality in Bihar” by AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies and Oxfam India, he said that despite double digit growth, Bihar remains at the bottom in terms of development indicators, grappling with land, assets and income inequality, low productivity, limited opportunities of decent work and low demographic development with inter-state and inter-district disparities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-cm-s-appeal-bihar-braces-for-another-rush-of-migrants-101618851033805.html
19-04-2021||Other||Ex-minister Mewalal, down with Covid, dies at 68||PATNAJD(U) MLA from Tarapur, Mewalal Choudhary, who had to quit as education minister days after his induction in Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet in November 2020 following corruption allegations, died Monday morning due to Covid-related complications. Choudhary (68) breathed his last at a private hospital in Patna, where he was taken a few days ago. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, in his condolence message, said he was grieved by the death of Choudhary and described him as a distinguished educationist, politician and social worker. The state government has announced that the last rites of the former minister would be performed with full state honours. Chaudhary, who was earlier the vice-chancellor of Bihar Agricultural University in Bhagalpur, was accused in a six-year-old case of alleged irregularities in the appointment of teachers and technicians.Before Choudhary, Covid-19 claimed the lives of two ministers, Kapildev Kamat and Vinod Kumar Singh, last year. Former union minister and senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh had also died of Covid related complications in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exminister-mewalal-down-with-covid-dies-at-68-101618851032528.html
19-04-2021||Other||Bihar battles Remdesivir shortage||PATNAAdvendra Prasad Sinha (56) is battling with Covid-related infections at one of the private hospitals in Patna, where doctors prescribed him Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug. He got four vials, but for the last two days, his family is facing problem in getting two more, so crucial for his recovery. “When we went to purchase the medicine today at the hospital’s medicine counter, the pharmacist pleaded that the government has not yet supplied the quota,” said Sinha’s younger brother, a government servant.“Ramesh Pankaj, a senior member of Chatra Yuva Sangarsh Vahini and 1974 student movement, is admitted at a private nursing home at Muzaffarpur. He somehow managed to get Remdesivir, in black,” said Kanchan Bala, a social activist.The state’s health department claimed 1200 vials of the much-sought after injection was to reach the state capital by Monday night. “A committee, headed by drug controller, will ensure its proper distribution,” said Manoj Kumar, special secretary and executive director of Bihar State Health Society on Monday.Kumar said the government on Sunday ordered 50,000 vials of Remdesivir from a company and the consignment would arrive within a week. While the oxygen supply to government hospitals has improved a bit, private hospitals continued to reel under the crisis. “The situation will ease further in a a day or two as districts where oxygen plants are situated have been asked to supply to all neighbouring districts rather than bank on the state capital,” said Kumar.In the absence of oxygen, many private hospital have put the signboard of “No Oxygen” , while others have put placards about lack of beds. Amid surging cases of Covid-19 infection, an oxygen plant was set up at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Monday. It has a capacity to supply 45 cylinders per day. The oxygen plant will cater to the requirement of DMCH.Another oxygen bottling plant has also started functioning at Begusarai also. Bihar reported 7,487 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours, of them 2,672 cases in Patna alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-battles-remdesivir-shortage-101618851033169.html
19-04-2021||Other||State BJP chief questions night curfew, Cong wants lockdown||PATNAThe Bihar unit of the BJP, a constituent of the ruling alliance NDA, has questioned the state government’s decision to enforce night curfew and wondered how it will help control the surge of Covid cases.“This is not going to help and is not enough a measure to control the rise in Covid cases,” wrote BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal in his Facebook post. Jaiswal, a doctor by profession, said Bihar may face situation like “Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh” if the decision was not rectified.The state government on Sunday had announced imposing night curfew from Monday from 9 pm till 5 am, besides closing malls, cinema halls, parks, schools, colleges and religious places till May 15. “Bihar government has taken many decisions which were necessary in present context. I am not an expert but fail to understand as to how night curfew will stop spread of virus. We need to enforce lockdown from Friday evenings till Monday mornings. By keeping themselves closeted in house for 62 hours, people will come to know about their disease and spread of virus will be contained,” he said and claimed to have made this suggestion at an-all party meeting convened by the Governor on Saturday.“The situation in Bihar will become like that of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh if the strict curfew is not imposed,” he said. The Bihar Congress, on the other hand, favoured a lockdown. “At a time when the pandemic has gone out of control, night curfew, as announced by the government, would hardly prove to be of any help,” said All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panelist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra.He said the state government should at least impose selective lockdown in the districts of high incidence, like Patna, Gaya, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, East and West Champaran and Saran, where hundreds of Covid cases are being detected every day.State Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha, who just recovered from Covid, said the state government must enforce tough measures to contain the pandemic, besides ensuring proper medical facilities for the patients. “The lockdown shall, however, not be like the one in previous pattern, which led to deaths of many helpless people,” said Jha.(with inputs from Subhash K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-bjp-chief-questions-night-curfew-cong-wants-lockdown-101618851031957.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Covid patient count on O2 support increased by 1,200 in 10 days in Pune||Pune: In merely 10 days, the number of patients on oxygen support has increased by 1,208 in Pune city. There has been an exponential growth in the number of critical patients as well. According to the daily Covid report issued by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on April 9, there were 4,662 patients who were on oxygen support. The number reached 5,870 on April 18. The number of critical patients has also increased by 247 in the last 10 days. Experts say early detection of the infection can help to prevent increase in critical cases. There has also been an increase of 6,681 in active Covid cases in PMC limits since April 9. On April 9, 49,955 active cases were reported in Pune. While on April 18, the number reached 56,636. The number of patients cured and discharged has remained around 4,500 in the last 10 days. “Covid cases have taken a slightly worse turn. Overall, the number of positive patients has increased. Total number of people affected is very large so in that proportion patients who require oxygen support have increased. The number of patients who are on ventilators has also increased,” said Dr Dhannajay Kelkar, medical director, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. “The general observation is that people are not approaching medical establishments in the early stages. When the oxygen level drops or they start feeling uneasiness then only many are going to hospitals. It could be one of the reasons why the number of people who need oxygen has increased. The patients in Covid care centres are monitored thoroughly and referred immediately to hospitals if required. Now, more people are preferring home isolation and sometimes the developing severity of the symptoms may not be noticed,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner (vigilance), PMC. On April 1, there were 3,403 patients on oxygen support and 825 patients were critical. Whereas the active cases in Pune city were 35,849. Experts emphasised the early detection of the infection and getting treatment in the early stage of. “People might not go early to hospitals. So, pneumonia is already developed. People are still avoiding visiting hospitals because they don’t want to disturb their lives. So, once pneumonia sets patients require oxygen support. Early detection is the most effective way to prevent this stage,” said Renu Bhardwaj, microbiologist and retired professor and head of the dept of Microbiology, BJ Medical College and Sassoon. Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital, said, “As compared to the first wave, the number of patients who require oxygen is huge in the second wave. There could be many reasons why these numbers are increasing. The requirement of liquid oxygen during last year’s peak had not touched the present figure. Families are affected severely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-patient-count-on-o2-support-increased-by-1-200-in-10-days-in-pune-101618850911857.html
19-04-2021||Bhopal||Oxygen tankers meant for Madhya Pradesh being stopped by officials in other states, claims CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh is one of the states severely affected by the Covid-19 disease. And now, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has claimed that some officials in other states are blocking oxygen tankers from coming to Madhya Pradesh. Without naming the states, Chouhan appealed to their respective chief ministers to take strict action against such officials who were blocking tankers without any reason.“Yesterday oxygen tankers for Madhya Pradesh were blocked in several states by some officials. Due to this, time is being wasted and there is a risk of some patients succumbing to the disease,” Chouhan tweeted on Monday and said this is unfair and also a crime.On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh added 12,248 fresh Covid-19 disease cases - the highest-ever single-day spike which took the caseload to over 408,000. Sixty-six more people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday and the total deaths are nearing 4,600. As many as 3,34,947 have recovered so far.कल मध्यप्रदेश राज्य के ऑक्सीजन टैंकर्स को अन्य राज्यों में कुछ अधिकारियों द्वारा रोका गया। इससे समय बर्बाद होता है और इस दौरान कुछ मरीजों की जान जाने का खतरा बना रहता है।Madhya Pradesh is currently seeing a war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government and the Congress after a video of state minister Tulsiram Silawat went viral on Sunday after he and his supporters were seen stopping an oxygen tanker in Indore to perform a puja and other rituals. The tanker arrived from the neighbouring state of Gujarat. In the video clip, Silawat along with his supporters were also seen posing in front of the tanker for photographs.Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla on Sunday alleged Silawat stopped the tanker for one hour to "quench his thirst for media coverage" and added the same act was repeated when the tanker reached a filling station. “They did this nautanki when there is an acute shortage of oxygen in hospitals and serious patients are gasping for breath,” Shukla told news agency PTI.Also Read| Kin allege 12 died in MP due to ‘oxygen shortage’, govt and hospital dismiss claimRefuting his claims, Indore BJP chief said the tanker was not even stopped for five minutes and was quickly sent to the filling station. The video of offering prayers was at the time the tanker was being emptied, Randive said.Meanwhile, 12 patients died in a medical college in the Shahdol district on Saturday night reportedly due to a shortage of oxygen. However, state medical minister Vishwas Sarang said there was no shortage of oxygen and the patients died due to medical complications. “An inquiry has been ordered in the matter to know the cause of the death of so many patients in one night,” Sarang told Hindustan Times on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/officials-in-other-states-blocking-oxygen-tankers-into-mp-says-cmchouhan-101618850771293.html
19-04-2021||Other||Meerut cremation ground to expand capacity||MEERUT: Due to alarming surge of Covid-19 infection and related deaths, it has been decided to expand the capacity of the city’s main cremation ground, officials said. Six additional platforms for last rites would be added to the existing 40 platforms at Surajkund, city’s main cremation ground, officials said. They said the cremation ground managed by Ganga Motor Committee for decades was under pressure because of increasing numbers of Covid deaths. Ganga Committee’s secretary Dinesh Jain said six additional platforms for pyres would help ease the growing pressure on the ground. “Work for constructing additional platforms started on Monday morning and would be completed in a day or so,” said Jain. Jain said the present capacity of cremation ground proved to be insufficient as after last rites of a corona patient, the platform generally gets occupied for four to five days. “Serious corona patients from neighbouring districts were referred in LLRM Medical College for treatment and in case of death the last rites of people were performed at Surajkund but their relatives take time to collect their ‘asthi’ (ashes) to immerse in rivers,” he said. Jain shared that in many cases it has been seen that the entire family members get infected and hence nobody turns up to pick the remains. “Under such circumstances, platforms remain occupied for long,” he said. Jain said that he had requested municipal commissioner to issue an order to make it mandatory to pick the ashes and bones within three days of last rites being performed. The secretary said that ashes of 7 corona patients who died last year were still not collected by their family. “They are kept in the custody of cremation ground staff, but nobody has turned up in last one year to claim them,” said Jain. According to health department 15 corona patients had died in past one week in the district. However, records maintained by the cremation ground reveal that 19 Corona patients were cremated between April 12 to April 16. Cremation ground staff shared, that more than more than 30 bodies of Corona patients were brought here for cremation in past 8 days and the number of dead bodies being brought here were increasing every day. In district, 4855 people have tested positive in first 18 days of the month and maximum 741 persons were reported positive on April 18, the highest spike in a day. A day before 714 persons tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meerut-cremation-ground-to-expand-capacity-101618850011730.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Summer vacation in Delhi schools to begin from April 20 due to Covid-19 surge||The Delhi government on Monday advanced summer vacation in all schools of the national capital in view of the spiralling COVID-19 cases.The vacation, which was to start from May 11 and continue till June 30, has now been rescheduled from April 20 to June 9."In view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic situation, the summer vacation has now been rescheduled and will be observed from April 20 to June 9," the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in an order.Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26, which, he said, was necessary to deal with the rising number of COVID-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limit.Delhi has been reporting around 25,000 COVID-19 cases daily in the past few days."All the heads of schools are hereby directed to disseminate this information among the teaching, non-teaching staff, students and parents through SMC members, mass SMS facility, phone calls and other means."During the vacation period, heads of schools are authorized to call vacation staff according to requirement for any school-related work (academic, admission, examination) maintaining COVID-appropriate behaviour and following the standard operating procedure issued by competent authorities from time to time," it said.The Delhi government had earlier this month ordered closure of schools and suspension of physical exams for all classes in view of rise in COVID-19 cases."All centrally conducted online and semi-online teaching and learning activities will remain suspended during the period for classes KG to nine," the Department of Education said in a separate order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/summer-vacation-in-delhi-schools-to-begin-from-april-20-due-to-covid-19-surge-101618849530395.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||No need to impose complete Covid-19 lockdown in Uttar Pradesh: CMO||Even as the state is recording a big spike in daily coronavirus cases, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) Monday informed that there will not be any lockdown in the state."There is no need to impose a complete lockdown. Weekend lockdowns will continue to curb the spread of Covid-19," CMO informed.The CMO also informed a new consignment of 20,000-30,000 Remdesivir vials will reach the state today.Quoting the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, CMO stated, "20,000-30,000 Remdesivir vials will reach here today. A new consignment of Remedisvir will be received within the next three days. Except for special circumstances, total oxygen produced by all industrial units should be used for medical purposes only."The Chief Minister said 3 new oxygen plants will also be set up at different places in state each week. "With DRDO's help, a new oxygen plant with a capacity of 220 cylinders will be installed and made operational in the next 2-3 days. The government of India has allocated 750 MT oxygen," he said."Dedicated Covid hospital with capacity of 225 beds has been operationalized at Lucknow's Balrampur Hospital. 700 more beds will be added. KGMU, RML, Era, Hind, Integral and Mayo Medical Colleges to be run as dedicated COVID hospitals," he said.The Chief Minister further said before any medical college is recognized in state, it should be ensured that the respective college has its own oxygen plant."50 per cent of 108 ambulances will be dedicated for Covid only. Rapid testing to begin at airports, bus & railway stations of inter-state passengers," he said.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel held a telephonic meeting with the district magistrates of Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Meerut, and Varanasi over the status of treatment and vaccination of the corona patients running in the district.The Governor said that all measures should be taken to prevent black marketing of Remedisvir injection used in corona treatment and medicines should be used on the recommendation of the doctor."There is no shortage of oxygen supply in hospitals and immediate availability should be ensured where ventilators are needed," said Patel.The governor appealed to the District Collectors that there should be no shortage of medicines in hospitals, their availability should be ensured. Enforce the mandatory use of masks strictly and no person should leave the house without a mask. Along with this, make people aware of Covid vaccination so that more and more people can be vaccinated and the help of universities can also be taken in this work.She suggested that a team of officers could be formed to handle the situation, which would be able to monitor the arrangements of Covid-19 protocols.Meanwhile, the Allahabad High Court directed the Uttar Pradesh Government to close all establishments in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur till April 26.However, Additional Chief Secretary- Information, Navneet Sehgal said that the state government will not impose a complete lockdown in the cities but impose strict restrictions. "The UP Government is submitting its reply before the Court on its observations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-need-to-impose-complete-covid-19-lockdown-in-uttar-pradesh-cmo-101618848869942.html
19-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal's active Covid-19 cases breach 50,000-mark||West Bengal reported the highest single-day spike of 8,426 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, while 38 people died of the infection in the state, as per the Health Department.The fresh cases took the tally to over 6.68 lakh, it said.So far, 10,606 people have died of the disease in the state, it added.Twelve of the latest deaths happened in Kolkata, which reported record 2,211 new cases.In the last 24 hours, 4,608 recoveries were registered across the state.The recovery rate further slipped to 90.42 per cent as the number of active cases breached the 50,000-mark.At present West Bengal has 53,418 active cases, which is also a grim record, as per the Health Department.The state tested 42,118 samples for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, which is lesser than 46,074 samples tested on the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-s-active-covid-19-cases-breach-50000mark-101618846012857.html
19-04-2021||Bangalore||Daily Covid-19 cases fall in Karnataka but Bengaluru Urban still the biggest contributor||After five straight days of reporting record daily new Covid-19 cases, Karnataka recorded a dip in the daily number with 15,785 new infections. This is less than the over 19,000 new cases reported on the previous day. The state also recorded 146 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin.With this, the overall positive cases in the state reached 1,176,850 and the death toll climbed to 13,497.Karnataka reported 19,067 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day surge since the pandemic began. It was preceded by 17,489 cases on Saturday (April 17), 14,859 cases on Friday (April 16), 14,738 cases on Thursday (April 15) and 11,265 cases on Wednesday (April 14) - each number setting a grim record every day.The fall in daily cases on Monday comes alongside a decrease in the number of tests done in the state. While more than 140,000 samples were tested on the past two days, data from the bulletin showed that 123,212 tests, comprising 9,591 rapid antigen and 113,621 RT-PCR, were conducted on Monday.Also read | Maharashtra’s daily tally sees slight dip at 58,924; Mumbai’s cases fall tooActive caseload too witnessed a spike of over 8,500 cases and currently stands at 142,084 from the 133,543 reported on the previous day. Meanwhile, 7,098 patients were discharged on the day, which took the overall recoveries to 1,021,250, the bulletin showed. The overall recovery rate so far stands at 86.77 per cent.Bengaluru Urban, the worst affected district in the state, added 9,618 new cases and 97 deaths on the day, contributing 60.93 per cent to the state’s new cases tally and 66.43 per cent to the new deaths. It also accounts for 103,178 active cases which is 72.61 per cent of the state’s active caseload. However, the district also leads in the number of recoveries with 4,240 patients discharged on the day and the Covid-19 vaccination coverage with 1,151,419 doses administered, the bulletin showed.Among other districts, Kalaburagi with 4,069 cases, Tumakur with 4,065 cases, Mysuru with 3,788 cases and Bidar with 3,059 cases remain the worst affected districts in terms of active cases.As far as the Covid-19 vaccinations are concerned, Karnataka has administered 7,117,405 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine with no severe or serious adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) reported, the bulletin showed. The Centre on Monday expanded the scope of the country’s vaccination program to include all people above 18 years of age from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/daily-covid-19-cases-fall-in-karnataka-but-bengaluru-urban-still-the-biggest-contributor-101618848430639.html
19-04-2021||Bhopal||Congress fumes as MP BJP leader flags off vehicles for carrying corpses||A controversy has erupted in Madhya Pradesh with a video purportedly showing a BJP leader flagging off six mini trucks which are meant to carry dead bodies, an incident the opposition Congress dubbed a "shameless photo-shoot".It is also alleged that one of these "shav vahans" carrying a dead body was stopped for the photoshoot.The incident occurred close on the heels of state minister Tulsiram Silawat and his supporters recently breaking coconuts and a priest chanting prayers in front of an oxygen tanker in Indore.In one of the two videos, former Bhopal mayor and BJP leader Alok Sharma was seen flagging off six "shav vahans" or vehicles to carry corpses which he handed over to different hospitals.In one video clip, Sharma is seen with the vehicles decorated with flowers.In another video, one of these vans was seen carrying a corpse with a voice telling the driver to move slowly for the video shoot. However, Sharma was not visible in this clip.Sharma has denied the allegations."I purchased these vehicles after reading reports about the shortage of 'Shav Vahans' to carry bodies. Media persons were present when I was handing over these vehicles to the management of the hospital concerned," he told PTI.He termed the allegations against him a "dirty politics by the Congress to stir a controversy"."I was receiving repeated calls for the arrangement of these vehicles. People have to wait for carrying their dead in the absence of such vehicles," the BJP leader said.Sharma said when he was handing over these vehicles to JP Hospital (the district hospital) campus, a person came to the hospital asking to arrange an ambulance to carry a corpse."I handed over the vehicle to the hospital management. Later, JP Hospital gave that vehicle to that person. The vehicle with the dead body passed from there in the presence of the media. We are making genuine attempts to make arrangements," Sharma said.On the other hand, Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja termed the incident a "shameful act". "Earlier, BJP leaders had worshipped an oxygen tanker in Indore and halted its passage for delivery of oxygen. Now, another leader is seen flagging off Shav Vahans. In another incident, a minister inaugurated a covid care centre. They are finding 'Apada Me Avsar' for a photo shoot," Saluja said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-fumes-as-mp-bjp-leader-flags-off-vehicles-for-carrying-corpses-101618847343462.html
19-04-2021||Other||Allahabad HC for weeklong closure in five cities, UP govt says no for now||Amid a surge in Covid-19 infection cases, the Allahabad high court on Monday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to strictly enforce the closure of establishments (government or private) in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur till April 26 except financial institutions and departments, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services, including municipal functions and public transport.While the court clarified that it was not imposing a complete lockdown in the entire state by its order, the UP government said there will be no “imposition of statewide lockdown or any fresh restrictions in the five cities (Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur City, and Gorakhpur)”. The court directive and the government’s response came on a day on which Uttar Pradesh recorded 167 more deaths and 28,287 fresh Covid-19 infection cases. The state capital alone saw 22 deaths and 5,897 fresh cases.“There should be no confusion. The high court has asked us to consider. We have considered. There will be no statewide lockdown or any fresh restrictions in the five cities mentioned by the HC,” said a state government spokesperson.The spokesperson also said: “In the context of the honourable high court, we say that corona cases are rising in the state and strictness and control are necessary. The government has already taken several steps and will do so in the future. Saving lives is a priority but so is saving the livelihood of the poor. Thus, the cities will have no lockdown as of now. People themselves in a proactive manner (are) doing closures.”Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said, “The UP government is submitting its reply before the HC on its observations.”Earlier in the day, the bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar passed the order in a suo motu public interest litigation on conditions of quarantine centres in the state and the treatment of Covid-19 patients.The court further directed the state government to ensure that grocery shops and other commercial shops, excluding medicine shops, with more than three workers shall remain closed till April 26. Likewise, all malls, shopping complexes, restaurants and eateries shall remain closed till then, it said.Further, all religious places shall also remain closed for the period and no social function, except marriage, should be allowed, the court said.In case of marriage, a gathering of 25 people can be allowed with the permission of the district magistrate concerned.Vegetable and milk vendors will be allowed to sell goods on the road only till 11am and all public movement on roads will be restricted completely subject to these directions.Public movement is also permitted by the court in case of medical help and emergencies.The bench observed, “Above directions are nowhere close to a complete lockdown. We are conscious of the fact that before imposing a lockdown the concerned government has to work out various modalities. In this order if we have not imposed a lockdown, it does not mean that we do not believe in it. We are still of the view that if we want to break the chain, a lockdown for a duration of at least two weeks is a must.”“We, therefore, once again in addition to the directions we have already given, direct the government to consider imposition of a complete lockdown in the entire state for at least a period of two weeks. This would not only break the chain of the spread of the virus, but would also give respite to the health workers,” the bench added.On the increase in number of Covid-19 patients, the bench said, “The recent surge of pandemic Covid-19 has virtually incapacitated all our medical infrastructure in the state of UP and specially in cities like Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur. It appears that the pandemic is teasing the system in a situation where patients have outnumbered the hospital beds and people are just running from pillar to post and in this process attendants of patients are not only getting infected but others in public are also getting infected and a complete chain has got formed.”During the course of the hearing, the court was informed that the state government was taking steps to increase beds for patients like three makeshift hospitals of 1000 beds at Lucknow and to increase 20 beds per day in Prayagraj.On this, court observed, “One would only laugh at us that we have enough to spend on elections and very little to spend on public health…. One cannot even imagine what will happen if only 10% of the city population gets infected and needs medical help in hospitals. How the government will manage with the presently existing infrastructure is anybody’s guess.”“Economy, economy and economy is the only tune that the government is all the time harping upon, but bread and butter if you take to a person who needs oxygen and medication, it will be of no use to him. You may have grocery shops full of eatables and industries which produce bikes and cars, but all this won’t be of any use if your medical shops run out of the stock of life saving drugs like Remdesivir in the current surge of pandemic. It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance,” the bench observed.“In any civilised society if public health system is not able to meet the challenges and people die for want of proper medication, it means there has been no proper development. Health and education go side-by-side. Those in the helm of affairs of governance are to be blamed for the present chaotic health problems and more so when there is a democracy which means a government of the people, by the people and for the people,” the court said.On the delay in providing Covid-19 test reports to patients, the bench observed, “We have been informed that people are getting developed influenza- like infections in every fifth house of every Mohalla in the city and tracking-tracing and testing system, if has not failed, has certainly not been able to meet the requirement of the population of the city. Reports are neither updated before 72 hours nor samples are taken care of, owing to the shortage of manpower. Only VVIPs are getting reports within 6-12 hours. Thus, early testing scheme or plan is a farce.”On the necessity of the lockdown, the court said, “We are of definite view that if things are not arrested to give some respite to medical and paramedical staff, the entire system would collapse and relief will be confined to VIPs and VVIPs. We find from the scenario that emerges from the government hospitals that admission of patients to ICUs are largely being done on the recommendation of VIPs. Even supply of life saving anti-viral drug namely Remdesivir is being provided only on the recommendation of VIPs. VIPs and VVIPs are getting their RT-PCR report within 12 hours, whereas ordinary citizen is kept waiting for such reports for two to three days and thus, spreading further infection to other members of his/her family.”On the panchayat election being conducted during the pandemic, the bench observed, “We must record our displeasure at the way government and the State Election Commission proceeded to hold elections forcing teachers and other government staff to perform duties exposing themselves to the threat of pandemic that looms large these days. The police was virtually shifted to polling places giving priority to election above public health.”“Further the photographs of the various places where elections were held definitely show that no social distancing was maintained. Also we find that on many occasions in various political rallies, masks were never worn by people,” the bench observed while directing the authorities to take actions against the erring organisers of political events and place the action taken report by the next date of hearing, which is fixed as April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-for-weeklong-closure-in-five-cities-up-govt-says-no-for-now-101618848331853.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||CM may decide on strict lockdown in next 2 days: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to decide on a strict lockdown in the next two days as the present restrictions are not yielding the desired results to curb COVID-19, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Monday.Speaking to reporters here, the Relief and Rehabilitation Minister also said the state government will study the lockdown imposed by the Delhi government before taking any decision."The ongoing curfew is not helping (in containing the spread of COVID-19) in the way it was expected. A decision is expected in connection with a strict lockdown in a day or two. The chief minister will take a call after consulting others," he said.Wadettiwar claimed that traders and shopkeepers had earlier opposed the imposition of a lockdown, but now they are in favour of such a measure.The minister said his department is studying the Delhi lockdown."We will take information on how trains and essential services are allowed there (in Delhi) before arriving at any decision," he added.The Maharashtra government had imposed 15-day-long "lockdown-like" restrictions from April 14 to curb the transmission of coronavirus.In his address via social media to the people of the state on April 13 night, Thackeray announced the sweeping restrictions, curtailing the movement of people and non-essential activities.Section 144 of CrPC, prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot, will be in force during the period, Thackeray had said, but refrained from terming the new curbs as a lockdown.These curbs are in addition to the weekend lockdowns and other restrictions which will remain in force till April 30 under its 'Break the Chain' COVID-19 action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-may-decide-on-strict-lockdown-in-next-2-days-maharashtra-minister-101618844066906.html
19-04-2021||Other||3.9 million Pune residents aged above 18 years eligible for vaccine||PUNE With the Centre deciding to vaccinate everyone above 18 years of age from May 1, as many as 3.9 million people in Pune district will be eligible to be inoculated, according to the administration. Pune district, according to divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, has a total 7.5 million people above the age of 18. “Of these 7.5 million, as many as 3.6 million come under the category of those above 45 years of age. The rest of the 3.9 million are between the age bracket of 18 and 45 years,” said Rao. The Pune district administration has already undertaken “Mission 100 days” to inoculate everyone above 18, as the city and rural areas battle a massive spike in infection. Pune district has inoculated 17,08,574 citizens, one of the highest rates in the country. The administration now hopes that in next 10 days, it will be able to vaccinate 0.55 million people, and by June 15 the entire population which has now been made eligible by the centre. Besides allowing adults to get jabs, the Centre has also allowed states to purchase 50 per cent of the vaccines directly from the manufacturer. At the same time, vaccine manufacturers will also be allowed to sell vials in the open market. “With the Centre’s decision and various stakeholders in Pune who are very aggressive, we are hoping to vaccinate all above the age of 18 even before 100 days. This will be possible with the help of the state government and local sponsors. At the same time, we will benefit with the vaccine being produced locally,” Rao added. On Monday, Pune district has 800 vaccination centres, though many were not operating at full capacity in the past few days due to a shortage of vaccines. “If everything goes as per plan, we would like to vaccinate everyone by June 15, so that even if there is a third wave, our people are reasonably protected,” said Rao. Meanwhile, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) may stop 24x7 vaccination centres in view of the imposition of stringent curbs and the shortage of doses. As per an earlier order, PMC had initially started 24x7 vaccination centres at Kamala Nehru hospital in Mangalwar peth, Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada, Jayabhai Nanasaheb Sutar hospital in Kothrud, Murlidhar Pandurang Laigude at Wadgaon Dhayari and Annasaheb Magar maternity home in Hadapsar. However, in the last one week, inoculation was on only at a few places. Remdesivir supplyPune district collector issued orders for Remdesivir distribution in Pune district Pune on Monday received a supply of 5,900 Remdesivir injections These injections will be supplied to 511 hospitals in the district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/39-million-pune-residents-aged-above-18-years-eligible-for-vaccine-101618846891601.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Man who attacked sub-inspector booked for attempted murder||One of the two persons who attacked a police sub inspector (PSI) with a blade in Mangalwar peth on Sunday night has been arrested by the police. The arrested man was identified as Kumar Bhagwat Chavan (21), a resident of Mangalwar peth. The other person is on the run from the police. The PSI who was attacked has been identified as Naresh Vadewale, attached to the Faraskhana police station. The attacked happened around 6:30pm near the public toilet at 251, Mangalwar peth. “There was a call by the locals that two men were breaking CCTV cameras in that area. A team of two responded to the call and went there to stop them. They were seen breaking cameras and when the officer tried to stop them, he attacked him with a sickle, but fortunately the officer avoided that strike,” said Srinivas Ghadage, deputy commissioner of police, crime, who has additional charge of Zone-1 of Pune police. However, one of the two accused hurled bricks at the policemen that landed on them, according to the police. “Maybe they were planning to take advantage of the blind spots created by broken CCTVs; and commit a robbery or theft. That will be revealed during the investigation,” said DCP Ghadage. A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty); 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty); 307 (attempted murder); 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace); and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Sections 37(1)(3) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act and Section 4(25) of Arms Act has been registered at the Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-who-attacked-sub-inspector-booked-for-attempted-murder-101618846831631.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Bikers killed after crashing into electric pole||Two men riding on a motorbike on Saturday midnight, were killed in a road accident in Wakad, Pimpri- Chinchwad. The two deceased have been identified as Pankaj Ishappa Desai (27) and Rahul Siddharam Desai (25), both residents of Gujar nagar in Wakad. The incident happened atop the Kalewadi overbridge that connects 16 number with Jagtap dairy. The two were on a blue coloured Pulsar motorbike registered in the name of the elder man in Solapur. “They were speeding on the overbridge. There is an electricity pole atop that bridge. Their bike rammed into the cement block under the pole,” said assistant police inspector S Birajdar, of Wakad police station, who registered the case. As a result of the collision with the cement block, the two men were thrown towards the pole and died on impact, according to police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the police as the family of the two were grieving. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way); 304(a) (causing death by negligence); 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs50) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Wakad police station against the deceased rider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bikers-killed-after-crashing-into-electric-pole-101618846711584.html
19-04-2021||Other||Panchayat election - BJP MLA writes to CM to defer remaining phases||Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) MLA from Banda Sadar assembly seat, Prakash Dewedi, has written to chief minister Yogi Adityanath demanding that the remaining two phases of the panchayat election, scheduled for April 26 and April 29, be deferred. The move comes a day after the death of a candidate contesting the election.Dewedi said Covid-19 is spreading in Banda and in other parts of the state. A large number of people have been infected, and a little negligence on their part can cost them their life. They are being forced to live in constant fear, he said. Covid-19 cases are increasing in rural areas, and because of the panchayat election, candidates and their supporters are campaigning in villages without following Covid-19 protocols. Each day, a large number of fresh Covid-19 cases are being reported in the state, he said.A BJP candidate for zila panchayat member, Geeta Sagar, succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Sunday while another party candidate, Sitaram Bhartiya, is battling for life in hospital. Dewedi said that Covid-19 cases are increasing due to the panchayat election. In view of the situation it is necessary to defer the date of the remaining phases.Earlier, on April 14, BJP MP from Mohanlalganj Lok Sabha seat Kaushal Kishore had urged the State Election Commission to extend the dates of the panchayat election for a month in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases. A large number of people are infected in Lucknow and other districts, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-election-bjp-mla-writes-to-cm-to-defer-remaining-phases-101618846592201.html
19-04-2021||Pune||31-year-old alleges sexual assault, cheating||A 31-year-old woman has lodged a complaint against a man for sexually assault, after allegedly duping her of ₹11 lakh for various reasons, including investment in Bitcoin. Subsequently, a case of sexual assault, cheating, and criminal intimidation has been registered against the man at Hinjewadi police station. The accused has been identified as Ronit D Kapoor, who also goes by the name of Sandeep Dadarao Vaybhise (34), a resident of Vadgaonsheri. The alleged sexual assault happened between December 2020 and January 2021, according to the police. The man took ₹11,00,000 from the woman through multiple transactions for reasons including investment in Bitcoin, seeking a job in Singapore, and a nursing course. The man also allegedly used the woman’s debit and credit card then allegedly blackmailed her by refusing to return the money if she refused to have intercourse with him, according to her complaint. A case under Sections 376(2)(n) (sexual assault); 420 (cheating); and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Hinjewadi police station. Police sub-inspector P Borkar of Hinjewadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31yearold-alleges-sexual-assault-cheating-101618846591602.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Lab takes preventive steps after forgery incident||The diagnostic laboratory whose logo was misused by miscreants in forging false RT-PCR reports has now taken steps to ensure that people do not fall for frauds. Furthermore, the two technicians were found to have used logos of other laboratories in the city as well to forge artificial test reports. The two are in police custody and have been booked under various laws including the one for cheating. Identified as GenePath diagnostic laboratories, the facility has come up with a checklist for their customers to follow, according to a statement released by their corporate communication department. The checklist for authentication of the report includes verification through QR code, identification of the email address of the sender, and availability of the report on the online portal of the lab. “Our report carries a QR-code, which can be scanned using your mobile phone. If this QR-code is not present, the report is not genuine,” read the statement. The arrested technicians used false email IDs with names similar to that of the laboratory, to send the forged reports. “Please check the email id from which the report is sent to you. It will always be an official company email ID, ending with ‘genepathdx.com’. If your report has been sent from any other email service, like Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, the report has not been generated from our offices and is fake,” read the second guideline. As a third measure, the lab has made the reports available for download on their official online portal which can be found on genepathdx.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lab-takes-preventive-steps-after-forgery-incident-101618846411590.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Legal action against mango vendors if origin of fruit is falsified||Officials of the Maharashtra state agricultural board, Pune division have decided to take legal action against mango vendors who give false information about the origin of mangoes.The mango season has started and the demand for authentic Ratnagiri, Devgad mangoes has risen.“It is come to our notice that mangoes coming from other states are being sold as from Konkan, Ratnagiri or Devgad and most of the times people get confused about the origin and quality of mangoes. So, our officials will be checking in and around the market area and if found, legal action will be taken against the people cheating,” said Satish Soni, director of the Pune agricultural board. “All the fruits and mangoes coming to Market Yard should be sold properly to public, accordingly we have instructed all the traders, agents and vendors in the market. If anyone is violating the norms and rules of trading, selling fruits with misinformation, then legal action will be taken on them.” he added. Meanwhile as strict restrictions have been imposed in the state, the online ‘Amba Mahotsav’ has been started by the board for residents of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/legal-action-against-mango-vendors-if-origin-of-fruit-is-falsified-101618846351502.html
19-04-2021||Other||DRDO to make 1000-bed temporary hospital in Varanasi||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will make a 1000-bed temporary hospital in the BHU stadium. A decision to that effect was taken at a meeting of officials of DRDO and district administration, on Monday. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma, municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi, and officials of DRDO, BHU and CPWD attended the meeting. MLA AK Sharma chaired the meeting.According to the district magistrate, the temporary hospital will be housed in a huge tent (German hanger). The hospital is likely to be ready within the next two weeks. The temporary hospital will be equipped with all facilities including oxygen, water supply and a pharmacy.A team of CPWD and Varanasi Nagar Nigam officials visited BHU to make water supply, electricity and sewer connection arrangements. 90 trauma centre beds reserved for Covid-19 patientsNinety beds of the trauma centre, BHU, have been reserved for Covid-19 patients in view of the growing demand for beds. The decision for reserving beds for patients at the Covid-19 centre was taken in a meeting attended by BHU authorities and divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma. According to officials, the remaining 90 beds will be used for the treatment of other patients. A senior official of the BHU said that the arrangement will be effective from Tuesday, on which day admission of patients to the 90 reserved beds will begin.There are around 1,600 beds in various government and private hospitals. Of them, over 1,200 beds are occupied. There are around 240 ventilator beds. Around 200 beds are occupied, a senior official of the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdo-to-make-1000-bed-temporary-hospital-in-varanasi-101618846291581.html
19-04-2021||Pune||PMC takes legal action in cases of bad cheques submitted for property tax||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun taking legal action on property tax holders whose cheque bounced while paying property taxes. Till date, the PMC has sent legal notices to around 200 property tax holders. According to tax department officials, every year there are 2,500-3,000 cases of check bounce. However, the department was not taking any serious cognizance. However, the property tax department has decided to take strict action on cheque bounce cases this year. The PMC legal department has sent notices under Section 138 of the Negotiation Instruments Act to 600 property holders whose cheque bounced for the year of 2019-20. Section 138 is dishonoured for insufficiency of funds or any of the prescribed reasons; the one who defaults can be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque or both. After sending notices, some of the property tax holders paid around ₹5 crore of the amount. The PMC will wait for one month after sending the notices of cheque bounces before filing a case in court. Till date, the PMC legal department has filed four such cases against property tax defaulters. Vilas Kanade, head of property tax department said, “We have started sending legal notices from 2019-20. However, for the first time, we filed cases in court in 2020-21. We found that after notices, people are paying tax to PMC. All defaulters are from the 2019-20 financial year especially in the month of February and March-2021.” According to PMC property tax statistics, the civic body collected ₹1,664.15 crore in revenue in 2020-21 of which, the PMC received ₹828.08 crore through online payments. The amount collected from cheque and demand draft is ₹653.32 crore. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, citizens made a maximum number of online transactions. A total of ₹182.74 crore was paid by cash. The PMC tax department collected a revenue of ₹1,665 crore in 2020-21 against the set target or ₹2,320 crore. According to the PMC tax officials, the collected amount is ₹400 crore more in comparison to the last year’s (2019-20) tax collection. It is an achievement of the PMC during the Covid-19 situation as compared to all municipal corporations in the state. In 2019-20, the PMC set a target of ₹2,320 crore and collected ₹1,262 crore. Now, the PMC property tax department set a target of ₹2,650 crore for 2021-21 financial year. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar mentioned in the annual budget-2021-22 speech that property tax has emerged as the largest revenue source for the PMC and is expected to continue further as properties from newly merged 23 villages will come under the PMC tax ambit and result in increasing tax collection. The city has 10.81 lakh properties including 11 newly merged villages. Of that, nearly 12.5 per cent are commercial and more than 12.5 per cent are residential. There are 3.5 per cent properties that have an open plot. There are two per cent of properties which are a mix of commercial and residential establishments.Normally, the PMC prepares and distributes property tax bills in the month of April every year. The PMC gives the May 31 deadline to pay bills in which the civic body gives a 5-10 percent discount on the bill. After the month of July, the PMC starts applying a 2 per cent fine for late payment on bills. The PMC gives multiple options such as to pay tax in Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) and in banks through cheque, cash and DD. Besides that, the civic body also provides an online option to pay tax. The PMC had also introduced doorstep option to pay property tax in 2019-20. However, it got a very poor response. Normally, the PMC prepares and distributes property tax bills in the month of April every year. The PMC lists May 31 as the deadline to pay bills in which the civic body offers a 5-10 percent discount on the bill. After the month of July, the PMC starts applying 2 per cent fine for late payment on bills. The PMC has given multiple options to pay tax such as the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC), in banks, cheque, cash and DD. Besides that, the PMC has also provided an online option to pay tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-takes-legal-action-in-cases-of-bad-cheques-submitted-for-property-tax-101618846231545.html
19-04-2021||Pune||NSCC proposes concept of co-processing combustible non-recyclable waste||In an attempt to solve the problem of garbage disposal in Pune, the National Society of Clean Cities (NSCC) has proposed a solution to deal with the segregated dry waste that has been accumulating at the dumping grounds. “We are proposing the concept of co-processing of combustible non-recyclable waste collected by PMC. Co-processing is a preferred solution in waste management and ranks higher than incineration and landfill. Co-processing is also recognised as a waste to energy technology in solid waste management rules. Co-processing is substantially beneficial to the industry and community and provides a permanent solution to the waste management problem. It also helps reduce emission, lessens reliance on fossil fuels and preserves natural resources,” said Shyamala Desai, leading the NSCC in Pune. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been plagued by the problem of garbage disposal which peaked last year when on August 15, 2020, the garbage dumping area was closed by the residents of Urali Devachi. The PMC also received a notice by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and was slapped a fine of ₹20 crore. A cement company has given a written commitment to PMC to process 100 MT/Day combustible non-recyclable dry waste and offered to collect the waste from the municipal corporation. The cement company has agreed to run this trial initially for a month. The waste will be used as a fuel in the manufacture of cement. Cement kilns offer a great opportunity for solving the disposal issue of the combustible fraction. In cement kilns, the dry waste not only gets disposed of in an environmentally sound manner but also gets utilised as an alternative fuel if the quality of the same is tuned to acceptable level of cement kilns. It is then commercially defined as an attractive proposition. “Dry waste free of hazardous waste, stone, metals, bio- medical waste should be sorted and handed over to the cement factory. This waste will be transported for use in their factory in the making of cement. This is RDF which stands for Refuse Derived Fuel. This fuel is produced from combustible components that the industry calls municipal solid waste,” said G Bhaskar, member of the NSCC. He added, “This ‘proof of concept’ trial will initially be carried out for one month or so. If it is viable and satisfies both the parties a long-termagreement may be entered, we can dispose all the waste, dry non-recyclable, that is approximately 700 MT/Day in a more scientific and environmentally friendly way. The co-processing trial requires the consent of the general body of the PMC, which will convene on April 21, whereupon the mayor of Pune will announce a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nscc-proposes-concept-of-co-processing-combustible-non-recyclable-waste-101618846051564.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Non-essential shop owners, service providers in Pune tap homes for survival||Pune: Since strict restrictions have been imposed in Pune, non-essential shop owners and traders have suffered financially. To create options for customers, new techniques of getting business done by these shop owners are being employed. Several non-essential shop owners around the city have put up banners outside their shops giving contact details for those in need of purchasing any product. Similarly, non-essential service providers, like the barbers, have also started circulating contact numbers on social media and are providing home service to customers. “From April first week our shop is closed, but I was getting calls from my regular customers to give home service. Accordingly, we made some social media posts and circulated it amongst our regular customers. Now we daily do home service as per orders,” said Amit Shinde, a barber from the Bajirao road area. Most telephone and electrical shop owners near the Hatti Ganpati mandal and on Tilak road have put up banners outside their closed shutters. “Customers who want to purchase mobile phones or any accessories can contact us directly. According to their requirements, we send them details on WhatsApp and then sell the product. The delivery is to the home or to the address given by the customer,” said Shamsher Khan a mobile shop owner on Tilak road. Even customers are looking at this system to purchase non-essential items. Kushal Das, who purchased a water cooler last week from a shop on Sinhagad road, said, “As summer is going on, I wanted to buy a water cooler urgently.. So I went to a shop where they had given their contact number, selected the product and made the payment online. Within a couple of hours the cooler was delivered to my home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonessential-shop-owners-service-providers-in-pune-tap-homes-for-survival-101618845992191.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Liquor makers seek home delivery after crowds throng alcohol shops in Delhi||Liquor manufacturers on Monday asked the Delhi government to allow home delivery of alcoholic beverages as tipplers thronged liquor shops forming serpentine queues ahead of the six-day lockdown beginning this evening in the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday as soon as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 PM till 5 AM the next Monday to curb growing cases of Covid-19, a sudden rush of punters was seen outside liquor shops in the national capital with long queues. Citing Maharashtra, which has also gone through tough restrictions and shops are closed in cities like Mumbai to curb the spread of the pandemic, the state government has allowed home delivery, said Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC). According to CIABC, there was rush outside liquor vends in Delhi after the announcement of a weeklong lockdown. "What we saw today was the panic reaction from the public, driven by their memory of lockdown extensions last year. For lakhs of people all over India alcohol is part of regular consumption basket that they do not wish to be deprived of," said CIABC Director-General Vinod Giri. The association has hoped that the public and shopkeepers in Delhi adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Decision of Maharashtra to allow home delivery of liquor, for example, has helped contain panic reaction to lockdown there,” Giri said adding “we urge Delhi Government to think of such steps." The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) represents domestic liquor makers. Announcing lockdown in the city earlier in the day, Kejriwal said it was necessary to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen. It further said essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-makers-seek-home-delivery-after-crowds-throng-alcohol-shops-in-delhi-101618844079247.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||UP panchayat polls: Around 60 per cent polling recorded till 5pm||About 60 per cent polling was recorded till 5 pm on Monday for the second phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls in 20 districts, where 3.48 lakh candidates are in the fray for over 2.23 lakh posts.While Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded the highest polling percentage of 70.20 per cent, Pratapgarh recorded the lowest at 52.12 per cent, the State Election Commission (SEC) said.Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav did not exercise his franchise in his native Saifai village in Etawah district following request from family members to keep his safety in mind in view of the pandemic.According to family sources, the 81-year-old had never missed voting in any election till now."We requested Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) not to come to Saifai to cast his vote this time for the panchayat elections in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, and he agreed to our request. Netaji is in Delhi," his nephew Dharmendra Yadav told PTI.BJP MLA from Lambhua in Sultanpur Devmani Dwivedi said he could not cast his vote as his name was not in the voters' list."Barring me, names of my other family members, including my mother, who is no more, were in the voters' list," Dwivedi told PTI.Violence was reported in Etah where Praveen Kumar, husband of a village pradhan candidate, Suman Yadav, from Bhagipur was shot at and injured by unidentified assailants on Sunday night.SHO of Kotwali police station, Subhash Katheria, said the incident took place near Shikohabad road.Polling started at 7 am and went on till 6 pm on Monday. Over 3.23 crore voters were eligible to exercise their franchise.In the second of the four-phase election, polling is being held in Lucknow, Varanasi, Amroha, Azamgarh, Etawah, Etah, Kannauj, Gonda, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Budaun, Baghpat, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Mainpuri, Maharajganj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Lalitpur and Sultanpur.For the 787 posts of member of zila panchayat, there are 11,483 candidates and for the 19,653 seats of kshetra panchayat, as many as 85,232 candidates are in the fray.As far as the gram panchayats are concerned, there are 1,21,906 candidates for 14,897 posts and for the gram panchayat wards, there are as many as 1,30,305 candidates for 1,87,781 posts.The candidates are contesting on "free symbols" given by the Election Commission.More than 2.31 lakh poll officials have been deployed by the SEC for a smooth conduct of the panchayat polls.In the first phase of the polls, which was held on April 15, an average polling percentage of 71 was recorded.The 2015 panchayat polls had registered a polling percentage of 72.11, according to the SEC.In view of the coronavirus situation, the SEC had said last month that not more than five people would be allowed to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning for the panchayat elections.Additional Election Commissioner Ved Prakash Verma said three-member teams were formed under the additional district magistrates to ensure that the directives issued by the SEC were being followed.At the district level, the chief medical officers have been made the nodal officers and stress has been laid on COVID-19 prevention.Voters will mandatorily have to wear masks and maintain social distancing at polling booths. Instructions have also been issued to make circles and maintaining a distance of six feet between voters standing in the queue.Verma said COVID-19 norms would be followed during the counting of votes and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits would be arranged according to requirements.The Allahabad High Court had asked the Uttar Pradesh government to conclude the panchayat election process by May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-polls-around-60-per-cent-polling-recorded-till-5-pm-101618840738712.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Bihar gears up for migrants return after CM Nitish Kumar’s appeal||Bihar is preparing for the arrival of migrants in large numbers after chief minister Nitish Kumar asked them to return home at the earliest if they wished. Labour department officials said they will map the returnees and put them in quarantine centres like the previous year when around 2.5 million migrant workers returned to the state after announcement of a nationwide lockdown after Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.“With the chief minister issuing an appeal, it is likely to have an impact and migrants may start returning in large numbers, as the situation is turning worse in Delhi, Maharashtra and other parts, where most of them go for livelihood,” said Bihar labour minister Jibesh Mishra, adding the disaster management department (DMD) has already swung into action..He said “not more than 250,000 migrants may have returned so far”, but this could gather “momentum” following the CM’s appeal.With the number of Covid-19 active cases continuing to maintain an alarmingly high trend in the last one month with record number of infections getting reported almost every day, CM’s appeal to migrants to return “early” is being viewed as a hint of tougher measures in the days to come if the situation fails to improve.“I have asked the labour enforcement officers (LEOs) to keep track of migrants’ flow at the block level. The old system of putting the migrants in the quarantine centres will be revived to check the spread in the rural areas. The government has already announced that quarantine centres will work at the sub division level. Depending on the flow, it may also be planned at the block level,” said Mishra.The minister said a toll-free number—18003456138 was set up to provide information to the migrants. He added that some migrants were reaching railway stations and bus stops in the state and officials will start “mapping” their return.However, opposition parties were not convinced that the state was ready to handle the situation. RJD MP Manoj Jha described CM’s appeal as “empty rhetorical statement” adding it lacked “credibility and substance”.“Contrary to his wishes, the public memory is not that short. The state failed its own people with either poor arrangements or nothing at all at quarantine centres last year. The fudging and manipulation of Covid testing data is known to the whole world. Besides, the recent images of absolute dearth of life saving medicines as well as oxygen is a report card of a CM who loves to live in a make believe world shaped by his trusted bureaucrats,” Jha added.Another RJD leader and MLA, Lalit Yadav claimed that even RT-PCR tests were not happening smoothly in the state and patients were struggling for beds and it was difficult to believe the CM in these circumstances. “There is neither any quarantine centre nor any system in place,” he added.Last year, a sea of migrants arrived at border districts of Nawada, Gaya, Kaimur, Banka, Gopalganj, Siwan and Champaran, mainly from Delhi, UP, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Orisha, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The government estimate put their number at around 2.5 million- around 1.5 million returned by special trains and another million by buses and other modes of transport.Social analyst DM Diwakar said if the migrants chose to return, it could pose a challenge to the government on multiple fronts.“The pandemic has aggravated the rate of unemployment and created an unprecedented situation of forced return of migrants to their native states. Now a repeat could be more difficult,” he said.Citing a 2020 report ‘Mapping Inequality in Bihar” by AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies and Oxfam India, he said despite double digit growth, Bihar remains at the bottom in terms of development indicators, grappling with land, assets and income inequality, low productivity, limited opportunities of decent work and low demographic development with inter-state and inter-district disparities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-gears-up-for-migrants-return-after-cm-nitish-kumar-s-appeal-101618844072212.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks centre to look into oxygen shortage in Delhi as number of Covid-19 infections surge||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi and the central government to file an affidavit by Tuesday, disclosing the number of beds available across hospitals for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. The HC also asked both the governments to include the details of number of beds with or without ventilators and oxygen support, news agency PTI reported.The high court's remarks came a day after Delhi reported 25,462 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day surge. Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the city’s health system has reached its limits. “Delhi is facing the fourth wave of Covid-19. 25,000 cases have been reported now. Delhi's health system has reached its limits. I don’t say that the system has collapsed but it has reached its limits,” ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.The high court also asked the Centre to look into the aspect of shortage of oxygen supply in Delhi hospitals on an urgent basis.Also read | Delhi reports 25,462 Covid cases in a day for first time, positivity rate at 30%Due to the high number of cases and the increased hospitalisations, Kejriwal on Sunday said that the capital city is facing acute shortage of oxygen. “In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL,” he tweeted.Also, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, Kejriwal asked for urgent supply of Oxygen to Delhi, ANI reported.Amid the ongoing Covid-19 induced curfews in Delhi, the HC also commented regarding the migrant crisis that both the Centre and the Delhi government have failed in the implementation of last year’s lockdown and there are lessons to be learnt, PTI reported. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal too appealed to the migrant workers to not leave the city and assure of government assistance.The high court also said that the Delhi government’s direction on action against labs that do not deliver test results within 24 hours will not be implemented. “Because of this direction (of the government), labs are not willing to collect samples if they are unable to deliver reports in 24 hours. If any such action is taken by the government, it would only be counter productive. We have to be clear that labs are also hard pressed because of the large numbers they are having today. It would not serve the interest of any laboratory to negligently or deliberately delay the test result,” PTI quoted the bench as saying.Earlier on April 17, Kejriwal during a press conference said that “strict enquiry” will be ordered against labs that pick up more samples than their capacity and take more than 24 hours to deliver the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-look-into-oxygen-shortage-in-delhi-as-number-of-covid-19-infections-surge-101618842418329.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Bihar sets up monitoring teams for the specially-abled during 2nd Covid wave||Bihar government has created monitoring committees to resolve challenges faced by persons with special abilities during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the state. Formed by the social welfare department, the committees will also ensure that thousands of ‘Divyaang Mitras’ efficiently mitigate the hardships faced by one of the most vulnerable social groups in these challenging times, said an official.The disabilities commissioner of the social welfare department last year created 7051 committees of Divyaang Mitras at the Panchayat level, over 500 at the block level, and more than 91 committees in the subdivisions apart from 38 district-level committees to help the specially-abled during the nationwide lockdown and other restrictions imposed to contain the pandemic, as per government records.The new more viral strain of the coronavirus has led to an unexpected rise in the number of Covid positive cases and also the containment zones, which is feared to create situations causing great stress to the vulnerable group. The monitoring committees have been tasked to track their challenges and ensure they are resolved by the Divyaang Mitras at Panchayat, block and district levels.“There have been reports of the Divyaangs (specially-abled) being in great mental stress this time. The unprecedented increase in the number of positive cases within a few days... the sudden change in the situation has put many of them under great psychological pressure. They are very afraid,” Shivaji Kumar, the disabilities commissioner, said.Santosh Mishra, a specially-abled person from Bakhtiyarpur village in Patna district, said there should have been special arrangements for Covid testing of divyangs . “This is not available. For the test at the health centres, they have to wait for long in the queue of general category people. It’s quite exhausting for us,” he said and added they were forced to return three days later to the health centre to collect the report. “It may not be a problem for normal people. But the physically challenged persons, it’s quite difficult. In fact, visiting hospital is a big problem for a Divyaang and the delay in the report is very discouraging,” he said.Anurag, another Divyaang, said it was sad that the specially-abled were not prioritised for vaccination. “Though some managed to get to the health centre for vaccination, there is no separate arrangement for them,” he said.Dheeraj Kumar, a Divyaang Mitra from Tharthari Panchayat in Nalanda district said they were facing mental stress . “In fact, they are worried how to survive and sustain during lockdown and curfew. ... Some among them manage to earn through menial works like selling boiled eggs or street food on roadside or mend shoes. All these activities are stopped during pandemic lockdown,” he said. Last time many among them had to starve for days. In fact, the foodgrains provided by the government, was given at public distribution centres, but many among them did not have ration cards at that time, he added. They fear that the crisis of food that they had to go through last year may repeat again, he said.The disabilities commissioner agreed that the challenges persisted despite the creation of the Divyang Mitra committees. “The specially-abled in containment zones are in greater trouble because of their total dependency on others for even basic needs and food items, he said and added that persons with special abilities turn out to be the worst victim in situations like a pandemic outbreak and lockdown.“The kind of stress and fear it creates among those suffering from cerebral palsy or behavioral problems, is quite unimaginable by general people,” said the officer.Dheeraj Kumar said divyaangs need sources of earning during Covid. “Hunger is their biggest concern. Last year I drew attention of the officials at block level to get them some job under MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and got their job cards made. But they were not offered any work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-sets-up-monitoring-teams-for-the-specially-abled-during-2nd-covid-wave-101618843472043.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 tally sees slight dip at 58,924; Mumbai’s cases fall too||Maharashtra on Monday witnessed a slight dip in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 58,924 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to nearly 3.9 million, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin. More than 52,400 people recovered while 351 succumbed to the disease and the total recoveries and deaths have gone up to 3,159,240 and 60,824 respectively, the bulletin showed.The state capital Mumbai also recorded a fall after 7,381 people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. The caseload in the city is at 586,867 and deaths have climbed to 12,412 of which 58 new were added in the last 24 hours.This reduction in the daily cases of Maharashtra as well as Mumbai can be attributed to less number of tests conducted on Sunday, which is a holiday. Maharashtra tested 221,626 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours while authorities in Mumbai conducted tests for 36,556 samples during the same period. On Saturday, Maharashtra and Mumbai tested 273,272 and 46,971 samples respectively.Also Read| Covid-19 vaccine for everyone above 18 from May 1, PM Modi gives go aheadMaharashtra currently is the worst hit state from the pandemic across the country. The state government has said that there is severe shortage of beds, oxygen supply and essential Covid-19 drugs such as Remdesivir. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan assured chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday that all these shortages will be taken care of while Union railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday Maharashtra will be receiving the highest quantity of oxygen at 1,500 metric tonnes (MT).Maharashtra, which is currently placed under prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, might head towards a more stricter lockdown if the situation continues to worsen. State minister for social welfare Vijay Wadettiwar told news agency PTI on Monday that a decision on strict lockdown will be taken in the next two days as the present restrictions are not helping much to curb the spread of the disease.Also Read| ‘Total chaos’: Sanjay Raut demands Parliament session to discuss Covid situation“The ongoing curfew is not helping in containing the spread of Covid-19 in the way it was expected. A decision is expected in connection with a strict lockdown in a day or two, Wadettiwar said adding the Maha Vikas Aghadi led government in Maharashtra will also study the week-long lockdown imposed by the Delhi government without taking any decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-daily-covid-tally-sees-slight-dip-at-58-924-mumbai-s-daily-cases-fall-too-101618841961466.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Delay in truck carrying oxygen supply left two Pune Covid hospitals hit panic button||PUNE: The acute demand-supply gap of oxygen facility left the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration in an unprecedented crisis situation when the truck carrying medical oxygen got delayed on Monday. The possible shortage of oxygen could have affected the patients of 800-bed Covid jumbo facility at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and Dalvi hospital. The daily oxygen demand of COEP Covid jumbo facility is 16 tonnes. According to PMC, on Monday, the truck with medical oxygen supply was running as per schedule till 11 am and the COEF jumbo facility was prepared to use the reserved facility if the vehicle was delayed by some time. However, the truck’s delay prolonged and later it travelled under escort from Chakan. The hospitals’ reserved oxygen supply had touched an alarming level with stock for only a few minutes. The jumbo hospital faced a similar situation last week, said one of the officials of the facility on condition of anonymity. Dalvi hospital administration also faced oxygen shortage situation on Monday due to delay in arrival of the truck carrying fresh supply. Rajendra Muthe, an official at Jumbo facility said, “There was a delay in arrival of the truck carrying oxygen cylinders and we had faced a similar situation four days ago. We always keep reserved stock for emergency, but the truck’s delay was unexpected. Now, we will increase the demand of oxygen supply to address these possible situations.” PMC official Srinivas Kandul, who is coordinating the oxygen supply for municipal hospitals, said, “The sudden spike in demand of oxygen supply has made coordination a challenging job, but we are doing better.” “As patients are not getting beds, various elected members and some groups are erecting oxygen bed facility at various localities. Though the move is for a good cause, it is putting additional pressure on the civic administration to provide oxygen facility to these new medical centres and the demand further shoots up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/delay-in-truck-carrying-oxygen-supply-left-two-pune-covid-hospitals-hit-panic-button-101618841491224.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||‘Incapacitated medical infrastructure’: Allahabad HC raps UP govt, directs lockdown in 5 cities||The Allahabad High Court on Monday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to strictly enforce the closure of all establishments (government or private) in five cities till April 26, 2021. The restriction will be applicable in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur.“The recent surge of Covid-19 pandemic has virtually incapacitated all our medical infrastructure in the State of UP and especially in cities like Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur,” the court stated.However, financial institutions and departments, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services including municipal functions, and public transport will be exempt from the curbs. The court clarified that it is not imposing a complete lockdown in the state by its order.The bench comprising justice Siddhartha Varma and justice Ajit Kumar observed, “Above directions are nowhere close to a complete lockdown. We are conscious of the fact that before imposing a lockdown the concerned government has to work out various modalities. In this order, if we have not imposed a lockdown it does not mean that we do not believe in it. We are still of the view that if we want to break the chain, a lockdown for a duration of at least two weeks is a must.”“We, therefore, once again in addition to the directions we have already given, direct the government to consider the imposition of a complete lockdown in the entire state for at least a period of two weeks. This would not only break the chain of the spread of the virus but would also give respite to health workers,” the bench added.Also read: ‘Mask not needed in car,’ says Delhi couple arrested for misbehaving with copsThe bench passed the order in a suo moto PIL on conditions of quarantine centres in the state and treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court further directed the state government to ensure grocery shops and other commercial shops, excluding medical shops, with more than three workers remain closed till April 26, 2021. Likewise, all malls, shopping complexes, restaurants, eateries shall remain close till April 26.Further, with respect to the five cities, all religious places shall also remain shut for the period and no social function except weddings should be allowed. However, no more than 25 people will be allowed in case of wedding functions without the permission of the concerned district magistrate.Vegetable and milk hawkers will be allowed to sell goods on road only till 11 am and all public movement on roads will be restricted completely subject to these directions. Public movement is also permitted by the court in case of medical help and emergencies.On the rise in the number of Covid-19 patients, the beach said, “it appears that the pandemic is teasing the system in a situation where patients have outnumbered the hospital beds and people are just running from pillar to post and in this process attendants of patients are not only getting infected but others in public are also getting infected and a complete chain has got formed.”During the hearing, the court was informed that the state government is taking steps to increase the number of beds for patients such as three makeshift hospitals with 1,000 beds at Lucknow and to increase 20 beds per day in Prayagraj.On this, the court observed, “One would only laugh at us that we have enough to spend on elections and very little to spend on public health…. One cannot even imagine what will happen if only 10% of the city population gets infected and needs medical help in hospitals. How the government will manage with the presently existing infrastructure is anybody’s guess.”“Economy, economy and economy is the only tune that the government is all the time harping upon but if you take bread and butter to a person who needs oxygen and medication, it will be of no use to him. You may have grocery shops full of eatables and industries which produce bikes and cars but all this won’t be of any use if your medical shops run out of stock of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir in the current surge of the pandemic. It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave, it never planned things in advance,” the bench observed.Also read: At PM Modi’s review meet, India expands vaccinations for everyone above the ageOn Panchayat election conducted during the pandemic, the bench observed, “We must record our displeasure at the way government and the State Election Commission proceeded to hold elections forcing teachers and other government staff to perform duties exposing themselves to the threat of pandemic that looms large these days. The police were virtually shifted to polling places giving priority to election above public health.”“Further, the photographs of the various places where elections were held show that no social distancing was maintained. Also, we find that on many occasions in various political rallies masks were never worn by people,” the court said while directing authorities to take actions against erring organisers of political events and place the action by the next date of hearing on April 26.On delay in providing Covid-19 test reports to patients, the bench said, “We have been informed that people are developing influenza-like infections in every fifth house of every Mohalla in the city and tracking-tracing and testing system, if not failed, has certainly not been able to meet the requirement of the population of thecity. Reports are neither updated before 72 hours nor are samples taken care of, owing to shortage of manpower. Only VVIPs are getting reports within 6-12 hours. Thus early testing scheme or plan is a farce.” The court said that if in any civilised society, the public health system is unable to meet the challenges and people die for want of proper medication, it means there has been no proper development. “Health and education go side-by-side. Those in the helm of affairs of governance are to be blamed for the present chaotic health problems and more so when there is a democracy which means a government of the people, by the people and for the people,” the bench observed.Uttar Pradesh, one of the worst-hit states from the pandemic, has reported a total of over 8.5 lakh Covid-19 cases till date with over 9,800. Over 6.5 patients have recovered from the deadly contagion in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/incapacitated-medical-infrastructure-allahabad-hc-raps-up-govt-directs-lockdown-in-5-cities-101618840891908.html
19-04-2021||Jaipur||Record 11,967 new Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, 53 more deaths||Rajasthan on Monday recorded 11,967 fresh Covid-19 cases, its biggest one-day spike in infections, bringing the tally to 4,26,584, while the death toll mounted to 3,204 with 53 more fatalities, according to a bulletin.Meanwhile, lockdown-like restrictions under the ''Jan Anushasan Pakhwada'' (public discipline fortnight) began in Rajasthan on Monday and will remain in force till May 3.Routine traffic was seen on roads. Shops, except those providing essential services, remained shut. Some private offices remained open despite the government guidelines. Only shops and offices providing essential services are permitted to open during the 15-day period.The latest bulletin puts the number of active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan at 76,641.Of the fresh cases, 2,011 were registered in Jaipur, 1,641 in Jodhpur, 1,307 in Kota, 702 in Udaipur, 701 in Alwar, 550 in Bhilwara, 403 in Ajmer and 401 in Bikaner, it said.Thirteen of the new fatalities linked to the virus were reported from Jodhpur, 11 from Jaipur, eight from Udaipur, six from Kota besides deaths recorded in other districts.According to the bulletin, a total of 3,46,739 people in the state have recovered from the infection.Rajasthan had reported 42 deaths due to the coronavirus and 10,514 new cases on Sunday.The Rajasthan government had imposed a night curfew in the entire state from April 16. All educational and coaching institutes will too remain shut till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/record-11-967-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-53-more-die-101618840742516.html
19-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh govt announces free ration for 3 months||In the wake of a surge in Covid- 19 cases in Madhya Pradesh and the subsequent curbs, the state government on Monday announced to provide free ration to all eligible beneficiaries for the next three months.The government also asked officials to invoke the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against those involved in the black marketing of life-saving drugs.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made the announcement at a video conferencing meeting with district collectors.The meeting was held to take stock of the coronavirus situation in the state, which has seen a spurt in cases in the last few weeks, leading the authorities to impose a slew of curbs on movement of people and non-essential activities.In view of the pandemic, the entire three months' stock of foodgrains can be collected at one go to avoid frequent visits to ration shops set up under the public distribution system (PDS), he said.All eligible poor residents of the state will get three months ration for free from fair price shops (PDS outlets)."Three months' ration will be given together so that people need not visit such shops frequently, he told the district collectors.Chouhan told them to invoke the NSA, under which one can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months, against those involved in the black marketing of important drugs.Those selling life-saving injections at higher prices should not be spared, he said.During the past one week, the police have caught some people in Bhopal, Indore and other cities on charges of black marketing Remdesivir, a key antiviral drug for treating Covid-19 whose demand has shot up.Chouhan said there would be no shortage of money in tackling the pandemic.Efforts have been made on a war footing to provide adequate medical oxygen for treating critical coronavirus patients in the state, he said.Remdesivir injections are also being supplied to hospitals continuously, Chouhan said.The chief minister told the district collectors to set up containment zones in affected areas under their jurisdiction to control the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-govt-announces-free-ration-for-3-months-101618838556415.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Woman, son arrested for cheating person in Delhi||A 45-year-old woman and her son were arrested for allegedly cheating women by engaging with them in conversations and stealing their jewellery, police said on Monday.The accused, Shanti Devi, and her 20-year-old son, Praveen, were arrested following raids at their house in west Delhi's Raghu Birnagar, they said.The mother and the son with their associate, who was absconding, used to steal jewellery from women after engaging them into a conversation, police said.The matter came to light after a woman who was targeted by the mother and son approached the police in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar area in her complaint on April 9.The woman alleged that she was at a hospital with her sister-in-law for some check-up, when the accused woman entered into a conversation with her and took away her ear rings, pendant set and a finger ring, according to police.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "Based on the complaint, we registered a case under section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and initiated an investigation." During the probe, CCTV footage of nearby areas was checked. After the identity of the suspects was known, raids were conducted at Raghu Birnagar from where they were nabbed, he said.The accused woman told police that she committed the offence with her son and one of her associates. They sold the victim's jewellery to some unknown persons, the DCP said.The woman and her son were arrested and produced before the court wherein she was remanded to judicial custody and her son was taken to one-day police custody remand to recover the cheated jewellery and to arrest the co-accused, the officerThe accused have also disclosed about their involvement in another case of cheating registered at Ambedkar Nagar police station, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-son-arrested-for-cheating-person-in-delhi-101618834005560.html
19-04-2021||Other||Goa CM calls on Maharashtra CM to withdraw order on ‘places of sensitive origin’||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has asked Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to withdraw his order directing screening of persons entering from five states that have been declared by the state as ‘places of sensitive origin’. The five states include Kerala, Goa, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Delhi-NCR. In a tweet, Sawant called on his Maharashtra counterpart to “put up a combined fight against this pandemic under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi.” “I urge @CMOMaharashtra not to single out states as ‘Places of Sensitive Origin’, and withdraw the said order in public interest,” Sawant tweeted. On Sunday evening, Maharashtra’s chief secretary issued an order declaring the states as places of sensitive origin under the Epidemic Diseases Act, “in order to curb the transmission of the Covid-19 virus in the state and to stop the influx of other Covid-19 virus variants into the state of Maharashtra from other locations.”Sawant’s request has however been met with ‘suggestions’ that he should also impose similar restrictions on people entering the state. “Sir, CM of Maharashtra is only doing his job of protecting his people. Instead of only indulging in politics, we Goans request you to do your job and put in restrictions at our borders to protect us also,” AAP leader Valmiki Naik said. Sawant has faced persistent requests to begin screening people entering the state, especially with the recent surge in cases in other parts of the country. But Sawant has resisted doing so, claiming it will affect tourism in the state and the government is dependent on tourism for economic survival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-cm-calls-on-maharashtra-cm-to-withdraw-order-on-places-of-sensitive-origin-101618834771600.html
19-04-2021||Other||Coming up: Mango museum on Lucknow outskirts||The king of fruits will soon have a befitting museum dedicated to it on the outskirts of the state capital in the heart of the mango belt here.Indeed, such a mango museum is coming up at the Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) office at Rehmankhera in the Kakori block of Lucknow. It is likely to be ready by the end of the mango season.CISH is developing the museum so that the visitors can learn about the varieties, medicinal value, products, history and little-known facts about the fruit.“The museum will have more than 800 varieties as a model or a photograph with interesting descriptions. Not only Indian, but also the varieties dominating the international market will be displayed,” said Shailendra Rajan, CISH director.The institute had one of the largest live collections of mango varieties, but one could not see them after the fruiting season, he said.“Mango (tree) is considered to provide certain anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-carcinogenic bioactive compounds and a few of them have been found to be reported effective in immunity-boosting against the coronavirus,” he added.“A database containing details of the medicinal properties of phytochemicals can be accessed in the museum. A description of important products made from mango and the nutritive value of the king of fruits will also be depicted,” Rajan said.A large number of recipes are available in which mangoes are used at the raw or ripe stages. One can see the details of these useful recipes in the museum, he said.A portion of the museum will depict the numerous pests and diseases that attack the mango. Rajan said the museum would help in explaining several unrevealed facts about the mango. This will be of interest not only to children but also to the farmers, he said.National Mango Database will be connected to one of the panels of the museum. The museum was supposed to have become functional during the current mango season but got delayed due to the Covid-19 situation.The CISH director also said, “ More than a hundred stamps depicting the mangoes have been issued by about 80 countries. A corner with these stamps and details will be an attraction for the visitors, mainly people interested in philately.”Considered a heritage tree of India, a lot of history, mythology culture, religion, and other social aspects are associated with the mango. The major mango-producing areas of the country and the world, statistics, and other intresting facts will be depicted with various audiovisuals explaining their economic importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coming-up-mango-museum-on-lucknow-outskirts-101618834470908.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||'Mask not needed in car', says Delhi couple arrested for misbehaving with cops||The couple who was arrested for misbehaving with the police when asked to wear face mask while travelling inside the car, still refused to accept their mistake. The man and his wife were arrested during weekend curfew on Sunday.On Monday, the man, identified as Pankaj Dutta, said that he feels the mask is not for a couple in a car. "We had face masks with us but we didn't wear them because we felt that it was not for a couple in a car," said Dutta, a resident of West Patel Nagar in Delhi.His wife Abha Yadav said she feels suffocated while wearing a mask and also gave logic for why Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should not be followed in a car."I feel suffocation and breathing problems when I wear mask. Logically, I thought that it was not needed in the car as I was with my husband only. My opinion is that mask must be worn at public places," said Yadav.While the man was arrested on Sunday, Abha Yadav was arrested on Monday, the police said.A video of the incident was shared on social media platforms, wherein the couple could be seen misbehaving with Delhi police personnel when they were asked the reason for not wearing masks.In the video, Abha Yadav can be heard saying, “…I have cleared UPSC…”. One of the policemen then told her that since she has cleared the civil services examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), she should behave in a more responsible manner with respect to the Covid-19 norms in place. “Why should I wear a mask in my car? What if I have to kiss my husband?" the woman can be heard asking them.Watch: Delhi couple stopped for not wearing masks, misbehaves with copsThe couple was taken to the Daryaganj police station and a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against them."During interrogation, the man put the blame on his wife and told police that his wife does not wear mask and also does not lets him wear the same. However, he claimed that whenever she is not around, he always wears a mask," a senior police officer said.The Delhi high court had said earlier this month that a mask is compulsory even if a person is driving alone in a private vehicle. A car will be considered a "public place", the court had ruled, terming mask as 'suraksha kavach (safety armour)'.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in number of Covid-19 cases, prompting the Arvind Kejriwal-led government to impose lockdown-like measures in the national capital from April 19 till next Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mask-not-needed-in-car-says-delhi-couple-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-cops-101618833828627.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab clamps down with stricter curbs, cuts down test rates||As Covid cases continue to rise rapidly, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered stricter restrictions beginning from April 20, including extension of night curfew timings (8pm to 5am), closure of all bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, sports complexes, with restaurants and hotels to be open only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday. Rates for RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing (RAT) by private labs have been reduced to ₹450 and ₹300, respectively (with additional charges for home collection of the samples), in a bid to promote increased testing. Also read: India’s second wave of Covid-19 ‘less severe’, no change in death rate: ICMR DGGatherings of more than 20 people, including for weddings/cremations, have also been banned across the state, with prior approval of the district administration needed for all gatherings of more than 10 people, except for cremation. The new restrictions, which also include closure of malls, shops and markets on Sunday, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, will remain in effect till April 30, the chief minister said, directing the police department to strictly enforce the restrictions. All weekly markets have also ordered to be shut down. 5-day home quarantine after attending gathering Chairing a high-level virtual meeting to review the Covid situation in the state, the chief minister ordered that all people flying into Punjab should have a negative RT-PCR not more than 72 hours old, else they would have to undergo RAT testing at the airport. He also ordered that people who attended large gatherings anywhere (religious/political/social) to be mandatorily home quarantined for five days and tested according to protocol. He directed the transport department that the number of people in buses/taxis and autos be restricted to 50% of the capacity. To check inbound travellers, the chief minister directed that rapid antigen testing (RAT) testing booths should be set up at bus stands and railway stations and all passengers checked. All eligible persons should be get vaccinated, he said. Recruitment exams put off, others to be held online The chief minister ordered the postponement of recruitment exams for patwaris and directed for the medical education department to hold online exams for 1st, 2nd and 3rd year MBBS/BDS/BAMS and first year nursing students. He said that military hospitals in cantonments in Punjab have assured the state government of all possible help to tackle the surge, while private hospitals have already been told to reserve 75% beds for Covid patients. No elective surgeries till May 15 He said no elective surgeries should be conducted in any government or private hospitals till May 15 and all OPD patients must be tested, besides encouraging them to get vaccinated. The 104 Helpline shall function 24X7 to provide information on bed availability in government and private hospitals. Oxygen requirement and availability will be monitored. Mohali’s positivity spike worst at 36.53%Health secretary Hussan Lal, in a presentation, said the state’s positivity rate was statis at 7.8% but had shown a quantum jump thereafter, going up to 12.6% as on April 15, with Mohali being the worst hit at 36.53%. The spike, he said, could be attributed to the new variant, along with people coming back from large gatherings outside Punjab. The figure was expected to go up further with more testing, he said, adding that by May 5, the state was projected to report 6,000 cases a day if urgent measures were not implemented in Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar , Amritsar and Patiala, which would be the drivers of the spike. Dr KK Talwar, head of the Covid expert task force, said more restrictions were needed to check further surge, as the situation was worrying, given the way things had happened in Delhi, and with the virus clearly mutating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-clamps-down-with-stricter-curbs-cuts-down-test-rates-101618833811542.html
19-04-2021||Dehradun||Two Uttarakhand mountaineers climb Annapurna peak||Yogesh Garbiyal and Sheetal Raj, two mountaineers from Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, climbed mount Annapurna in Nepal on April 16. Team leader Yogesh Garbiyal said, “We both Indian climbers, alone with Padhane Sherpa of Nepal, reached the summit at 2 pm on April 16 and unfurled the Indian flag there”. According to Garbiyal, the expedition was sponsored by the NGO called ‘Climbers Beyond Summits’ based in Dharchula town of Pithoragarh district. Sheetal Raj said she attributes her success to Yogesh and her parents. “I have started a mission to strengthen the confidence of hill women in themselves. If they decide, nothing can stop them from reaching the top. I will continue to encourage women of my state to work hard to fulfil their dreams,” Raj said.“We both climbed mount Kanchenjunga in 2018. The expedition was financed by Hans Foundation,” said Yogesh, who is also the chairperson and founder of Climbers Beyond Summits which sponsored the current expedition. Yogesh said this year a total of 29 mountaineers from various countries scaled mount Annapurna of which 14 mountaineers were women. He said six members of the Maharashtra team that summited the peak also included a woman mountaineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/two-uttarakhand-mountaineers-climb-annapurna-peak-101618833031823.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena demands two-day Parliament session to discuss Covid situation||Terming the Covid-19 scenario in the country a “war-like situation”, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut demanded a two-day special session of the Parliament to discuss measures to control the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and plan oxygen and drug supply. Raut said that with the death toll mounting, if the spread of Covid-19 is not controlled the country, it would head towards anarchy.The Sena’s chief spokesperson, in a response to Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement that there is no need for a lockdown in a hurry, said that Shah should announce measures to help bring the situation under control.Speaking to reporters, Raut said that the Covid-19 situation in the country is “serious” and “worrisome”. He added that a special session will help representatives from various states put forward the issues their states are facing.Also Read | Thackeray to hold meeting on Covid-19 today, lockdown SOPs may be discussed“The situation in the entire country is worrisome. Looking at the number of cases from many states, it is a war-like situation. Now the hiding of figures has ended in many states because there has been an explosion [of cases]. Patients are out on the streets, funeral pyres are burning everywhere, and there is no space left in burial grounds. If this continues and we are unable to control the spread, then there will be anarchy in the country. A special session of the Parliament should be convened immediately on the Covid-19 situation. Like earlier, we can follow social distancing during the session. The situation is serious,” Raut said.Last week, Shah had dismissed the need for a lockdown . He had said that the situation didn’t warrant a lockdown in a hurry. The Sena parliamentarian, in a response, demanded an announcement of measures to control the spike in absence of a lockdown.“If he [Amit Shah] thinks that there shouldn’t be a hasty decision on lockdown then he must announce measures to control the situation [as] people are dying, people are not getting hospital beds, are without oxygen supply, Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-demands-two-day-parliament-session-to-discuss-covid-situation-101618832432060.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC imposes Covid curbs in 5 UP cities, says order nowhere close to complete lockdown||Five cities in Uttar Pradesh- Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur- will be placed under curbs from tonight till April 26 to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to close all establishments private or government-run in these cities. However, those offering essential services will be exempted, the high court said in its order and also clarified that it is not imposing a lockdown in all of Uttar Pradesh.Confirming the development, state's additional chief secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal told news agency ANI will not impose lockdown but will impose strict restrictions in these cities. " The UP Government is submitting its reply before the Court on its observations," Sehgal added.The order was passed by a bench of justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar. It noted the recent Covid-19 surge in these cities has ‘virtually incapacitated’ Uttar Pradesh’s entire medical infrastructure.According to the high court order, financial institutions, medical and health services, industrial and scientific establishments, essential services including municipal functions and public transport will be exempted.All grocery and other commercial shops with more than three workers will remain shut till April 26. However, medical shops will continue to operate during this period, the order stated adding all malls, hotels and restaurants along with food carts will be closed too.Religious activities, places of worship and marriages will remain suspended during the duration of the lockdown. However, in case of a marriage already fixed, permission will be required from the district magistrate of the concerned district. Gatherings in such marriages will be restricted to 25, the high court order said.No public movement on roads apart from medical help and emergencies will be allowed in Prayagraj, Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur till April 26. All hawkers, including those selling fruits, vegetables, milk and bread, shall be off the road by 11am everyday till the lockdown is in place, the order said.Uttar Pradesh, which is one of the worst-hit states from the pandemic across India, has so far registered 851,620 cases, 9,830 deaths and 650,333 recoveries. On Sunday, the state saw the highest ever single-day spike of 30,596 new Covid-19 disease cases, according to the health department’s bulletin. Lucknow added the highest cases on Sunday at 5,551 followed by Varanasi (2,011), Kanpur (1,839) and from Allahabad (1,711).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-directs-up-govt-to-close-all-establishments-barring-essential-servi-101618831777110.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Mother-son killed in a fire in Patna residential complex||A 35-year-old woman and her two-year-old son were killed in a fire in a residential complex in Bihar’s Danapur, near Capital Patna on Monday morning, said police officials.The deceased woman was identified as Priyanka, daughter of one Baban Sharma, the owner of the flat at Shushila Anand Home apartment, which caught fire. Priyanka was visiting her parents with her son Yagya to celebrate Chaiti Chhath. According to neighbours, Sharma’s house was locked from outside and thus the duo could not escape the fire on time. “Priyanka’s father had gone to his native place a few days back and she was living with her mother and son. It seems her mother locked them and went outside to pick flowers. After we saw smoke coming out of their flat, we tried to break the lock, but we failed to do so,” said a neighbour, who wished not to be named. The local fire and police station were informed around 6am, he added.Danapur fire officer Inderjeet Kumar Sharma said his team failed to extinguish the fire even after several hours of effort since the flat was located on the fourth floor. “Two domestic LPG cylinders kept inside the flat also caught fire which intensified the blaze. Finally, with the help of a hydraulic water tanker, we got control over the fire. The mother and son were found severely injured,” he said.Priyanka’s brother-in-law Satish Kumar said they were rushed to a nearby hospital but could not survive. He added that her husband Yogendra Prasad was in Chhattisgarh and her in-laws lived near AG Colony in Patna.Danapur police station house officer (SHO) Ajeet Kumar Shah said the cause of the fire had not been established yet and a probe was on. “Huge quantity of wood was kept on the floor which further fuelled the fire,” he added.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the incident. He said Sharma was associated with him since 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/motherson-killed-in-a-fire-in-patna-residential-complex-101618831891383.html
19-04-2021||Other||Punjab drive to end fancy number culture hits hurdle||The Punjab government’s drive to put brakes on the VIP culture of vintage vehicle registration numbers has hit a speedbreaker. Despite orders to discontinue old fancy registration numbers, also called vintage numbers, in December, about 100 owners have approached the state transport department for a new number so far. The authorities say there are thousands of such vehicles with fancy numbers, mainly owned by politicians, bureaucrats and influential people, in the state. A huge amount of money and irregularities are involved in the registration and renewal process during the sale and purchase of the vintage numbers. Sources say there are nearly 200 series of numbers, including PIB, PAC, PUP, PAP, PCR and PAU, that have been discontinued by the department. Also read: Navy recovers 300 kg narcotics worth ₹3,000 crore from fishing vesselIn December last year, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had ordered the discontinuation of the old registration numbers that were in use even after the enforcement of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. The aim was to end the VIP culture and curb illegal activities. The transport department was asked to issue alternative numbers to owners of vehicles with such numbers, which were already banned in neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, according to Section 217 (read with Section 41) of the Motor Vehicles Act. Irregularities by former officials delay process An official dealing with the registration of such numbers blamed the delay on technical issues. “We have not been able to trace the tax records of the owners of vehicles with vintage numbers, which is mandatory, because of the irregularities by former officials. Some of them used backlog entries in the system, especially in Faridkot district, to register such numbers,” he said. Requesting anonymity, an official privy to the development said that all big political families and MLAs of the state are among those who surrendered their vintage numbers, but many bureaucrats and influential people have not surrendered their numbers. Status symbol becomes security risk Many vehicle owners prefer to retain old registration numbers as a status symbol but it’s a security risk in the border state of Punjab, an official said. Vehicles with VIP numbers are often misused by anti-social elements to carry out subversive activities as these vehicles are not stopped for checking by the police. “With such registration numbers used on multiple vehicles over the years, identification of original owners is difficult since old records are either untraceable or have been destroyed to accommodate VIPs,” the official said. Senior transport department officials that insurance companies will stop ensuring such vehicles as the numbers have been discontinued and violators will face action. When contacted, state transport commissioner Amarpal Singh was not available for comment. Vintage number owners approach court Some vintage number owners have moved the Punjab and Haryana high court against the Punjab government’s decision to discontinue the pre-1988 Motor Vehicles Act numbers. A senior transport department official said people are awaiting the verdict. Harjinder Singh Sidhu, who filed the petition in the high court, said his vehicle carries the registration number, PUI0007, bearing the high-security registration number plant according to provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. Besides, the details have been uploaded on the Centre’s m-Parivahan portal. He said that the action of the authorities in calling upon the petitioner to surrender his registration No. PUI0007 would be in violation of the mandate under Section 217-A of the Motor Vehicles Act. The next hearing in the matter is on May 10. Deputy state transport commissioner Manjit Singh said that court has clubbed the bunch of petitions, but no stay has been granted on the Punjab government’s orders so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-drive-to-end-fancy-number-culture-hits-hurdle-101618830692275.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||BJP's agenda to ensure Maharashtra govt fails in handling Covid: Sena on Remdesivir row||The Shiv Sena on Monday slammed BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar for objecting to Mumbai police's grilling of a pharma firm's top executive over alleged stocking of Remdesivir vials, and wondered if there was a conspiracy to disturb the law and health order.An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' accused the BJP of having a clear agenda that the Maharashtra government should fail in handling the Covid-19 situation, and charged it with making persistent efforts in that direction with the help of the Centre.It said the Maharashtra government and the opposition should be unanimous at least on the issue of saving lives of people and no one should seek political mileage out of pyres of people dying for want of the drug, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients.Mumbai police questioned a pharma company director on Saturday following information that thousands of vials of Remdesivir were to be flown out of the country, despite a ban on its export.On learning that the company director was being questioned, former chief minister Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Darekar had rushed to the police station.They said the BJP was reaching out to pharma companies due to the shortage of Remdesivir in the state.Fadnavis said it was their sincere attempt to get Remdesivar for Maharashtra.However, the editorial in 'Saamana' on Monday alleged that politics is being played on the issue of supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injections for treating Covid-19 patients.It said the Maharashtra government was not getting the Remdesivir injections, but BJP leaders were purchasing them unilaterally from pharma companies.It never happened in Maharashtra earlier that the Leader of Opposition advocated for a pharma company official instead of the state, the Sena said."Isn't there a conspiracy to trouble the law and health order?" it asked.The Sena claimed it is a "crime" on part of the companies to make available stock of the injections to the BJP unilaterally.It also questioned the BJP's criticism of the government after the police exposed hoarding and black marketing by the companies."What can the opposition leaders in the Assembly and Council rushing to a police station mid-night to seek release of a pharma company official be called?" the Shiv Sena asked.The Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and the country are feeling suffocated due to lack of oxygen and funeral pyres have been lit for the want of Remdesivir, it said."Nobody should heat up (their) political pans on these pyres. The government and the opposition should behave unanimously at least on this issue," the Marathi daily said.Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said Maharashtra has so far received the highest quantity of oxygen in India and the Centre is in regular touch with state governments to assess their needs.Referring to it, the Shiv Sena asked whether the Centre was doing any favour to Maharashtra by giving the highest quantity of oxygen.Maharashtra is making the highest contribution to the Centre's coffers, the editorial said, adding that Delhi (the central government) will need oxygen support if this supply (of tax payment) is stopped (from the state)."...when Maharashtra is facing a crisis, the Union minister is troubling Maharashtra by giving an account of how much has been given and taken (to the state). This is sort of staining the humanity," it alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-agenda-to-ensure-maha-govt-fails-in-handling-covid-sena-on-remdesivir-row-101618829157726.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||DMRC releases metro schedule during Delhi lockdown, 30-min frequency during peak hours, 60-mins during non-peak hours||The Delhi Metro Railway Corporation in a bid to curb cases announced that there will be a thirty-minute frequency between trains during peak hours and sixty-minute frequency during non-peak hours during the curfew imposed by Delhi government in a bid to curb the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases starting to April 19 evening to April 26.Delhi Metro in a statement said that during the non-peak hours people from the exempted category will be allowed to travel. "In view of the curfew imposed in Delhi from 10 pm today till 5am on 26 April, Delhi Metro services will be available during the morning (8 AM to 10 AM) and evening (5 PM to 7 PM) peak hours across the network with a headway (frequency) of 30 minutes," DMRC said."For rest of the hours of the day, metro rail services across the network will be available with a frequency of 60 min only. Services during this period can be availed only by the exempted category of people on the production of the valid IDs," the statement further said.Delhi Metro will operate with 50% capacity during the curfew period and services linked to the Delhi Metro like the feeder bus services will ply with 50% of their seating capacity. Along with the Delhi Metro, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) will also ply with 50% capacity due to the rise in cases. The Delhi government has also allowed taxis, auto-rickshaws, cabs, 'Gramin Sewa' and 'Phat-Phat Sewa' along with e-rickshaws to ply with maximum 2 passengers. People going for medical services, to and from airports and railway stations will be exempted during the week-long curfew. The decision to impose a week-long curfew came as Delhi saw its positivity rate increasing as the Capital reported record single-day surges in Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic. The government fears that is the lockdown-like measures are not introduced more people will fall sick leading to a collapse of the healthcare infrastructure in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-ply-from-8am-to-10am-5pm-to-7pm-during-peak-hours-amid-weeklong-101618828789308.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Monday musings: How, and why, Pune’s Covid scenario went from bad to worse||Last week, we had two spells of thunderstorms accompanied by heavy showers in Pune. That brought respite to the city suffering from the scorching sun. The cool breeze that followed should have brought cheer to many, but in these gloomy times, it went largely unnoticed. The current gloom is akin to September last year, when Pune saw many dying without beds or ambulances. In fact its intensity is even more this time, given that many were out happily violating Covid norms. As a result, the second wave is hitting many of those who successfully kept the virus at bay during first outbreak. The overall case fatality rate has been low this time amid a rising caseload, but there are horrific stories of the virus ravaging families. Pune was one of the worst affected districts in the country during first wave, overtaking Delhi and Mumbai in terms of active case load in September 2020. This time too, it maintained that status, except that the capacity of local government along with state administration has been exposed like never before. How has the political leadership dealt with the situation so far? The answer, many would say, not up to the mark. While those representing the PMC have blamed the state government, which in turn passed the buck onto the Centre, for various kinds of shortages. On the ground, leadership at the local body level or from the state and Centre, continues to be missing in action. Maharashtra has two most powerful ministers from Pune – deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who also holds the finance portfolio; and home minister, Dilip Walse Patil – besides junior minister Dattatray Bharne. While Pawar has been reviewing the situation in Pune district every Friday, his absence in the city on other days is largely conspicuous at a time when a five million population is facing an unprecedented situation. Walse Patil, a labour minister until recently, isn’t visible anywhere, while Bharne’s focus is limited to his constituency of Indapur. The city has six BJP MLAs and two from the NCP, though Puneites have not heard much from them as regards making an effort to ramp-up health capacities goes. Pune also has representation at the Centre with Prakash Javadekar being a minister in Narendra Modi’s cabinet. Javadekar is also tasked with the responsibility to coordinate with Maharashtra to cater to state’s needs on the Covid front. His presence in Pune though is only felt intermittently; the most recent being last week, when he announced that Pune will get 165 ventilators. His colleague Girish Bapat is seen at agitations on issues like restarting the public transport service of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). It’s a fact that Pune has created a ventilator-bed capacity equal to Mumbai and Delhi. This, though Pune doesn’t have big government hospitals like AIIMS. However, this was possible mostly due to private partnership as public infrastructure is falling short. Even after district administration’s order, the supply of anti-viral drug Remdesivir hasn’t been restored with demand outgrowing supply in terms of the number of doses Pune is getting. On April 9, NCP chief Sharad Pawar managed to directly source 480 vials for Baramati alone when the city was scrambling for the drug, which many believe is life saver. On the vaccination front, Pune has had lead, though in the past one week, it lost momentum as a result of a drop in supply of doses, for which the state has rightly blamed the Centre. The capacities of the state government and local civic body in Pune have been found wanting even when they had a whole year to ramp-up infrastructure. When Amravati and Yavatmal districts in Maharashtra reported a 40% daily positivity rate, it should have sounded the alarm bells. However, from PMC, to the state government, to those representing Pune at the centre, were complacent. The result - horrific stories like the entire Jadhav family of four wiped out by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-how-and-why-pune-s-covid-scenario-went-from-bad-to-worse-101618828711664.html
19-04-2021||Jaipur||More given to Gujarat: Rajasthan minister claims discrimination in oxygen supply||Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma on Monday accused the Centre of discrimination, claiming while 1,200 metric tonne oxygen was being supplied to Gujarat, his state got only 124 metric tonne even though both have similar Covid-19 situations.Referring to a liquid oxygen plant in Alwar's Bhiwadi which was under the state's control, the minister said, "There was no lack of oxygen last time. This time, when there is more need of oxygen, the Centre has taken over all the medical oxygen generator plants and the oxygen distribution network.""There are equal number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan and Gujarat. In Gujarat, 1,200 metric tonne oxygen is being supplied, whereas Rajasthan is getting only 124 metric tonne," he claimed."If oxygen is not made available adequately, how will we save lives of people," the minister questioned.Sharma further said that the Rajasthan government has ordered procurement of 1,500 oxygen condensers, which will provide oxygen to 3,000 patients.But more oxygen will be required to fight the disease, he added.The health minister also targeted the Centre over the shortage of vaccines, and said seven lakh vaccine doses are required in the state daily.The Rajasthan government wrote to the prime minister and the Union health minister, after which the state received 14 lakh doses, which will be administered in two days, Sharma said.The state has full storage capacity and a bumper stock of 15 days should be provided which will help it save many lives, he added.Sharma said the shortage of tocilizumab and remdesivir should also be addressed by the Centre.He added that the vaccination against Covid-19 should be opened up for all.The minister appealed to the people to follow lockdown-like restrictions during the "Jan Andolan Pakhwada (Self Discipline Fortnight)" till May 3.From April 1 to 18, over 131 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state. In the entire month of March, Rajasthan had reported just 31 fatalities.The state recorded 10,242 coronavirus cases and 42 deaths on Sunday.The cumulative tally of positive cases and deaths have increased to 4,14,617 and 3,151, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/more-given-to-gujarat-rajasthan-minister-claims-discrimination-in-oxygen-supply-101618827847678.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||CBI files case over misappropriation of Delhi slum improvement board funds||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against unknown officials of Bank of Baroda and Delhi govt-run shelter improvement board (DUSIB) for alleged misappropriation of funds. The FIR was filed on Friday over misappropriation of ₹207 crore, the agency said.The agency came across irregularities while conducting a surprise check at the accounts department of DUSIB on April 13. It revealed that between September 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021, investments of about ₹214 crore was made using the funds of DUSIB in the form of 112 fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) with Bank of Baroda's Paharganj branch in New Delhi, the agency said."The 112 FDRs issued by which were purportedly issued by BOB, Paharganj, are only printouts on A4 size papers and are not security papers," the CBI further said.The surprise check also revealed that DUSIB is maintaining accounts only with Central Bank of India and none of its accounts is maintained with Bank of Baroda, according to CBI.The unknown bank officials have been booked for criminal conspiracy, forgery and criminal breach of trust.The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) functions under the control of government of NCT of Delhi. According to its website, the board functions under the purview of the DUSIB Act, 2010 which empowers it to notify certain areas as slums, where with the passage of time, the buildings have become dilapidated and the basic civic services are missing.The Slum and JJ Department, which was earlier part of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), was transferred to this board after its creation on July 1, 2010.The DUSIB is primarily responsible for improving the quality of the life of slum and dwellers of Jhuggie Jhomprie (JJ) in Delhi. The chief minister functions as the chairperson of the autonomous body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbi-files-case-against-unknown-officials-of-bank-of-baroda-and-delhi-govt-run-sh-101618827300351.html
19-04-2021||Other||Govt may enforce consumer laws to protect Covid victims in need of medicines, beds||Long queues are nothing new in India . But the serpentine queues that we see today, for hospital admissions, for oxygen cylinders, for Remdesivir, for Covid-19 test, for test results, for the cremation and burial of the dead are very different from the routine queues that we are used to. The anxiety, fear, despair and the sorrow that one sees on the faces of those in the queue, bring home the failure of the administration at all levels, to protect the citizens/consumers during the biggest medical emergency that we have faced in the country in recent times.The desperate scramble for hospital beds, exploitative prices at private hospitals, severe shortage of sanitizers and masks and the consequent blackmarketing of these essential goods, were all part of the first phase of Covid-19 last year. There were also instances of stockpiling and overpricing of medical oxygen and essential drugs used for prevention and treatment of Covid-19, including Remdesivir.Given that experience and the exponential rise in the number of cases in this second wave, the governments at the centre as well as in the states should have anticipated severe shortages and the consequent exploitation of consumers and taken adequate measures well in time to not only augment supplies of all essential medicines and medical equipment , but also prevent hoarding and black marketing. In the absence of such measures, consumers today have to beg for hospital beds, Remdesivir, oxygen cylinders, plasma, ventilators, Covid tests and the results of the tests. They are also exposed to racketeers in the garb of drug distributors, chemists, ward boys, nurses and even doctors, selling Remdesivir at five to ten times its maximum retail price. When demand spikes and goods become scarce, black marketers and hoarders invariably spring into action to exploit the most vulnerable - the consumer. This is not a new phenomenon and there are several laws to help the government deal with such emergent situations. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, for example, gives the government sweeping powers to ramp up production, regulate distribution, sale and even the price of goods declared as ‘essential’ in public interest.. The Prevention of Blackmarketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980, even provides for preventive detention. Similarly, Clause 26 of the Drugs (Prices Control) Order says, “No person shall sell any formulation to any consumer at a price exceeding the price specified in the current price list or price indicated on the label of the container or pack thereof, whichever is less.” Violation can invite imprisonment up to seven years and fine. There are also other laws like the Disaster Management Act, the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and the Indian Penal code to protect consumer interest in these situations. Yet, consumers are being forced to run from pillar to post for life saving medicines and medical equipment and having to pay exorbitant prices for their procurement. The State has surely let the consumers down in these difficult times. During the first wave, despite the fact that we were dealing with a new, unknown enemy, we managed to overcome the difficulties and eventually emerged victorious, because of quick interventions by the State. This time, the previous experience and the lessons learnt from last year, should have helped us deal with this crisis even better. But that has not happened. In fact, the superspreader events like the election rallies and the Kumbh Mela made one wonder whether the government was even aware that we were in the midst of a raging Covid pandemic.At least now, the governments at the centre and the states need to come together and devote all their resources to overcome this medical emergency. Experts warn that this wave will peak only in mid or late May-that means we are yet to see the worst of this. So only emergency measures implemented on a war footing can save the country. It’s not an easy task at this late stage, but not impossible. Consumers in the meanwhile need to be more responsible --- wear a three layered face mask and a shield too to be on the safer side and most important of all, shun all gatherings ----political, religious, social and cultural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-may-enforce-consumer-laws-to-protect-covid-victims-in-need-of-medicines-beds-101618827331920.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||55-year-old Russian man found dead in Agra hotel||A Russian man was found dead inside a hotel in Uttar Pradesh's Agra on Monday, police said.The deceased was identified as Filippov Oleg from Moscow, Russia. He was about 55 years old, they said.Prima facie, it appears that he died due to a cardiac arrest or brain haemorrhage, Sadar Circle Officer Rajeev Kumar told PTI.The incident came to light when Oleg's friend called him in the morning but did not get any response, the officer said.Consequently, the hotel staff informed the police following which a team rushed to the hotel and broke open the door.Oleg's body was found lying in the washroom, Kumar said.The body was sent to Sarojini Naidu Medical College for postmortem, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/55yearold-russian-man-found-dead-in-agra-hotel-101618825959066.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to ply with 50% seating capacity during Covid-19 lockdown. Check other transport-related guidelines||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day Covid-19 lockdown as an emergency measure in the national capital, in the wake of the worrying surge in coronavirus disease cases. Except those associated with essential services and emergency response, all movement will fall under appropriate restrictions issued by the Delhi government in this regard. Public transport, too, has been allowed to run, albeit with a few curbs in place. While the Delhi Metro and public buses have been allowed to ply with half their total seating capacity, there are specific passenger limits for taxis, app-based cab services, autos, and e-rickshaws.Also Read: Covid-19: 6-day lockdown in Delhi till next Monday, announces CM Arvind KejriwalHere's all you need to know about the public transport facilities in Delhi that will be available during this six-day-long lockdown, which remains in effect from 10pm on Monday (April 19) till 5am on April 26 (next Monday).• The Delhi Metro will remain operational, but with not more than 50% of its total seating capacity. During peak hours in the morning from 8am to 10am and in the evening from 5pm to 7pm, metro rail services in the national capital will be available with a headway (frequency) of 30 minutes. Meanwhile, for the rest of the day, metro rail services across the network will be available with a frequency of 60 minutes only, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said. Services during this period can only be availed by people exempted to travel during the lockdown, on the production of their valid identity cards.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi from tonight. Here's what remains exempt• Public buses, including those operating under the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS), and the feeder bus services operated by the Delhi metro rail network, will be allowed with 50% of their seating capacity.• Autos, e-rickshaws, taxis, cabs, 'Gramin Sewa' and 'Phat-Phat Sewa' can all carry up to a maximum of two passengers. Maxi cab and RTVs can carry up to five and 11 passengers, respectively. The passengers won’t be allowed to stand, as per the protocols prescribed by the Delhi government.• The inter-state and intra-state movement will be allowed, and so will the transportation of essential goods. No separate permission or e-pass shall be required for such movements, the government order detailed. Passengers coming from and going to airports, railway stations, and inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) shall be allowed to travel, provided they are able to produce valid tickets.Delhi has been witnessing an exponential rise in coronavirus cases over the past week. The national capital on Sunday recorded its biggest daily jump in Covid-19 tally, with 25,462 fresh cases and a high positivity rate of 29.74% -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-ply-with-50-seating-during-lockdown-all-you-need-to-know-101618820724280.html
19-04-2021||Jaipur||Situation very dangerous, restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19 threat in Rajasthan: CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the "lockdown-like restrictions" imposed in the state are meant to control the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths and not create panic among people, including labourers.He said the situation was “very alarming and dangerous” and the decision to impose the restrictions was taken after a cabinet and a review meeting."The new guidelines and provisions issued last night are aimed at containing the steep surge in positive cases and deaths. At the same time, we have ensured that there is no panic among the labourers,” Gehlot told PTI.After the state registered a record single-day spike of 10,262 coronavirus positive cases and 42 deaths on Sunday, the government late night issued an order extending the weekend curfew, which was earlier scheduled to be implemented from Friday evening to Monday morning.Called the 'Public Discipline Fortnight', the curfew came into force on Monday morning and will continue till May 3.“We are in a dangerous situation and everyone must follow the guidelines and adopt Covid appropriate behavior," Gehlot said.The chief minister said the complete lockdown last year created panic among the labourers. Today, the state government has announced balanced guidelines with restrictions as well as exemptions, he added.As per the guidelines issued by principal secretary home Abhay Kumar, all private offices, select government offices, non-essential business establishments and markets will remain closed.Industrial units and construction sites where labourers are employed will be allowed to function so that migration could be stopped, it said.MGNREGA workers, cold storage and warehousing services, home delivery by restaurants, sweet shops, people associated with stock exchange, wedding activities, people going for vaccination, ration shops, procurement of Rabi crops on MSP, food and grocery shops, fruits, vegetable and milk vendors, people going to bus stands, railway stations and airports and all other essential services and departments related to essential and emergency services will be exempted from restrictions, the order said.“We have called it 'Public Discipline Fortnight' because self-discipline is very important in the fight against coronavirus. Everyone should strictly adhere to the guidelines and mandatorily wear a face mask in proper manner and maintain social distancing,” Gehlot said.Currently, the state has 67,135 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/situation-very-dangerous-restrictions-imposed-to-combat-covid-19-threat-in-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-101618823547226.html
19-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka health minister indicates at strict Covid-19 control measures as daily new infections surge||Amid a spike in Covid cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Monday while indicating tough control measures, said lockdown is not the only solution and also conceded that Bengaluru city is witnessing a shortage of ICU beds.The Minister said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who will on Monday be attending the meeting with MLAs and Ministers from Bengaluru, virtually from the hospital where he is undergoing treatment for Covid, will also be holding a meeting with leaders of opposition parties Tuesday to gather their opinion on the measures to be taken in the state."In Bengaluru, there is an increase in infections, when infections increase there will be shortage of beds at hospitals. More than hospital beds, we are seeing a shortage of ICU beds," Sudhakar said.Speaking to reporters here ahead of the crucial meeting with legislators and Ministers from the city, he said, we will discuss on how to bring it under control and measures to be taken in this regard."Giving treatment is one part of it, we will also have to control the spike in infections and bring it down, for that we will have to certainly impose restrictions on some activities. We will have to think in that direction and take advice from everyone," he added.Chief Minister Yediyurappa who is currently undergoing treatment for Covid at a private hospital, will be attending the meeting virtually, his office said in a statement.Noting that the suggestions given by the state's Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid with scientific inputs will be crucial, Sudhakar said, keeping all these aspects in mind the government will take a decision.Responding to a question on lockdown, he said, "the term lockdown is getting publicity, the question before us is what kind of strict measures should be taken to bring things under control...we should have clarity on it. Lockdown is not the only solution."People are thinking about normal life being affected, but many lives are getting lost and saving lives is the priority of the government, he said, adding "so we will discuss about the measure to be taken at the meeting today, and tomorrow Chief Minister will be talking to leaders of opposition parties via video conference, following which we will come to a final decision."Not giving clarity on whether tough measures will be announced Monday, the Minister said, "it can't be said now itself, may be measures for Bengaluru will be announced today or as there is meeting with leaders of opposition parties tomorrow, after getting inputs from there and discussing with Ministers, officials and TAC, a decision may be announced."The meeting with leaders of opposition parties that was scheduled for Sunday was cancelled after Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid.The state had on Sunday reported the biggest ever spike of 19,067 new Covid cases and 81 deaths taking the total number infections to 11,61,065 and the toll to 13,351.The total number of active cases stood at 1,33,543.Out of the 19,067 new cases on Sunday, 12,793 were from Bengaluru alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-health-minister-indicates-at-strict-covid-19-control-measures-as-daily-new-infections-surge-101618821303816.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Can I walk my pet? Will I be allowed to attend a wedding?Delhi curfew FAQs answered||The Delhi government has announced a week-long curfew from 10pm Monday till early April 26 morning, senior officials privy to the development said. The announcement came in the wake of Delhi recording 25,462 Covid-19 cases and 161 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in Delhi to 74,941, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Centre for more hospital beds, adding that the shortage of oxygen supply in the Capital was now an “emergency”.What’s the new announcement?A week-long curfew will be imposed in Delhi starting 10pm on April 19 (Monday), till 5am on April 26 (Monday), wherein only people engaged in essential services will be allowed to commute. Will I be fined if I don’t follow the order?In case you violate the instructions, you shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws.What essential services will be allowed?Shops dealing with foods, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment; banks, insurance offices and ATMs; print and electronic media; telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services, IT and IT-enabled services will be open. Delivery of all essential goods including foods, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce is allowed. Those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request. Movement on foot to be allowed for essential services, even without e-pass.Can I go to a shopping mall/cinema hall/theatre/gym/restaurant?No. Shopping malls, gyms, spas, auditoriums and dine-in services at restaurants are shut on all days until further notice. Only shops selling essential goods will be open. Also Read | Only take up urgent cases via video conferencing: Delhi HC to district courtsIs my domestic help allowed to come to work?The order does not explicitly mention domestic help, but just like last year’s national lockdown, they may be stopped because they are not essential workers. They will also not be allowed on public transport. Am I allowed to travel for non-essential activities within the city?You are not allowed to travel for non-essential activities within the city.Will e-passes be needed, or will identity cards work?Government officials, healthcare and frontline workers, diplomats and journalists will need to produce identity cards; those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.If I need an e-pass, where do I get one?E-passes can be obtained by applying on the website www.delhi.gov.in.Can I go jogging/walking/cycling on the road/in a park? If I go, will I be fined?No, you can’t step out, except for essential services. Can I walk my pet?Yes, if it is extremely urgent, but only within your residential colony. You may be questioned, though.Am I allowed to visit a friend?No. The idea is to keep people indoors and reduce human interaction as much as possible.Can I drive to friend’s place in a private vehicle?No. The idea is to keep people indoors and reduce human interaction as much as possible.If petrol and diesel pumps are operational, can I go to fill fuel?Only for essential work and medical emergencies, this can be allowed.Can I order food online or directly from restaurants?Yes.Can I eat at a food stall on the roadside?No, you can’t.Can I visit a weekly market?No, all markets will be shut, except for shops selling essential goods.If I place an order on an e-commerce website, can it be delivered?Yes, if the delivery agent has an e-pass, (s)he will be allowed to commute. But most websites are accepting orders only for essential goods.What if I have to attend a wedding?For weddings, you will need to provide a soft or hard copy of the invitation, or an e-pass. But only if you are one of the 50 guests invited to the wedding. Can I call a plumber/carpenter/electrician/cleaner/pest control/repairman?No. Can I buy alcohol or tobacco products? No.Can I visit monuments or public spaces?No, public spaces such as parks and tourist spots, including Qutub Minar or India Gate, will be closed.What if I have to travel to/from the airport or a railway station or an ISBT?You can commute, but you will need to produce an e-pass or tickets upon request.Now that vaccination has been opened 24x7, what if I need to get the jab?You will need an I-Card to travel to the vaccination centre.What if I need to go to a hospital?Ambulances can ferry patients; if you are feeling sick, you can travel to meet a doctor, even if you are not carrying a relevant document. You might be questioned. But, if your cause is genuine, you will be allowed.Can I use public transport?No, unless you are engaged in an essential service.What if I need to travel outside Delhi? Can I travel on an interstate bus?Yes, movement of interstate buses is allowed. However, you will need an e-pass or a valid ticket to travel to the ISBT you are riding your bus from. There is no restriction on interstate movement and transportation of essential and non-essential goods.Can I get a ride on an app-based cab aggregator?You can, if you are travelling for an essential service or have arrived in the city via train, airplane, etc. In that case, you need to have a valid e-pass or travel ticket.Can I hail an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw?You can, if you are commuting via an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw for essential services or are going to get vaccinated against Covid-19 (with an e-pass) or for medical treatment. Can I go to a temple, mosque, church or gurdwara?No, religious places will be open but no visitors will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-i-walk-my-pet-will-i-be-allowed-to-attend-a-wedding-delhi-curfew-faqs-answered-101618822891084.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||Urge Govt to pay special attention on keeping supply of oxygen smooth: Mayawati||Considering the inadequate supply of Remdesivir and medical oxygen for treating Covid-10 patients, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Chief Mayawati on Monday requested Central government to give special attention on keeping the supply of medical oxygen smooth and also import the medicines and oxygen so that supply is not disrupted in the hospitals."In view of the acute shortage of coronavirus vaccine and oxygen in hospitals in various states of the country, I request the Central government to pay special attention on priority. For this if the vaccines need to be imported, the Centre should do it," she said in a tweet.The former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh also appealed people to follow Covid protocol issued by state governments."Simultaneously, I request people to strictly adhere to Covid guideline issued by state governments so that the outbreak of the virus can be prevented," she said."Apart from it, the coronavirus is now affecting the youth as well, which is becoming a matter of concern. Therefore, the BSP demands the Central government that it should reconsider the age limit for vaccination as soon as possible," the leader demanded.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting to review the status of preparedness to handle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Prime Minister directed officials that use of Remdesivir and other medicines must be in accordance with approved medical guidelines and their misuse and black marketing must be strictly curbed.On the issue of supply of medical oxygen, the Prime Minister directed that the installation of approved medical oxygen plants should be sped up. 162 PSA Oxygen plants are being installed in 32 States/UTs from PM CARES. The officers informed that 1 lakh cylinders are being procured and they will be supplied to states soon. The officers briefed the PM that they are in constant supply with 12 high burden states in assessing the current and future requirement of medical oxygen.However, she earlier lauded the Centre's move to organise the four-day-long 'Tika Utsav', a special vaccination drive launched on April 11, to ramp up inoculations against the coronavirus disease. However, she suggested that it would have been better if the Centre had vaccinated the poor for free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/urge-govt-to-pay-special-attention-on-keeping-supply-of-oxygen-smooth-mayawati-101618821855603.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||After lockdown announcement in Delhi, hundreds queue up outside alcohol shops||As soon as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10pm on Monday till 5am the next Monday amid staggering cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), long queues were seen outside liquor shops in the national capital. News agency ANI tweeted pictures of liquor shops in Gole Market and Khan Market areas of Delhi showing people buying alcohol. "Injections will not help but alcohol will. All those who drink will be safe [from the coronavirus disease] Medicines won’t help us but pegs will,” a woman was heard saying in Hindi in a video tweeted by ANI outside a shop.#WATCH Delhi: A woman, who has come to purchase liquor, at a shop in Shivpuri Geeta Colony, says, "...Injection fayda nahi karega, ye alcohol fayda karegi...Mujhe dawaion se asar nahi hoga, peg se asar hoga..." pic.twitter.com/iat5N9vdFZA day after Delhi, which is the worst-hit city in India and reported more than 25,500 Covid-19 cases on Sunday with almost one-third of those tested returning positive coronavirus results, Kejriwal said the Capital’s health system is under severe strain and reached its limit. "If we don't impose a lockdown now, we will be looking at a bigger disaster. From tonight there will be a lockdown until next Monday… The lockdown doesn't end the pandemic but just slows it. We will use this week-long lockdown to improve our healthcare," he said.Delhi: People gather in large numbers outside a liquor shop in Khan Market; social distancing norms flouted. Lockdown to be imposed in the national capital from 10pm tonight to 6am next Monday (26th April). pic.twitter.com/Fq1iNGJo1dAlso read | Lockdown in Delhi from tonight. Here's what remains exemptKejriwal said in a televised address that businesses would be shut and movement of people will be limited to those carrying out essential services. The Delhi government issued orders for curfew, the saying private offices will be asked to adopt work from home to avoid increased physical interaction and that officials of central government, its autonomous and subordinate offices and PSUs will be allowed on production of valid identity card.Also watch | Delhi to lock down for a week in wake of Covid crisis: Arvind KejriwalAll private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedical, etc. and other hospital services are also exempt from the curfew. Pregnant women, patients along with attendant, those going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, travellers to and from airports, railway and bus stations will be allowed to travel if they have a valid I-card, doctor's prescription, medical papers and ticket, the order on the curfew said. Students will be allowed to appear in examinations on production of valid admit card as will staff deployed for exam duties. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement transportation of essential goods. No separate permission/e-pass will be required for such movements,” it added.Also read | 'It's a short lockdown, don't leave Delhi': Kejriwal's appeal to migrant workers“Shops dealing with food, groceries, fruits & vegetables, dairy & milk booths, meat & fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, opticians, medicines and medical equipments, news papers distribution. Banks, Insurance offices and ATMs, SEBI/ Stock related offices, Telecommunications. Internet services. Broadcasting and Cable services, IT and IT enabled services,” it also said.Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases as the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent. It also reported 161 deaths due to the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours. There were 24,375 Covid-19 cases and 167 deaths in the city on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-lockdown-announcement-in-delhi-hundreds-queue-up-outside-alcohol-shops-101618819906164.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 50% rise in Covid cases in a week||Himachal Pradesh recorded a total of 11,133 Covid-19 cases in the past fortnight. In the week from April 12 to 18, the state recorded 6,689 infections, a rise of 50%, as compared to 4,444 cases recorded in the preceding week. Also read: Covid-19: 6-day lockdown in Delhi till next Monday, announces CM Arvind KejriwalDuring the past week, the state also recorded the highest single-day spike ever of 1,395 cases on Saturday. The death toll also shot up by 66%. The state recorded 75 deaths in the past seven days, while in the preceding week 45 people died of the contagion. The total Covid-19 death count stands at 1,177. The recovery rate in the state has come down to 87%. It was over 98% in February. 49 staff, students test positive in Pinegrove School There is also no let-up in the number f students and staff catching the infection in boarding schools. As many as 49 staff members and students of Pinegrove School at Dharampur in Solan district, tested positive on Sunday. The total tally of positive cases of the school’s campuses, junior and senior wing, has crossed 150. Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said both the campuses have been declared containment zones. “Students as young as seven years old are among the infected,” he said. Shimla, Kangra among worst-hit districts Till April 18, the state recorded 76,375 Covid-19 cases. The second wave has hit all 12 districts with Kangra, Solan, Hamipur, Shimla and Mandi among the worst hit. The tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti have also seen outbreaks. Fifty-six people have tested positive in Shimla district since Sunday morning. Indira Gandhi Medical College principal Rajneesh Pathania too has tested positive. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 12,255 cases followed by Kangra with 12,184 cases and Mandi 11,763 cases. Solan has 9,622 infections, Una 5,400, Kullu 5,052, Sirmaur 4,877, Hamirpur 4,638, Bilaspur 3,998, Chamba, 3,528, Lahaul-Spiti 1,554 and Kinnaur 1,504.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-50-rise-in-covid-cases-in-a-week-101618817730911.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||'It's a short lockdown, don't leave Delhi': Kejriwal's appeal to migrant workers||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day Covid-19 lockdown from 10pm on April 19 till 5am on April 26 and urged migrant workers to not leave the national capital during this period. Kejriwal pointed out that its duration being only six days, the present lockdown was a relatively "short" one, and promised that the government will "take care" of the migrant workers through this crisis. He also assured that the Delhi government will be working hard to ensure adequate medical facilities in the national capital and remained hopeful that the government won't need to extend the current lockdown any further.'I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for six days. Don't leave Delhi and go. I am very hopeful and that we won't need to further extend the lockdown. The government will take care of you," news agency ANI quoted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as saying. #WATCH | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal appeals to the migrant labourers. He says, "I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for 6 days. Don't leave Delhi & go. I'm very hopeful that we won't need to further extend the lockdown...Govt will take care of you." pic.twitter.com/OsFCytHCNuLockdown-like measures introduced by several state governments usually spell a loss of livelihood for many migrant workers working in India’s major cities. These migrant workers, who form an essential part of any city’s economy, faced difficulties when the Centre imposed its first lockdown in 2020 following the first wave of Covid-19. Most of them were unable to find transport and had to walk home in desperation and many died due to exertion and lack of food.Also Read: Weekend curfews, restrictions across states spell bad news for migrant workersFearing a rerun of the 2020 situation, migrant workers have once again started returning to their native places this year, afraid that the Covid-19 situation may turn from bad to worse and that they may lose their jobs amid the lockdown like last year. “I worked at a food processing plant in Bahadurgarh, Haryana. There was very little work, so I decided to return home and help my family in the fields. If the Covid-19 cases go down, I will go back,” 38-year-old Ravindra Pal Singh, a resident of Basti district, told the Hindustan Times while boarding a train home from New Delhi railway station last week. While several state governments have decided to test migrant workers, they are yet to open quarantine centres and deploy rural health infrastructure personnel to track the returnees.Also Read: Fear of 2020 rerun grips Delhi's migrants amid Covid-19 infection spikeHundreds of migrant workers on Sunday were stranded in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur as the government’s Sunday lockdowns affected public transport. The situation is the same across India, where the recent spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have cast its shadow on trade and business with migrant workers bearing the brunt of strict restrictions put in place by states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/its-a-short-lockdown-don-t-leave-delhi-kejriwal-s-appeal-to-migrant-workers-101618816266629.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt officers to monitor sale, distribution of remdesivir, oxygen||The Delhi government has set up two helplines to aid Covid-19 patients in getting necessary medicines for treatment. The Karkardooma helpline (011-22393705) will help people living in east, northeast, south, central, New Delhi, and north districts and the Lawrence Road helpline (9494129281, 9000098558) will help people from northwest, southwest, and west districts. “Every attempt is being made to make available Covid management drugs in all major hospitals,” said the order by Dr AK Nasa, head of Delhi’s drug control office. The order mentions company helplines available in public domain which can be contacted with details of hospitalisation of the patients, prescription, Covid-19 positive report, and aadhar card. In addition, all the drug inspectors in Delhi have been directed to check the movement of remdesivir, a shortage of which has been reported due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The inspectors will have to monitor the order by supply depot, and that details of sale and distribution are properly maintained. Also Read | India to see nationwide lockdown again due to Covid-19? Govt says noThey will also have to check the stock and sales of medicines such as Tocilizumab (given to prevent cytokine storm which is excessive immune response that destroys the organs and tissues) and Favipiravir (used to treat milder, non-hospitalised Covid-19 patients)The Delhi government’s decision comes amid reports of black-marketeering of antiviral drug remdesivir across India. Country’s production of the drug being used in treating Covid-19 patients, has gone up from 2.8 million to 4.1 million vials per month during the past week, the Centre announced on Friday. Seven companies have slashed their prices for the same. Meanwhile, to ensure proper availability of oxygen, the Delhi government has deputed nine of its officers with oxygen manufacturing plants, medical oxygen cylinder, and liquid medical oxygen suppliers to oversee the procurement and distribution to hospitals and nursing homes. On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said oxygen has become an emergency. “Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-officers-to-monitor-sale-distribution-of-remdesivir-oxygen-101618816230613.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi from tonight. Here's what remains exempt||In view of the worrying surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day lockdown, to be imposed in the city from 10pm on April 19 to 5am on April 26 (next Monday). Not unlike the earlier orders that were in effect from 10pm last Friday till 6am on Monday morning, all gatherings at public places and movement as specified under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) shall remain prohibited. Essential services and emergency response personnel shall be exempted from the restrictions, according to the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). This time, however, the order specified that government offices will be allowed to function, while all private offices shall be required to direct their employees to work from home during the Covid-19 lockdown.Also Read: Delhi govt announces curfew from tonight till next Monday morningAlso Read: Delhi under curfew till next Monday: How to apply for e-passDelhi is witnessing an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. The national capital on Sunday recorded its biggest daily jump in Covid-19 tally, with 25,462 fresh cases and a high positivity rate of 29.74% -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive.Here's what remains exempt from the restrictions, and what doesn't in the national capital till at least next Monday:1. Police, civil defence, prisons, home guards, fire and emergency services personnel are allowed to carry on their duties as these fall under 'essential services' allowed during the Covid-19 lockdown. They will, however, need to produce valid identity cards.2. Judicial officials, judges, advocates, and lawyers, of the Delhi high court as well as the district courts, may continue their services on the production of valid ID cards, photo entry passes, or permission letters issued by the court administration.3. Emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as private hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, medicinal clinics, testing laboratories, pharmacies, medical oxygen suppliers and other associated services shall remain functional with valid identity cards on display. Medical and health-related services such as the supply of medical instruments and consumables, sanitation and security shall also remain open. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics shall be allowed to carry on with their duties.4. Pregnant women and patients, if they are travelling to get medical services, shall be allowed, given they produce valid identity cards, doctor's prescription, or medical papers. Beneficiaries travelling for Covid-19 vaccination shall be allowed to do so on the production of valid ID proof.5. Essential facilities in Delhi such as groceries, dairies, shops selling fruits and vegetables, bakeries, and confectionaries shall also remain open. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.6. Banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, telecommunication internet, broadcasting, IT and cable-related services shall be allowed to function. E-commerce delivery services shall be allowed, on condition of adherence to proper protocol.7. Power generation, water supply, distribution staff, people associated with cold storage services, private security services shall be allowed. Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets remain open. The staff of production units of services requiring a continuous process shall be allowed to carry on with their work.8. Central government officials and personnel associated with the autonomous or subordinate offices and PSUs of the central government will be allowed to travel, given they produce valid ID cards. Offices of GNCT of Delhi, associated autonomous bodies and corporations shall remain closed, however, except those involved in essential and emergency services. Officials functioning in the offices of diplomats of various countries as well as persons holding any constitutional post shall be allowed to travel. Private offices and establishments not listed above shall remain closed during the Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi, and will be required to direct all of their employees to work from home.9. Public transport facilities, such as Delhi Metro and public buses will be allowed with 50% seating capacity. Autos, e-rickshaws, taxis, and app-based cabs can carry can up to a maximum of 2 passengers. Maxi cab and RTVs can carry up to five and 11 passengers, respectively. No standing passenger shall be allowed, as per the protocols prescribed by the Delhi government.10. Weddings that have already been planned and funerals shall be allowed to proceed, but with not more than 50 invitees and only with relevant curfew passes issued by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-in-delhi-from-tonight-here-s-what-remains-exempt-101618813218483.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 6-day lockdown in Delhi till next Monday, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day lockdown in the Capital, saying harsh measures will have to be taken to prevent a collapse of the city’s health system. Kejriwal said Delhi is facing the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic and pointed out that 25,000 Covid-19 cases have been reported.Also Read | Delhi enters lockdown mode for a week to fight Covid-19: All you need to knowThe lockdown, he said, will come into effect at 10pm on Monday, and be in force till 5am next Monday.Also Read | Lockdown in Delhi amid Covid-19 crisis: Are private offices allowed to open?"Delhi's health system has reached its limits. I don't say that the system has collapsed but it has reached its limits,” Kejriwal said in a press briefing. The chief minister reiterated that Delhi was facing fourth wave of the pandemic, remarking that the city's health system has reached its limits. "I won't say that the health system has collapsed but it has reached its limits," he said.Also Read | Delhi under curfew till next Monday: How to apply for e-passTalking about the latest rise in the city's Covid-19 tally, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said that nearly 23,500 fresh infections were recorded in the previous 24 hours as compared to more than 25,000 cases in the 24 hours before that, Delhi's highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic.Appealing to migrant workers, he said, "I'm appealing you with folded hands, it's just a short, six-day lockdown. Don't leave Delhi and go. I'm very hopeful that we won't need to extend the lockdown anymore. The Delhi government will take care of you."Also Read | 'It's a short lockdown, don't leave Delhi': Kejriwal's appeal to migrant workersThanking the Central government for its help, the chief minister said, "In the next six days, we will make more arrangements in Delhi. The lockdown period will be used to arrange oxygen, medicine. I request everyone to follow the guideline."According to a curfew order issued by the Delhi government, essential services, food services, medical services will continue, while weddings and funerals will be allowed only with a gathering of only 50 and 20 people respectively. Also, private medical personnel will be exempted on production of valid ID cards.Also Read | Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi from tonight. Here's what remains exemptThose travelling from or going to airport, railway stations and bus stands will be allowed to move on displaying a valid ticket, while media personnel will have to display their valid ID cards. There will be no restrictions on movement of essential goods, whether inter-state or intra-state. Religious places can also open but no visitors will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-6-day-lockdown-in-delhi-till-next-monday-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101618815409269.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||25 students test positive at Central University of Punjab in Bathinda||Central University of Punjab (CUP) in Bathinda was declared a micro-containment zone by the district administration on Monday after 25 students tested positive for Covid-19. University sources said all students are stable. Also read: Delhi govt announces curfew from tonight till next Monday morningCivil surgeon TS Dhillon said the infected students are hostellers and belong to different states. He said details of each patient are being compiled for contact tracing and further treatment. Registrar Dr KPS Mundra said the campus has been sealed. “The medical protocol is being followed and students are being taken care of. Testing and tracing will be undertaken by the health authorities,” he said. Mansa DC tests positive, in home quarantine Meanwhile, Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal tested positive on Sunday. Mansa civil surgeon Sukhwinder Singh said the DC is asymptomatic and in home quarantine. On Sunday, the DC had visited two public events where residents were administered Covid vaccines. “Participants at both camps were alerted on Sunday night and they have been asked to stay indoors. Samples of attendees will be taken,” the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-students-test-positive-at-central-university-of-punjab-in-bathinda-101618815510790.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Fire in a sanitiser company in Maharashtra’s Thane doused in 6 hours||A major fire broke out in a sanitiser company at Asangaon township in Maharashtra’s Thane district around 12.15 am on Monday. The blaze at the firm, located behind a hotel near Mumbai–Nashik highway, was doused more than six hours later around 6.30 am. The company premises were burnt completely; however, no one was injured in the incident, said fire department officials.Initially two fire tenders from Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire brigade, one fire tender from Bhiwandi City Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) and two private water tankers were rushed to the spot. But since the blaze kept spreading, around 2.40 am, another fire tender was called from Thane’s Balkum fire brigade to help in the fire fighting operation.“The cooling process is still on. The fire fighters managed to douse the blaze in 6 hours. Entire company has been charred in the incident,” said a fire official from the KDMC fire brigade. The cause of the fire is not known yet, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-in-a-sanitiser-company-in-maharashtra-s-thane-doused-in-6-hours-101618815030768.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi enters lockdown mode for a week to fight Covid-19: All you need to know||Delhi, which is battling the coronavirus crisis, will impose a week-long curfew starting Monday night, officials confirmed. Delhi is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic and has recorded more than 100,000 cases in the last five days.The decision was announced shortly after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Monday morning, a day after the city-state saw 25,462 cases of Covid-19.Here is all you need to know about the curfew in Delhi:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-enters-curfew-mode-for-a-week-to-fight-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-101618813051060.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Only take up urgent cases via video conferencing: Delhi HC to district courts amid Covid-19 surge||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the Delhi high court on Monday directed that all judicial officers at district courts in the city must take up only the urgent cases of their respective courts and the proceedings must be held only through video conferencing.The Delhi high court order, signed by registrar general Manoj Jain, further ordered that all matters listed before the Delhi district courts be adjourned en bloc by the respective courts. The information in this regard shall be uploaded on the websites of the Delhi district courts, the order stated.Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 infection tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74% -- meaning almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive. The Arvind Kejriwal-led government has deployed two teams of officers to monitor procurement and supply of oxygen and the Remdesivir drug amid a shortage of both following an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital.The Delhi high court circular with regard to the functioning of the district courts comes a day after the high court issued a similar order on Sunday regarding its own functioning. All Delhi high court benches will only take up "extremely urgent matters" filed this year from April 19, the order stated.Earlier on April 8, the Delhi high court had decided that from April 9 to April 23 it will take up matters "through virtual mode only" in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. A similar direction was issued to the district courts also on April 8. The circular issued on Sunday comes "in continuation" of the court's office order dated April 8, 2021.Notably, the functioning of the high court and district courts was restricted from March 25 last year, and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of Covid-19. Partial physical hearings were resumed in September last year and complete physical hearings were restarted in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-take-up-urgent-cases-via-video-conferencing-delhi-hc-to-district-courts-101618809828768.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to impose week-long curfew from tonight||The Delhi government will impose a six-day curfew in the national Capital from 10pm tonight till 5am on April 26 to curb the spread of Covid-19 as the city reported around 23,500 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. Addressing a press conference, the chief minister said Delhi’s health infrastructure has been pushed to its limit with nearly 25,000 Covid-19 cases being reported every day. He said a lockdown at this time is required not just to break the chain of the fast spreading infection, but also to augment health infrastructure on a large scale including beds, oxygen supply and life saving drugs.“Delhi’s health system is now unable to take in more patients. It is now necessary to impose a lockdown in Delhi from 10 pm today to 5 am on Monday (April 26). Essential services will remain open, food and medicine shops will be allowed to operate, weddings will be limited to 50 guests. A detailed order will be released soon,” he said. The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting held between Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier in the day. Delhi already had witnessed a weekend lockdown and a daily night curfew from 10pm to 5am. To prevent an exodus of migrant workers like last year, Kejriwal appealed to all such workers to stay where they are. “I am requesting all migrant workers with folded hands to stay where they are. This is a small lockdown. It is just a matter of six days. If you leave, you’ll waste your time, energy and money in going and coming back only. I am there for you. We will take good care of you all. Please do not leave the city. I am hoping we will not need to extend this lockdown any further if all of you operate with us,” he said. Senior officials in the L-G office said Baijal has asked officials to strictly address the issue of migrant workers who might start congregating at transit points across the city to once again leave for their home states. The order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on behalf of the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) stated: “The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a very sharp increase in Covid-19 cases along with very high positivity rate over the last few days and therefore, it is felt that in order to contain the fast spread of the virus, a curfew needs to be imposed in the territory of NCT of Delhi, except for essential activities/services, as an emergency measure, in order to break the transmission chain of Covid-19 virus and for the overall well being and safety of the people of Delhi.” The order stated that all offices -- Delhi government and the private ones -- except those falling under the exempted category (essential services) will remain shut during the six-day lockdown.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi borders“Except for those exempted/allowed movements and activities, all other private offices/establishments, shops, shopping centres, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema and theatres, restaurant and bars, auditoriums/assembly halls, entertainment/amusement/water parks, public parks and gardens, sports complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons, beauty parlours, swimming pools (except being used for training of sports persons for national or international events), construction activities (except where labourer are residing on site), etc., shall remain closed during the curfew,” read the order. Central government and judicial officials, diplomats, journalists and doctors will be allowed to travel during the lockdown on production of a valid identity card. People coming from or going to airports, railway stations or interstate bus terminals will be allowed on production of a valid ticket. But all other workers -- grocery shop staff, internet workers, bank staff, delivery personnel, petrol pump workers, private security staff, among others -- and the staff operating religious places in the city will need to show a valid curfew pass to be allowed to travel. The order clarifies that religious places will remain open but no visitors will be allowed. Marriages with 50 people will be permitted by showing wedding cards and funerals with 20 persons. Liquor shops will be shut.Although the order does not specifically mention domestic helpers, it is advised that they are asked to not come if they live in far-off places as they might be prosecuted by the police. People going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination will be allowed to travel with valid ID cards. People feeling sick or going for scheduled medical treatment will be able to travel on presenting a valid ID card or medical papers or a doctor’s prescription.The DDMA reiterated that public transport will be allowed only for those engaged in essential services. The order also imposed fresh restrictions on the passenger capacity in other modes of public transport such as auto-rickshaws and cabs. Auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, gramin sewa and phat phat sewa will be allowed only with two passengers in each such vehicle. Five passengers will be allowed in maxi cabs and RTVs will be allowed to carry up to 11 passengers. The Delhi Metro and state-run buses are already running at 50% of their capacity with no standing passengers allowed. Officials in the L-G office said Baijal has also reached out to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan for enhancing beds in the capital city, and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath with regard to getting more oxygen supply for Delhi.In his press conference, Kejriwal also mentioned the shortage of beds, oxygen supply and life saving drugs such remdesivir. “We have been honest and transparent while sharing Covid data with the public. We didn’t reduce tests. In fact, we have been consistent with our daily testing numbers because of which globally, hardly any city has such high tests per million as Delhi. Other states are reducing tests to reduce daily numbers. But, given the pace of the Covid surge, now we have started facing shortages. I have always been against a lockdown because it does not stop Covid, it only arrests its speed, but we will have to impose it now. So, please follow the lockdown,” he said. Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) welcomed the move but said the curbs should have been imposed earlier. BS Vohra, president of east Delhi RWAs joint front said the restrictions have been imposed when the city’s health infrastructure has collapsed. “Since the past 15 to 20 days, we have been demanding a complete lockdown in Delhi as we had sensed trouble when numbers started rising from March-end. Now, things have been delayed to such an extent that the entire system has collapsed with no beds, no ventilators, no oxygen, no medicines all over the city. The Delhi government must take extra caution on the issues which may lead to huge mortalities. It must act on a war footing to save precious human lives. RWAs of Delhi will support the government in every possible manner,” he said. On Sunday, several trader groups pitched for voluntary closing of markets and resident groups demanded a short lockdown to arrest the surge in cases and break the chain of transmission.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said the lockdown was a “much-needed” step. “The CAIT was continuously demanding a lockdown in Delhi in the wake of the rapidly increasing Covid cases. We have urged the L-G and the CM to nominate five nodal officers dividing Delhi into five zones namely, central, east, west, north and south Delhi to collaborate with CAIT team leaders for ensuring smooth passage of supply of essential goods to Delhi people. According to our estimate, each day there will be a business loss of about ₹600 crore per day in Delhi during the curfew,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, CAIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-impose-week-long-curfew-from-tonight-101618813410643.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi announces curfew from tonight till April 26||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said a lockdown will be in place from Monday night till next Monday morning, in another attempt to arrest the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital, the worst-hit city in India after Mumbai. The announcement came after chief minister Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal held a meeting with senior government officers over the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Delhi is already under a weekend curfew as well as a 10pm-5am night curfew restrictions that are in place until April 30.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said in a televised address Delhi's health system is at a tipping point and the Covid-19 situation in the national capital is critical. "If we don't impose a lockdown now, we will be looking at a bigger disaster.. After reviewing the Covid-19 situation with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal it has been decided that it is important to impose a lockdown in Delhi, tonight from 10 pm to 5am next Monday (April 26)," Kejriwal said.Also watch | Delhi to lock down for a week in wake of Covid crisis: Arvind KejriwalAs he talked about the guidelines during the lockdown, from 10pm on Monday to 5am on April 26, the chief minister said essential services will be allowed to function and weddings can be held with a gathering of only 50 people, for which passes will be issued separately.Also read | After lockdown announcement in Delhi, hundreds queue up outside alcohol shopsKejriwal also urged migrant workers to not go back to their homes as he assured them that the government will take care of them. "With folded hands, I request you to not leave the city s this is a small lockdown of six days. These days will be wasted in your travel journey, stay here. The government will take care of you. I am here, trust me," the chief minister urged. "This decision has been taken when we were left out of option, I understand due to lockdown people face losses in business, especially for poor people this period is very difficult, it is extremely difficult for daily wage workers," he added.The chief minister added he has been against lockdowns but said “it will not end coronavirus but it will stop its spread." Kejriwal assured that in this lockdown period the government will arrange more hospital beds to treat the patients. "I am thankful to Centre for the support our government is getting. We will arrange oxygen and medicines from them, will use this lockdown period for all this," he said urging people to follow the lockdown rules.Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases as the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent--almost every third sample being tested in the city is turning out to be positive for the coronavirus disease. Amid the spiralling cases, chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said Delhi is facing an "acute shortage" of oxygen and beds for Covid-19 patients and alleged that the quota of the city has been diverted to other states. The chief minister's remarks came hours after he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his help with hospital beds and immediate oxygen supply."Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi's quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL," he later tweeted. The Centre, however, dismissed Kejriwal's claims as "blatant lies" and and an official said there was no panic situation in Delhi regarding oxygen.Also read | Can I walk my pet? Will I be allowed to attend a wedding?Delhi curfew FAQs answeredIndia's tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 15-million mark with a record single-day rise of 273,810 infections and the active cases surpassed the 1.9 million mark, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-announces-curfew-from-tonight-till-next-monday-morning-101618811381815.html
19-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Palamu MP releases ₹30L to ensure oxygen, medical supply for patients||In a bid to extend his support in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, Palamu Member of Parliament (MP) VD Ram has released ₹15 lakh each for Palamu and Garhwa districts from his local development funds to ensure an adequate supply of oxygen and medicines for the treatment of in his constituency.The MP said on Sunday, “The nation is battling against the Covid-19 pandemic...this has put an enormous load on the existing health infrastructure. So, in a bid to extend my support, I have released ₹15 lakh each to Palamu and Garhwa from my local area development fund.”Ram said the fund will be used to ensure the supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injection to Covid-19 patients, besides requesting both district administrations to grant approval without delay.“If need be, I will release more funds so that needy patients do not suffer,” he said. The number of active cases in Palamu stood at 258, while the same in Garhwa was 278 till Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-palamu-mp-releases-30l-to-ensure-oxygen-medical-supply-for-patients-101618810735854.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slams BJP over alleged hoarding of Remdesivir||Targeting former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader over the alleged hoarding of Remdesivir injection and said this act by the leader who was once at a responsible position is an 'act against humanity'.Also Read | BJP, Maharashtra govt spar over Remdesivir supply"When people across the country are begging for the Remdesivir injections and struggling to somehow get a bottle of the drug to save their lives, at that time the act of hoarding by the BJP leader (former CM) who was once at a responsible position is an act against humanity," the Congress leader tweeted.जब देश के कोने-कोने से लोग रेमडेसिविर उपलब्ध कराने की गुहार लगा रहे हैं और तमाम लोग जान बचाने के लिए किसी तरह एक शीशी रेमडेसिविर जुटाने के लिए जद्दोजहद कर रहे हैं, उस समय जिम्मेदार पद पर रह चुके भाजपा नेता का रेमडेसिविर की जमाखोरी करने का कृत्य मानवता के खिलाफ अपराध है। pic.twitter.com/arIl5fTnGOShe also shared a video of over one minute in which BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis along with one others were seen arguing with the police officers.Also Read | Remdesivir excess stocking: Mumbai Police to call directors of pharma firm for inquiryMumbai Police detained Remdesivir supplier for allegedly exporting the anti-viral drug despite the ban on Saturday. But late in the evening, the BJP leader went to the police station in favour of the supplier.Fadnavis also accused Maharastra Police of harassing a Daman-based Remdesivir supplier for agreeing to supply a stock of the drug to the state on the request of BJP leaders.Also Read | BJP trying to ensure Maharashtra doesn't get Remdesivir: State minister Malik"Four days ago, we had requested Bruck Pharma to supply a stock of Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra. They said they couldn't until permissions were given. I spoke with Union Minister Mansukh Mandviya and got Food and Drug Administration (FDA)'s permission. Tonight around nine pm, the police arrested him," Fadnavis told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-slams-bjp-over-alleged-hoarding-of-remdesivir-101618809339242.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar condoles death of former Bihar minister Mewalal Choudhary||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar condoled the demise of Janata Dal (United) (JD-U) MLA and former state minister Mewalal Choudhary, said the Bihar chief minister's office (CMO) on Monday.According to the statement issued by the CMO, Nitish Kumar said that the demise of Mewalal Choudhary is saddening and it is an irreplaceable loss in the field of education and politics.His last rites will be performed with full state honours, added the statement.Former Bihar education minister and JD-U MLA Mewalal Chaudhry passed away at 4am today, party sources confirmed.The minister had tested positive for Covid-19 last week and was undergoing treatment at Paras hospital where he succumbed to the infection.Chaudhary, who was the sitting member of the legislative assembly of Bihar's Tarapur constituency, was removed as the state education minister on corruption charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-condoles-death-of-former-bihar-minister-mewalal-choudhary-101618808934120.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police commissioner tests positive for Covid-19||Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal on Monday announced that he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a post on social media, the IPS officer wrote: “Having managed to keep Covid-19 away from me for more than a year was no guarantee that it won’t bother me. Till the post-dinner walk on April 17, I had no clue what the next day would be like. But on April 18, I woke up with body-ache, a heavy head and when I tested the temperature, it was 101. So, I called for rapid antigen and RT-PCR. I was positive in the rapid test and then in RT-PCR, so began the treatment. I request all those who have come in contact with me in the past seven days to isolate themselves and get themselves tested.” Also read: India sees record surge of 273,810 Covid-19 cases as tally tops 15 millionAgrawal, who tested positive despite being vaccinated, is in home isolation. “Since I have taken both the vaccination doses, so I presume that I should be much better than the rest. Doctors have prescribed me basic medicines. I am in home isolation and hope to be alright soon,” he said. “The commissioner of police’s office, the government building where I operate from has the highest hygiene and sanitation standards. Still, I could not escape,” he said, urging people to stay safe. “Please don’t ignore your health. This virus is contracting much faster and sooner than we imagined. Shut yourself inside as much as you can, at least this April. Together we will bounce back again,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-commissioner-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618809090291.html
19-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal elections: Mamata Banerjee to discontinue poll campaigns in Kolkata in view of Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will discontinue her campaigns in Kolkata for the remaining three phases of the ongoing assembly polls in the state amidst an alarming increase in Covid-19 cases.On April 26, she will only hold a 'symbolic' meeting on the last day of campaigning in the state capital, informed Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O'Brien."Mamata Banerjee will not campaign in Kolkata anymore. Only one 'symbolic' meeting on the last day of campaigning in the city on April 26 will be held. She slashed time for all her election rallies in all districts and is now restricted to just 30 minutes," Brien said in a tweet.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has already announced the suspension of all his forthcoming public rallies in West Bengal and advised other political leaders to do the same."In view of the Covid-19 situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," tweeted the Congress leader.Last week, TMC had requested the Election Commission to club the remaining phases of the assembly elections into one in view of the intensifying Covid-19 situation. Following this, the chief electoral officer in West Bengal called an all-party meeting over adhering to Covid-19 norms during the ongoing assembly elections.The first five phases of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections have already been completed. The sixth phase of the state assembly polls is scheduled for April 22. Polling for the seventh and the eighth phase will be held on April 26 and April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.West Bengal recorded 7,713 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the state goes to 6,51,508. The active number of Covid-19 cases stands at 45,300. Meanwhile, 5,95,668 people recovered from the disease so far. The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal has reached 10,540.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-discontinue-poll-campaigns-in-kolkata-in-view-of-covid19-101618807760495.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Noted Marathi filmmaker Sumitra Bhave dies due to lung infection||Prominent Marathi film director and National Film Awards winner Sumitra Bhave passed away early Monday morning in Pune following a brief illness, her family members said.Bhave, 78, was undergoing treatment at Sahyadri hospital for lung infection and her Covid test was negative, said Sunil Sukthankar, who partnered with her for multiple film projects.“Her lung infection had spread in the last few days. She was admitted in the hospital for the past 10 days. She has been working on a project with Mohan Agashe on ‘the happy lives of old people’ until January, when her health deteriorated. The infection was irreversible,” said Sukhthankar, who spoke from the hospital.Bhave as a film director and scriptwriter handled off beat subjects that reflected in her work in collaboration with Sukthankar.Dahavi Fa, Devrai, Vastupurush, Astu and Kaasav were some of the films directed by Bhave that won critical acclaim. Vastupurush was awarded the Best Feature Film in Marathi at the 50th National Film Awards while Kaasav, that depicted the issue of depression among youngsters in relation to the life and nesting cycle of olive ridley sea turtles, was given the Best Feature Film award at the 64th National Film Awards.After her early short films, ‘Bai’ and ‘Pani’ became popular, she along with Sukthankar made the first full-length film ‘Doghi’ in 1995. Her last film ‘Dithi’ has not been released yet. Her films were nominated for international film festivals too.Bhave was born on January 12, 1943 in Pune. After graduating from Fergusson College, she got another degree in Rural Development from the Tata Institute of Sociology in Mumbai. After completing her education, Bhave worked with many social organizations for free, her associates in the film industry said. From a full-time sociologist, Sumitra Bhave accidentally turned to short films and gradually moved into full-time film production.“Besides being a film naker, she was social worker. We will miss her forever,” said Mrunal Kulkarni, Marathi actress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noted-marathi-filmmaker-sumitra-bhave-dies-due-to-lung-infection-101618807590321.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Former Bihar education minister Mewalal Choudhary dies of Covid||Former Bihar education minister and Janata Dal (United)’s sitting MLA from Tarapur assembly constituency, Mewalal Choudhary died on Monday morning due to Covid-related complications, said doctors. Choudhary, 68, breathed his last at a private hospital in Patna, where he was under treatment since last Friday.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar described the deceased legislator as a “distinguished educationist, politician and social worker” and added that his death was an irreparable loss for the education and social sectors and also for politics. The state government will hold his last rites with full state honours.Leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and JD(U) leaders too condoled Choudhary’s death.Choudhary is among several top politicians in the state to have died due to Covid-19- related complications in the last one year. Kapildev Kamat and Vinod Kumar Singh, both ministers, died in Ocotber last year due to the virus. Former Union rural development minister and senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh also died due to Covid-related issues in August last year.He quit Kumar’s Cabinet last year after RJD-led Opposition alliance opposed his induction citing corruption charges against the leader.Bihar has been witnessing an unprecedented rise in Covid cases in the last few days. On Sunday, 8,690 fresh cases were registered taking the number of active cases in the state to 44,700, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/former-bihar-education-minister-mewalal-choudhary-dies-of-covid-101618806330185.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||Voting begins for 2nd phase of UP panchayat polls amid Covid surge||Voting for the second phase of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh begun at 7am on Monday and will continue till 6pm. More than 30 million voters are eligible to cast their vote across 20 districts, including Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Varanasi in this phase of the three-tier rural elections, held in the shadow of a record surge in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh. The polls are being held for the posts of members of zila panchayats, and kshetra panchayats.“We have made all arrangements to ensure free and fair elections with full compliance to Covid protocol through 231,748 poll staff,” said state election commissioner Manoj Kumar. The first phase on April 21 saw 71% voting.All voters were required to wear face masks, sanitise their hands and ensure social distancing, as per the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state election commission (SEC) in late March. Polling booths will be sanitised and voters and polling staff will be thermally screened. The commission had earlier banned more than five people from accompanying a candidate during the door-to-door campaigning for the polls. UP registered the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases as well as fatality count, with the disease claiming 129 more lives, while 30,596 fresh cases pushed its Covid-19 tally to 851,620 on Sunday.Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Badaun, Etah, Mainpuri, Kannauj, Etawah, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Varanasi and Azamgarh are voting in this phase.The panchayat polls have been spiced up with the participation of Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, which are looking to upset the traditional players—the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress. Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party is also in the fray.The SEC has dispatched 23 Indian Administrative Services and UP Provincial Civil Service officers as observers to ensure free and fair polls in all the 20 districts. The polling for the third and the last phase will be held on April 26 and 29. Counting of votes is scheduled to start on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/voting-begins-for-2nd-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-amid-covid-surge-101618803510329.html
19-04-2021||Patna||Former Bihar education minister Mewalal Chaudhry succumbs to Covid-19||Former Bihar Education Minister and Janata Dal (United) MLA Mewalal Chaudhry passed away on Monday morning, party sources confirmed.The minister has been tested positive for COVID-19 last week and was going under treatment in Paras hospital where he succumbed to the infection. He passed away at 4 am today.Chaudhary, who was the sitting Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) of Bihar's Tarapur constituency and was removed as the state Education minister on corruption charges.Meanwhile, the Bihar government on Sunday has imposed night curfew in the state. The state government has also decided that schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Bihar will remain shut till May 15. During this period, state-run schools and universities will not conduct any exams.Moreover, the Bihar government has decided to provide bonus salary of one month to all healthcare workers this year.As per an official statement, there are 39,498 active cases of COVID-19 in Bihar, while the death toll due to the infection have mounted to 1,722 in the last 24 hours on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/former-bihar-education-minister-mewalal-chaudhry-succumbs-to-covid19-101618801301152.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Watch: Stopped for not wearing masks, Delhi couple misbehaves with cops||The Delhi Police on Sunday registered a case against a couple who misbehaved with them after they were stopped for not wearing masks and violating the weekend lockdown imposed in the national capital. In a video shared by the Delhi Police, the couple—identified as Pankaj and Abha and residents of Patel Nagar—can be seen shouting at the police personnel after being stopped for not wearing face masks inside their car. The incident took place in Delhi's Daryaganj area at around 4pm on Sunday.In the video, the woman can be heard saying, “…I have cleared UPSC…”. One of the policemen then told her that since she has cleared the civil services examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, she should behave in a more responsible manner with respect to the Covid-19 norms in place. “Why should I wear a mask in my car? What if I have to kiss my husband?" the woman can be heard asking them.Watch: Delhi couple stopped for not wearing masks, misbehaves with copsThe couple can also be heard arguing with the policemen after they told them about the Delhi High Court ruling. Delhi High Court made the wearing of masks compulsory on April 7 even if a person were driving alone in a private vehicle as the court ruled that the car is a “public place”. Following the argument, the couple was taken to the Darya Ganj police station and a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against them.Read more: Covid-19 lockdown in Delhi from tonight. Here's what remains exemptThe Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government announced a weekend curfew in Delhi till April 30 to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the national capital. Delhi on Sunday recorded the biggest jump in its daily tally with 25,462 fresh Covid-19 cases. The positivity rate in the city shot up to 29.74 per cent, which implied that almost every third sample being tested was found to be Covid-19 positive. Amid the spike, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced a six-day lockdown in the Capital from Monday till April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-couple-stopped-for-not-wearing-mask-inside-car-misbehaves-with-cops-101618798790985.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi borders||Several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. Also Read | R-Day violence: Actor Sidhu in custody for damage to Red FortThe traffic police has advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states. Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-remains-diverted-at-several-delhi-borders-101618799309908.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||100 private schools to shut, most staff to WFH||New Delhi:At least 100 private schools in Delhi will remain closed from Monday till April 25 with minimal support staff, the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Schools -- an umbrella organisation of 400 private schools -- announced on Sunday when Delhi reported 25,462 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 29.74%.In an advisory issued on Sunday, the committee advised work from home for all school administrations and deploying only the bare minimum staff inside schools to run the institutions.S K Bhattacharya, president of committee, said over 100 schools so far have said that they would comply with their advisory. “We can all come together to ensure the safety of own teaching faculty and non-teaching staff by taking the decision to shift to Work From Home Mode for all staff members for the coming week till April 25 as a precautionary measure to break the chain of infection,” Bhattacharya said in the advisory.While the new academic session continued in online mode, on April 9, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that students will not be called to school for any academic work including those slated to appear for their board exams. Last week, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) cancelled Class 10 exams and delayed Class 12 board exams in the wake of the second nationwide Covid-19 wave.Schools that will remain closed include Bal Bharati Public School in Rohini, Mount Abu Public School, The Indian School, Apeejay School, and Birla Vidya Niketan. Several private schools said that most of the teachers were not coming to school as learning has moved online and it was mostly the administrative staff that was present on the premises.Bal Bharati principal Geeta Gangwani said, “Teaching has gone completely online, so teachers weren’t coming to school. But administrative staff including the accounts department and support staff were coming to school for planning the current academic session. This will now be moved online. Only a section of the school will be open with strict protocols in the coming week with a handful of staff,” she said.Jyoti Arora, principal, Mount Abu Public School, said all teaching staff was told to work from home mode last week. “We have shifted entire staff, except security, to work from home till further notification from the school,” she said.The move comes on a day when government school teachers’ association (GSTA) has also written to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia calling for the complete closure of schools. Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary of the association said that in the wake of CBSE cancelling Class 10 exams and delaying Class 12 exams, the physical presence of teachers in the school was not necessary.On April 11, Sisodia said that school principals and the staff can decide among themselves on how many teachers will come to school and how many will give lessons online.“We have been getting reports of numerous teachers testing positive for Covid in schools and the heads of schools are calling them for duty. Such orders have put the entire school staff at a high risk of exposure,” Yadav wrote in his letter to Sisodia. Hundreds of government school teachers have been deployed for Covid-19 duties across the capital for enforcing Covid-19 protocols at airports, banquet halls, helping the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-private-schools-to-shut-most-staff-to-wfh-101618798277423.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||50 Covid-19 isolation coaches at Shakur Basti ready: Goyal||Union railways minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said 50 Covid-19 isolation rail coaches with 800 beds are ready at Delhi’s Shakur Basti railway station and 25 coaches will soon be ready at Anand Vihar railway terminal.“Government under PM Narendra Modi (is) leading the fight against Covid-19: 50 Cov-19 isolation coaches with 800 beds ready at Shakur Basti Station & 25 coaches will be available at Anand Vihar Station in Delhi. Railways can setup more than 3 lakh isolation beds across the country on States’ demand,” the minister tweeted on Sunday.The Northern Railways said on Sunday that they have already deployed 50 coaches at the Shakur Basti Railway station and will deploy 25 coaches on one platform of the Anand Vihar Railway station in a couple of days.The government had designed these Covid-19 isolation coaches last year for patients with mild symptoms in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities” and need to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/50-covid-19-isolation-coaches-at-shakur-basti-ready-goyal-101618798058561.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Four airlines may face action for not checking RT-PCR report of Maharashtra passengers||The Delhi government said it has ordered FIRs against four airlines for carrying passengers from Maharashtra without valid RT-PCR reports.“The Delhi government has written to the police to lodge cases against four airlines — Indigo, Spice Jet, Vistara and Air Asia,” a government official said.These cases have been filed under the Disaster Management Act, the official said.The Delhi government had last week announced that it will be mandatory for anyone travelling to Delhi from Maharashtra to carry a negative RT-PCR report dated 72 hours prior to arrival.Travellers without a negative report will be placed in quarantine for a period of 14 days, it had said.The decision was take following exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the city.While three of these four airlines did not respond to calls for a response, an AirAsia spokesperson said, “AirAsia India confirms that we are in compliance with guidelines and protocols issued by the respective regulatory bodies. We would also like to clarify that we have not received any information from any authority on this matter.”The police were yet to register any FIR on this complaint.Maharashtra on Sunday reported the highest spike of 68,631 fresh coronavirus positive cases while 503 patients succumbed to the infection, the state health department said.With this, the cumulative caseload in the state mounted to 38,39,338 while the death toll reached 60,473.Maharashtra is now left with 6,70,388active cases.Of the 503 fatalities, 210 deaths had occurred in the last 48 hours, the department said.Mumbai reported 8,468 fresh cases and 53 deaths, taking the tally of the infections to 5,79,486 and the toll to 12,354.A record 2,73,272 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the number of samples tested so far to 2,38,54,185, the state health department said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-airlines-may-face-action-for-not-checking-rt-pcr-report-of-maharashtra-passengers-101618797626071.html
19-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand seeks Centre's nod to import Remdesivir vials from Bangladesh||With the increasing demand of Remdesivir for critical patients in Jharkhand, the state government sought permission from the Centre to import 50,000 vials of the Covid-19 drug from a Bangladeshi pharmaceuticals company.Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday wrote a letter to Union Cabinet Minister DV Sadanand Gowda asking for permission to import the supply as soon as possible."We had anticipated the second wave to be less virulent due to vaccination and herd immunity. But, on the contrary, a large proportion of patients are showing major symptoms and require hospitalisation and other such treatment protocols...Remdesivir is a vital medicine in the treatment protocol of a Covid-19 case. Unfortunately, there is an acute scarcity of the medicine in Jharkhand," read the letter.The letter further said that the supply from Indian manufacturers fell short of the growing demand for the drug which led it to explore the international market for the medicine."Since we could not get the Remdesivir as per our requirement from Indian manufacturers, we started exploring the international market for procuring Remdesivir. We have been able to get a quotation from Bangladesh's Beximo pharmaceuticals for 50,000 vials of the drug which the Jharkhand government is willing to procure at the earliest in light of the pressing needs of the medicine," the letter added."In view of the above, I would request you to allow us to import and use the medicine from the said company," the letter concluded.Earlier on Saturday, Soren urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Defence to issue necessary instructions for permitting the state government to deploy doctors and paramedics of the CPMFs and Military Hospitals for the treatment and management of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-import-remdesivir-vials-from-bangladesh-101618796766740.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||CM flags Delhi’s ‘oxygen emergency’, writes to Centre||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday called the shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients in Delhi an “emergency”, as his deputy Manish Sisodia identified hospitals that would run out of oxygen within hours if supply was not augmented.“Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL,” Kejriwal tweeted, after a meeting on the scarcity Sunday evening.Several resident welfare groups and relatives of Covid-19 patients on Sunday also said they were facing trouble getting oxygen cylinders and concentrators.Kejriwal also wrote to Union minister of commerce and industries Piyush Goyal on Sunday, seeking his intervention into the matter, and highlighted that the Centre was sending oxygen to other states through a company that was a “major supplier” in Delhi.In his letter, a copy of which HT has seen, Kejriwal said, “National Capital Territory of Delhi has witnessed a very sharp increase in Covid-19 cases leading to a very large number of serious patients getting admitted to various private and government hospitals. This has led to a huge jump in demand for medical oxygen. On the basis of the standard formula prescribed by the government of India, a minimum requirement of 700MT of oxygen has been projected to your ministry. The same was communicated to the Secretary of Government of India department of promotion of industry and internal trade, ministry of commerce and industry, government of India, vide letter dated April 17. A quick response in the matter is still awaited.”Also read: In two days, 49 Kumbh returnees test Covid-19 positive in GujaratThe chief minister also said that the outputs of M/S Inox, a “major supplier” in the Capital, were largely being diverted to other states.“At this critical juncture it will not be possible for hospitals to enter contractual agreements with the new suppliers who have now been assigned to Delhi. This disruption is already starting to cause critical shortage across major hospitals,” the letter read.The company accounts for 20% of Delhi’s total daily oxygen supply.A spokesperson of the Union commerce ministry did not respond to HT’s queries related to Kejriwal’s letter.“After a discussion with states, the government has finalised the distribution of 6,177 metric tonnes of oxygen, including 1,500 MT to Maharashtra, 350 MT to Delhi and 800 MT to Uttar Pradesh,” a government official with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity.During an inspection at a Covid-19 facility, Sisodia said, “Several hospitals in Delhi are facing major oxygen shortages. Some of them will run out of oxygen in another three or four hours, while several will run out in 10-12 hours if supply is not enhanced immediately. I have done a review this evening. For instance, Batra Hospital has oxygen for three hours, Balaji Hospital for 24 hours, while Ganga Ram Hospital has supply for 32 hours. It is a critical situation. We have urged the Centre to make oxygen supply a priority.”Meanwhile, residents said vendors had run out of new cylinders, even as hospitals turned patients away due to a shortage of beds.Puneeta Marwah, a resident of Greater Kailash 1, said, “It has been a struggle to arrange for oxygen cylinders or concentrators. A few hospitals told us a few beds may free up in a day or two. But till then, we have to manage the patient at home.”The GK-1 resident welfare association (RWA) stepped in, providing her with an oxygen concentrator. The association has maintained two oxygen concentrators and three cylinders since last year for Covid-19 patients.Health experts recommend that Covid-19 patients get hospitalised if their oxygen saturation is below 94mm. However, with facilities packed, experts say patients should be given oxygen therapy at home if possible.Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of pulmonology, Fortis Healthcare, Shalimar Bagh, said, “Given the surge in Covid-19 cases and demand for hospital beds, it is advisable for patients to take oxygen therapy or support at home till they get admission in hospital. Oxygen saturation below 94 means that there is lung involvement and patients should start looking to get hospitalised. A level below 90 is a cause of concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-flags-delhi-s-oxygen-emergency-writes-to-centre-101618796215488.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Kumbh pilgrims told to isolate for 14 days on return||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday asked those returning from the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar and those who intend to go there in the coming days to mandatorily upload their details on the Delhi government website and undergo 14-day home or institutional quarantine after returning to the Capital.In an order issued later by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday night, the DDMA also asked Delhi residents, who had visited the ongoing Kumbh Mela between April 4 and Saturday, to upload their details compulsorily by Sunday midnight. The details include name of the returnee, address in Delhi, contact number, ID proof, date of departure from Delhi and arrival in Delhi, among others.“All those residents of Delhi, who have visited or are going to visit Kumbh, will be required to compulsory home quarantine themselves for 14 days on arrival to Delhi. If it is found/reported that any such resident of Delhi, who has returned to Delhi after visiting Kumbh, has not uploaded the requisite details/information, he/she will be sent to an institutional government quarantine centre for 14 days by the district magistrate (DM) concerned,” read the order.At least 2,000 devotees have tested Covid-19 positive at Kumbh in around a week’s time.The Delhi government has no data on the number of residents who went to attend the Kumbh Mela this year, senior government officials said.“It is true that such a portal should have been created earlier, preferably before the Kumbh Mela started on March 11 or from April 1 when the cases started rising in Delhi. We hope all such people will now fill in their details at the earliest so that districts can launch surveillance on them. On March 17, when the Kumbh had started, DDMA had issued a general advisory urging people to monitor their health and do an RT-PCR test upon their return to Delhi. The advisory, however, did not say that it was mandatory for the returnees,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, however, said the damage has already been done. “Weeks have passed since day one of the Maha Kumbh and thousands must have already returned to Delhi. Those who visited in the first few days would have finished their quarantine by now had this been planned before. Now, people who returned in the past 14 days will have to be traced and tracked and there is no guarantee that everyone who went there will actually fill the forms. All of the returnees are moving freely, some of who may even have Covid-19,” he said.A revenue official in one of the 11 districts said it will be nearly impossible for the administration to identify or locate those who returned from the Kumbh, without the pilgrims themselves declaring their details on the government portal. “There are chances that we can track those Delhi visitors who registered in the Uttarakhand government portal. But, it is unlikely many did that,” said the revenue official on condition of anonymity.The order further asked all DMs to ensure all such residents are traced and kept under surveillance on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kumbh-pilgrims-told-to-isolate-for-14-days-on-return-101618792510048.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Raghav Chadha visits Lok Nayak Hospital to check for Covid-19 preparedness||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha visited Lok Nayak Hospital on Sunday to assess its preparedness to deal with the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital.Chadha, who is the chairman of Lok Nayak Hospital’s Rogi Kalyan Samiti, held a meeting with all the heads of departments to discuss proper patient management and streamlining of operations. Lok Nayak is the biggest Delhi government hospital treating Covid-19 patients in the city.Chadha inspected all the wards and interacted with Covid patients. He said, “During my inspection at LNJP, I interacted with several Covid patients. They were satisfied with the treatment being offered. Some complaints expressed by a handful were duly resolved there and then.”He also inspected the hospital’s kitchen to check the quality of food offered to patients. “Hygienic and nutritious meals are being served to all the patients,” said Chadha who also expressed gratitude towards health care workers.Chadha also tweeted about his visit. “Chaired a meeting of all HODs of LNJP hospital and discussed proper patient management and streamlining of operations. Healthcare workers, our warriors in this fight against Covid-19, are putting in their 100 per cent. Expressed utmost gratitude to them on behalf of Kejriwal government,” he tweeted.Delhi on Sunday reported 25,462 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the national capital till date, according to data shared by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/raghav-chadha-visits-lok-nayak-hospital-to-check-for-covid-19-preparedness-101618790139335.html
19-04-2021||Other||Gag orders: Himachal warns teachers of action if they criticise govt||In an unprecedented and controversial move, the Himachal Pradesh higher education department has warned teachers, unions and employees against criticising the government.A circular to this effect was issued by the director, higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma. Marked as ‘very important’, the circular is addressed to all deputy directors and heads of the institutions, including colleges and schools. “It has been seen by the undersigned that teachers’ unions and employees have been openly giving dissenting statements in newspapers and on social media platforms against the decisions taken by the central and state governments, which is in violation of the Central Civil Services Conduct Rules 1964, states the circular.“In this regard you are sought to issue direction to your subordinate employees, teachers’ unions to not issue any statement against the government decisions in newspapers or on social media,” it added.It also asks the heads of the institutions and the deputy directors to submit a detailed report, without any delay, to the office of director of higher education, recommending action against the teachers’ unions and employees who have been issuing such statements.Oppn slams moveMeanwhile, the opposition Congress has slammed the government over the ‘dictatorial’ orders.“These sullen and bedevil acts of the government to restrict freedom of speech and expression must be condemned in the strongest words,” said AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma.He said the government has failed to provide any relief to the teaching community in its three-year tenure. Their demand to reduce the contract period and Old Pension Scheme has been put on the back burner.Sharma said such a diktat is shameful and an insult to the noble profession of teaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gag-orders-himachal-warns-teachers-of-action-if-they-criticise-govt-101618781008527.html
19-04-2021||Other||J&K’s new infections shoot past 1,500, six more succumb||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 1, 526 Covid-19 infections on Sunday, the highest single-day count since September 16, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 46, 692. With six fresh fatalities -- three each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions-- the toll reached 2,057, health officials said.Of the new cases, 979 are from Kashmir division while 547 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 226 are travelers. So far, 63 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.This is for the sixth consecutive day that the UT has recorded over 1,000 cases. J&K had an all-time high of 1, 698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 520 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by Jammu with 299 cases, Baramulla 122, Reasi 88 (including 57 travelers), Pulwama 76 and Budgam 70. Two out of the 20 districts reported single-digit cases and Kishtwar had no cases. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily, reached 11,467, officials said. On Sunday, 963 patients were discharged from various hospitals, including 422 from Kashmir and 541 from Jammu.As many as 1, 33, 168 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 91.78% from the highest of around 98% which was seen in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.76 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union Territory so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4, 519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths.The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-new-infections-shoot-past-1-500-six-more-succumb-101618779928531.html
19-04-2021||Other||Now, only 50 persons allowed at indoor gatherings in J&K, 100 outdoors||In view of the increasing Covid cases in J&K, the administration on Sunday announced a string of measures to control the pandemic including suspension of offline classes in colleges and universities, and putting further cap on indoor and outdoor gatherings to 50 and 100 respectively. . Liuetenant Governor Manoj Sinha’s office tweeted late evening that all universities and colleges in J&K shall remain closed for imparting on-campus or in-person education to the students till May 15, except for the courses or programmes that require physical presence of students on account of laboratory, research, thesis work and internship etc.“Colleges will move to online teaching mode,” he said. Similarly, all schools in J&K, which were closed from April 4, shall continue to remain closed for imparting on-campus/in-person education to the students till May 15.The administration has also put a ceiling on the number of people permitted to attend gatherings or functions to 20 in case of funerals, 50 for all kinds of gatherings at indoor venues and 100 for all kind of gatherings at outdoor venues.“Matadors, buses, mini buses and other modes of public transport shall ply strictly as per their authorised seating capacity. No standing will be allowed,” the LG said. “All passengers or travelers coming to J&K, whether by rail, road or air, will have to compulsorily undergo a Covid-19 antigen test through any of the prescribed methods as per the protocol of the GoJK,” Sinha’s office stated. The LG wanted district magistrates to put in place an effective mechanism to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour in all crowded markets and shopping complexes and malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-only-50-persons-allowed-at-indoor-gatherings-in-j-k-100-outdoors-101618779808448.html
19-04-2021||Other||Students of Central University of Kashmir want semester exams to be postponed||In view of the rapidly increasing Covid-19 infections, students of the Central University of Kashmir are demanding that their ongoing examinations should either be postponed or shifted online. Alleging that the varsity officials are not even following Covid-19 protocols while calling them to campus for semester exams, the students said that this is putting their lives, and that of their families, at risk. They added that four students –two of the law department and two of the tourism department – and some faculty members have already tested positive for Covid-19 but the authorities don’t seem to care.“Every other university is conducting online exams. Only Central University of Kashmir is forcing its students to come to campus for exams. Jammu Central University has also postponed the exams even though Jammu has fewer cases than Kashmir,” said a student of the M.Tech department. He added, “The varsity doesn’t seem to care that students may get infected. All students are seated in the same class and we suspect that some Covid-positive student may also be appearing for the exams.” A law student said that despite two students from their department testing positive, the varsity authorities did not follow standard operating procedures. “There is neither proper screening nor sanitisation in the university. Even when there were positive cases, no sanitisation was done in the department,” she said.‘When we protested, they threatened us’Students said they had staged a protest on the campus on April 15, demanding the exams to be postponed. “But the teachers threatened us that we will face a backlog and we will be failed,” said a student. “The officials don’t care about the lives of students, nor do they care about the lives of the students’ families. What they want is to claim credit in front of NEET officials that they conducted exams amid the pandemic,” she said.Don’t have foolproof mechanism for online exam: V-CVice-chancellor (V-C) Mehraj Uddin Mir acknowledged the risk in conducting the exams amid Covid-19 but said the varsity is following all protocols. He said he had taken on board all class representatives before conducting the exams. “There is a risk and I have taken this risk after taking some precautions. I am monitoring the situation closely and in case I feel it is going to create an issue, I will postpone the exams immediately,” said Mir.He added that proper distancing and sanitisation was being done while conducting exams. “When four of our students and some faculty members tested positive, we followed proper norms, and sent them into isolation and suspended class work,” he said.When asked why the varsity was not switching to online examination, the V-C said, “We don’t have a fool proof mechanism for online examinations. Our teaching-learning has not been tailored to online examination. That is why we conduct exams in small groups,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-university-of-kashmir-students-want-semester-exams-postponed-101618779268378.html
19-04-2021||Other||Jammu first in J&K to vaccinate over 2 lakh people in 45+ age group||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Jammu became the first district in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to vaccinate over 50% of its estimated population in the 45-plus age group. Till Saturday, 2, 22,199 people over the age of 45 were vaccinated in Jammu, followed by Baramulla with 1, 21, 925 inoculations, Budgam 72,633, Kathua 64, 950, Anantnag 64, 757, Udhampur 54,807, Samba 40, 127 and Srinagar 29, 301. In the 92 days since the start of the vaccination drive, a total of 15, 72, 620 people have been administered the Covid vaccine across Jammu and Kashmir. Jammu region accounted for 8, 17, 920 inoculations while in Kashmir, the number stood at 7, 54, 700, on Saturday. The grand mufti, Nasir-ul-Islam has said that taking the Covid vaccine won’t break Ramadan fast and urged Muslims over the age of 45 to come forward and get vaccinated against the lethal viral infection. The UT has so far reported 14, 51, 66 Covid infections, of which 10, 910 are still active. J&K has so far recorded 2, 051 deaths. Amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, health authorities on Saturday said phone calls, including distress calls, on their helpline numbers have started showing an upward swing. “There is panic among the people and hence the frequency of calls has gone up on our helpline numbers,” said a health official. “The Jammu and Kashmir health department has set up 24x7 Covid control room and those seeking information, assistance, grievance redressal and medical attention in critical cases can call us at 0191-2585444, 2582355, 2582356, 2582626, 2585542, 2584290, 2584291, 2584292, 2584293, 2584294,” he added. In Leh, the drive to check violation of Covid-19 protocols has been intensified. The Special Enforcement Squads (SESs), constituted by the administration, and the ARTO Leh collected a fine of ₹16,000 from violators on Saturday. Those violating social distancing or mask norms or spitting in public were fined. The government has made it mandatory to follow Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB), including wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing in public places, such as markets and even vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-first-in-j-k-to-vaccinate-over-2-lakh-people-in-45-age-group-101618778068376.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, Kalka-Shimla heritage track sees 70% drop in passenger traffic||With the second wave of coronavirus infections sweeping across the state, passenger traffic on the Shimla-Kalka heritage rail track has witnessed a 70% drop in the span of a fortnight. Before the resurgence in cases, trains on the track were running at full capacity, especially the special vista dome coaches, which were launched in 2019 and are a major tourist draw. Shimla railway station superintendent Prince Sethi said, “The trains were almost running to full capacity but now only 30% passengers are boarding the train. There have been no bookings for the vista dome coaches.” The new rail coaches have a toughened glass roof top, which enables passengers to have a broader view of their surroundings. The new rail car is fitted with night-vision closed-circuit cameras with LED screens, modern toilets, air conditioning and an infotainment system. The Shimla narrow-gauge rail line was constructed by the British in 1903 to connect the subcontinent with its summer capital, Shimla. The track is a UNESCO heritage site and five trains run on the track per day. After the outbreak, rail services had been suspended and had only resumed in December after 10 months. Tourism industry hit Amid the spike in cases, a slew of restrictions are being announced one after the other, bringing the tourism industry to a grinding halt in Himachal. “The financial health of the tourism industry is already in a shambles as all tourism units had remained closed for seven to eight months last year. The industry was slowly reviving when there was a resurgence in cases and restrictions were reimposed,”said MK Seth, president, Himachal Pradesh Tourism Stakeholder Association . “The stakeholders were at least getting some revenue to meet their expenses but the second wave of infections has broken the backbone of the tourism industry in Himachal,” he said.Earlier, the government had announced that people coming from seven high caseload states — Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh need to carry a negative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) report not earlier than 72 hours while visiting Himachal Pradesh from April 16.Hoteliers demand concessions The state traditionally receives heavy tourist rush from mid-March to mid-July, of which tourists from Gujarat and Maharasthra form the major chunk. “It has become difficult for stakeholders to keep their units running due to shortage of funds. All advance bookings are being cancelled. The recent advisory issued by the state government, making it mandatory for tourists coming from seven high caseload states to bring a negative Covid report, has completely stopped the influx of tourists,” Seth said. Hoteliers have demanded that the government subsidise tariff on water, property tax, and garbage fee for two years . It has further sought abolishment of demand charges and other fee charged from the hotel industry and demanded 75% concession on bar fee to save the ailing tourism industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-kalka-shimla-heritage-track-sees-70-drop-in-passenger-traffic-101618777948335.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s positivity rate reaches 5.23%, recovery in reverse gear||Haryana on Sunday logged 7,177 new Covid cases and 29 deaths, while the number of active patients rose to 42,217, as per the health bulletin. On Saturday, Haryana had recorded 7,717 fresh infections and 32 deaths. The positivity rate on Sunday stood at 5.23% —an uptick from 4.67% on April 1. Similarly, the recovery rate has come down to 87.22% from 95.37% on April 1 even as 3,11,339 people have recovered so far, of the 3,56,971 people that have tested positive in the state since the pandemic hit. With 2,401 cases Gurugram continued to record the highest number of fresh cases, Faridabad logged 998, Sonepat 573, Hisar 521, Ambala 221, Karnal 501, Panipat 208, Rohtak 145, Rewari 40, Panchkula 179, Kurukshetra 193, Yamunanagar 171, Sirsa 214, Mahendergarh 82, Bhiwani 180, Jhajjar 117, Palwal 45, Fatehabad 126, Kaithal 10, Jind 230, Nuh 18 and Charkhi Dadri four. Twenty-nine fatalities were reported from 12 districts while 3,489 people recovered from the infection. The death toll due to the contagion has climbed to 3,415 (2,281 males, 1,133 females and one transgender). The number of critically-ill patients rose to 534 with 113 patients on ventilators and rest on oxygen support. As many as 31,579 people were vaccinated on Sunday, increasing the number of people given the jab to 31.88 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-positivity-rate-reaches-5-23-recovery-in-reverse-gear-101618777768264.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||13-year-old Yamunanagar rape survivor’s pregnancy terminated||Days after a couple was booked for allegedly pushing a 13-year-old girl into prostitution, doctors at the Civil Hospital terminated the minor’s pregnancy on Saturday. The case had come to light on April 13, when the Jagadhari Civil Hospital informed Childline that the minor was 22 weeks pregnant. Childline district coordinator Anju Bajpai said the medical process had been started by a team of doctors on Friday. “It was completed on Saturday night and she is under observation. She is being counselled and her aftercare, including diet, will be taken care of by us,” she said. Initially, police had arrested Sonu and Riya alias Rita, who would take the victim to different locations daily with her husband, where some men would rape her. Bajpai said the accused had pushed her into prostitution to fund their drug habit. An FIR was lodged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Gandhi Nagar Police Station. Police public relations officer Chamkaur Singh said, “So far, seven people, including the couple, have been arrested. All of them are being interrogated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13yearold-yamunanagar-rape-survivor-s-pregnancy-terminated-101618777228300.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 days after Panipat man’s suicide, sons’ bodies found||Three days after a man had died by suicide, the bodies of two of his missing sons were recovered from the Delhi parallel canal near Khubru of Gohana on Sunday. On April 14, Anil Kumar, 28, had left the house with his three sons, following an argument with his wife. His body was recovered from under the flyover and it was learnt that he had consumed poison. However, his sons were reported missing. The boys found were six and eight years old. Search is still on for his three-year-old son, police said. Officials associated with the investigation said Kumar had left a suicide note accusing his wife Arti of having an affair, forcing him to take the extreme step. However, it is yet to be ascertained whether he threw his kids into canal before consuming poison. The note has been sent to Madhuban Lab to match Kumar’s handwriting. Bapoli police station in-charge Harnarayan said on the complaint of Kumar’s family members, police have registered an FIR against Arti and her parents under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 365 (kidnapping).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-days-after-panipat-man-s-suicide-sons-bodies-found-101618776868440.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Patients line up outside Lok Nayak Hospital amid relentless case surge||On the road where only one-way traffic is permitted, an ambulance zooms past the flow of traffic to make it to the main gate of the Lok Nayak Hospital. The security guard signals the ambulance to stop, but lets it in moments later.It was a matter of life and death for the Covid-19 positive patient inside -- the reason why the guard did not insist that the ambulance come in by another gate marked for Covid-19 patients. “The driver said the patient’s oxygen level was critically low,” the guard explained.On Sunday afternoon, there was no long queue of ambulances outside the hospital -- unlike Saturday night -- but each coronavirus patient and their family arriving at the hospital had a story to tell.As the Covid-19 cases zoomed past the 25,000 mark in Delhi on Sunday, social media was abuzz with requests for help in arranging beds, plasma donors, medicines and oxygen supply.On Saturday night, a video shared on Twitter by a journalist, showed that a patient in one of the several ambulances queued up outside the hospital, died even before entry into the hospital. Another photo shared on Twitter showed a patient sitting outside the hospital with an oxygen mask and cylinder.Lok Nayak is the Delhi government’s biggest dedicated Covid facility, with 1,620 beds. As of 5.30pm on Sunday, the Delhi Corona app showed, only 184 of these beds were vacant. Meanwhile, not one of the 350 ICU beds was available.One patient, whose family identified him just as Prasad, a resident of south Delhi’s Kalkaji, made frantic phone calls despite lying in an ambulance with an oxygen mask around his face. “He knows people who could arrange plasma and other things. We don’t know who to approach,” said a woman accompanying him.Also Read | Govt bans oxygen supply to industries amid massive shortageAnother young man, Saajan Prakash, stood outside the hospital and opened a fresh Twitter account. “I am just being ready in case we need to seek any help,” said Prakash whose uncle is hospitalised.There was another patient who arrived with five relatives -- that included four women -- accompanying him in an ambulance.“Only he is infected, but we have arrived to offer support,” said one of those relatives.A few patients arrived in private cars and one even in an auto-rickshaw. The relative of one such patient was wearing a PPE suit and put up a plastic partition in the car to keep him separate. “I am his uncle. One of us needs to be safe,” said the man behind the wheel, about the protection.Suresh Kumar, director of Lok Nayak Hospital, advised relatives of patients to check the government’s app for available beds before rushing to a hospital. “Our hospital does not have any empty ICU beds now. I advise that patients be taken to other hospitals to save time,” he said.Ambulance drivers outside the hospital said in the last few days there is a queue every evening. “We don’t know why the rush occurs in the evening and night, but the queue extended for several hundred metres on Saturday night,” said Rajdeep Singh, an ambulance driver.A bunch of other ambulance drivers waited outside the hospital for the hours to roll by. “When the wait gets long, we offer the patients the option to avail beds at other hospitals. That is the service we are currently providing,” said Asif Ali, an ambulance driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/patients-line-up-outside-lok-nayak-hospital-amid-relentless-case-surge-101618776442870.html
19-04-2021||Other||{Sleazy video row} Chief Khalsa Diwan executive panel bars Chadha’s entry on its premises||Two days after Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) former president Charanjit Singh Chadha visited its head office and donated ₹51,000, the executive committee of the organisation barred him from entering premises of any of its institutes.Chadha, who remained the president of the CKD for 15 years, visited the head office after the Akal Takht lifted a ban on him in a sleazy video row. Taking serious note of his visit, the CKD executive committee condemned the entry of Chadha and imposed a ban on his entry in future. “His sleazy video has maligned the image of the entire Sikh community, so he cannot be allowed to re-enter the organisation. Secondly, 90% of our staffers are women. In such a scenario, Chadha will not be permitted to enter our institutions,” said CKD president Nirmal Singh, adding that his donation had been returned to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sleazy-video-row-chief-khalsa-diwan-executive-panel-bars-chadha-s-entry-on-its-premises-101618775968384.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mustard prices at all-time high in Punjab, experts hope for big diversification push||Mustard prices in the open market in Fazilka district’s Abohar block were recorded on Sunday at ₹6,800 per quintal, 32% higher than this year’s minimum support price (MSP) and an all-time high for the crop in Punjab. This has given the agriculture experts a hope to boost crop diversification in the state. The government had set the MSP for the rabi crop at ₹4,650. Only private players buy mustard in the state as the government is not involved in procurement of the crop. The farmers said this is the second consecutive season when mustard rates crossed the MSP. Arvind Setia, who had sown the crop on 10 acres at Toota Wali village in Abohar, the main trading centre of mustard in Punjab, has decided to delay the sale of his produce. “In the last season, private players were offering from ₹3,300 to ₹3,500 per quintal but gradually mustard rates touched ₹4,500 against the MSP of ₹4,425. I have not seen such a demand for mustard in the market in the past 25 years. The buyers are procuring every kilo arriving in the mandis,” said Setia. It costs nearly ₹5,000 to sow mustard on 1 acre and a farmer can harvest a minimum of 7 quintals from it weather and other factors remain favourable. “As per the existing rates, I will earn ₹40,000 from an acre and unlike wheat, mustard requires a negligible amount of water and pesticides,” added Setia. Baldev Singh, a progressive farmer from Bajak in Bathinda district, said mustard has the potential to change Punjab’s farm economy that is under stress due to depleting groundwater levels. “It is less-labour intensive than wheat. A comprehensive plan to promote oilseeds will encourage farmers to shift towards mustard and the current market trend is very encouraging,” he added. State agriculture director Dr Sukhdev Sidhu said mustard was grown on nearly 36,000 hectares in the state this time. Sidhu said Markfed can play an important role in venturing into mustard oil processing to encourage farmers to diversify towards oilseeds. “We aim to increase the area under the crop also but traditionally it is restricted to southern Punjab. The rabi oilseed has immense scope in the kandi belt and other parts of the state. In the early 1990s, more than 1.50 lakh hectares was under mustard cultivation. But with the strengthening of the irrigation system three decades ago, the farmers switched from traditional mustard farming to wheat,” said Sidhu. Rakesh Rathi, a trader and mustard miller, said high global prices have made edible oil imports dearer, benefiting domestic mustard growers when their crop is being brought to the mandis. “Mustard oil is the cheapest cooking oil and its demand has seen a surge after Covid-19 outbreak last year. The traditional edible oil has growing acceptance among consumers as it is the only edible oil after olive oil with no chemicals use during entire processing,” said Rathi. He said mustard has also seen a demand in the vegetable oil manufacturing sector for authorised blending. “The government should promote the cotton-mustard combination in the Malwa region and elsewhere to get out of wheat-paddy cycle for water conservation. It can be a game changer for farmers and mustard seeds have a huge market,” said Rathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mustard-prices-at-all-time-high-in-punjab-experts-hope-for-big-diversification-push-101618775609899.html
19-04-2021||Other||Report on illegal mining in Rupanagar recommends sealing of 18 stone-crushers||Jalandhar A three-member joint team of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has submitted a report with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a matter related to illegal mining in Rupnagar district. Suneel Davee, additional director, CPCB, headed the committee that the NGT had formed in August 2020. The committee said there were 204 stone-crushers covered under the consent management policy of the board in Rupnagar district, of which 161 were operating with valid consent.The report added that directions under relevant laws had been issued for sealing of plant and machinery, along with disconnection of power supply of 18 stone crushers. Orders have been issued for permanent closure of four stone crushers, which have processed more material than the consent capacity granted under the provisions of the Water and Air Act. The committee added that PPCB issued show-cause notices under the Water Act to 19 stone crushers, which are operating without valid consent to operate given by a state pollution body. The committee has also reported that 70 stone crushers have failed to submit complete data with respect to material procured or processed and the power they consumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/report-on-illegal-mining-in-rupanagar-recommends-sealing-of-18-stonecrushers-101618775548258.html
19-04-2021||Other||Vendor booked for Covid violations, but leaders let off||At a time when even our leaders are failing to follow covid-19 protocol in election rallies, rural district police have registered a case against a Pani Puri vendor for violating these norms in Jandiala Guru town. This is the first case registered in April. In March too, just a couple of cases were registered. The First Information Report (FIR) has been registered on the complaint of sub-inspector (SI) Balraj Singh. “We got a tip-off that one Amit Kuswah has been selling Pani Puri at his shop due to which a crowd had gathered with no one wearing a mask,” the SI’s complaint reads. Amit was arrested, but was given bail. He has been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. Police, however, have turned a blind eye to no masks being used at politicians’ rallies or elections. On Thursday, elections were held for electing presidents of the Jandiala municipal council and Rayya Nagar Panchayat. Both towns fall under rural district’s jurisdictions and in the town, over a 100 person had gathered, with no social distancing. Only few wore masks and pictures of these events were posted on social media. The pictures are in contrast to the assertion of DSP Sukhwinderpal Singh, who was present in the Jandiala event. He said, “Social distancing norms were followed and everyone was provided with masks at the event.” Even as rallies are proving to be a huge headache, farmers have also been holding rallies and functions despite the administration’s ban. On Sunday, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee held a Maharally in Bhagtanwala grain market, where thousands of farmers had gathered.Gate Hakima SHO Ranjit Singh, under whose jurisdiction farmers had held the rally said, “I have no instruction to register any case for violation of covid-19 norms during farmers’ rally.” A spokesperson in Amritsar-rural police refuted any allegations of bias and said they had distributed over 4,000 masks to public on Friday. .ELDERLY BARNALA COUPLE HONOURED FOR GETTING THE JABBarnala Surjit Kaur, 96, and Krishan Singh, 92, of Barnala, got their first shot of the covid vaccine during a camp at the MC office of the town on Sunday. Barnala SDM Varjeet Walia and a team of the health department honoured the couple. “Vaccination is mandatory for prevention. People should follow instructions,” said Surjit, after getting the shot. Krishan added that both were fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vendor-booked-for-covid-violations-but-leaders-let-off-101618775189486.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sit-ins continue as stir against farm laws completes 200 days in Punjab||The farmers and farm labourers continue to stage dharnas at 68 points across Punjab with the farm agitation in the state against the Centre’s three agriculture laws completing 200 days on Sunday. The protesters, including women and youths, have been staging sit-ins at railway station parking lots, toll plazas and in front of the residences of Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and premises of corporate houses. Women are participating in large numbers in the protests in the state as men are holding an indefinite protest at the Delhi border under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 30 farmer unions, and the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) besides being busy in harvesting of wheat back home. The protests in Punjab are witnessing large gatherings, especially between 12 noon to 3pm. “The summer has arrived but the Narendra Modi government is still not ready to listen to the farmers’ grievances. We have decided to continue the agitation till the three black laws are repealed,” said Jaspal Kaur (60) of Karamgarh village in Barnala district. Balwant Singh Upli, a protester in Barnala, said, “The government has failed to dampen the spirits of farmers even after 200 days. We faced bone-chilling winter, rain and storm during the stir. The farmers are ready to face summer at the protest sites. The government wants to get the protest sites vacated in the name of the coronavirus. But the farmers are fighting a battle of survival and are ready to sacrifice their lives” Narain Dutt, another protester, said the union leaders are holding meetings with farmers at the grain markets during the ongoing procurement to prepare for a massive protest in the second week of May. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Sangrur block chief Gobinder Singh said the farmers have been staging protests at toll plazas and Reliance-owned petrol pumps since October 1. “A large procession of farmers will move to the Delhi border on April 21 via the Khanauri border in Sangrur. We are going to hold a massive rally on April 22 at the Tikri border to oppose the three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sitins-continue-as-stir-against-farm-laws-completes-200-days-in-punjab-101618775017076.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid norms go for a toss as KMSC holds mega rally in Amritsar||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Sunday held a ‘maha rally’ at the Bhagatanwala grain market in Amritsar city against the Centre’s three agriculture laws and announced its next course of action.The rally witnessed a large gathering of farmers with only a few seen wearing masks. Also, the protesters did not adhere to Covid-19 protocol of maintaining social distancing. Addressing the gathering, committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “The Modi government is planning to remove the protesters from the Delhi borders on the pretext of containing the pandemic. The farmers and labourers protesting there will not let the Centre succeed in its plan as it has endangered the future of our coming generations by selling out our interests to some corporate houses, World Trade Organization (WTO), World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).” The farmer leaders also raised concern over tardy lifting of wheat from the mandis. Hardeep Singh Dibdiba, whose grandson Navreet Singh died during a tractor parade taken out by the protesting farmers in the national capital on January 26, also addressed the gathering. Committee’s state vice president Sawinder Singh Chutala said, “The Punjab government should ensure quick lifting of grain or we will stage protests. If the farmers are harassed in grain markets, effigies of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and PM Narendra Modi will be burnt at villages from April 21 to 25. Also, the government must compensate the farmers whose crop was damaged by hailstorm and rain.” A jatha of thousands of farmers will leave Amritsar for the Kundli border in Delhi to intensify the stir against the farm laws on May 5, the farm leaders announced.A large number of women participated in the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-kmsc-holds-mega-rally-in-amritsar-101618775014878.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||10 days left for 400th birth anniversary celebrations, garbage, overflowing sewage greet visitors at 9th Guru’s birthplace||With only 10 days left for the celebrations to mark the 400th birth anniversary (parkash gurpurb) of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur, filthy surroundings of the guru’s birthplace, Gurdwara Guru Ka Mehal, in the vicinity of the Golden Temple in Amritsar, are irking the devotees paying obeisance at the shrine. The guru’s birthplace is situated in the narrow streets of the walled city area. It is the smell of overflowing sewage and garbage littered outside the shrine that greets the visitors. The Centre and the Punjab government, which are spending lakhs of rupees to mark the fourth centenary, have failed to give the place a facelift. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and the state government will start holding functions on April 29 to mark the birth anniversary that falls on May 1. While the gurdwara body has planned to organise a grand event in Amritsar, the government will hold its event at Anandpur Sahib which was founded by the 9th guru. Since the guru’s birthplace is located close to the Golden Temple, Gurdwara Bhai Salo Jee and other historic gurdwaras in the walled city, the devotees usually visit all the shrines barefoot. On Sunday, the sewerage got choked and the wastewater overflowed into the street that connects Guru Ka Mehal with Gurdwara Bhai Salo Jee inconveniencing the prilgrims.“Despite the upcoming occasion, the municipal corporation has failed to fix the problems of sanitation and sewage overflowing. When we lodge a complaint in this regard, the MC sends workers who only fix the problem temporarily,” said a shopkeeper in the gurdwara’s neighbourhood.Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “We have asked the workers to work overtime for lifting of garbage and cleaning during night. The problem will be fixed in a day or two. As far as dilapidated streets are concerned, most of them have been rebuilt. Façade work in these streets has also started. We will visit the area to check any shortcoming.”The SGPC, which manages the gurdwara, has failed to complete the renovation project. “The work will be finished by April 29 as it is going on a war footing,” said Golden Temple manager Gurinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-days-left-for-400th-birth-anniversary-celebrations-garbage-overflowing-sewage-greet-visitors-at-9th-guru-s-birthplace-101618775011152.html
19-04-2021||Other||Gang that lifted Bullet bikes busted in Ludhiana, 3 arrested||The division number 5 police on Saturday busted a gang of thieves involved in stealing Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles with the arrest of three members. As many as seven bikes were recovered from their possession.The accused were identified as Virsa Singh, 29, Harshdeep Singh, 18, of Galib Kalan village, Jagraon, Harjinder Singh alias Bobby of Bhindar Kalan village, Moga. Their two accomplices –Gurman Singh and Hinda – both residents of Galib Kalan village, are yet to be arrested.The police arrested the accused during a special checking and recovered vehicles following the information provided by them. The accused confessed to have stolen a total of eight motorcycles from different parts of the city, including four from near the Leisure Valley, Sarabha Nagar, and the rest from Mall Road, Malhar Road, and outside a shopping mall on Ferozepur Road. The accused said that they used to target special models of the Bullet bikes because they could be sold for higher profits.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, station house officer, division number 5 police station, said that the accused used to come to Ludhiana to steal the vehicles and flee back immediately. They used master keys to steal them. Virsa Singh, who is an auto mechanic, used to break the locks when the master keys didn’t work and get the vehicles started.The accused had been involved in vehicle lifting since January 2021 to make easy money. They were produced before the court on Sunday and were sent to two-day police remand for further questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-that-lifted-bullet-bikes-busted-in-ludhiana-3-arrested-101618774828831.html
19-04-2021||Other||Three booked for net banking fraud in Ludhiana||Three persons were booked on Saturday for fraudulently transferring ₹15 lakh from the bank account of a Ludhiana-based chemist to their accounts.The accused were identified as Rajiv Kumar Sharma of Madhubani of Bihar, Chandar Kumar Paswan of Purnia, Bihar, and Neel Kamal of Palampur of Himachal Pradesh.The Haibowal police lodged an FIR on the statement of Varinder Sood of Joshi Nagar. He added that on June 14, ₹15 lakh was transferred from his bank account to the accounts of the accused. According to him, the accused had stolen his internet banking password. He suspected the involvement of bank employees in the crime as he did not get an OTP from the bank for the transaction.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Gurpreet Singh stated that a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 120-B(punishment of criminal conspiracy), of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the Information Technology Act was lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-booked-for-net-banking-fraud-in-ludhiana-101618774708210.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Another record spike in Punjab, 4,957 cases witnessed in a day||Sixty-eight more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as the health authorities reported another record daily spike of 4,957 cases, pushing the state’s infection tally to 3,00,038. On Saturday, the state had witnessed its highest daily increase of 4,498 cases. With 68 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, the death toll climbed to 7,902 in the state, according to a medical bulletin. Eleven deaths were reported in Amritsar, nine in Gurdaspur, seven in Patiala and six in Rupnagar. Mohali reported 880 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 742 in Amritsar, 686 in Ludhiana, 445 in Jalandhar and 379 in Patiala. The number of active cases stands at 34,190. A total of 3,141 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,57,946, the bulletin said.There are 48 critical patients who are on ventilator while 429 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 66,07,723 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana district administration on Sunday declared Dugri’s Urban Estate, Phase 1 and 2, as containment zones in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases. Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the two areas will be sealed with effect from 9 pm on Sunday till further orders. Over 6,000 vaccinated at grain marketsMore than 6,000 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 at mandis in Punjab during the ongoing procurement of crops, according to an official statement on Sunday.In addition to putting in place adequate Covid-19 protocols at the 154 mandis (wholesale markets), the state government has started special camps to inoculate all stakeholders and has so far vaccinated more than 6,000 eligible persons.Punjab Mandi Board Chairman Lal Singh said the beneficiaries include farmers, ‘arhtiyas’ or commission agents, and labourers.He further said that Patiala was leading in the vaccination drive with 1,230 people being inoculated, followed by Ferozepur and Bathinda mandis where 1,179 and 800 people got vaccinated, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-record-spike-in-punjab-4-957-cases-witnessed-in-a-day-101618774529400.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Record high: 311 PGIMS staffers have tested +ve in 18 days||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) has become one of the hotspots for the novel coronavirus infection as the second wave sweeps through the state with 311 staffers testing positive in the first 18 days of April, of which 51 tested positive on Sunday alone. A sweeper of the institution also succumbed to Covid on Sunday. A total 37 employees tested positive on April 13, 12 on April 14, 37 on April 15, 13 on April 16, 67 on April 17.A senior office-bearer at PGIMS said 384 of its personnel had contracted the infection in the second wave. Of which, 311 cases came to fore in the last 18 days,” he said.All-time high infection rate“As many as 502 frontline workers had tested positive between September and December. A total 280 personnel had tested positive in September, the highest in 2020 and the tally has touched 311 in just 18 days this year, which is alarming,” he added.A spokesperson for the institute said the infection rate was an all-time high since the pandemic began.“As many as 70 staffers at PGIMS had been found infected in October last year, 92 in November and 60 in December. This year,32 of our personnel tested positive in January, none in February and 41 in March,” the spokesperson said, attributing the resurgence in cases to people lowering their guard. “Many health workers were reluctant to get vaccinated. Most of our employees who were found positive have received either one or both doses and are undergoing home isolation.They are asymptomatic,” the spokesman added.OPD services curtailed to 50%Due to rise in covid cases, PGIMS has curtailed out patient department services to 50% in 36 departments. These departments are burns and plastic surgery (50), cardiology (100), ENT(100), general medicine (300), general surgery (150) and others.Patients worried after doctors test positiveA 47-year-old man, who was waiting in a queue at the PGIMS for the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test with his wife said he was worried as doctors and other staff were continuously testing positive.“We are waiting for our turn for the last one-and-a-half hour. Many patients are roaming without wearing a face mask. Many of the doctors and staff nurses of PGIMS have been found infected and are proving to be virus carriers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/record-high-311-pgims-staffers-have-tested-ve-in-18-days-101618774528277.html
19-04-2021||Other||Direct payment to farmers to get going with ₹350 cr transfer today, claims govt||The state government has claimed that it will transfer ₹350 crore to around 11,000 farmers through direct benefit transfer (DBT) mode, directly into accounts of the farmers, bypassing the previous system of payment through the arhtiyas by Monday evening. To date, only ₹22 crore has been disbursed to at least 750 state farmers for procurement that started on April 10. “By Monday, disbursal will begin in full swing as hiccups in implementing the DBT have been removed. At least 18,000 arhtiyas have been linked to the new system. There are 33,000 arhtiyas in Punjab, of which 25,000 are active in procurement,” an officer, who is part of the process, said, adding that the Centre had mandated the system. He added that Mansa, Sangrur, Patiala, Barnala and Bathinda top the chart in disbursal of the Minimum Support Price (MSP), which has been fixed at ₹1,975 per quintal. State procurement agencies are expecting arrival of 130 lakh tonne wheat for procurement. The total production is expected to be 167 lakh tonne.  When the DBT system was introduced, earlier this month, arhtiyas has resisted it and announced a strike. To pacify the arhtiyas, the state government decided to bring changes in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) so that arhtiyas could have access to a window and clear payment being credited into farmers’ accounts. Food department sources said on Sunday that 50 lakh tonne wheat had arrived in mandis, of which 42 lakh tonne had been procured. This will pick up as wheat harvest begins in Doaba and Majha belts. PROCUREMENT OF HD2967 WHEAT ON: ASHU “The procurement of HD 2967 variety on in an hassle-free manner,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, in response to reports that the variety was discoloured and was thus not being purchased in the Malwa belt. “Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, has approved this variety for purchase,” the minister added.  The state government has approved packing of heat used gunny bags that the arhtiyas will provide to tackle shortage. An officer added that arrival had touched 8 lakh tonne daily, accepting shortage of bags for wheat storage.A spokesperson said the CM had reviewed status of procurement. On slow pace in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur, he said that the grain was shriveled and the Centre needed to relax procurement norms before purchase. The state has written to the Centre’s food and PDS ministry to seek immediate relaxation for wheat procurement for shriveled and broken grains up to 11% and lustre loss up to 10% in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Fazilka without value cut.In a joint analysis of wheat samples in FCI district Amritsar (Revenue District Amritsar and Tarn Taran) conducted by FCI and the state procurement agencies, lustre loss up to 5% and shriveled and broken grains up to 11% have been found in a few mandis. In Fazilka, the percentage of shriveled and broken grains is up to 9.9%, which is in excess of the 6% ceiling. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan has informed the CM that covid protocols would be followed in all mandis and special vaccination camps had been set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/direct-payment-to-farmers-to-get-going-with-rs-350-cr-transfer-today-claims-govt-101618774469002.html
19-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana boy to represent India in skating championship||Seventeen-year-old Gurkeerat Singh from the city has been selected to participate in the world championship to be held in Columbia in September this year. He has been selected based on his performance in the Indian team trials in the junior boys’ category (under -19).He bagged gold medal in 100 m (becoming the fastest junior skater of India), silver in one lap road race, silver in road elimination 15km, silver in 500+D track race, bronze in 200m time trail track race, and another bronze in track elimination race 10km during the trials held in Mohali recently.Last week, Singh had also participated in the 58th national speed skating championship held in Mohali and had bagged two gold medals, one silver, and one bronze medal.He said, “I began my sports career 10 years ago and practised day and night to qualify for the national event. I practice six hours daily to maintain my fitness level and am working hard to clinch a medal at the international level.”His coach Jugadhbir Singh Grewal, said, “I am happy with Gurkeerat’s performance. His hard work has paid off.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-boy-to-represent-india-in-skating-championship-101618774348177.html
19-04-2021||Other||19 Ludhiana govt schools await lecturers for new courses||Over 19 government schools in the district which had received the director of public instruction (DPI), secondary’s approval to introduce science and commerce streams from the 2021-22 academic session, are yet to get new lecturers to conduct the classes.As per school heads, they have got posts sanctioned to start the courses and a large number of students are showing an interest in pursuing them.DPI (secondary) Sukhjeetpal Singh said, “The process of promotions from master cadre to lecturer has begun. The schools will get lecturers for the allotted sanctioned posts by April 30.”Of the 19 government schools, 13 were allowed to offer commerce to Class 11 students and six to offer science from the new academic session. Government Senior Secondary School, Malaud, got only one post sanctioned to begin the commerce course. As per the authorities, around four to five students approach the school authorities daily to opt for the stream. The school authorities have already distributed pamphlets and circulated messages through WhatsApp groups to spread awareness regarding the introduction of the courses.At Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, over 30 students have shown interest in opting for the commerce stream in Class 11. The school authorities stated that they had got two sanctioned posts for the course. Principal Rooma Rani said, “Over 30 students from our school are interested in the course. We have circulated the message regarding the introduction of the course in the nearby villages and are expecting more students to get enrolled with us for this course. “Government Senior Secondary School, Kadiana Kalan, had got eight sanctioned posts for both science and commerce streams. Principal Alka said, “We are hopeful that the authorities will depute lecturers in the schools at the earliest as the students of Class 10 have been promoted as per state government orders and admissions process has been started. We require more rooms to accommodate the Class 11 students and have written to the department regarding the same.”One of the 2 commerce teacher posts at GSSS, Multipurpose lying vacant for yearsAs per the district authorities, in Ludhiana out of 181 senior secondary schools, 50 schools are already offering science stream and 38 commerce stream.Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, has two sanctioned posts for commerce, out of which one has been lying vacant for many years. Even though the school has over 900 commerce students, only one teacher has been conducting the classes.Last year, the school strength increased from 1,700 to 3,200 due to which the school authorities had written to the district education office and state education department to fill the vacant posts and provide more lecturers to take the classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19-ludhiana-govt-schools-await-lecturers-for-new-courses-101618774228352.html
19-04-2021||Other||Afternoon lockdown order sends Ludhiana residents into tizzy||Residents rushed to departmental stores and vegetable vendors in Urban Estate, Phase 1 and 2, Dugri, as the administration suddenly announced a lockdown in the area on Sunday afternoon.Amid unawareness and uncertainty, residents panicked to stock up on daily requirements, even though the administration announced there will be no bar on supply of essential commodities.Residents complained the administration should have given a heads-up before sealing the area to avoid the frantic chaos.“While strict steps are required to stop the spread of this deadly disease, the administration should have given the residents at least a day to make arrangements. The sudden announcement in the afternoon sent residents into a tizzy, which led to panic,” said Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Urban Estate, Phase 1.The decision that that no one will be allowed to move in or out of the area with immediate effect was sure to cause bedlam, said Gurkirat Singh, who lives in Urban Estate, Phase 2. “Rather than locking down the entire area, the administration should barricade only those streets, where positive cases have been reported,” he said.Making matters worse, residents alleged shopkeepers had spiked the prices of grocery items and vegetables to make most of the situation.“A bag of 10kg-flour, earlier available for ₹380, was being sold for ₹400. Similarly, prices of vegetables were jacked up by ₹10 to 15 per kg. The administration must stop this blatant fleecing,” said Swaranjit Singh, president of Sukhmani Welfare Society, Urban Estate, Phase 2, Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afternoon-lockdown-order-sends-ludhiana-residents-into-tizzy-101618774049998.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh community calls for gun reforms after FedEx shooting||INDIANAPOLISMembers of Indianapolis’ tight-knit Sikh community joined with city officials to call for gun reforms as they mourned the deaths of four Sikhs, who were among the eight people killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx warehouse.At a vigil attended by more than 200 at an Indianapolis park on Saturday evening, Aasees Kaur, who represented the Sikh Coalition, spoke out alongside the city’s mayor and other elected officials to demand action that would prevent such attacks from happening again.“We must support one another, not just in grief, but in calling our policymakers and elected officials to make meaningful change,” Kaur said. “The time to act is not later, but now. We are far too many tragedies, too late, in doing so.”Kiran Deol, who attended the vigil in support of family members affected by the shooting, said loopholes in the law that make it easier for individuals to buy guns “need to be closed now,” and emphasised that anyone who tries to buy a firearm should be required to have their background checked.Satjeet Kaur, the Sikh Coalition’s executive director, said the entire community was traumatised by the “senseless” violence. “While we don’t yet know the motive of the shooter, he targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees,” Kaur said.There are between 8,000 and 10,000 Sikh Americans in Indiana, according to the coalition One of the victims of Thursday night’s shooting was Amarjit Sekhon, a 48-year-old Sikh mother of two sons, who was the breadwinner of her family. Kuldip Sekhon said his sister-in-law began working at the FedEx facility in November and was a dedicated worker whose husband was disabled.In addition to Sekhon, the Marion County Coroner’s office identified the dead as: Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jasvinder Kaur, 50; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.Kuldip Sekhon said his family lost another relative in the shooting — Kaur, who was his son’s mother-in-law. He said both Kaur and Amarjit Sekhon both began working at the FedEx facility last year.Komal Chohan, who said Amarjeet Johal was her grandmother, said in a statement issued by the Sikh Coalition that her family members, including several who work at the FedEx warehouse, are “traumatised” by the killings.The shooting is the deadliest incident of violence collectively in the Sikh community in the U.S. since 2012, when a white supremacist burst into a Sikh temple in Wisconsin and shot 10 people, killing seven.United Sikhs, a United Nations affiliated human rights and advocacy organisation, has expressed shock over the shooting. “We are in touch with the federal agencies for the safety and security of people at all these community events,” said Manvinder Singh, director of the United Sikhs. Singh demanded from the Joe Biden administration to swiftly act against the hate crimes and develop a mechanism to stop it. ‘Probe shooting as potential hate crime’Influential American lawmakers and Sikh community leaders have sought a thorough investigation into the mass shooting at the FedEx facility, according to a PTI report.Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi said: “While the Indianapolis and Sikh communities continue to mourn, and as the rest of our country mourns with them, investigators must also determine if this mass shooting was a hate-motivated attack in addition to serving as another example of the plague of gun violence which has beset our nation,” Krishnamoorthi said.“We do not yet know the motive of the shooter, and we may never know for sure what drove him to do what he did. We do know, however, that the FedEx facility he targeted was known for having a large workforce,” said a joint statement issued by eight gurdwaras of Indianapolis.Shooter’s family apologises to victims’ relatives The family of the 19-year-old mass shooter in Indiana who killed eight people, including four Sikhs, has apologised to the relatives of the victims, saying they were “devastated” by the actions of their son and that they tried to get him the help he needed.The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole, shot and killed himself after opening fire at the FedEx Ground Facility in Indianapolis on Thursday night. He was a former FedEx employee.Hole’s family released a statement to the families of the victims and the Indianapolis community on Saturday.“We are devastated at the loss of life caused as a result of Brandon’s actions; through the love of his family, we tried to get him the help he needed. “Our sincerest and most heartfelt apologies go out to the victims of this senseless tragedy. We are so sorry for the pain and hurt being felt by their families and the entire Indianapolis community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-community-calls-for-gun-reforms-after-fedex-shooting-101618774048243.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers stage protest against BJP leaders in Hisar||Farmers opposed the visit of BJP leaders, including agriculture minister JP Dalal, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa and Sonali Phogat, who had arrived to attend an Ambedkar Jayanti event at the Community Centre in Patel Nagar, Hisar, on Sunday .Police failed to stop the movement of farmers who broke through and displayed black flags and raised slogans against the saffron party leaders.The protest continued for three hours. Farmers alleged that police used force to disperse them.A group of protesters, including women, arrived at around 2pm carrying black flags and tried to reach the venue. The police, however, kept them in check for some time. Later, protesters who managed to enter the venue burnt BJP flags and raised slogans against the party. Hisar police spokesperson Vikash Lohachab said that the police detained some protesters, including women, near the venue and released them later.“The police had to use mild force while controlling the protesters who were kept at some distance from the venue,” he said. Kisan Sabha leader Shamsher Nambardar said, “It is surprising that at a time when the Covid cases are growing alarmingly, the BJP is organising events in such congestedplaces.” Hundreds of farmers staged a protest for the second consecutive day as BJP MP Nayab Saini visited Kurukshetra on Sunday, forcing the police to use mild force and take around 70 protestors into custody. The Kurukshetra MP was to attend a programme on Ambedkar Jayanti. Police personnel had to struggle to control the farmers when they reached close to the venue and tried to cross the barricades. Later, the police detained 70 farmers and took them to Police Lines.Kurukshetra assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Ravinder Tomar said farmers had been permitted to protest in the theme park but they tried to cross the barricades and disrupted law and order. Farmers alleged that Saini was deliberately holding such programmes to divide the people and disrupt peace. Saini accused the Congress of instigating protests against the ruling parties. “This should be called Congress’ protest not farmers’ protest as some people are using the farmers’ cause as a front to work against their welfare,” he said.Amid heavy police deployment, education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar reached Karnal to attend the Ambedkar Jayanti programme. “We are open for any discussion in the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to clear farmers’ doubts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stage-protest-against-bjp-leaders-in-hisar-101618773928297.html
19-04-2021||Other||Dugri’s Phases 1 & 2 go under lockdown amid rising cases in Ludhiana||Amid dramatic rise in the Covid-19 cases, the district administration declared complete lockdown in Dugri’s Urban Estate, Phases 1 and 2, from 9pm on Sunday.The shutdown was imposed in the areas, which have been notified as containment zones, after over 70 coronavirus cases were recorded here over the last few days. Area councillor Barjinder Kaur estimated the area’s population at over 50,000.No public movement, save some exemptions, will be allowed till further orders. Shops selling essential commodities and restaurants will be allowed to remain open. However, only home delivery services will be permitted. These include shops selling medicines, groceries, dairy items, cooked food, vegetables, fruits and domestic gas. But, the delivery boy should have a curfew pass.ALSO READ: Afternoon lockdown order sends Ludhiana residents into tizzyNight curfew from 9pm to 5am will continue in the remaining parts of the district.Violation of the lockdown will invite action under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, besides other relevant laws.Soon after the administration declared the areas as containment zones, heavy police force was deployed to stop the movement of people. Commuters were seen arguing with cops stationed at entry points to various localities. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “A containment zone is formed when 15 positive cases are reported in a particular area. More than 70 cases have been reported in the two phases of Urban Estate. Therefore, these areas have been declared as containment zones and complete lockdown has been imposed.”Joint commissioner of police (Headquarters) J Elanchezian said 300 police personnel had been deployed in the areas for enforcement of the administration’s orders.All residents to be tested: Civil surgeonCivil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said as per protocol, every resident living in the containment zones will be tested through Rapid Antigen tests. “Teams of the health department will move from door to collect samples and spread awareness about Covid-19,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dugris-phases-1-2-go-under-lockdown-amid-rising-cases-in-ludhiana-101618773689279.html
19-04-2021||Other||4 Jalandhar cops suspended after snatching accused ends life in lock-up||Four police personnel, posted at the Kartarpur police station, were suspended on Sunday after a man accused of snatching committed suicide in their custody on Saturday night. Jalandhar rural SSP Sandeep Garg issued the suspension orders of sub-inspector Atamjit Singh, assistant sub-inspector Resham Singh and two head constables, Bir Devinder Singh and Balwinder Singh. “Investigation into the incident is on,” said the SSP. Inspector Ram Singh of Kartarpur police said the accused Jatinder Singh 22, was arrested on Saturday on the charges of snatching. “He was produced before a court, which sentenced him to 14-day judicial custody. After the court’s order, we conducted the medical of the accused. His covid-19 report was awaited, so we kept him in police custody,” Ram said, adding that Jatinder used the side-lining of blanket to strangulate himself. The accused was facing two cases of snatching and robbery. Ram added a medical board of doctors had conducted the post-mortem of the body and a judicial probe was also underway. Police are not aware of the reason for the suicide. Parents and family members of the accused staged a protest against the police at Kartarpur on Sunday and demanded strict action against cops responsible for the negligence. The protest was lifted, when the police said that the body of Jatinder will be handed over to the family on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-jalandhar-cops-suspended-after-snatching-accused-ends-life-in-lockup-101618773628165.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Cost structure, adequate funding needed for regional airlines: Experts||In early January, a pilot-turned-entrepreneur commenced a new airline in a segment which has seen only failures in the country’s aviation space because of myriad reasons. Consider this, between 2011 and 2018, as many as five private regional airlines –Air Mantra, Air Costa, Air Pegasus, Air Carnival and Air Odisha—started services promising to change the regional aviation landscape in the country, but today, in a span of almost eight years, none of them can be seen flying in the skies, as all have shut shop. At present there are seven carriers, including disinvestment-bound Air India’s regional arm Alliance Air, operating in the country under regional flying permit.While the future of the most established player in the lot —Alliance Air —looks stable considering it has a strong parent (promoter) in the form of Government of India, concerns regarding the longevity of the remaining privately-funded airlines to sustain operations will depend on a number of factors, as viability of a regional carrier has always been under question.Reason for failuresAviation research and consultancy firm Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), during a webinar on “reinventing regional aviation” had noted that despite undoubted potential of regional aviation in the country, the sector continues to be severely under penetrated, with the market delivering a string of failed regional airlines. Enhancing regional connectivity through fiscal support for a fixed period and infrastructure development is one of the objectives of the National Civil Aviation Policy (NCAP) that the Central government had announced during its first term in 2016.According to Alliance Air’s former chief executive officer (CEO) KS Subbiah, regional airlines are an absolute necessity but they are failing due to inadequate hub networks as point-to-point travel is not enough.The government had in its 2016 policy introduced a new category of airlines — scheduled commuter airline with low capitalisation threshold, and also allowed airlines operating on regional routes under its Udey Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN) scheme to form codeshare partnerships with the carriers operating on major routes to make regional airlines somewhat viable. But the entry of the established domestic airlines in the play has nullified that possibility.Ratings agency ICRA said the concept of codeshare of regional airlines seems to have not worked as it has not seen codesharing on domestic routes.Citing inadequate capital to fund operations in the long-term as another reason for the failure of regional carriers, Subbiah said, “The promoters must be ready to step in [to capitalise the airline] during crises like Covid-19 or fuel price hike, among others.” CAPA too said regional carriers were succumbing to factors like under-capitalisation, sub-scale operations, mixed fleet of aircraft and demand risks.The major reason for the failure of these regional airlines is unsustainable cost structure, said Kinjal Shah, vice-president of ICRA.“Fuel cost accounts for 30-40% of the total cost of airlines. While this cost on a per kilo litre basis is the same across airlines (full-service carrier or low-cost or regional airline), considering the target audience for regional airlines, air fares have to be kept much lower so as to attract more passengers for maintaining adequate passenger load factors (PLFs),” Shah said.She also pointed out that there is hardly any difference in the airport, landing and navigation charges across big airports and regional airports in India. “This, thus, results in higher cost per available seat kilometre for regional airlines, while their revenue per available seat kilometre is also lower,” Shah pointed.Aid from governmentUnder the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS), the aviation ministry has been providing subsidies and viability gap funding to help bridge this gap. Airlines selected under the scheme have to offer lower fares for 50% of their total aircraft seats, for which they receive a subsidy or viability gap funding from the Centre and the state government concerned.Shah said RCS provides a good opportunity for regional airlines to stabilise their troubled operations using the fiscal support being provided. “The subsidy or viability gap funding was valid only for three years. Apart from three-year exclusivity, the question is what will be the government’s support after that period gets over for a long-term commitment and survival? This is important as many routes are becoming unviable after the three-year support is withdrawn, leading to closure of the airline,” said Subbiah.According to Shah, the airlines have also allegedly resorted to ‘lower pricing’ to maintain their PLFs in an environment of increasing capacities, which has resulted in overall deterioration in industry economics and financial stress. Since air fares on regional routes have to be lower to compete with alternate modes of transport, the cost structure for regional airlines also needs to be lower than that of the national airlines, she added.The Indian aviation industry is characterised by high fixed costs, with 35-42% of the airlines’ expenses being fixed in nature.“Since a substantial portion of air travel, both business and leisure, is discretionary, the airline industry tends to experience high volatility in passenger traffic/load factors and consequently adverse financial performance during economic downturns. Thus, airlines need a strong balance sheet to sustain operations,” ICRA stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cost-structure-adequate-funding-needed-for-regional-airlines-experts-101618773208920.html
19-04-2021||Other||Fight for inclusion of disputed border areas of Karnataka on: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena, praising the “unity and the fight” by the Marathi-speaking population of Belgaum for the merger of the disputed region with Maharashtra, has said that the fight for the region was on even after 65 years. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (EKS), an umbrella organisation created to integrate Marathi-speaking majority districts of Karnataka with Maharashtra, after a long time, has fielded its candidate for the Lok Sabha by-poll in the region. Its candidate Shubham Shelke, 26, a Marathi-speaking youth, is being supported by both Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The by-polls were necessitated after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Suresh Angadi died due to Covid-19 last September. Shiv Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut, in his weekly editorial Rok Thok in party mouthpiece Saamana, has praised the Marathi youth in Belgaum for coming together despite all the “hurdles” to preserve Marathi language and culture. “There is a misleading campaign that the current generation is no longer interested in the merger of Belgaum with Maharashtra. In fact, the younger generation has given more power to this 65-year-long struggle,” said Raut, condemning former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis for campaigning against Shelke. Raut warned that if the “atrocities” on the Marathi-speaking population continues, it can have recuperations on Karnataka’s traders. “When Belgaum’s Marathi-speaking people are attacked, our Shiv Sena workers in Kolhapur attack their [Karnataka’s] buses coming into the state. If this trend continues in Mumbai, it will have a bad effect on Karnataka-based traders carrying out their business in Mumbai. However, we are not interested in stretching it to that extent,” he added. Recently, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had urged the centre to declare the disputed region as Union Territory, till the Supreme Court gives its final verdict. The border dispute has its origin in the States Reorganisation Act of 1956. The law made Belgaum and 10 talukas of the Bombay state, once part of the colonial Bombay Presidency, a part of the then Mysore state. The Maharashtra government has been demanding that the 800-odd villages in Belgaum and Karwar be included in Maharashtra, as they have a majority of Marathi-speaking population. This dispute is currently before the Supreme Court of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fight-for-inclusion-of-disputed-border-areas-of-karnataka-on-shiv-sena-101618773207490.html
19-04-2021||Other||JNPT-Delhi railway track project authority seeks diversion of 13ha of forest land||The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) has sought stage-1 forest clearance for diversion of 13 hectares (ha) of forest land in Thane and Palghar districts for the construction of a double-line railway track that will connect the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to Dadri in Delhi. The project had in 2015 been accorded forest clearance for 58ha of forest land – a portion of which includes the Sanjay Gandhi National Park – in Maharashtra. A total of 2,267 mangrove trees (in an area of at least 9ha) are set to be cut for DFCCIL ‘s railway-line in Palghar, while 1,196 tivar trees are set to be cut in Thane district over an area of 3ha. The additional area to be diverted consists mostly of mangrove forests. “There are mangrove trees on private and government land at Paye, Payegaon, Chandrapada, Tivri and Shirgaon villages. This area was not included in the original proposal as guidelines for treating mangrove area as deemed forest was not in force. The new guidelines came to force in the year 2017,” DFCCIL wrote to the state forest department in December, referring to a Bombay high court order to bring mangrove forests under the ambit of the Forest Conservation Act (1980). At the time, DFCCIL had sought general permission for cutting the mangrove trees from the forest department. However, the deputy conservator of forest’s office in Thane, in August 2019, advised DFCCIL to initiate a supplementary proposal under the revised guidelines. “So we have accordingly applied for diversion of the additional 13-odd hectares. If our work on site had commenced in 2017 itself, there would have been no impediment,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager with DFCCIL. The district forest officers of Thane and Dahanu, along with the chief conservator of forests (Thane), have recommended the proposal for clearance. “The proposed project has increased the volume of the rail freight which will help upward economic growth, adding better transport facilities. The proposed project has created large-scale employment and improvement in transportation system, which will help in the fast growth of the economy. The proposed project is a public utility project. Hence, it is recommended, as it is beneficial for public and society,” the forest department noted, before forwarding the proposal to the state government, where it is currently pending, according to two officials in the forest department. One dedicated freight corridor station and major bridges and viaducts fall in these areas, the construction work on which has so far not commenced due to the lack of forest clearance. A total of 28ha in compartment no 687 of the Dhasai forest range (Shahapur division) has been selected for compensatory afforestation, at a cost of ₹2 crore over a 10-year period. Palghar district has 114,803ha of forest area, of which 1,048.6 ha has been diverted across 45 different project proposals since 1980. In Thane, which has 2,062ha of forest area, 8.4ha have been diverted since the same year across 11 different project proposals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnptdelhi-railway-track-project-authority-seeks-diversion-of-13ha-of-forest-land-101618773087494.html
19-04-2021||Other||Designated spaces for hawkers at Thane market||To avoid crowding and ensure social distancing in public places, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has allocated designated spaces outside the Jambli market near Thane station for hawkers and vendors. With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases within Thane city, the civic body is adopting various measures to ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed. “We noticed that as the market is open for essentials, there is an increased crowd here. There is overcrowding because of the small lanes. We have made markings along the footpath near Masunda lake and its vicinity so that social distancing is followed and citizens too find it easier to purchase essentials,” said a senior official from TMC. A similar decision was taken around a year ago when the lockdown was at its peak and the mortality rate was also higher within Thane city. This measure helped maintain social distancing and take action against those flouting Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/designated-spaces-for-hawkers-at-thane-market-101618773027514.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs cop to buy law books for rural police station||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently directed the station house officer (SHO) of Vasmat Nagar police station in Hingoli district to buy law books pertaining to various crimes for the police station after he was pulled up for not responding to a query by the court in January 2021. The court had sought to know about the action taken by the police on a complaint by a teacher in 2013. The court had initially imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on the officer for dereliction of duty but withdrew the fine. The officer volunteered to contribute ₹2,500 to the court library as a goodwill gesture, following which the court directed him to buy law books for the police station. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar was hearing a petition filed by a teacher Gopinath Galande seeking directions against the management of a group of schools which had allegedly stopped his salary when he refused to pay a gratification amount for continuation of his services. Advocate KP Rodge told the court that Galande had filed two complaints, one in 2013 and the other in 2017. The complaint in 2013 was against the management after they stopped his salary and asked him to pay ₹15 lakh for continuation of his services and the complaint in 2017 was regarding a lady teacher being employed in two schools of the management at the same time. While the 2013 complaint was dismissed by the police after they did not find any merit in it, a first information report (FIR) was registered against the management in the 2017 complaint for having the same teacher drawing salary from two schools. The police completed investigation in the 2017 complaint and the case will come up for trial, hence the court disposed of the petition. However, the bench wanted to know what had happened with regard to the 2013 complaint and sought a reply from the SHO of the concerned police station on January 14 this year. After the SHO failed to respond, the bench sought his presence and imposed a cost of ₹10,000 from the officer’s salary. After the officer submitted that he did not get the court order as the fax machine was not working, the court withdrew the cost. The officer then offered to donate ₹2,500 to the court library at Aurangabad, which the court declined and said, “We are of the view that the SHO should purchase latest bare acts on criminal laws like the Indian Penal Code; Code of Criminal Procedure; Evidence Act, the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989; Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012; Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002; Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999; Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders/Dangerous Persons and Video Pirates Act, 1981; Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, etc. for Vasmatnagar Rural police station.” The court said that as the petition was based on the 2017 complaint and was being disposed, Galande was at a liberty to resort to proper remedy for redressal of his 2013 complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-cop-to-buy-law-books-for-rural-police-station-101618772908060.html
19-04-2021||Other||79,698 citizens in Navi Mumbai fined for flouting norms within a month||The police along with the local civic bodies from Navi Mumbai penalised 79,698 people between March 15 and April 15 for violating Covid-19 norms. After the second week of March, both the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) started taking stringent actions to curb the violations such as not wearing masks or maintaining social distance and spitting in public places, among others.The police have also additionally registered 147 first information reports (FIRs) and booked around 2,000 people for violating the norms during the one-month period. Suresh Mengade, DCP (zone 1), said, “Even as the number of cases is increasing rapidly, some people are still behaving carelessly. We are taking action against such violators under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations, 2020.”The police had formed special squads under the zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and started visiting the vegetable market at Panvel, APMC market in Vashi and other public and private events. They also started conducting nakabandis on all major roads from the first week of this month. “After the lockdown, several people were penalised under the Motor Vehicle Act for triple seats on two-wheelers and not stopping even after being asked to, by on-duty officers. Our priority is not to take action against maximum people, but to create awareness and thereby reduce the violations. We appeal to residents to not put themselves and their family members at risk by violating the norms,” Mengade further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/79698-citizens-in-navi-mumbai-fined-for-flouting-norms-within-a-month-101618772848642.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC quashes punishment of convicted principal||The Bombay high court (HC) recently set aside the 2011 conviction of the principal of a government-run training institute who was tried for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act and was sentenced to two years of rigorous imprisonment. The court dismissed the conviction on the grounds that the principal secretary of school education department had not applied his mind independently while sanctioning criminal proceedings against the principal as the chief minister (CM) had already sanctioned it. The principal had asked the management of an institute to pay him ₹1 lakh as gratification for getting them an approval from the education department. The institute had lodged a complaint with Satara police and the principal was apprehended while accepting ₹50,000. The single bench of justice Bharati Dangre, while hearing the appeal against the May 2011 conviction by a special court, was informed that the appellant had been tried for offences under sections 7, 13(1)(d) read with section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and was to undergo two sentences of rigorous imprisonment for two years each. Advocate Girish Kulkarni for the appellant informed the court that as his client was working in a government institute, he was treated as a public servant and the procedure against him was initiated accordingly. In 2009, an institute had approached the appellant seeking his intervention in getting the approval for 10 additional students admitted by them from the deputy director of education. Though he was bound to help the institute, the principal sought a gratification of ₹1 lakh. The institute lodged a complaint after the principal accepted ₹50,000 and he was booked for the same in 2011. Kulkarni submitted that as the principal drew a salary of more than ₹10,000, sanction to prosecute him was sought from the ministry of school education. In turn, the ministry sent it for approval to the CM. On receipt of approval from the chief minister’s office, criminal proceedings against the principal started and he was tried and sentenced. Kulkarni said that as the issue of giving sanction for prosecution was serious, the ministry should have applied its mind after receiving the approval from the CM. He further submitted that the officer concerned had admitted to not applying his mind, and hence the entire prosecution and conviction was not valid and should be set aside. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “The sanction accorded by the sanctioning authority is an invalid sanction, and at this stage, it is also not possible to relegate the prosecution to obtain a fresh sanction since more than a decade has elapsed when the appellant was arraigned as an accused and it is too late in the day to prosecute him with the fresh sanction, at this stage. The lacuna on part of the prosecution, therefore, leaves no room other than to discharge the appellant of the charges levelled against him.” The bench then quashed and set aside the judgement of conviction and disposed of the appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-quashes-punishment-of-convicted-principal-101618772848135.html
19-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 toll crosses 60-K; state sees 68,631 new cases||Covid-19 cases and deaths in Maharashtra continued to rise on Sunday as the state witnesses shortage of beds, oxygen and Remdesivir injection. The state reported the highest single-day spike of 68,631 cases, taking the tally to 3,839,338. Maharashtra also breached a grim milestone of 60,000 deaths after adding 503 deaths – the highest single-day surge after 215 days – when 515 deaths were reported on September 15. The state’s Covid-19 toll now stands at 60, 473. The latest 10,000 deaths were reported in 99 days, after the 50,000-mark was crossed on January 9. Maharashtra had breached the 40,000 deaths-mark on October 10.Mumbai reported 8,468 cases and 53 deaths on Sunday, followed by Pune (6,541 cases and 36 deaths), Nagpur with 4,724 cases and 22 deaths and Nashik (2,049 cases and three deaths).Currently, there are 670,388 active cases in the state. Pune has the most (122,486) number of active cases, followed by Mumbai (86,688).Dr Satyendranath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital in Byculla, attributed the high mortality rate to the shortage of oxygen cylinders and ICU (intensive care unit) beds. “We are seeing the shortage of these essential things along with medicines like Remdesivir,” said Dr Mehra. The state continued to face shortage of both Remdesivir and Tocilizumab drugs, leaving patients relatives anxious. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “Local authorities need to distribute these doses according to the need of the patients.”He added that citizens must not ignore any symptoms. “People need to test if they experience any symptom. My study has shown that people are dying if they don’t act on time,” said Tope. The health minister also said that police chiefs should launch crackdown on crowding and citizens should cooperate in following the strict restrictions imposed on them. “We are getting at least 70,000 cases and more than 80% are asymptomatic. I am sure the peak will come down in five days. But we need to break this chain and not indulge in any behaviour which will increase the cases, and must comply with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” said Tope, adding that people need to vaccinate irrespective of any comorbidities.There were 126,138 vaccinations given on Sunday. Tope said the state has the capacity to vaccinate 800,000 people per day. “We have asked the Centre to provide us with at least 4,000,000 doses every week,” said Tope.Amid the ongoing curfew imposed from April 15 in the state, the police and local authorities in a few districts imposed stricter curbs. In Jalgaon, a hospital’s licence was cancelled as it was found that doctors and nurses were not wearing PPE (personal protective equipment) kits while attending Covid-19 patients. The curbs in places such as Nanded, Wardha and Amravati were further tightened as the local administration allowed all essential shops to remain open only till afternoon. Only medical stores will be exempted from this order.Dr Mehra said the restrictions need to be tightened further. “We are still seeing people without masks, not maintaining distance and roaming unnecessarily. This needs to be stopped and authorities need to be strict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-60-k-state-sees-68-631-new-cases-101618772787471.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Gardener shot at: Two arrested in Noida||Noida: The Noida police apprehended two men in their early 20s on Sunday for allegedly shooting a gardener near the Sector 50 metro station on April 14. The 40-year-old victim, identified as Krishna Kumar, who is a native of Hoshiyarpur village, was shot in broad daylight while he was on his way to work to Sector 50. Kumar has survived being shot in his back. The incident has triggered fear among the locals, and a case of attempt to murder was registered at the Sector 49 police station, according to the police.The Noida police nabbed two men near the Sector 76 metro station on Sunday, in connection with the incident. The duo was identified as Rahul and Praved — residents of Sector 51, and Morna village respectively. According to the police officials, Rahul was involved in a romantic relationship with Kumar’s daughter, but the family had recently fixed her marriage elsewhere, in Bareilly.“Rahul was not happy about the marriage, and decided to kill the woman’s father with the help of his two friends,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station.Praved and their another reached Sector 50 on April 14. They were familiar with the Kumar’s schedule. While Praved drove the bike, the other friend shot Kumar in the back, and escaped. According to the police officials, the third man, who is a resident of Sorkha, is absconding and a hunt to nab him is underway.Rahul worked as a private driver, while Praved worked as an auto mechanic. Police said that Kumar’s daughter was not involved in the crime. The motorcycle and helmet used in the shooting have been recovered, said the SHO.A CCTV footage showing two men on a Pulsar motorcycle shooting Kumar has been doing rounds on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gardener-shot-at-two-arrested-in-noida-101618772727498.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Remdesivir excess stocking: Mumbai Police to call directors of pharma firm for inquiry||The BKC police, which had summoned a director of Bruck Pharma, a Daman-based pharmaceutical company, on Saturday in connection with stocking of large quantities of Remdesivir vials in Mumbai, will call other directors and chairman for further inquiry. The director was questioned for around 45 minutes and was allowed to leave after a senior BJP leader intervened. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Manjunath Singe said, “We have questioned a director and he was allowed to go, but further inquiries are in the process as per the information received. Based on facts, appropriate action will be taken”. According to the police, an inspector of the Vile Parle police station had received a tip-off about the storage of large quantities (60,000 vials) of Remdesivir medicines by a pharmaceutical company. It was allegedly going to be illegally flown out abroad by air cargo. The stock of Remdesivir could not be exported due to an existing ban by the Government of India, said an officer. Remdesivir is considered a life-saving medicine for Covid-19 patients. Based on the information, one director of the pharmaceutical company was called to the BKC police station for inquiry and a team from the Food of Drugs Administration (FDA) was also informed. The senior FDA officials in Mumbai were also aware of it, mentioned the press release issued by Mumbai Police. Around 11:15pm, former chief minister of Maharashtra and Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis along with senior politician Praveen Darekar, Parag Alavani and Prasad Lad visited BKC police station. Fadnavis inquired why the director of the pharmaceutical company was called to the police station, reads the press note. Fadnavis said, “The permission was taken from FDA commissioner to donate the stock of Remdesivir vials to the Maharashtra government, as Remdesivir stocked for export cannot be diverted to the domestic market without permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DGCA) or FDA. The communication from FDA to the pharmaceutical company was not shared with the BKC police station, which was acting independently on the information available with them, said Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya. Based on the information, Mumbai Police acted in good faith and the director of the company was called for an inquiry to trace and seize the 60,000 vials of Remedesivir medicines. The inquiry was compulsory due to the complaint of black marketing of Remdesivir and shortage being faced by the state government to help the citizens, added Chaitanya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/remdesivir-excess-stocking-mumbai-police-to-call-directors-of-pharma-firm-for-inquiry-101618772668146.html
19-04-2021||Other||Govt plans stringent rules to curb 2nd wave in Bengaluru||Bengaluru The Karnataka government is planning to impose more stringent rules in Bengaluru in a move to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases in India’s IT capital. “Tougher and stringent measures are necessary in Bengaluru to control the second wave. It will be decided after an all-party meeting tomorrow. The chief minister will take the decision after a detailed discussion with leaders,” health & family welfare and medical education minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday. The minister’s statements come on a day Karnataka inched towards 20,000 Covid caseload mark, with Bengaluru accounting for 12,793 new infections. The state recorded its highest-ever single-day spike with 19,067 new cases being recorded in 24 hours that takes its total active case count to 133,543, of which 97,897 are in Bengaluru, according to the daily health bulletin of the state health department. Positivity rate breached the 13% mark. Bengaluru accounted for 60 out of the 81 fatalities reported across the state. Amid the spike in cases, India’s IT capital faces issues, such as shortage of vaccine and critical drugs like Remdesivir, near-full occupancy rates in hospitals and limited curbs that have added to the spread of the virus. Sudhakar said legal action will be initiated against private hospitals that do not reserve half of their beds for Covid patients. “Manipal Hospital has not provided 50% beds. Strict instructions have been given to the hospital. Legal action will be initiated if they fail to obey the orders. Let us not land in such a situation,” he said. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who has tested positive for Covid-19, is being treated at Manipal Hospital. The situation in Bengaluru has deteriorated in the past few weeks, with most hospital beds in public and private medical establishments reporting nearly full occupancy. There are 6,117 beds allocated for Covid-19 across private and public medical facilities in Bengaluru, of which 4,492 are occupied. There are only 29 beds left in intensive care units (ICU) and those with ventilators across all public and private hospitals and medical colleges, according to real-time bed availability data of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). There are 620 persons admitted in ICUs across the state. “There are seven medical oxygen production plants in Karnataka with a daily production capacity of 812 tonnes; the medical oxygen utilised on Saturday was 272.61 tonnes. So I appeal to everyone to not create unnecessary panic about shortage of medical oxygen in the state,” the minister tweeted. He said zonal officers have been deployed to manage any shortage. According to the health department bulletin, 11 districts reported over 100 cases, four over 200, two districts over 300 cases and another two over 400. Kalaburagi reported 671 new infections and Mysuru 777. Revenue minister R Ashok said the government will come up with a special set of guidelines for Bengaluru, but has ruled out a lockdown. Senior ministers are scheduled to meet on Monday to take a final decision on proposed guidelines aimed to contain the Covid surge in the city and the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-plans-stringent-rules-to-curb-2nd-wave-in-bengaluru-101618772667461.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police chief checks for colour-coded stickers at traffic check points||After announcing an order to put colour coded stickers on vehicles on Saturday, Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale visited Mulund and Dahisar check nakas on Sunday morning to oversee the implementation of the same. The decision is aimed at restricting movement of unwanted vehicles during the lockdown and ensuring there are no traffic jams at entry-exit points and toll nakas for uninterrupted movement of ambulances, vehicles for doctors and nursing staff. Vehicles found violating the sticker order will be booked under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code for impersonation. While raising awareness about the stickers and clearing the doubts among commuters regarding the stickers, he said the police would not be distributing the stickers like they did for travel eligibility passes last year. He said for the safety and convenience of commuters, stickers could be made by vehicle owners or drivers by cutting a red, yellow or green paper in a circular shape of at least six inches radius. “The driver or the owner of the vehicle will have to stick the paper on the front and rear wind shield of the vehicle so that the officers can identity for what purpose the vehicle is travelling. This will help to refrain people from traveling unnecessarily,” said Nagrale as he stuck a red sticker on a vehicle. Nagrale added that the stickers will be available at toll booths at Mulund and Dahisar. Mumbai Police ordered for the colour coding on Saturday after vehicles used by doctors and ambulances were allegedly stuck at check nakas due to restrictions imposed by the state government. Accordingly, vehicles used by doctors, medical staff, ambulances and medical equipment supplies will sport a red sticker. Vehicles involved in transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries and dairy products will have green stickers and other essential service providers will use the yellow stickers. On Sunday, Nagrale also said that the stickers would enable the commuters to avoid direct contact with the officers, thus helping in curtailing the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-chief-checks-for-colour-coded-stickers-at-traffic-check-points-101618772608029.html
19-04-2021||Other||-ve RT-PCR test must for those coming from 6 states: Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Sunday, as a part of its drive to contain the spread of Covid-19, has declared six states – Kerala, Goa, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) and Uttarakhand – as ‘sensitive origins’ and made RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test mandatory for railway passengers visiting from these states. These six states have reported high number of Covid-19 cases in recent weeks.The order came into effect immediately and remains in force until further announcement.Passengers from these states have also been banned from travelling to Maharashtra without a reserved ticket. The order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte mandates proper management of passengers alighting at each of the stations in Maharashtra, with close coordination between state and railway authorities. The order has stated that passengers travelling to Maharashtra with confirmed tickets need to possess a negative RT-PCR test report, and the test should have been done within 48 hours before the travel. It said that the railways needs to share with the local disaster management authority (DMA) where the passengers will disembark in Maharashtra, four hours before the journey. The order also stated that passengers who have not undergone RT-PCR tests will have to take rapid antigen tests at railway stations. “If any passenger is found to be Covid-19 positive, they will be moved to the quarantine centre. Passengers who have no symptoms or whose test reports are negative will be stamped and will have to undergo 15 days of home quarantine. In case they violate the rules, they will be fined ₹1,000 and moved to institutional quarantine,” it further stated. The order has also clarified that the passengers will have to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour at all times during their journey. The Maharashtra government is taking efforts like imposing a mini-lockdown to contain the virus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ve-rt-pcr-test-must-for-those-coming-from-6-states-maharashtra-govt-101618772607462.html
19-04-2021||Other||Despite lockdown, 26 birds given treatment at Navi Mumbai’s Karnala sanctuary||Despite the lockdown imposed by the state government, the forest officers are taking care of the 26 birds undergoing treatment at the Karnala Bird Sanctuary, near Panvel.Among them are 14 black kites, four parrots, seven cockatoos and one peacock. Some of them are under observation for the past one year, a senior officer said.The forest officers had a tough time due to the non-availability of certain foods and other facilities for the birds during the lockdown last year. They have not faced any such challenges so far, this year.Pradeep Chavan, range forest officer of the sanctuary, said, “When it comes to taking care of the birds, we need to concentrate mainly on two things – food of their choice and proper medical treatment. The black kites for instance, eat only non-vegetarian food, hence we are providing them with chicken. Likewise, we are offering different grains and fruits to the other birds. These birds will be under our observation till they recover and can fly properly.”“As far as the medical treatment is concerned, we don’t have our own veterinarian. So, we call in an officer from Kharpada from time to time and she prescribes medicines after examining the birds. Proper arrangement for the well-being of these birds is made here,” said Chavan. He added that these birds were rescued from different places of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. “The black kites were rescued from areas such as Sewri, Nhava Sheva and Uran. Most of the cockatoos were rescued from Crawford Market in Mumbai,” he said.The sanctuary was shut for tourists from Thursday following the new restrictions imposed by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-lockdown-26-birds-given-treatment-at-navi-mumbai-s-karnala-sanctuary-101618772548155.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pharma firm employee, associate held for black marketing of Remdesivir||The special operation group (SOG) of Valsad police had on Wednesday (April 14) arrested Bruck Pharma Company’s technical director and his associate for allegedly selling Remdesivir injection in the black market and seized 18 injections from them.The arrested accused Manish Singh and his associate Varun Kundra are both, residents of Vapi. Singh claimed that he worked as a technical director in Bruck Pharma company in Daman, while Kundra owns a furniture store at Vapi, said superintendent of police, Rajdeep Singh Jhala.We received a tip-off about Kundra selling Remdesivir injection at a higher price than the market, hence an officer of SOG was sent as a decoy. Sub-inspector Amirajsingh Rana approached him as a customer and asked him that he required a few injections as a person known to him was suffering from Covid-19. Kundra agreed to give one injection for ₹12,000, said Jhala.The trap was laid on Thursday and Kundra was arrested when he came to deliver the injection from Vapi to Valsad. During the search, police found a total of 12 injections from his possession. During interrogation, he confessed that he got injections from his friend Singh, who worked in a pharmaceutical firm in Daman. Kundra was then asked to make a call to Singh and tell him that he got more customers who required injections. Singh then came to deliver the medicines and the police arrested him. During the search police recovered six injections from his possession, added Jhala.Both the accused were arrested under the charges of 420 (cheating), 114 of the Epidemic Disease Act and other relevant sections of the Essential Commodity Act. They are in the police custody, added Jhala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-pharma-firm-employee-associate-held-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-101618772547465.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Railways set up 21-coach isolation ward in Nandurbar||The Indian Railways have provided a 21-coach isolation ward train for Covid-19 patients in Nandurbar. Till Sunday, 20 patients have been admitted in the isolation train, which is stationed at platform number 3, of Nandurbar railway station.Each coach can accommodate 16 patients who are provided with bedrolls, pillows, napkins. The facility has nine coolers, two oxygen cylinders and one bathroom with three toilets per coach.The rooftop of the coaches is covered with jute clothing, where the layer of jute is kept wet the entire day with continuous water sprinkling arrangement to keep the coaches cool. The coolers are also installed at windows from outside of the coaches.“A separate room for changing personal protection equipment (PPE) kit for doctors and a separate AC coach for medical personnel have also been provided. A 24x7 railway control has been set up at Nandurbar to cater to the need of Covid-19 patients admitted in these coaches,” said a senior Western Railway official.The Nandurbar district collector last week had requested the Western Railway to provide them with isolation coaches.The Indian Railways in 2020 had converted nearly 4,000 of its coaches into isolation coaches for coronavirus patients. Patients with mild symptoms were admitted to these coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrarailways-set-up-21-coach-isolation-ward-in-nandurbar-101618772487967.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only 43 ICU, 19 ventilator beds are vacant||Even as the city inches towards near-complete utilisation of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and ventilator beds – on Sunday, there were only 43 and 19 vacant according to the municipal authority’s dashboard – the 24 war rooms, set up during the first wave of the pandemic to ensure decentralised distribution of beds, are also finding it difficult to cope with the surge in requests. HT called the helplines of all war rooms, set up to manage 24 wards together, and found that while citizens living in the eastern suburbs and those in south and central Mumbai could connect easily with representatives of their war rooms, the numbers of control rooms in the western suburbs were either busy or went unanswered in the western suburbs. To be sure, a surge in cases (Mumbai recorded 8,468 on Sunday) and fast depleting beds (of the 20,608 hospital beds, 17,005 are occupied) have made it difficult for war rooms to allocate beds. To add to this, the city is also facing a shortage of oxygen – the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday shifted 168 patients out of six hospitals to jumbo Covid centres due to the unavailability of medical-grade oxygen needed to treat critical patients. Yet citizens around the city have complained of their inability to get through the helplines; many have also said that they have had to wait for at least 24 hours to get a bed for critical patients. “The problems encountered with ward war control rooms are also being looked into. Considering suddenly there is a surge in cases and the staff is also getting adapted with the changes. We are making all efforts to ensure that every citizen gets a bed,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said. The BMC set up 24 war rooms set up at various wards in Mumbai last May as a decentralised bed management system; each is headed by an assistant commissioner who takes decisions related to the hospitals and Covid centres, ventilators and beds; and residents are required to call the helpline number if they require a bed. On March 30, as the daily caseload began to rise rapidly, BMC commissioner IS Chahal issued an order reiterating that all hospital admissions should be routed through the ward level war rooms to avoid the chaos experienced during the first wave when several patients ran from the pillar to post to get a bed. No direct admission in any Covid Care Centre or private hospitals would be permitted without prior intimation to the ward war room. The order also stated that 80% of the total beds and 100% of ICU beds in private hospitals shall be kept reserved only for the allotment through the ward war rooms for Covid-19 patients. “We have faced some difficulties recently in finding a ventilator bed for patients, or an ICU bed. If BMC beds are fully occupied, we start calling private hospitals to check if beds are available in the 20% quota of reserved private beds. We then inform the patient of this availability and ask them if they can pay,” a war room official said, on condition of anonymity. At present, the city has 10,227 oxygen beds (661 are vacant), 2,765 ICU beds, and 1,415 ventilator beds. War room officials have admitted that there are delays of a few hours in allotting ventilator and ICU beds to covid-19 patients, due to the rise in cases. They said it was easier to allot beds to asymptomatic patients in quarantine centres, or to mild symptomatic patients who do not need ICU and ventilator beds. A spokesperson from Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said, “For the past month, all Covid-19 beds in our hospital are occupied. While 80% of them are allotted by BMC’s war room itself, we frequently receive requests from the war room to check availability in 20% beds also. We also directly receive calls from patients to check if beds in this quota are available.” Citizens have complained that beds allotted by the control room in a private hospital end up being occupied after reaching the site. Vile Parle resident Nita Gupta said, “It took me around two days to get my 73-year-old father admitted to a hospital. He has multiple comorbidities, and his symptoms included high fever, shivering, weakness and dipping oxygen. But we did not get a bed for 24 hours. Later, on the second day, we got allotted a bed, but when we called the hospital, they said they do not have any bed. It was finally on Friday afternoon that my father could get a bed. I hope we have not lost crucial time. The system should be such that citizens are allotted beds within hours of reporting. We do not want patients to die because they did not get any treatment or bed.” Each morning at 4 am, officials at a war room receive a list of Covid-19 positive patients, along with their reports on email. Within two hours, operators at the ward war rooms begin to call patients: they enquire about the severity of symptoms to check if beds need to be allotted, or whether the patient needs to be shifted to a quarantine centre. Each war room has close to 40 officials who work in three, eight-hour-long shifts. The doctors appointed at the war room decide whether an oxygen bed, ICU bed, ventilator bed or a normal hospital bed is to be allotted to the patient. Once a bed is assigned against a patient’s name in the system, an ambulance from the ward is dispatched. While every call lasts for about 10 minutes, it can take over an hour to dispatch an ambulance to the patient’s home, a ward official said. “We are getting calls from around 500 to 600 patients daily requesting us to arrange beds for them,” Ruben Mascarenhas, national secretary from Aam Aadmi Party Mumbai, said. A BMC official said, “The allocation at ward war control room is done based on severity and there is no scope of leaving any patient without a bed. Also, helplines may be difficult to be in touch with considering western suburbs also have the highest case-load of active cases due to which helplines are busier there than compared to other parts of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-only-43-icu-19-ventilator-beds-are-vacant-101618772428550.html
19-04-2021||Other||Thane special cell struggles with shortage of Remdesivir||Three days after the Thane district collector set up a special cell for smooth distribution of Remdesivir, the cell is unable to function normally due to the shortage of the medicine. Relatives of the patients are currently being asked to arrange for Remdesivir themselves. “We have formed the logistics based on the requirement in both private and government hospitals, based on which, we have informed medical companies regarding the requirement. But we are yet to receive enough doses as per the demand,” said a senior officer from Thane district. Meanwhile, relatives of the patients in need of Remdesivir are struggling to get the medicine. “We contacted the district helpline number but to no avail. When we reached out to many contacts provided by our friends and relatives, we realised that there are many trying to fleece you by selling it for a huge sum,” said Satish Ghorpade, 42, whose father is admitted to a hospital in Kalyan as he is Covid positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-special-cell-struggles-with-shortage-of-remdesivir-101618772429147.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Noida authority begins intense sanitisation drive||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said that it has started an intense sanitisation drive to break the chain of coronavirus infection in the city. Around 5,000 staff from the authority’s health department have been engaged in the drive, officials said.The authority has engaged six fire tenders, 26 water pressure tankers, 39 pressure machines and 42 battery spray machines to cover 64 residential areas, 20 villages and 66 housing societies for proper sanitization of surfaces and walls, said the officials.“We are properly sanitizing the public spaces in both rural and urban areas to minimise the Covid-19 risk,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority.On Sunday, the authority covered industrial sectors from 1 to 11, and some residential sectors, including 14, 15, 15A, 19, and from 20 to 25, among others. “We covered commercial areas of sector 18, Atta Market, and markets in sectors 104 and sector 50,” said Mishra.The authority’s team covered villages, such as Mamura, Gijhaud, Nagla Charan Das, Sorkha, Gejha and Kakrala, among others. “We covered 20 villages on Sunday, and take up other villages on Monday. Our motive is that all villages, markets, and other public places are sanitized,” said Mishra.The authority also conducted sanitization in housing societies such as Jaypee Wish Town, Prateek Wisteria, Zenith and Supertech Romano, among others, the officials said.The authority is using sodium hypochlorite solution as disinfectant. “We have directed the staff to spray the solution properly so that no spot stays uncovered,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-begins-intense-sanitisation-drive-101618772368759.html
19-04-2021||Other||TN imposes curbs at night, Sunday from April 20 to curb Covid spread||Chennai: Tamil Nadu on Sunday announced a night curfew between 10pm and 4am and a complete lockdown on Sundays effective from April 20 to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections. The decision came after chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami held a meeting with senior officials to discuss measures to curtail the surge in cases. Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported 10,723 new cases, the highest this year, taking the Covid tally in the state to 991,451. Chennai accounted for the highest caseload with 3,304 cases, according to the health department data. A total of 108,155 RT-PCR tests were conducted across the state on Sunday. The new restrictions will remain in place until further orders as counting for assembly poll results will take place on May 2, the government has decided. Class 12 board examinations for the state board students have been postponed, but practical exams, which got underway on Friday, will continue. The state has asked government and private colleges and universities to conduct their classes and exams online. During the Sunday lockdowns, only essential activities like milk supply, newspaper delivery, medical services, commodity transport and vehicles carrying petrol and diesel are permitted. Meat and vegetable shops, cinemas and commercial establishments will be closed. Takeaway services will be allowed in restaurants at stipulated timings. During the night curfew, private and public transportation, taxis and autos, and transportation within the state will not be allowed. Transportation will be allowed for purposes of medical services and for carrying people to and from railway stations and airports. On other days, the rule for 50% capacity in restaurants and theatres will continue. Journalists, petrol bunks, and industries producing essentials can continue to work. All beaches across the state are now out of bounds for the public. Tourism to Ooty, Kodaikanal and other destinations is prohibited. Public will also not be allowed to go to museums, parks, zoos, and ASI sites. Infections began to rise in Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly elections held on April 6. By March 24, the state reported 1,636 cases. The polling day recorded 3,645 fresh cases. Last year, during the first wave, Tamil Nadu for weeks had the second highest caseload in the country. Besides urging people to get vaccinated, the health department and civic bodies are bringing back measures from last year, such as conducting at least 100,000 RT-PCR tests, and opening fever camps and triage or screening centres, which helped in identifying cases early and reducing the burden on hospitals. Chennai has opened 12 screening centres across 15 zones. “If their condition seems to be fine, we send them back home. Those who need doctor supervision, they will be sent to the Covid care centre,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash. “Those who need to be admitted to hospital come in the third category.” Experts say localised restrictions are necessary to control the virus spread and ensure that hospitals that are fast filling up aren’t overburdened. “We are likely to see multiple peaks we experienced last year, so it’s important to cancel social events and avoid large gatherings, especially in enclosed spaces,” said Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director of the National Institute of Epidemiology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-imposes-curbs-at-night-sunday-from-april-20-to-curb-covid-spread-101618772368111.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Man arrested for kidnapping 16-year-old girl||Noida: A 24-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly kidnapping a 16-year-old girl over a month ago from Greater Noida West. Police said that the girl was rescued from the suspect’s residence in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram.According to police, the victim, who lived with her parents at Gaur City in Greater Noida West, had gone for her coaching class in the neighbourhood on March 1 and was missing since then. The victim’s father had lodged a complaint at Bisrakh police station on March 1. “My daughter had left home for a coaching class at 7am in the neighbourhood. But she did not return home. We launched a search but could not find her,” he said. Anita Chauhan, SHO, Bisrakh police station, said that a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code. “The girl was carrying her mother’s mobile phone when she went missing,” the SHO said. Chauhan said that a police team launched an investigation and scanned the call details of the mobile phone. “We found that the girl was in touch with a person named Vinod Kumar, a resident of Indirapuram. On Sunday, we received information about the suspect’s movement near Sudamapuri bridge in Greater Noida West. Our team reached the spot and arrested him,” she said. Then the police team visited Kumar’s residence and rescued the victim, the SHO said. “We have conducted the victim’s medical examination. On Monday, the suspect will be produced in court,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-kidnapping-16-year-old-girl-101618772367481.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Noida’s Arjun Vajpai to scale Everest for 2nd time; no O2 support this time||Mountaineer Arjun Vajpai, 27, reached the Everest Base Camp on Saturday evening to climb Mount Everest again. This would be his second attempt to scale the Earth’s highest mountain above sea level, but this time, without any oxygen support.Along with his father Colonel Sanjeev Vajpai and mother Priya Vajpai, the Noida resident started his journey from Nepal’s small mountain town Lukla to the base camp on April 8 morning. “I began trekking from Lukla to Khumbu Valley on April 8 and crossed some amazing places on the way, such as Phakding, Namche Bazaar, and Tengboche. It was a nostalgic journey... seeing all these villages after so many years,” said Vajpai.Following acclimatisation at the base camp, Vajpai begins his summit on April 24/ 25 — depending on the weather — and is likely to reach the peak 30 days later. According to Sparsh Tyagi, Vajpai’s manager, the 27-year-old “hopes to reach the peak on May 22 — exactly 11 years since his first climb”.In 2010, Vajpai — then 16 years old — became the youngest Indian to climb Mount Everest. However, Malavath Poorna, 13, broke the record in 2014 and became the youngest to climb the mountain.At 8,848 metres above sea level, the air on the summit is thin, and most mountaineers require to carry oxygen cylinders with them. A mountaineer has around three to four oxygen cylinders, weighing eight to nine kilograms each, making the climb even more daunting. According to National Geographic magazine, by 2017, around 200 mountaineers have successfully climbed Everest without supplemental oxygen.Trained in Almora during Covid lockdown in 2020“I had dreamt of going on this expedition in 2020 but couldn’t, following the coronavirus outbreak in March,” he said over the phone.Before the coronavirus-induced lockdown in 2020, Vajpai used to cycle on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway thrice a week, covering a distance of 60 kilometers to increase his lung capacity. He used to run 60 kilometers thrice a week, without any time limit. After the lockdown was imposed, according to Vajpai, he used his 20-storey apartment in Sector 51 to lightly train his body by climbing stairs up and down daily. In June 2020, he moved to the house his parents own in Uttarakhand’s Almora, for rigorous training. The hills and mountains there offered him a bigger challenge to meet.“I have been a mountaineer for more than 11 years. Right from the age of 16, when I had climbed Everest, I have been climbing other peaks — even as high as 8,000 metres. I have been training hard, and my body has evolved. Now, I don’t feel the need to carry supplemental oxygen during my climbs,” he said, adding that seeing other mountaineers climb Everest without any oxygen support has also inspired him.“I realised that there are no limits to our dreams. The only barrier is in our minds. I saw so many great climbers scaling Everest without supplemental oxygen. Their names are on the list of elite mountaineers today. Seeing them, I was inspired to do the same,” said Vajpai.‘Will come full circle if I return with all fingers, toes’Remembering his days in Kathmandu in 2010, Vajpai said, “Memories are rushing back to me as I’m here in Kathmandu after 11 years. Back then, no one believed in me and rubbished the idea of a 16-year-old climbing Everest. And the rest is history. I don’t think I have come full circle yet. It will be only when I come back after achieving the feat with all ten fingers and toes this time.”Vajpai will be climbing the Earth’s highest mountain above sea level from the Nepal side with Sherpa (expedition organising firm ‘Asian Trekking’ has assigned the sherpa guide to him). “Earlier, I had planned to climb Everest from the Tibet side without a sherpa. However, as that side is closed, I had to change my plans. Nepal does not allow a solo climber, so I have to go with the sherpa,” Vajpai said.Following his conquest of Everest, Vajpai had successfully climbed Mount Lhotse (8,516 metres) and Mount Manaslu (8,163 metres) in 2011, Mount Makalu (8,485 metres) and Mount Cho Oyu (8,201 metres) in 2016, and Mount Kanchenjunga (8,586 metres) in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-arjun-vajpai-to-scale-everest-for-2nd-time-no-o2-support-this-time-101618772309374.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Markets closed, streets empty during weekend lockdown in Noida||Following the coronavirus-induced partial weekend lockdown in Uttar Pradesh, markets in Noida — except for essential services — remained closed on Sunday, and the streets were empty as most people chose to stay home amid a sharp spike in the number of cases in the city.On Friday, the Yogi Adityanath-led government had announced the lockdown from Saturday night to Monday morning, while the night curfew hours were extended only days before.“Shops providing essential services like medicines and groceries were open, while the rest of the market remained closed. Most of the shops were closed on Saturday too, due to a complete weekend lockdown in Delhi... Meanwhile, the footfall in the market has also reduced as people are scared amid the surge in Covid-19 cases,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 Market Association.The residential authorities have also urged the people to remain indoors.“We had asked the residents to stock up essential goods ahead of the lockdown. The only movement seen in several sectors was for essential goods. In local markets too, only shops providing medicines or groceries were open. Guards or police did not report any suspected violation. We have multiple positive cases in Sector 34, so people are scared of venturing out,” said KK Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.Agencies also utilised the lockdown for the purpose of sanitisation. “Eleven of our fire tenders were out today, for the sole purpose of sanitising prominent markets and public spaces,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.Meanwhile, the Noida police is imposing challans on people violating Covid-19 guidelines, with nearly 4,500 challans issued per day. “Night curfew guidelines are monitored, especially in the border areas. Most of the shops in markets, malls, etc. are implementing the regulations. Today (weekend lockdown), there was minimum public movement, and it seems that people are understanding the importance of following guidelines and staying home,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (zone 1).The Noida police has collected almost Rs.45 lakh in fines in the last 10 days, while around 200 vehicles have been seized. Police have also roped in places of worship as public address systems, urging people to avoid stepping out unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidamarkets-closed-streets-empty-during-weekend-lockdown-101618772308708.html
19-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Lockdown may impact children’s social skills’||Shamika Singh, mother of a three-year-old from Goregaon, has been restless for the past one year. With the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, she and her family of five, including her husband, in-laws and daughter have been cooped inside their homes. Singh and her husband Utkarsh, both IT professionals, are working from home and are worried that their daughter Kiara has not been able to see the “outside world”.“She turned three recently and over the past one year, we have not been able to expose her to any external experiences. She has not been able to go to a regular play school and has not made any friends yet. All her experiences of the world are more or less virtual. This worries us because we want our daughter to play and learn from the surroundings,” said Singh.A large number of parents and teachers are worried that as children remain in their homes for so long, there might be challenges in retaining the skills they learnt and in learning new skills that are essential for their growth and development in the formative years. As schools and extra-curricular activities are carried out online, the social element in learning is what experts said is missing all this while. Swati Popat Vats, an early childhood expert and the president of the Early Childhood Association, said, “Children are not waiting for their turn or listening to others, which means they are not learning conversation skills. They are not able to share. In virtual learning, they bring their material and have to share it with no one. That is not the case in schools. Basics of social behaviour will be missing when our children go back to schools and this is going to impact our classrooms and to a large extent our society. Conflicts will be common in the classroom now, as children don’t have the patience or impulse control to wait for their turn, share etc.,” she added. Francis Joseph, a city-based educationist and the co-founder of SLN Global Network, said there is fear that children might take longer to undertake tasks that they earlier did with ease. “Simple things like crossing a small street can induce anxiety among them because they have just not done that activity for a year now,” he added. To overcome the challenge, experts now suggest that increased parental involvement and encouraging virtual group activities as a way out. Dr Samir Dalwai, a developmental paediatrician from New Horizons Child Development Center, said while there are a few challenges in learning at home, it is a very good opportunity for parents as they can finally give more time to the children. “They can read stories, play, organise chats with their relatives online and ensure that the child is kept busy without handing over gadgets to them. When we were children, our parents could not afford to take us on foreign trips. Our understanding of the world came through books and the things we observed around us. That is what matters,” he added. Vats suggested that schools organise small group play sessions with around five children in one group where children can chat and interact. “The adult will be present only to monitor the children. Just let the children talk about whatever they want. It can be like a play date, but virtually,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-may-impact-children-s-social-skills-101618772247414.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Indirapuram residents complain of high-rises having Covid cases not contained, sanitised||Ghaziabad: The residents of various high-rises in Indirapuram have alleged that the district administration has not taken up sanitisation or containment procedures in their societies despite having multiple Covid-19 cases. According to records of the district administration, Ghaziabad had a total of 876 containment zones till Saturday, of which about 400 (45.66%) are under the Indirapuram police station limits.Also, of 2,300 active Covid-19 cases in the district, 469 cases are in the Indirapuram area, the data showed.As a result of the issues prevailing, the local RWAs/apartment owners’ associations (AOA) are forced to take the work of limited sanitisation in their own hands and they are also trying their best to contain the movement of infected patients. “We have 27 Covid cases in our high-rise comprising 441 flats. The cases have come in during the past 10 days or so, but no teams from the district administration have visited so far either to take up containment or sanitisation. We have been informing officials regularly but there is no response,” said Anil Sharma, president of Ashiana Upvan AOA in Ahimsa Khand II. The office bearers of ATS Advantage AOA said that they have a tally of about 125 cases in their high-rise having 1,968 flats. “No one has come so far for containment or sanitisation. We are doing sanitisation on our own. We also want that a testing camp should be held so that our residents can get themselves tested,” said Sanjay Jain, president of ATS Advantage AOA. The areas having positive cases are defined as containment zones where there is a restriction on movement of people, except in case of essential services. Members of other AOAs like the one at Exotica Elegance also echoed similar sentiments. “We have about 32-35 Covid cases known so far in our high-rise comprising 325 flats. There is no sealing or sanitisation. These patients are in five towers. Since, no teams of administration have come so far, we are forced to take up sanitisation on our own. In absence of containment by the administration, we cannot force residents to stay indoors but we are trying our best,” said KK Singh, president of Exotica Elegance AOA. Likewise, Niho-Scottish Garden high-rise has about 900 flats and the AOA members said that they have about 55 Covid cases. “There has been no sanitisation by the administration team, and we have been taking it up on our own. We are keeping an eye on affected patients and also built one isolation centre equipped with five beds, oxygen supply and medicines. On Saturday, we called up a corporation team for sanitisation with the help of our councillor. But there is no containment exercise taken up so far,” said Naresh Chhokar, president of the high-rise AOA. The district administration officials admitted that they were short of resources as many staff were deployed for the recently concluded panchayat elections. “We will get the containment and sanitisation exercise expedited in affected high-rises of Indirapuram. There has been some delay, but we will take it up at the earliest,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) and in-charge of containment zones. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey was unavailable for comment.Meanwhile, Krishna Karunesh, vice-chairperson of Ghaziabad development authority (GDA), said, “We are taking up sanitisation on major roads and open areas in localities, and teams of administration and health department should assist us to help out the residents of high-rises,” said Karunesh. GDA maintains the Indirapuram locality.District administration officials familiar with the development also said that they were not getting proper information of cases from the district Covid command and control room and this is why they were not able to send timely information to the local police. HT on April 13 had published a report that many of the containment zones were not clearly demarcated and the ground level situation in the district is different from the list of containment zones which is updated on daily basis by the district administration. On April 3, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari issued an order for surveillance in which areas having one positive case was to be created as a containment zone in a radius of 25 metres (comprising about 20 houses), while areas having more than one case will be in form of a cluster and having a radius of 50 metres (comprising about 60 houses). For the high-rises, the directions said that in case of emergence of one Covid case, the entire floor will be contained while in case of multiple cases, the entire tower will be contained. In another order on April 11, the UP chief secretary had directed that the supply of essential commodities should be ensured in all containment zones. “We are taking up sanitisation on major roads and open areas in localities and teams of administration and health department should assist us to help out the residents of high-rises,” said Krishna Karunesh, vice-chairperson of Ghaziabad development authority, which maintains Indirapuram locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/indirapuram-residents-complain-of-high-rises-having-covid-cases-not-contained-sanitised-101618772187466.html
19-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 impact: Released prisoners, women likely to be pushed back to crime, sexual exploitation, TISS survey reveals||Days before the first lockdown was announced in March last year, 26-year-old Mankhurd resident Deepak (name changed) was arrested in a theft case and lodged at Arthur Road jail. Out on bail, the former office boy looked for jobs but could not find one amid the nationwide lockdown. Dejected, Deepak found himself giving in to drugs, and was soon back in jail. Around 88% of released prisoners and women discharged from shelter homes in Maharashtra, who lost jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic, may have been pushed into destitution or forced to go back to crime or commercial sexual exploitation, a survey by Prayas, a field action project of the Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, has found. Prayas, a 31-year-old project of TISS, surveyed over 500 people to measure the effect of the pandemic on vulnerable groups who come in direct contact with the Indian criminal justice system. While a majority of the respondents (86%) were from Maharashtra, 9% were from Gujarat, 1% from Bihar and 4% from other states. Prayas essentially works in Maharashtra and Gujarat with populations affected by criminal justice. “Most of the offenders come from marginalised background but social stigma excludes them from availing government schemes and benefits. As a majority of them lack any vocational skills, their employment opportunities are further diminished,” said Vijay Raghavan, professor, centre for criminology and justice, school of social work, TISS, and project director of Prayas. “People in penal or protective custody essentially are from the same socioeconomic category as migrant workers or those working in the informal sector, but may be worse affected as they remain invisible. Our aim was to highlight the impact of the lockdown on this invisible group of people,” said Raghavan. Meeran Borwankar, an IPS (Indian Police Service) officer who retired as the director general, Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) and National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), said, “Often those involved in property crime veer towards it again. Most other convicts/released inmates have records of body offences due to land disputes/interpersonal issues/emotional outbursts etc. They generally do not go back to a crime but as the survey points out, suffer extreme economic hardships. However, criminals involved in organised crime have a strong tendency to re-join their gangs. They pose a grave danger to the society during the pandemic.” More than half (59%) of those surveyed were women and were the worst-affected by the pandemic. Of the 12% that were able to retain employment after the lockdown, only 26% were women. At the same time, 69% of those who borrowed money during the lockdown were women. Ranjana (name changed), who works as a domestic help in Bhiwandi, lost her only source of income when her employer let go of her services during the lockdown. “I didn’t even have ration to feed my two children,” said Ranjana, whose husband is serving a life sentence in Amravati jail. Ranjana’s struggles to feed her children also reflected in other respondents –87% said they required support for their ration needs. “The findings of the survey clearly indicate the risks involved for the women respondents who might be driven to destitution, sexual exploitation or illegal activities due to economic pressures,” said Raghavan. While 20% of those surveyed were illiterate, 23% said they had studied up to Class 9 or Class 10, and 21% had an educational background of up to upper primary education (Class 6 to Class 8). Women fared worse as 28% were illiterate, while 20% each had upper primary and secondary education. Borwankar said that women convicts/released inmates are one of the most vulnerable sections of society. “My experience is that besides economic hardships, they face more social discrimination too. Pandemic has been a double whammy for them. This is the time when local communities and NGOs should chip in,” she said. In the past year, Prayas has raised and disbursed funds worth ₹10 lakh and distributed monthly rations to over 1,600 families with the help of NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) wings of private organisations like the Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives and Godrej CSR. The survey found that 99% respondents faced difficulties in accessing justice and 35% said they did not have support from their families or community with regard to their cases. “The lockdown also restricted the quality and quantity of help that we could provide to our beneficiaries. For example, people like Deepak have to be looked after more closely to make sure that he doesn’t fall back to old ways. I couldn’t physically check on him as often and his ailing mother could do very little,” said Pravin Patil, a social worker working with Prayas. Mulakat The discontinuation of ‘Mulakat’, the visitation facility in prisons, affected the mental well-being of prisoners as well as their families, as 24% reported difficulties. While video calls were commenced for e-Mulakat between inmates and their families or lawyers, not everybody had access to a smart device and internet connection. “It’s been over five months since Deepak last saw his mother. He has become agitated and displaying violent behaviour. Mulakat is an essential part for the mental well-being of both prisoners as well as the family,” said Patil. However, for others like Ranjana, the e-Mulakat has been a boon. “To visit my husband, my children and I would have to undertake a two-day journey from Bhiwandi to Amaravati and back. At least now we know he’s just a phone call away. I hope e-Mulakat is a permanent feature,” she said. “At the time when physical Mulakat was stopped, there was no other option to contain the pandemic. The video calls have helped reduce the anxiety of many people during these testing times,” said Raghavan. Last year, Prayas had released a report on the best practices followed by prisons across the country in terms of the Mulakat and communication mechanisms adopted by them for inmates. The practices were analysed based on the ease of access to the prison system, the priority in focus and the policy and practice. Based on the analysis, Prayas had made recommendations to improve contact/relations between prisoners and their families. Some recommendations included a pre-booking facility for appointments, a facility to send money to the prisoner and basic facilities in the waiting/ Mulakat room such as wash rooms, drinking water taps, ceiling fans and air coolers. “Mulakat is a very important aspect in the rehabilitation of a prisoner upon release. It is more important for women in custody to be allowed to remain in touch with their children,” Raghavan added. “Post pandemic we need to discuss the survey findings of Prayas and engage with government, community, NGOs/activists for systematic rehabilitation programmes for prisoners to enable them to withstand future disasters of different kinds,” said Borwankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-impact-inmates-rescued-women-likely-to-be-pushed-back-to-crime-exploitation-says-survey-101618772128610.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad has 28% beds vacant even as patients struggle to get beds||Ghaziabad: The officials of the Ghaziabad administration said on Sunday that 28% of total beds allotted for Covid-19 patients in hospitals is vacant, especially in government healthcare facilities. This statement comes as the Covid-positive patients complain of struggling to get beds for treatment.There are 2,496 Covid-19 beds available in the district — 1,538 in 25 private hospitals, and 958 in three government facilities in Sanjay Nagar, Santosh Medical College, and Rama Medical College (Pilkhuwa) — of which 1,786 are occupied, according to the official data as of Sunday.“About 72% of the total beds are occupied. These also include 440 ICU beds, of which 330 are occupied. We have only 210 vacant beds in private hospitals as of Sunday... There are issues of bed availability as some hospitals with regular oxygen supply problems are not admitting patients,” said an officer familiar with the development, requesting anonymity.HT on Saturday (April 17) published a report in which Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, had assured of putting up a list showing the number of beds available over the official district website. He had also asked hospitals to put up the bed availability status at their premises. However, the arrangement did not materialise on Sunday.“Bed availability is a major issue as people keep calling us for help. We somehow got one patient admitted to a private hospital, but the patient was asked to arrange for oxygen supply and his family did so. There are instances where people said that they were willing to donate money to get beds for their family members. There is no way that the patients or their families can know the bed availability status. Instead, they keep on going from one hospital to the other in search of beds,” said Alok Kumar, founder member, Federation of Association of Apartment Owners.Meanwhile, Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the department is trying to increase the total number of beds, but Ghaziabad may still see a shortage in beds as patients in large numbers come from other districts for treatment. “Of the 72% occupancy, we have about 30% patients who have come from other districts for treatment. So, the occupancy is on the rise. We will streamline the process to ensure that the bed availability status is known to the patients,” he added.Experts from Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter, have also stepped in to fight the prevailing crisis. On Sunday, they said that they have initiated a WhatsApp helpline number: 9999081239, which will be operational from 9 am to 9 pm. “People facing issues can post messages on this number, and our experts will try to help them. It is estimated that about 80% of patients do not require hospitalisation, but they keep approaching the hospitals. Our experts, based on the patients’ health conditions, will suggest them if they require hospitalisation or can stay at home. Two of our experts will be available online (over zoom platform) from 3 pm to 4 pm on Thursdays and Saturdays, to reply to all the queries raised by the residents,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, IMA (Ghaziabad).In the meantime, the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has rolled out a policy for “presumptive patients” who tested negative, but have Covid-like symptoms in CT scan, X-ray, and blood sample reports.“The directions said that such patients will be treated like Covid patients if the attending doctors require that. They will be given treatment just like Covid-positive patients and will be kept at separate wards in Covid centres. We have also initiated giving pouches of different medicines to patients showing Covid symptoms, who come to our centres for testing. The idea is that those having symptoms should start an early treatment. The pouches are getting prepared, and we will start distribution soon at our testing centres,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-has-28-beds-vacant-even-as-patients-struggle-to-get-beds-101618772128072.html
19-04-2021||Noida||GB Nagar’s Covid-19 tally crosses 30k mark, last 4k recorded in 18 days||NOIDA: Amid an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases, Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday reported 700 new cases, pushing the overall tally of positive cases in the district to over 30,000-mark. The is the highest rise in cases in a single day so far, according to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin.The district on Sunday also reported three deaths due to Covid-19, taking the number of fatalities to 103. After the detection of first Covid-19 case in GB Nagar on March 8 last year, it took 407 days for the overall tally to cross 30,000-mark on Sunday. While the first 5,000 cases were recorded in 145 days, the second and third 5,000s took 44 and 30 days, respectively. Though the last 5,000 cases took 106 days, 4,000 of them surfaced in only 18 days of the current month, the data showed. On Sunday, the district’s overall tally mounted to 30,530, which included 3,327 active cases. GB Nagar is on the ninth position among the districts having high active caseload in Uttar Pradesh, the data showed. Meanwhile, UP too registered its highest single-day spike of 30,596 Covid positive cases in the last 24 hours.The official data also shows that April has so far recorded maximum average cases per day, i.e. 242.5 cases per day, which is much worse than October last year, when the average cases per day had been recorded 187. The case fatality rate in the district on Sunday was 0.22%, the data showed.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the main aim of the administration now is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR) and ensure timely hospitalisation and treatment of the infected patients. “Our bed allocation team, deputed in the integrated Covid-19 control room, is working round the clock. At present, the district has 13 Covid-dedicated facilities having capacity of 2,709 beds – of which 1,721 (63.52%) are occupied. We have 1,491 oxygen and 560 ICU beds, of which 1,098 (73.64%) and 508 (90.71%) are occupied. Besides, the Covid-19 facilities have 178 ventilator beds, of which 133 (74.72%) are vacant. So, the district doesn’t have any dearth of beds in its facilities,” he said. The DM also said that GB Nagar’s testing rate is the best among all major districts of north India. “Our testing rate per million per day is around 1,800, which is much better than other major districts in north India. Besides, our containment team is regularly keeping a watch on the areas from where the maximum cases are being detected. Our health teams are regularly monitoring the factories and other business establishments to ensure that the safety protocols are being followed there,” Suhas said. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that in the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the health department. “The health workers have been told to ensure maximum contact tracing – finding out 25 contacts of one infected patient. We are testing nearly 6,000 people every day and treating infected patients as per symptoms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-30k-mark-last-4k-recorded-in-18-days-101618772127445.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Audit wants Panjab University to assess manpower requirement||The local audit department in its report pertaining to Panjab University (PU) for 2019-20 has called for an assessment of the number of persons to be appointed on contractual basis in view of the workload of different departments.Hindustan Times procured the audit report under the Right to Information Act (RTI) from the resident audit office at PU. The report claims that nearly 698 employees (129 security guards, 322 helpers, 240 clerks, and seven accountants) are working with the PU on contractual/outsourcing basis currently and they have been deployed without getting manpower assessed and approved from the competent authority of the university.The audit department had in 2011 also requested PU that the requirement of number of posts (category-wise) be assessed and approved from the competent authority keeping in view the actual work load vis-à-vis the total number of sanctioned/filled posts. The report also states that some of the employees appointed on contractual/outsourcing basis stand already adjusted against vacant posts in the different departments.According to the report, in 2019, the audit department again communicated to the university that the number of such persons be assessed keeping in view the workload of different departments and the same should be approved from the board of finance, syndicate and senate in a time-bound manner. The appointment of excess staff (if any) deployed on contractual/outsourcing basis be reviewed, it had said. No response from varsityMoreover, audit department also communicated that no further staff be deployed through direct recruitment or through outsourcing agency till manpower requirement is assessed and approved by the competent authority, but they have not received any response from the university.However, PU officials said that the varsity has initiated the manpower audit. “Manpower auditing is being carried out by Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration,” said PU’s official spokesperson Renuka Salwan.Besides this, the audit report has also the varsity to issue necessary instructions to the prescreening committees that while screening the applications of candidates for CAS promotions, they should strictly follow the UGC regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/audit-wants-panjab-university-to-assess-manpower-requirement-101618771957551.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Milkman killed as SUV hits his bike in Mohali||A 44-year-old milkman from Sohana’s Dharamgarh was killed after a Mahindra Scorpio hit his bike near Kandala village on Saturday evening.Victim Gurpreet Singh was on his way to deliver milk when the accident took place. He was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where doctors pronounced him brought dead. Sohana station house officer Bhagwant Singh said a case has been registered against the unidentified driver of the SUV. Gurpreet’s body will be handed over to his family after autopsy, he added. The victim is survived by wife and two minor children. Speeding car claims Solan man’s life
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||NDA exam: 10K aspirants appear at 40 centres in Chandigarh||The National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) exam, organised by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), was conducted smoothly at around 40 centres in Chandigarh on Sunday. Around 10,000 candidates from neighbouring states like Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh appeared at exam centres in the city.To facilitate the students, the UT administration had issued directions that candidates appearing for the exam should not be stopped, even as the weekend lockdown was in force on Sunday. Candidates confirmed that they were not inconvenienced in any way while they were on their way to appear for the exam. Taking measures to ensure Covid norms are followed, thermal screening was conducted at the entrance gates, entry without masks wasn’t allowed and social distancing was maintained. Lines were formed before the exam started at 10am.Most candidates were happy that the exam wasn’t delayed even as the CBSE examinations for Class-12 students has been postponed. Harjot Singh, a resident of Patiala said, “ I am glad that this exam wasn’t cancelled, as it would have made students restless, as there’s only so much one can revise.” Other students also aired similar sentiments. However, students from many centres said that attendance in their class was around 50% of the total class strength. Saying that low attendance could be attributed to this exam being held twice in a year and the second Covid wave , Kunal Singh, who runs a coaching centre in Sector 34 said, “While attendance stayed on the lower side this year, the cut-off is still likely to go high. The mathematics portion was easier than previous years and the second exam was also NCERT based.”The exam was to be conducted in two shifts, with a mathematics exam between 10am to 12pm and a general ability test between 2pm and 4pm.However, confusion broke out at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 32, as the authorities wouldn’t let students leave the centre in between the two exams. However, it wasn’t mentioned in the exam notification that students aren’t allowed to go out in between shifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nda-exam-10k-aspirants-appear-at-40-centres-in-chandigarh-101618771890143.html
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||13 more arrested for violating weekend curfew in Chandigarh||Thirteen people were arrested for violating the curfew orders on Sunday, taking the total to 23, even though better compliance was witnessed on the second day of the weekend curfew in Chandigarh. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “It was seen that compliance was better on Sunday. The administration will assess the situation in the coming days and take a call on whether the weekend lockdown will be held next week as well or not.”While non-essential shops remained closed, police presence was seen at various intersections of the city. Markets continued to wear deserted look, but some rush was witnessed near the Sector-26 mandi. Market officials said the influx was mostly of vendors who were coming here to buy vegetables. However, nakas weren’t set up inside the city and there was minimal checking at the union territory’s borders with Panchkula and Mohali. 96 challans issuedAs per the police, 96 challans were issued on Sunday. Out of these, eight were slapped on people without masks, 61 on those violating social distancing guidelines and 27 on those who were found spitting at public places. The police had on Saturday arrested 10 people for flouting guidelines. A total of ₹52,000 was collected as penalty on Sunday, ₹8,000 more than that on Saturday. Police spokesperson deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Charanjit Singh Virk said the emphasis was on spreading awareness and not challaning.Chandigarh churches have also announced that they won’t be holding Sunday service and other public liturgical services Monday onwards owing to the spike in Covid cases. The events will instead be live-streamed on the church’s social media accounts. Congress slams lockdown, calls it eyewashThe Congress’ Chandigarh unit slammed the decision to clamp a lockdown on weekend and called it an eyewash by the BJP-ruled Chandigarh administration. A spokesperson of the Chandigarh Congress said the administration has worked at snail’s pace in the war against Covid-19, specially during the second wave. “The lackadaisical and lethargic approach of the Chandigarh administration is appalling as the number of cases has gone up drastically. Now, in a bid to hide its incompetency and negligence in handling the second wave, the administration has imposed a lockdown without any prior intimation. This has affected the industry, businesses, small traders and street vendors, who had already stocked items for customers. Worst affected is a poor daily wager,” said HS Lucky, chief spokesperson of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/13-more-arrested-for-violating-weekend-curfew-in-chandigarh-101618771828287.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||CM, L-G meet today on curfew; traders to decide on shutdown||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief secretary Vijay Dev are scheduled to meet on Monday to possibly discuss continuing restrictions, including the curfew, in the light of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, which has led to a severe shortage of oxygen supply and left the health care infrastructure in the city overburdened, people aware of the matter said.On Sunday, several trader groups pitched for voluntary closing of markets and resident groups demanded a short lockdown to arrest the surge in cases and break the chain of transmission.“The lieutenant governor, chief minister and chief secretary are scheduled to meet on Monday afternoon. The agenda involves review of Covid-19 cases, status of health care infrastructure and hospital management, and restrictions, including the possibility of imposing a curfew in the city like the one that was implemented over the weekend,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be identified.On Thursday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – chaired by Baijal – imposed a weekend curfew, temporarily shut shopping malls, gyms, spas and entertainment parks, capped the capacity of cinema halls and multiplexes at 30%, barred dining at restaurants, and limited weekly markets to one per day in a municipal zone.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayWith no immediate decision being taken on extension of the weekend curfew, things will get beck to normal in Delhi on Monday morning, the senior official said, adding that what happens in the coming days will depend on what transpires in the meeting on Monday.On Saturday, Kejriwal had said that he shall not refrain from implementing stricter restrictions if the Covid-19 situation does not come under control.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, “Delhi needs strict restrictions at this juncture. No gatherings can be allowed in the light of the extreme rate of transmission of Covid-19. The situation is out of control and the health care system is inching towards a total collapse.”With Delhi reporting 25,462 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the market associations in the city said they were contemplating closing down the markets in a bid to “break the chain of transmission”.While market associations of prominent Delhi markets such as Khan Market, Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh have called a meeting on Monday to take a call on shutting markets, the traders’ association of Chandni Chowk market has appealed to all its traders to keep the market closed till April 25.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar mandal, said, “We held a video conference meeting of all members and it was unanimously decided to keep the market close till April 25th. We have appealed to all traders to close the market. We will review the situation on April 25 and take further measures. The situation in the city is such that it is important to take such steps. The most alarming aspect is the galloping positivity rate and shortages of hospital beds, oxygen,ventilators and medicines and other medical facilities in use of the epidemic.”Chemical merchant association, Delhi Kirana Committee and Khari Baoli traders have also decided to keep the market shut.Traders association of Sarojini Nagar market held a virtual meeting, seeking the opinion of all traders on the way forward. Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar mini-market association said, “Close to 60% traders are of the view that the market should be closed. But a final decision will be taken by tomorrow.”Traders said they have been worst affected since last year due to Covid’s impact on the economy. While they admit that a lockdown or extension of curfew for a few days is essential at this juncture, but added that the government should support businesses.Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association (of Connaught Place), said, “It is the need of the hour. We have called a meeting tomorrow to discuss the issue, as the situation is very grim. But we want to say that the government should support traders, who have been at the receiving end due to the economic slowdown..”The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has written to Delhi L-G Anil Baijal, requesting a 15-day lockdown in the city. Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general of CAIT, said, “A lockdown of at least 15 days should be imposed in Delhi with immediate effect. It is true that this will definitely affect business and economic activities of Delhi, but now life of the people has to be put first.”The resident welfare associations, too, demanded a lockdown. Atul Goyal, president of URJA (a group of RWAs in Delhi), said, “The situation is grim and people are struggling to get their loved ones admitted to hospitals, for basic supply of medicines and oxygen, etc. The situation is worse than last year. A lockdown for 10-14 days is the only solution at the moment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/highlevel-meeting-today-to-decide-on-extension-of-curfew-traders-bodies-to-take-call-on-markets-shut-down-101618771647985.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||2 hospitals booked for turning away patients despite available beds||Acting on complaints by the state government, Delhi police on Sunday booked two hospitals for allegedly denying admission to Covid patients despite showing availability of beds on the Delhi Corona app.While the Delhi government did not reveal the names of the hospitals, police said they have registered a case against the Mata Chanan Devi Hospital in west Delhi and Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital in south Delhi.Prashant Priya Gautam, additional deputy commissioner of police (west), said a case under IPC sections of cheating and disobedience to an order passed by a government servant, and relevant sections of Delhi Disaster Management Act was registered against Mata Chanan Devi hospital on the complaint of district authorities.Also read: Local doctor to take charge of Covid-19 centres in societiesA statement released by the government said, “These hospitals put out information saying that they have Covid-19 beds, but later denied patients saying no beds were available... After Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s directions that stern action be taken against hospitals putting out wrong information about availability of beds, the Delhi government has sought legal action against two hospitals.”Gautam said a police team visited Mata Chanan Devi hospital after a complaint from the Delhi government. “At the hospital, the team inquired from the emergency ward and at the help desk about beds for Covid patients, but were told there weren’t any available. However, when we checked the Delhi Corona portal, it showed 93 beds were available,” said Gautam.When HT contacted the hospital over phone, a doctor attributed the miscommunication to a technical glitch.At Hakeem Abdul Hameed Centenary Hospital, police sent in a decoy to verify the complaint. “The hospital said there was no bed available but the Delhi Corona app showed 239 free beds,” said DCP Thakur. The hospital couldn’t be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-hospitals-booked-for-denying-admission-to-covid-patients-despite-free-beds-listed-on-app-101618771587613.html
19-04-2021||Noida||Furnaces full, Ghaziabad builds platforms on pavement beside crematorium||The Ghaziabad administration on Sunday began constructing new funeral platforms on the pavement of the road leading to the Hindon cremation ground as well as on the river’s floodplains to handle the deluge of bodies.HT on Saturday reported that the Hindon cremation ground was struggling to cope with the number of bodies, despite the district administration’s claims that it logged just two Covid-19 deaths this month.The state health control added two more deaths to its official tally on Sunday.However, a district official, who asked not to be named said 43 bodies were brought to the cremation ground as of Sunday afternoon. Normally, a maximum of 15 bodies are cremated at the ground in a day, the official said.The official said 46 bodies arrived on Thursday, 49 on Friday, 47 on Saturday.State control room data shows that a total of 106 people in Ghaziabad have died of Covid-related causes since March 2020.An HT team visited the cremation site on Sunday and found that workers deployed by the corporation were constructing new cremation platforms on the footpath where several cremations took place on Friday. Like Saturday, fresh charred remains were also spotted on the pavement on Sunday.The HT team saw about eight new cremation platforms being constructed on the riverbed.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to requests for comment despite repeated phone calls.Also read: NH9 lane towards Meerut to be opened at Ghazipur border for ambulancesGhaziabad’s chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said most of the bodies being cremated at the Hindon ground were coming from outside the district. “Most of the people who have succumbed in Ghaziabad are from outside the district and they generally arrive here when their condition becomes critical. Once a patient dies, the bodies are not allowed to be taken to their homes as per protocol. Also, the time taken for cremation of one body is 4-5 hours due to Covid protocols, resulting in delays,” Dr Gupta. He added that the two people who died on Sunday were admitted in Santosh Medical College.MS Tanwar, Ghaziabad municipal commissioner, said, “The electric crematorium was out of order and repairs were taken up. It is functional now. We have deployed a team of officers at the site to ensure all arrangements are in place. The situation is normal now and not extraordinary.”An official, requesting anonymity, said the new platforms were being constructed to meet “future exigencies”.“The nine existing platforms at the cremation ground will also be revamped,” the officer said. However, the officer claimed, most families try to avoid the existing platforms since they believe that these are in “wrong direction” and in “wrong shape”, considering them inauspicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/furnaces-full-hindon-cremation-ground-gets-new-platforms-on-footpath-101618771287386.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||To bolster health system, city private hospitals to add 2,100 Covid-19 beds||The Delhi government on Sunday directed private hospitals and nursing homes that provide Covid patient care in the Capital to reserve at least 80% of their ward and ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. It also directed Delhi government-run Covid-19 hospitals to increase their bed capacities. The state government said the directives will increase the total Covid-19 ward beds by 3,875 and ICU beds by 1,126.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also inspected a few hospitals and Covid Care Centres where beds will be added in the coming days.In the first order on Sunday, the Delhi government noted that all 115 private hospitals and nursing homes catering to Covid patients are running at full capacity. “It has been observed that occupancy of Covid ICU beds and Covid ward beds have almost reached 100% and 90% respectively in the 115 private hospitals providing Covid-19 related treatment. Therefore, to further augment the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients, all nursing homes and private hospitals providing Covid related treatment are directed to reserve at least 80% of their ICU bed capacity and 80% of ward bed capacity for Covid related treatment and display the revised Covid-19 bed capacity (ward and ICU) on the Covid-19 data management portal immediately,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.Currently, as per a series of orders issued earlier this month, there are 14 private hospitals in the city which cumulatively have 3,553 Covid-19 beds. These hospitals were asked to convert themselves into 100% Covid-19 facilities last week but the order was revised to allow increasing the total bed capacity and offer the surplus beds for non-Covid patients. In addition to this, 19 private hospitals have already reserved 80% beds for Covid-19 patients while the remaining 86 facilities were reserving only 60% of their beds for Covid patients.Also read: 2 hospitals booked for turning away patients despite available bedsThe order will help add 1,896 ward beds and 211 ICU beds in private hospitals, said a senior government official.Prominent Covid-19 private hospitals in the city include Max Superspeciality Hospital, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, BL Kapoor Hospital, Sir Gangaram Hospital, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Fortis Hospital and Primus Superspeciality Hospital.In the second order, the health department directed the 11 Delhi government-run Covid-19 hospitals – including Lok Nayak Hospital, GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital and Ambedkar Nagar Hospital – to increase their total ward beds by 1,979 and ICU beds by 915. However, 696 of the additional 915 ICU beds in these hospitals will not be equipped with ventilators, said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.As on Sunday evening, 14,668 of 17,792 total Covid beds and 4,042 of 4,139 ICU beds were occupied in the capital.The orders to augment the number of beds were issued soon after Kejriwal expressed concerns over shortage of oxygen supply, ICU beds and ward beds in the Capital, while noting that the city recorded around 25,500 new cases in 24 hours and the positivity rate increased to around 30% from 24% recorded the previous day.He also said the Delhi government will add more than 6,000 Covid-19 beds with oxygen facilities in the next few days in locations including health facilities at the Yamuna Sports Complex, the Commonwealth Games (CWG) village, the Radhasaomi Satsang Beas campus in Chhatarpur as well as in a few government schools.Later, he visited the CWG Village, Yamuna Sports complex and a government school in Rouse Avenue. “As many as 1,500 oxygen beds will be functional between tomorrow and the day after in these places,” he said.Sisodia visited the Satsang campus in Chhatarpur, DRDO’s Covid-19 hospital near Delhi airport, and a few other hospitals. The Chhatarpur centre will have 5,000 oxygen beds, of which 500 will be operational from Tuesday, Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-augment-covid-care-govt-orders-pvt-facilities-to-reserve-80-beds-increase-capacity-of-govt-hospitals-101618771168136.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Police step in after Delhi hospital runs short of oxygen||The Delhi Police on Sunday arranged for 20 oxygen cylinders and delivered them at a hospital that had run short in outer Delhi’s Nangloi. Senior officers said the “prompt move” helped “save the lives of at least 35 Covid patients admitted at the hospital”.Additional commissioner of police (outer) Sudhanshu Dhama said the director of the hospital, Rajesh Dabas, told them there were 35 Covid patients on oxygen support at the hospital.Also read: CM flags Delhi’s ‘oxygen emergency’, writes to Centre“Dabas said that the oxygen supply at the hospital is depleting and the available oxygen supply will not last more than one hour. He further stated that he has contacted all the concerned authorities but could not get any positive response as everyone reported shortage of oxygen cylinders,” said Dhama.The additional DCP said the situation was then reported to senior officers. “We coordinated with several officials and at the same time, also directed two teams from Nihal Vihar station to rush to Mundka and Bawana to arrange for oxygen cylinders from some suppliers. It was found that in Bawana, there is a shortage of oxygen cylinders due to the pandemic. Ten cylinders were finally arranged and immediately sent to the Mansa Ram hospital. Within half an hour, 10 more cylinders could be arranged and were also supplied to the hospital,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospital-runs-out-of-oxygen-cylinders-receive-police-help-just-in-time-101618771167403.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||College students in Delhi reluctant to go home||With higher education institutes in Delhi advising hostel residents to return home, several students have expressed concerns over travelling to their hometowns, worried they may become carriers of the infection, as several states report sharp spikes in Covid-19 cases.Last week, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and the Indian Institute of Technology - Delhi (IIT-D) advised students to return home in the wake of rising cases on campus.While JNU had 64 active cases on campus till Friday, IIT-D recorded 30 cases in the past month. Delhi University’s Gwyer Hostel — which accommodates masters and research scholars — also reported a few cases among students. DU’s examination branch has also been shut till Wednesday in the wake of rising cases.Shivam Chaurasia, a PhD scholar at JNU’s School of Social Sciences and a resident of Sutlej hostel, said, “The administration had issued a similar advisory in March last year, after which several students returned home. But now there is a concern among them. They know that if they leave, it might take some time for them to return to campus, which will affect their work.”On Sunday, the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) also wrote to the JNU administration on the matter. Chaurasia, who is also president of ABVP’s JNU unit, said they have asked for isolation and permanent testing centres on campus, along with thermal screening and provisions for sanitisation at entry points. “There is no temperature-check facility at the main gate or at the gates of the hostels, nor are there any sanitiser dispensers,” the group wrote in the letter.Also read: Oxford starts first study to reinfect recovered Covid-19 patientsMadhurima Kundu, a MPhil student and a resident of JNU’s Chandrabhaga hostel, said, “Some students have decided to go back, but a majority don’t want to, because they went back last year and got stuck at home. This circular does not specify how students are supposed to deal with online education in the absence of internet facilities, electricity, and privacy at their homes.”“Every state is witnessing a surge in cases. This time, a lot of young people have tested positive for Covid-19 and have had to be hospitalised as well. It is not safe to travel in such a scenario because we also run the risk of infecting our families back home. Not many have the option to isolate in their homes,” said a third-year student at IIT-D who asked not to be named.In Jamia Millia Islamia meanwhile, though hostels are yet to reopen after being shut last year, several students who returned to the Capital to access university resources are now in a fix.“I rented a room so that I could access the university library, e-resources and laboratory facilities. But with the administration now advising students to remain in their homes, it may affect my research work. With the increase in cases, there is a fear that we may not be allowed to access labs completely,” said Khalid Imtiyaz, a PhD scholar at the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-colleges-advise-residents-to-return-home-students-flag-travel-fears-101618771107344.html
19-04-2021||Other||Agra witnesses empty roads, downed shutters on Sunday||The life in the Taj city came to a standstill with deserted roads and closed shops after the state government passed the order for closing the markets and offices on Sunday.Besides, a majority of temples in the twin religious cities of Mathura and Vrindavan also remained shut on Sunday.The teams of Nagar Nigam went for sanitisation in respective districts and no services apart from essential ones were allowed to open.“It was unusual to find city roads so deserted but means of transport were available. The police were present at the crossings but did not question those moving with a purpose,” stated Smiti Chobey, a passenger who got down from the train to reach Agra. However, the police remained strict for compliance with the weekend lockdown and did not allow shops of non-essential items to open. The impact could be witnessed in towns and rural belt as well where markets and offices remained closed. The police remained alert at most of the places.The essential services like medical shops were open and supply of milk was also maintained.In Mathura and Vrindavan, prominent temples remained closed on Sunday. “The temple of Dwarkadeesh in Mathura will remain closed till 25th of April,” informed manager and spokesperson of the temple, Rakesh Tiwari. The renowned Bankey Behari Temple in Vrindavan also remained closed on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-witnesses-empty-roads-downed-shutters-on-sunday-101618771048420.html
19-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 patients at home struggle to get oxygen as vendors flag increased demand||New Delhi: For the past few days, Puneeta Marwah, a resident of Greater Kailash 1, was trying to arrange an oxygen concentrator machine or a cylinder for a family member who tested positive for Covid-19.The family tried to get him admitted to a hospital, but most hospitals in south Delhi said they were out of beds. With his oxygen saturation steadily dropping, the family’s doctor advised them to put the patient on oxygen support. But this proved to be yet another harrowing experience for the family.“It has been a struggle to arrange for oxygen cylinders or concentrators. A few hospitals told us a few beds may free up in a day or two. But till then, we have to manage the patient at home,” Marwah said.The GK-1 resident welfare association (RWA) then stepped in, providing her with an oxygen concentrator. The association has maintained two oxygen concentrators and three cylinders since last year for Covid-19 patients. But with cases spiralling to unforeseen levels, and hospitals running out of beds and oxygen, RWAs like the one in GK-1 have found it near impossible to meet the ever-soaring demand for oxygen. As many as 25,462 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Sunday breaching the previous high of 24,375 cases recorded the previous day. On Sunday, 161 people reportedly died of the infection. Out of the 17, 514 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, 13,887 beds were occupied. Health experts recommend that Covid-19 patients get hospitalised if their oxygen saturation is below 94mm. However, with facilities packed, experts say patients should be given oxygen therapy at home if possible.Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of pulmonology, Fortis Healthcare, Shalimar Bagh, said, “Given the surge in Covid-19 cases and demand for hospital beds, it is advisable for patients to take oxygen therapy or support at home till they get admission in hospital. Oxygen saturation below 94 means that there is lung involvement and patients should start looking to get hospitalised. A level below 90 is a cause of concern.” Referring to the situation in the city, Dr Maurya said, “The sudden increase in Covid-19 cases has burdened the health care infrastructure. We are asking patients to start the treatment at home and use oxygen till they get a hospital bed.”RWAs said the shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators at the domestic and level had, in turn, forced people to rush to hospitals.Sanjay Anand, president of the GK-1 E-block RWA, said, “In the past few days, the demand for oxygen equipment has increased several times. We have kept these machines as a stopgap arrangement. We will get the cylinders refilled as soon as possible so that we can provide basic support to our residents.”Similarly, Aarohan Mediratta, whose relative tested positive for Covid-19, had to borrow the machine from the GK-I RWA. “I called up all possible vendors but in vain. There are no machines available. We needed it urgently, because the patient’s oxygen level dropped to 80,” said Mediratta.An oxygen concentrator pulls in air from the surroundings, compresses it and removes nitrogen and other impurities from the air through its filters. The machine costs somewhere between ₹50,000- ₹70,000. Several people across the city either rented the machine or bought one entirely last year.But distributors say they have now run out of these machines. NS Sethi, a city-based distributor, said, “I don’t have any machine right now, but I get at least 50 calls a day asking for one. We import these machines from China, the United States and other countries.”Similarly, the demand for oxygen cylinders has increased exponentially. “We are getting requests from hospitals, nursing homes and individuals. But we have no stock [of new cylinders]. We are trying to arrange cylinders. At the moment, we are simply refilling oxygen cylinders,” said Ashish Sharma, owner of Home Health Rental, an oxygen cylinder supplier in west Delhi.Rishipal Singh, an oxygen cylinder supplier in east Delhi, said, “Just 10 days ago, we were supplying 60-70 oxygen cylinders a day. But in the past four to five days, demand has shot up to 150-200 a day, and we have run out of stock.”The weekend lockdown made the situation even worse, vendors said, with the restrictions on movement hampering transport. “We can’t supply it at home due to the demand and shortage of manpower. We have asked some people to come to our centre and get their cylinder refilled,” said a vendor, who asked not to be named.The RWAs requested the state government to step in and collaborate to ease supplies.Rajiv Kakria, convenor of Save Our City campaign, said, “The government should rope in RWAs and provide oxygen cylinders to address the growing demand for it. This will help ease the load on health care infrastructure.”Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday directed district magistrates to tie up with RWAs to create small facilities at the colony level equipped with few beds and oxygen cylinders.Pankaj Aggarwal, president of Safdarjung Enclave RWA, said they were in talks with the district administration to set up a unit in the colony. “This will at least ease people’s anxiety. We have oxygen concentrators and cylinders with us, which are being used by our residents.”Some doctors, however, cautioned that oxygen needs to be administered under proper medical supervision. Dr Sandeep Sharma, former president of the Indian Medical Association (South Delhi) who is assisting the Safdarjung Enclave RWA to set up the centre, said, “Each patient has a different oxygen requirement. It has to be assessed by a doctor before the patient is administered oxygen.”He added, “We see that more and more people are just trying to procure cylinders or concentrators in anticipation. This is just adding to the panic and demand for these items. People should pool in and get these facilities at the block or RWA level.”It is not just RWAs and individuals who are facing problems, hospitals too are facing problems due to short supply of oxygen. In the present scenario, hospitals said that even if they have vacant beds, arranging oxygen is a problem due to shortage of supply.Dr Shekhar Aggarwal, vice-president and executive director of Sant Parmanand hospital, said, “Shortage of oxygen supply is posing a big challenge, as the demand for it has increased manifold. A large number of Covid-19 patients coming to the hospital need oxygen support. Our average oxygen usage till a few days ago was 200-250 cubic meter which has now increased to 1,200-1,500 cubic meter per day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-patients-at-home-struggle-to-get-oxygen-as-vendors-flag-increased-demand-101618770987483.html
19-04-2021||Delhi||Local doctor to take charge of Covid-19 centres in societies||The Delhi government on Sunday issued guidelines for gated residential complexes, which want to set up Covid care centres and isolation facilities with the help of resident welfare associations (RWA) and non-government organisations (NGO), noting that such provisions will help reduce the burden on the city’s health care system amid the ongoing surge in infection.The guidelines, a copy of which HT has seen, state that a doctor residing in the residential area concerned or one engaged by the RWA or NGO should act as the medical officer of such a facility and each patient will have to be clinically assessed for symptoms. The medical officer will also be entrusted with monitoring the health of each patient round the clock, even though there will be routine inspections by district medical officers and surveillance officers, said the guideline document.The guidelines bar the use of such facilities for patients with moderate and severe symptoms, the elderly, children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, lactating mothers and patients with comorbidities. The guidelines further said that such facilities cannot allow “intermixing” of suspect and confirmed cases and each of them have to be mandatorily linked to the district surveillance teams and at least one ambulance service provider, the document said.Further, it states that such centres can be set up in community halls, common utility areas and vacant flats which are “location-wise” isolated.The centres need to have separate entry and exit passages, adequate ventilation, ACs to be maintained at the range of 24-30 degrees and relative humidity of 40-70%.There should be separate toilets for suspected and confirmed patients and a mandatory distance of one metre between beds, said the document.“The community living in gated complexes may like to create Covid care facilities within the residential complex, managed either by RWAs and residential societies, or in collaboration with NGOs. This may be more acceptable to the residents and will help reduce the burden on existing facilities for managing suspect, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic and very mild cases of Covid-19. The guideline document has been prepared to help RWAs, residential societies and NGOs desirous of establishing a small Covid care facility, a community-based isolation facility within their own resources,” said the guideline document.Rajiv Kakria, member of an RWA in Greater Kailash-1, which has several gated colonies, said, “It is a welcome move in the light of the current Covid-19 situation in Delhi. But residential societies should not act in haste. They have to ensure that the centres have the primary facilities such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators, adequate number of doctors, nurses and paramedics to monitor health and the equipment. The finances should be in place as once such a centre is created, it cannot be abandoned suddenly due to lack of funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-issues-guidelines-for-covid-care-centres-in-gated-societies-101618770988061.html
19-04-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: ASHA workers again at forefront combating Covid-19||The Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) who played a pivotal role in the screening and providing medical services to people residing in the rural areas, during the first wave of Covid, are again at the forefront after the state government issued an order on Thursday for screening and monitoring the migrant workers who are returning home from various states.A health department officer said 1.54 lakh ASHA workers in the villages have been assigned the task of screening the migrant workers staying at quarantine centres set up in the villages or the home quarantine.The ASHA workers have been directed to prepare a list of the migrant workers who have returned home and also to register their health conditions. If any migrant worker is found with Covid symptoms then the ASHA workers will alert the nearest health centre, ensure that the infected migrant remains in isolation and their family members adopt all precautionary measures, he said.However, a large number of ASHA workers complained that they have not been given basic protective gears and sanitiser for their protection from Covid-19 that is crucial during the field visits. Besides, no payment is being made for the survey work even their monthly remuneration is also pending.Chanda Yadav, an ASHA worker based in Gorakhpur said the ASHA workers across Uttar Pradesh were assisting the state government in the Covid vaccination drive, routine immunization, nutrition distribution, taking care of pregnant women and newborns. After the fresh order by the state government, the ASHA workers are visiting villages to screen the migrant workers and enlisting them as well. Despite the high infection rate, we have not been provided protective gear, dress kits and sanitisers. We have been handed over a mask and were told to visit the villages, she said.The state is in the grip of the major Covid surge, yet the ASHA workers are in the field preparing the list of the migrant workers, they are also sending details of their health condition, but the local officers are not concerned about our safety. Several ASHA workers have been infected and their family members have urged the health department to arrange for the treatment and hospital admission, said Yadav who is also president of the ASHA workers association.Pushpa Devi, an ASHA worker based in Lalitpur district said a majority of the ASHA workers come from poor or low-income group families, the state health department has not cleared the monthly remuneration, and we are being forced to work without pay. Earlier we were entrusted in the care of the mother and child now we are roped in with all the health and welfare schemes launched in the rural areas. We have urged the state government to make a fixed monthly payment but there is no taker of our genuine demands, she said.A state government official said the Uttar Pradesh unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) has been directed to clear the arrears of the ASHA workers and to provide them with protective gears and gadgets for the field visit.ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the ASHA workers have been directed to visit the house of the quarantined migrant workers after a gap of three days. With maintaining social distancing, the worker will screen the migrant, collect information from the family members about the health condition. The ASHA worker will ensure that the elderly, pregnant women, children and those with comorbidity remain in separate rooms, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-asha-workers-again-at-forefront-combating-covid-101618770867337.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Lower case fatality rate, but rate of recovery same as 2020: experts||Though the rate of recovery among critical patients during the second wave of the Covid pandemic in Pune is the same as compared to last year, the case fatality rate (CFR) is lower, said health experts. Early intervention, according to these experts, and timely treatment from hospitals, has helped with recovery. A deeper correlation though can be seen only after a few more days have passed, said doctors. As per the health department, the CFR in Pune city for the month of April is 1.81 per cent. In May 2020, the CFR was 4.62% and it came down to 2.39 % in August-September, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district administration. According to Dr Kapil Zirpe, chief intensivist at Ruby Hall Clinic, for critical patients at his hospital the recovery rate is around 60 per cent. “The mortality rate for critical patients varies as per the use of non-invasive ventilation or invasive ventilation. And the recovery rate for critical patients is roughly 60 per cent, not just in Pune but across the world as well,” said Dr Zirpe. At many other hospitals in Pune, severely symptomatic patients are taking more time to recover, though fatalities are fewer, is the observation. “Critical patients take their own time to recover. Early detection and intervention is important and will help patients. In this second wave, the younger population is getting more infected and in many cases, the younger population is healthy and they don’t seek early detection and intervention. Elderly citizens are now more aware because of the first wave, so they seek early treatment,” said Dr Zirpe. In Pune, the overall recovery rate as of Sunday was 82.91%, while the same for Maharashtra has been 81.18%, as per the health department. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of health at the PMC, said that without ventilation, critical patients’ recovery rate is 60 per cent. “During the second wave, critical patients with ventilation have recovered at the rate of 60 per cent rate. This is lower than the previous wave. It depends on the patient as well and early detection and intervention plays an important role,” said Wavare Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean of BJ General Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said that the CFR is low as many patients are seeking early treatment. “Many patients are aware of the symptoms now and are seeking early medical help, which helps them recover faster,” said Dr Tambe. Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said that the recovery rate is the same as the last time. “However, the patient inflow this time is more than the last wave. The number of patients is large. Patients coming to the hospital have increased, but otherwise, all the patterns of illness are the same,” said Dr Kelkar. He added that if there is no hypoxia, there will be no severe treatment. “If the patient doesn’t have a shortage of oxygen and other symptoms, then they should be isolated at home. As soon as there is hypoxia, patients should seek medical treatment immediately. Only in case of hypoxia, patients are in need of rigorous treatment. Otherwise the treatment is normal,” said Dr Kelkar. He also added that there are a lot of post-Covid symptoms that are observed among patients. “Last time, more senior citizens tested positive. However, this time either the old have been infected or are vaccinated, so their numbers are less. Transmissibility this time is much more than the last wave. As a result we are seeing the entire family getting the infection and many infected are younger in age,” said Kelkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lower-case-fatality-rate-but-rate-of-recovery-same-as-2020-experts-101618761146853.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Daily wage workers at construction sites struggle to make ends meet||As the smaller construction sites in Pune are shut due to Covid-19 related restrictions, daily wage workers looking for employment at labour pick-up points (Majur addas) in the city are finding it difficult to survive. At the same time, big construction sites are operating uninterrupted as the government has allowed the functioning of in-situ sites. The labour pick-up points at Hadapsar, Warje and Bhosari continues to have a footfall of more than 200 workers every day. “Government has given permission to continue work at big sites, but in the city, there are many small works undertaken like – construction of gardens in housing societies or constructing a compound wall and for such small work how should we arrange accommodation for the workers. There should have been some relaxation for daily wage workers so it could have benefited all,” said Jagan Ram, a contractor who provides daily jobs to workers in Hadapsar. In and around Pune around 1.5 lakh plus workers are engaged in construction work. However, the exact data about this figure is not available. Credai Pune Metro is currently collating data of all workers above 45 years age for the purpose of free vaccination as per government norms. Ranjit Naiknavare, vice president, Credai Pune Metro said, “It is difficult to give an exact number of the under-constructionsites. Most of the projects on the outskirts of Pune, including PMRDA and extended limits are large size developments and most of them have in-situ labour camps. Even the sites inside city limits have facilities for labour camps. Most of the construction sites are running and developers, especially the Credai members are trying their best to take good care of construction workers by providing full wages, stay, groceries, medical and sanitation facilities, isolation rooms wherever possible.” According to Credai, most of the under-construction sites are functioning to some extent as on date. The order has also impacted residents in many localities as they are not allowed to call workers for renovation work. “I have to change the floor carpet of my house. If there was a relaxation for such work then my society members would have allowed renovation work at my house,” said Rohan Patil, Sunita Parks, Kothrud. The situation is gruesome for some workers as they don’t even have money to return back home. “I earn ₹500 per day. For the last three days, I have earned nothing. Even if I plan to visit my hometown in Gaya, Bihar, I don’t have money to get a railway ticket. What work will I do there is another problem. We are ready to undergo Covid test, but we should be allowed to work,” said Vikal Shinde, who works as a labourer at Hadapsar. Sanjay Hiwrale, who works as labourer at Yerawada said, “For the last seven years I have been working on construction sites. Today I went to work at Vishrantwadi with six other workers and we were sent back by police as we don’t have accommodation on the site. Even our site engineer had no option, but to stop the work. If I don’t have work for 15 days, then it becomes difficult to pay rents and electric bills.” Anita Lashkare, a daily wage worker, said, “Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is not doing anything for daily wage workers. According to the 2018 GR from the state government, if a person has worked for more than 90 days in a year then they should be registered with the Board of Construction Workers (BCOW), but PMC has not given any such certificates to us until now.” The state government has announced a transfer of ₹1,500 to construction workers registered with BOCW. “While welfare provisions of BOCW partly compensates it and provides basic social security net to such workers, the inaction by PMC obstructs the process condemning these workers to misery,” said B Youvraj, social activist, New Socialist Alternative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/daily-wage-workers-at-smaller-construction-sites-struggle-financially-101618759706874.html
19-04-2021||Pune||Father murders daughters before killing himself in Maval||A 40-year-old man was booked for running over his two teen daughters with his truck before jumping out in front of the moving truck himself in the early hours of Sunday in Maval area of Pune, according to the police. The man and the two girls have all been reported dead on the spot. The incident was witnessed by the mother of the two girls, according to the police. The deceased were identified as Bharat Dnyandeo Bharate (40), Nandini Bharat Bharate (18), and Vaishnavi Bharat Bharate (14), all residents of Alfanagari area of Induri village in Maval taluka of Pune. “We first got information about the accident of two sisters. Then we realised that the father is dead too. So, we started asking questions to the witnesses and their mother, who was in shock, who slowly was comprehensive and revealed the series of events to us. It took us a long time to plausibly verify these details. Prima facie, it looks like he crushed them and then managed to jump out of the moving vehicle and then jump ahead of the truck so it would run him over too,” said senior police inspector Pradeep Londhe of Talegaon MIDC police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sapna Bharate (36), wife of the deceased man and mother of the two girls who had started working in a nearby factory 6-7 days ago, according to the police. The man had written a letter detailing his intentions to finish his entire family and had made his wife sign it too, according to the police. The decision is suspected to be a fallout of recent phone conversation he had found between a boy and his elder daughter who was a student of Class 12, according to the complaint. “He then found out about some communication on the phone of his elder daughter in Saturday evening and he had been upset with all of them since then. He had beaten up the elder daughter around 4-5pm on Saturday. He wrote in his letter that he was ending his family and that nobody should be held responsible for it. He had forced his wife to sign it and she had signed it without reading,” said PI Londhe. The complainant allegedly heard the truck start after 1am on Sunday and went out to check what the source of it was at that hour, according to her complaint. “She says that it was then that she saw the two girls scared and in front of the truck and he was asking her to join them while threatening them with consequences if they got up from there. As he started to move the truck, she went to call her relatives who came out and found his body at some distance from the girls’ and the truck at some 50-70meters ahead of his body,” said PI Londhe. It was during further investigation that the police found a letter in the house. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/father-murders-daughters-before-killing-himself-in-maval-101618759586939.html
19-04-2021||Pune||PMC using lockdown to complete repairs, civic works across city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is utilising the restriction imposed by the state government to carry out major civic work on otherwise heavily crowded roads in Pune. The work mainly includes laying of water and drainage lines on Laxmi road, Tilak road, Shivaji road, Bajirao road and Swargate area. Due to heavy traffic on these stretches, the PMC often faces problems to carry out major civic work. Now, with the roads deserted due to the Covid induced restrictions, PMC is not facing any people interference and traffic problems as per the chain order. On Laxmi road and Tilak road, the PMC has dug up in the middle of the stretch to lay water pipeline and complete the work within one week. Earlier during the previous lockdown, the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) had demolished Savitribai Phule Pune University junction flyover for the proposed Shivajinagar –Hinjewadi Metro corridor. The demolition work was completed within a month without any hurdle to traffic because of lockdown. Nandkumar Jagatap, superintendent engineer of PMC water supply department said, “We have started laying of the water pipe line in the old city areas like Laxmi road, Tilak road, Shivaji road. Due to the break the chain order and restrictions, contractors are working without traffic hurdles throughout the day. It will complete before the monsoon.” According to Jagtap, in the old city areas, narrow roads, traffic congestion, crowds are some of the major problems to carry out the work in daylight. Police also do not allow PMC to undertake such work. “Now we don’t have to face such problems. We are working in full swing in daylight. If we want to work in a normal situation, it would have taken more than a month of complete work and people would have faced problems. The situation would be chaotic one and we would have to work at night due to traffic and people movement. Now, we will complete work within 15 days without any congestion,” he added. VG kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of roads said, “We have given permission to the drainage department to carry out the pipe line work at Shivaji road, Tilak road, Bajirao road and Volga chowk ( Swargate area), City pride chowk ( Market yard area). We are able to complete the work at a faster pace due to the weekend lockdown and break the chain order.” According to PMC officials, permission is required from the traffic police department to start any development work on the busy roads. It takes time and traffic police put conditions and give time slots to work. Normally, police give permission to work at night to avoid any congestion and noise pollution. Police will have to divert traffic to avoid congestion and minimise the trouble of citizens. Due to the weekend lockdown and break the chain order, police have not objected to any works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-using-lockdown-to-complete-civic-works-across-city-101618759526802.html
