20-04-2021||Other||‘Be prepared for lockdown if Covid protocols not followed’: Odisha CM||As neighbouring Jharkhand and Chhatisgarh went into lockdown due to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, during a review meeting of Odisha’s Covid preparedness on Tuesday, warned of a possible lockdown if people do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance.“The cases in Odisha also have been increasing in the last few days. Due to our alert preparedness and proactive measures, we have been able to manage the situation to a large extent. However, we need to be prepared for the worst-case scenario and ensure that every patient is treated with dignity and put in best efforts to save precious lives,” the chief minister said.“I once again request the people of Odisha to please cooperate. It is in the interest of the state and its people that we should manage the covid situation without lockdown. Wearing a mask and maintaining social distance will help us in this,” Patnaik said.The chief minister’s appeal comes a day after the state government announced weekend lockdowns in all urban areas beginning April 24 as the state reported 4,761 fresh Covid cases, its highest single-day surge.“With lockdowns in seriously affected states, the district collectors should be prepared for the return of the migrants. The protocols followed earlier should be reactivated by the collectors immediately based on the existing database,” he said, adding that quarantine norm and testing should be ensured for all returnees from other states.Patnaik ordered a further increase in the number of beds at Covid hospitals and Covid Care Centres across the state and said special focus should be on providing the maximum possible number of beds with oxygen support. “The system has to work on war-footing to ensure this within committed timelines. Our oxygen supply situation has to be closely monitored and ensure that all related accessories at the hospital level are available on priority. Many states are facing critical medicines shortage. Even though we have sufficient medicines in stock, we must ensure buffer stock to tackle higher demand in the coming weeks,” he said.With the R0 value (which indicates how contagious an infectious disease is) reaching 2.38 and the daily positivity rate rising to 14.71 on Tuesday, experts said the state would see a daily surge much higher than the one in the first wave. “I see Odisha peaking in another 2-3 weeks with the daily surge reaching 8,000-9,000 case a day. It would be more, but Odisha is not conducting more RT-PCR tests which would have detected the actual number of infected persons,” said noted microbiologist Dr TM Mohapatra.Meanwhile, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and Cuttack Municipal Corporation have decided to shut all religious institutions in the two cities for devotees until further orders.On Tuesday morning, several Class 10 students protested before the official residence of the chief minister seeking cancellation of the Class 10 board exam which would be conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education. Last week, the Odisha government postponed all the examinations, including the Class 10 and Class 12 examinations, till June in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the state.“As board exams in several states including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and CBSE, CISCE, we want the Odisha government to cancel the matriculation exam. We are under a lot of pressure as we do not know whether we should study for the Class 10 board exam or prepare for higher studies,” said a student.“The Covid-19 situation has aggravated in the state and the new strain is also affecting children and youngsters. We are not feeling safe to appear in the board exam.”Later, school and mass education minister Samir Dash said his department is reviewing all aspects and all options are open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-prepared-for-lockdown-if-covid-protocols-not-followed-odisha-cm-101618942299071.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 1,000 vendors to be added to city’s vending zones||The town vending committee of the municipal corporation decided to add at least 1,105 street vendors to its zones in a meeting on Tuesday, with officials reiterating their stance on taking action against those found responsible for various discrepancies and unpaid dues.The meeting, held at John Hall in Civil Lines, was aimed at scrutinising and discovering anomalies in the policy to initiate action against violators, an issue that has been in the focus since last November, said officials. The matter pertains to pending payments from three contractors who were hired for the street vending zone project.Deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) Vijaypal Yadav, who oversees the project, submitted a report on his findings to the committee, highlighting that although the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) issued a work order for incorporating 3,452 street vendors in its street vending zones, only 1,620 vendors, 53% of the capacity, were operational.Yadav’s report also highlighted various discrepancies and negligence on part of a retired MCG city project officer (CPO) who was in charge of the project since its inception in 2016 till last year.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “Based on the investigation report in the street vending project, appropriate action will be taken against all officials concerned found to be guilty and the action taken will be conveyed to the MCG House in the next meeting. Along with this, directions were issued to recover the remaining amount from the vending agencies. If not paid on time, criminal action will be taken against the agency concerned.”Each street vendor pays ₹1,500 per month for stationing their cart in the MCG’s street vending zone.Until January, each vendor paid ₹1,000 to the contractor and ₹500 to the MCG per month. The entire sum, including MCG’s share, was collected by the contractors. However, the same is yet to be deposited with the MCG.The services of the three contractors were terminated by the MCG.In the meeting, Singh directed Yadav to recalculate the pending amount and subsequently, initiate criminal action against the contractors for non-payment.In Yadav’s report, it was highlighted that of the 1,620 street vendors, around 300 were found to be illegal as their original owners had either leased the carts to others or transferred the ownership to them, which is not allowed under the street vending policy. Singh directed Yadav to remove all such carts as well as those found illegally stationed across the city.Singh said, “For all existing street vendors, the committee has decided to not collect monthly fees for May. From June 1 onwards, they have been directed to pay the money to the MCG every quarter, through digital payment. MCG officials have been directed to create a software for digital fees mechanism by June 1 for payment purposes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-1-000-vendors-to-be-added-to-city-s-vending-zones-101618942118322.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents’ associations take charge of fight against Covid-19 in condos, gated societies||Amid the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, residents’ welfare associations of several condominiums and gated societies have effected restrictions in their societies to limit the spread of infections. The measures range from limiting the entry of visitors and restricting entry to parks to banning renovation work and walking pets in common areas.At Carlton Estate, a condominium in DLF-5, entry of property dealers, potential buyers or tenants, and all renovation work has been banned till April 26.Pawan Tharwani, the president of the Carlton Estate Condominium Association (CECA) said that depending on the number of Covid-19 cases, the RWA will take a call next week on extending the ban. “Seeing a large number of cases in the condominium, which led to one of the towers being made a containment zone, the RWA considered various measures to limit the spreading of Covid-19. We realised that nearly 100-130 visitors could be stopped daily by banning the entry of property dealers, potential buyers or tenants, and all renovation related work till April 26. This may be extended depending on the situation,” said Tharwani.He said that there were positive cases in at least 25 apartments in the condominium.At Fresco Apartments, a gated society in Nirvana Country, the number of visitors has been capped, with no more than five outsiders allowed in a house. Besides, gyms and squash courts were also shut until further notice.The RWA has also set up a three-stage sanitation process for domestic helps and vendors — wash hands with soap at a basin located at the entrance and sanitise their hands twice, once at the entrance and the other before entering the tower.“The main reason behind limiting visitors to just five per house is for ensuring that no large gatherings are taking place and minimising the chances of people contracting the coronavirus disease through interaction. We have also closed our gyms and squash courts while our in-house sports academies only allow entry of one resident at any given point for training purposes,” said Nilesh Tandon, president, Fresco Apartments.Tandon said that there are currently 35 active cases in the housing society.In the township of DLF Phases 1 and 2, the RWA has restricted the entry of residents in parks. Residents walking their pets must do so only outside their houses and cannot venture into lanes or vacant spaces nearby for the purpose, the RWA members said.“Only our horticulture staff is allowed inside the parks in DLF Phases 1 and 2. The security staff is constantly keeping vigil over such restrictions. Our main aim is to limit the potential areas where large-scale public interaction can occur and restrict the rising number of cases in our township,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Qutub Enclave residents’ welfare association that looks after both DLF Phase 1 and DLF Phase 2.There are at least 50 active Covid-19 cases in DLF Phases 1 and 2, said Bansal.On April 7, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg had issued an order to RWAs directing them to take actions that encourage residents to stay indoors and discourage social events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-associations-take-charge-of-fight-against-covid-19-in-condos-gated-societies-101618942062924.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Govt issues order to shut Sheetla Mata temple, withdraws it hours later citing clerical error||The Haryana government on Tuesday issued and withdrew an order to close Sheetla Mata temple in the city within a few hours, citing a clerical error. On Tuesday afternoon, citing the need to “break the chain of Covid-19 infections,” the state government issued an order for closing Sheetla Mata temple and Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula. Both temples receive heavy footfall and large crowds are anticipated on Wednesday, due to the Hindu festival of Ramanavami.The decision, however, was reversed a few hours later, with the Haryana government saying that directions issued by the Centre regarding religious places will be followed.“It was a simple case of a clerical error. The original order was meant to state that due to rising Covid-19 cases, coronavirus protocols such as six-foot social distancing, limited entry of devotees, mandatory wearing of masks, temperature checks at entrance and sanitising of hands need to be followed strictly at the two religious sites and greater vigilance needed to be adopted for the same during the ongoing Navratri celebrations. Due to miscommunication, an incorrect order was originally sent out and later reversed,” said a senior official in the Urban Local Bodies (ULB), privy to the matter. Vinay Pratap Singh, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), who is also the chief administrator of the Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, said that adequate staff has been deployed to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed. “The decision on closing or opening the temple rests with the Haryana government. All Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed closely to ensure there are minimal chances of the virus spreading among devotees. We realise that a large gathering is taking place and hence, deputed necessary temple staff, MCG staff, and Gurugram police at relevant points to keep close vigil,” said Singh.For keeping a vigil, 58 CCTV cameras are installed inside the premises and around 200 workers will be stationed, said MCG officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-issues-order-to-shut-sheetla-mata-temple-withdraws-it-hours-later-citing-clerical-error-101618942062046.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Wildlife department asks GMDA to stop waste dumping at Basai wetland||The district wildlife department on Tuesday appealed to authorities concerned, including the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), to stop the dumping of mixed waste in the ecologically sensitive Basai Wetlands.Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram, said that the land falls under the jurisdiction of GMDA but is part of the ecologically sensitive wetland. “Mixed waste, including construction waste, cloth, glass pieces, loose soil was being dumped at the site on Tuesday evening when I went there for a visit. Waste had accumulated over a 50-metre stretch to almost 10 feet in height, with more trucks spotted coming in,” said Chahal.“From the wildlife point of view, this area is extremely sensitive as it falls on the flyway of migratory birds from Najafgarh Jheel to Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary. Being an old wetland, birds are habituated to visiting this region. We are requesting the authorities to immediately stop dumping of waste here,” he said.Officials from GMDA said that they are looking into the matter. Ajay Malik, additional chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “I have learnt about this incident, but I will not be able to comment till I check the details.”Another forest official, requesting anonymity, said, “Even though this is an ecologically sensitive area, due to not being notified as a protected site, our hands are tied, and we are not able to stop this.”Basai is a village in Gurugram with a network of ponds and a wetland, making it home to a variety of frogs, turtles, fish, insects and other aquatic life. It also hosts a variety of migratory birds, such as ducks, geese, songbirds, snipes, godwits, stints, plovers, harriers, eagles and cranes that fly in from Siberia and Europe. Further, egrets, herons, kingfishers and spoonbills, among other birds, reside at the wetland.Environmentalists also raised concerns about the issue. Vaishali Chandra, a city-based environmentalist, said, “The Basai wetlands is the abode of thousands of avian lives, both migratory and native, throughout the year. The dumping of construction and demolition waste along with loose soil will slowly exterminate the habitat of these birds, jeopardising their lives. This needs to be stopped immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wildlife-department-asks-gmda-to-stop-waste-dumping-at-basai-wetland-101618942061101.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 in Haryana: Congress hits out at BJP over pandemic situation||The state unit of the Congress on Tuesday accused the state and central governments of failing to handle the Covid-19 situation, with party members saying there was no plan in place to deal with the pandemic.State Congress president Kumari Selja and state party in-charge Vinay Bansal, who were in the city, alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gave a higher preference to fighting elections rather than working on upgrading healthcare and saving lives.“The BJP government is not ready to listen to the woes of farmers and is bent upon handing over agriculture to corporates. The Central government has failed to meet Covid challenge and the people are dying because of lack of beds, medical oxygen and failure to vaccinate people,” said Selja.Members of the BJP, however, said that the maximum failure on the Covid front happened in Punjab, Maharashtra and Delhi. “These states are worst affected. The Congress and opposition leaders were responsible for causing vaccine hesitation. The government is working on a plan and it is being executed,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.Selja also criticised how the union health minister had replied to the suggestions made by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to manage the challenges posed by Covid-19. “The conduct of the BJP leadership was neither civil nor decent,” said Selja.“The entire energy is being spent to subvert the electoral machinery to win elections at a time when lives of people should have been saved,” Bansal said, pointing to the incidents in West Bengal.Senior leader Ajay Singh Yadav said that Congress functionaries across the state will soon actively engage in helping Covid-19 patients and also workers suffering due to the lockdown-like situation. “We will be helping people across the state as the party will form district-wise committees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/congress-hits-out-at-bjp-over-pandemic-situation-101618942060420.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Hero MotoCorp to halt production for four days||City-based two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp decided to halt operations in a staggered manner between April 22 and May 1 at all its manufacturing facilities across the country in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. A spokesperson said that the company will utilise these days to carry out necessary maintenance work in the manufacturing plants. The company has two major plants in Haryana, located at Gurugram and Daruhera in Rewari district. “Each plant and global parts centre will remain shut for four days, in a staggered manner, between April 22 and May 1 on basis of the local scenario. All corporate offices of the company are already in work from home mode and very limited workers are in offices on rotation basis for continuity of essential services,” a statement released by the company said. According to the statement, the shutdown will not impact the company’s ability to meet the demand, which has been impacted due to localised shutdowns in many states and production loss will be compensated during the remainder of the quarter. All plants will resume normal operations post this short shutdown period, a spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hero-motocorp-to-halt-production-for-four-days-101618942059763.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||‘Lockdown in Delhi will help contain spread in Gurugram too’||TC Gupta, the additional chief secretary, mines and geology, employment, and housing, who has been appointed as the Covid-19 officer for Gurugram by the Haryana government spoke to Archana Mishra about the current situation in the district.Gurugram has been grappling with multiple challenges in dealing with Covid-19. How do you analyse the current situation?The main problem is the availability of beds as some people who could be home isolated have been hospitalised. Teams have been deputed to monitor hospitals. To ramp up facilities, hospitals on Tuesday were directed to tie up with three or four-star hotels where moderately ill coronavirus patients can be isolated and have a provision for emergency medical treatment. At least five hospitals have assured of tying up with the hotels by Wednesday. Thirdly, there is a lack of government health facilities in Gurugram. In Civil Hospital, there are 21 beds only for suspected cases. Any moderate to severely ill case is referred to ESIC Hospital, which has only 72 beds, of which 14 beds do not have oxygen support. The 120-bed Medeor Hospital is not fully operational due to many reasons.How do you plan to address the situation?Many hospitals raised the issue that they do not have enough health staff even if they increase the beds. Their existing staff is also getting infected. Therefore, we have decided to provide private hospitals with paramedic staff. We can deploy over 400 health staff in Gurugram after discussion with the state government. Already, Medanta Hospital has been given an additional staff of 100. Likewise, nearly 64 are given to Medeor Hospital. The demand is for roughly about 200 health workers.So far, at least 47 ventilators have been procured from the state warehouse and four from Civil Hospital. In all, 61 ventilators will be given to the SGT Medical College, as the 500-bed facility is being upgraded. Also, hospitals were directed to give preference to patients, especially those from Gurugram, who require hospitalisation.Has there been an assessment on how many people from Gurugram have not been able to find beds?With the mutual consent of private hospitals, we are starting a portal where people who require beds can register. The civil surgeon’s team will review the registration based upon parameters and medical reports. Health facilities will give preference to registered beneficiaries who require immediate hospitalisation. It is expected that over 200 Gurugram residents will register. Through this, we will get to know how many are not getting beds. However, people can directly approach hospitals too.Hospitals and chemists have been complaining about the poor supply of medical oxygen? How is the administration tackling the situation?Hospitals had earlier tied up with a medical oxygen supplier in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan. Since the Rajasthan government has imposed a ban on the export of oxygen to other states, the oxygen supply mechanism has been slightly affected. But to facilitate hospitals, we have connected them with a supplier in Panipat. The distributor has limited tankers and we are trying to supplement the distributor with tankers. Availability of oxygen is not a problem in Haryana but it is the logistics that have to be managed. It will be stabilised within a day or two.After the lockdown in Delhi, will the Haryana government impose a lockdown in Gurugram?Not yet. The issue was discussed at a state-level task force meeting on Monday. Lockdown has not been contemplated.Are we seeing any impact of Delhi’s lockdown in Gurugram?Because of a lockdown in Delhi, the spread will be contained due to less movement between the two cities. Daily cases in the last three days have almost stabilised. There is no exponential increase as it was happening a week before. If the stability is maintained, the situation will not worsen. But we are on our toes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-in-delhi-will-help-contain-spread-in-gurugram-too-101618942058899.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Migrant exodus a concern for Gurugram’s industries||Fearing an impending lockdown due to the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, droves of workers employed in industries and construction work have started leaving fearing a repeat of last year’s situation, despite repeated assurances by the state government. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday that the industry in the state will not be impacted like last year.Factory owners in Manesar and Gurugram said that at least 15 to 20% of workers have left and they expect more to leave, as the decision of the Delhi government to impose a lockdown and the enforcement of a night curfew in Gurugram triggered panic among workers. More than 2,000 workers’ families dotted the areas in Rajiv Chowk, Khandsa and Sector 12 from where private buses to UP, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh operate. “The number of people leaving is increasing every day,” said Rakesh, an auto driver, who waits for commuters at Rajiv Chowk.,“We are a group of 10 people living together in Patel Nagar and we work as construction workers. All of us are returning home to Darbhanga in Bihar as last year, we were left with no food to eat during the lockdown. Once the police come on the road, none will be allowed to move. We don’t want to ask for food or help,” said 20-year old Manish, adding that they will return only after the situation improves.Workers who were queuing up to buy tickets at Rajiv Chowk said that the bus fares have more than doubled due to the demand over the last three days. “The fare was ₹1,000 three days ago, but now, bus operators are demanding ₹2,500 to ₹3,000 per person, which is exorbitant,” said Ritesh Kumar, a resident of Madhubani in Bihar.A large number of workers said that they were returning home to attend weddings, but admitted that the economic difficulties faced last year played a part in their decision. “If there is a lockdown, then the salary would stop but expenses such as rent, food, and other things won’t stop. It is difficult to depend on government machinery in such a situation,” said Brahmdeep Kumar, of Supaul in Bihar.Industry owners in Gurugram and Manesar said that the government must reassure workers that there would no lockdown. “Around 30% of the workers in my unit left yesterday without any intimation and another 20% of them are preparing to leave,” said Dinesh Sharma, a garment unit owner, adding that they will not be able to fulfil existing orders.Manmohan Gaind, the vice-president of Manesar Industries Welfare Association, said that workers were affected by their experiences during last year’s lockdown. “The industrial output is going to dip further if this labour migration is not stopped. The closure of markets in Delhi has also stopped raw material supply and lack of workers will further hit industry badly,” he said.Pawan Yadav, the president, IMT Industrial Association, said that workers should not panic and the industry will support them if a difficult situation arises. “We will soon be reaching out to workers to motivate them to stay as the Haryana government has repeatedly said that there would no lockdown,” he said.Industrialists in Udyog Vihar said that apart from the migration of workers, the industry was badly hit as workers and executives from Delhi were unable to commute. “Many unit owners have complained to us that workers are unable to come and that movement passes are difficult to get in Delhi,” said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar.Taking cognizance of the problems faced by industrial workers, Khattar, who addressed the people in the state on Tuesday evening, appealed to migrant workers to not panic and said that the economic cycle will not be allowed to stop on the lines of 2020. “Economic activity will continue in the state and there would be no lockdown as it hurts workers who earn ₹10,000 to ₹15,000 monthly. If they lose a job they have to find a new one and it is very difficult. The economic activities will not be stopped and we will ensure the industry remains functional in all circumstances,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/migrant-exodus-a-concern-for-gurugram-s-industries-101618942058259.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Short supply of Covid-19 testing kits a major concern||Hospitals and labs in the city are dealing with a short supply of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing kits, leading to long queues outside facilities with a wait time of more than six hours, in some instances, on Tuesday.“There has been a shortage of kits after a lockdown was announced in Delhi. The suppliers are not providing kits due to travel restrictions. The hospital has been sending its own vehicle to collect the kits so that there is no delay in sample collection. The process is likely to be streamlined in a few days,” said Anil Khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56.A representative of a private lab administering RT-PCR tests, said, “Due to lockdown, many labs and hospitals are stocking up RT-PCR kits. Due to this reason, the entire testing process is getting affected. Testing is getting capped based on the available stock of kits.”A visit by an HT team to some of the big hospitals found that many people who arrived as early as 8am were still waiting to be tested at 2pm. Due to the swelling of crowds, distancing norms were also flouted.Santosh Gupta, a resident of Sector 10, who works in Sector 66, said, “I came at 8am, thinking I will go to office directly after my test, but even after six hours, I was not tested. They asked me to return on Wednesday morning. More than 100 people were waiting along with me, including people with high fever and flu.”Several hospitals had also posted outside the testing room early in the day that the sample collection for RT-PCR testing had ended. Even as some resumed testing later in the day after receiving kits, queues did not subside.“Due to heavy footfall, the hospital has started a token system for the general population and senior citizens. Documentation also takes time, but we are trying to streamline the process,” Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute.Depender Kumar, a resident of Sector 65, who was waiting in a line outside a big private hospital, alleged that there are no facilities for people coming to give their samples. “The government should think about what problems people are facing while visiting for tests. We are even waiting in long queues but are unable to get the tests done or get reports on time due to long pendency and shortage of kits. Waiting outside the hospitals with many people around, with a few not even taking any precautions such as wearing face masks, is also a threat for us. There is no clarity and the hospital staff does not give a correct estimate of how much time will it take. Waiting for six hours is no joke,” he said.At present, the government is conducting Covid-19 tests at more than 40 locations across the city, of which 23 are government locations where tests are conducted for free without prior reservation.“Gurugram is doing the highest number of sampling in the state. Government institutions are being approached by people for testing and a lot of them were turned away by private labs due to shortage of kits or other reasons,” said Dr Umang, medical officer, Patel Nagar urban primary health centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/short-supply-of-covid-19-testing-kits-a-major-concern-101618941998406.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram records 2,344 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||The district has reported nine Covid-19 deaths in the last two days, including four deaths on Tuesday which took the death toll to 387. On Tuesday, at least 2,344 new Covid-19 cases were also confirmed, taking the active case count to 14,270 and the total tally to 85,878.As the district continued to struggle to contain the transmission of infection, the number of hospitalisations was at 788 on Tuesday, an increase of over 100 from 663 people who were undergoing treatment at government and private facilities on Tuesday. The increase in daily test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the samples tested, from almost 19% to 23% shows an unprecedented spread of infection since the outbreak of the pandemic, said officials. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that the focus is currently on containing the number of deaths. “The mortality rate is currently around 0.46%. The effort is to keep it below 1% by ensuring that serious patients receive treatment on time,” he said.  According to the district health bulletin, out of the 14,270 active cases, over 13,343 are in home isolation, while at least 211 moderately ill patients are in Covid care centres. To control the surge, the district health department conducted 12,013 tests on Tuesday, including 1,534 rapid antigen tests. At least 11, 622 people took the Covid-19 vaccine shots on Tuesday, of which over 9,381 were administered in government facilities and 2,241 in private ones. Overall, 414, 997 have taken the Covid-19 vaccine shots over the last four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-records-2-344-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-101618941999037.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Delayed test results hamper efforts to check virus spread||Even as Covid-19 testing was intensified in the district since April 1 to identify local clusters and check the positivity rate, delayed test results are hampering the measures to contain the spread of the virus in the district. Residents said that in most cases, it is taking at least five days to get the results, which is delaying medical treatment as well as causing them anxiety.“A lot of challenges have emerged recently in delivering timely test results. Currently, it is taking over five days to give a test report due to the lack of availability of RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) kits and other medical consumables. Many hospitals and labs have been stocking up the supplies due to lockdown in Delhi and other states. Second, diagnostic teams are also getting infected with coronavirus, leading to insufficient staff. Therefore, it is getting difficult to deliver test results in 72 hours,” said a representative of a private lab, requesting anonymity.According to government guidelines, test results have to be confirmed within 24 to 48 hours. However, the issue of delayed test results continues to persist since the first week of April, when 5,000 tests were being conducted every day. With the testing scaled up to 10,000 tests per day at present, the delay is compounding isolation and contact tracing processes.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, said, “Private labs have already been directed to deliver timely test results. Action will be taken against labs or hospitals if any case of delays.”A representative of a second private lab administering the RT-PCR test attributed the delay to overload of sampling and documentation work. “Due to increased sample collection, the testing process has been getting delayed by more than 72 hours. Also, now, the documentation process for every test has increased, which consumes a lot of time,” said the representative of the second lab, requesting anonymity.Residents said the delay in getting the results is causing uncertainty and stress, especially to those in quarantine.“It took six days to get the report and I tested positive. My entire family got infected because of me as we were not sure of my status. Now, all of us are admitted to a private hospital,” said Pawan Kumar, a resident of Sector 86, who is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Manesar.Sunita Joshi, a resident of Sector 45, said that delay in receiving the test results of her two children affected the subsequent isolation process. “The hospital informed me that negative reports take time and if I had not received a message, it means there is nothing to worry about. Thinking they are negative, I did not take precautionary measures but the reports, sent after six days, stated that both were positive,” she said.Another resident alleged that he developed a lung infection as he could not get timely treatment. “It’s been more than four days that I isolated myself and developed a high fever, cough and cold. My doctor asked me to get a chest scan but the hospital refused to do it without a negative Covid-19 report. I am in no state to drive or visit hospitals, yet I am still running from pillar to post to get my test done, but to no avail,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 1.Due to consistent delay in getting results from private facilities, people have started queuing up at urban primary health centres (UPHCs) for testing. “There has been a manifold increase in sampling size, which is leading to a slight delay in delivery of test results,” said Dr Umang, medical officer, Patel Nagar UPHC.Doctors are advising people to wait for reports, with primary and secondary contacts asked to wear masks and isolate themselves. “As the spread of Covid-19 is intensifying, along with new strains of the virus emerging, the health department is working day and night. The public needs to understand the situation and exhibit Covid appropriate behaviour that involves strict isolation in case of any symptoms like fever, cough, runny nose. Sanitisation and using masks is extremely important and mandatory,” said Umang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delayed-test-results-hamper-efforts-to-check-virus-spread-101618941938265.html
20-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka government announces new Covid-19 restrictions as state reports over 21,000 new cases in record one-day spike||The Karnataka government on Tuesday imposed fresh restrictions after the state reported 21,794 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, a record single-day spike. The new restrictions would come into effect from 9pm on April 21 and stay in effect till 6am on May 4.On Tuesday, 149 people succumbed to Covid-19 which pushed the state’s total death toll to 13,646, according to a state health department bulletin. So far, 1,198,644 cases have been identified in the state. Active caseload currently stands at 159,158 and the total recoveries has reached 1,025,821 after 4,571 patients were discharged, the bulletin showed.Earlier on Tuesday, an all-party meeting took place to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. The meeting was attended by Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, governor Vajubhai Vala, health minister Dr K Sudhakar, and opposition leaders Siddaramaiah, DK Shivakumar and HD Kumaraswamy. Basavaraj Bommai, the minister of state for home affairs, said that the chief minister would take a call on the lockdowns after discussing with experts, news agency ANI reported.Please click on link below to view Guidelines to contain COVID-19 in the State.https://t.co/36ks4glZctHere is a look at the new restrictions that are set to come into effect from April 21 in Karnataka -Also read | Rajasthan to come under curfew for a month, essential services to get exemption“For the enforcement of social distancing, Commissioners of Police/Deputy Commissioners may, use the provisions of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) of 1973,” the order said. The government also asked the district authorities to strictly enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and the new guidelines issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-government-announces-new-covid-19-restrictions-as-state-reports-over-21-000-new-cases-in-record-single-day-spike-101618941114938.html
20-04-2021||Other||Kanpur gasps for oxygen but brass says all is well!||The Kanpur administration maintains that there is no scarcity of oxygen in the city despite incidents to the contrary and doctors accepting that the demand and supply gap was huge.In a late night briefing district magistrate Alok Tiwari and municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi addressed reporters and maintained that the oxygen availability was adequate and the situation was being monitored closely. Contrary to their claim, Swaroop Narayan Srivastava, 82, was taken to LLR Hospital suffering from pneumonia and in desperate need of oxygen. His relative, Deepak Srivastava, said that doctors told him to bring his own oxygen cylinder. “Now, we are moving him to a non-Covid private hospital. We are lucky, we got a bed. LLR people were not ready to begin treatment without the cylinder,” he said. LLR Hospital, the biggest hospital, has seen oxygen demand shoot up to 12,000 litres in a day, said the doctors, adding that the situation became critical in the early hours of Tuesday. Somehow it was managed. The LLR Hospital arranged for some 100 cylinders from Bharua Sumerpur in Hamirpur and one tanker is coming from Dehradun daily, said doctors, on condition of anonymity. They said still the supply was not enough considering the influx of patients. Meanwhile, at Anurag Hospital in Sharda Nagar, an announcement was made for people to take away patients or arrange for oxygen cylinders. The hospital had run out of oxygen and it was not made available. A patient, Ashutosh, was also allegedly assaulted when he registered his protest with the hospital staff. He had to call the police to save himself as the guard allegedly held him at gunpoint. SHO Kalyanpur Vir Singh confirmed the incident said it was being looked into. Oxygen consumption in Covid-19 hospitals has also risen to 53 tonnes in Kanpur. While the city had 12 tonnes in stock, 16 tonnes was made available additionally. Another 25 tonnes was on the way from Chandauli. “At the most it will last less than 24 hours; we need consistent supply,” said a hospital owner whose hospital ran out of essential items for treatment at 3 am on Tuesday. At present, the overall demand was of 8,500 cylinders and the availability was roughly between 5,500, and thus, a shortfall of 3,500 cylinders, said doctors of GSVM Medical College and private hospital owners. In his briefing, the Kanpur DM said that he had deputed magistrates at four oxygen plants to ensure that the oxygen reaches the right places. Similarly, magistrates have been deployed in all Covid-19 hospitals to check ‘black marketing of beds’ so that patients get a bed conveniently. Meanwhile, a private company has been hired to run the integrated command centre more efficiently, and it will take over the centre in a day or two, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-gasps-for-oxygen-but-brass-says-all-is-well-101618941338255.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine for all adults: Maharashtra to use development funds||In a special cabinet meeting held on Tuesday, it was decided that the government will use the state’s development funds to procure vaccines, including those which may need to be imported, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. This decision comes a day after the Centre allowed all adults to seek a vaccine against Covid-19 starting May 1, although people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups. “We currently have two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, but if the need arises, we have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” Tope said after the meeting. Sputnik V made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, was approved formally on April 13 and its initial doses are expected to be imported. On Monday, pharma giant Johnson & Johnson applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as for an import license. Last week India said that it would fast-track emergency approvals for vaccines authorised by Western countries and Japan, paving the way for possible imports of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, and Moderna shots. None of the companies have announced plans to enter the Indian market under the fast-track routes as yet. In Maharashtra, with 73% of the state population in the age group of above 18 years, more than 90 million people are now eligible for the vaccine. “A lot of the population from the age group of 18-44 years is from the working class and is highly mobile. Thus, they could transmit the virus to others. By vaccinating this age group we could contain the transmission rate at great extent,” Tope said. Maharashtra has around 4200 vaccination centres with a daily inoculation rate of over 350,000 people. The state has so far administered 12.76 million doses on 11.32 million citizens. This means, in a month, 4 million people are being inoculated. At this rate, it would take well over a year to vaccinate the remaining 80 million. The pace needs to be augmented rapidly, a senior official of the public health department said. “We are planning to increase the number of vaccination centres to more than 6000. Our manpower in the government machinery is all set to roll out the drive. There will be large-scale participation of the private sector which will help us in effective implementation of the drive. We expect adequate supply of the vaccine as three more manufacturers are set to enter the market,” Dr TP Lahane, Director of Medical Education and Research, said. Health department officials said that they were expecting guidelines to be issued by the central government soon which would clarify specific questions on cost (how much the Centre will pay, and how much will the state have to spend); supply frequency; and pricing of vaccinations (whether the Centre would put a cap on the price, which Monday’s order said would be decided by the vaccine manufacturers). Apart from this, the state will also have to take a call on which section of the 18-44 age group it would bear the vaccination cost for, as well whether it would need to exercise control over how many vaccine doses can private hospitals buy. This will prove vital to ensure equitable vaccination for all, as well as help the state earmark the outlay for the inoculation. “We have robust infrastructure in Maharashtra with the past experience of implementation of such huge vaccination drive. We are only concerned about the supply of the doses,” said state immunisation officer Dr DN Patil. The state government had been demanding the stock of about 5 million doses per week as it had aimed to double its daily inoculation to 700,000 doses. The official said that though the state has the infrastructure with the capacity of vaccinating 1 million people a day, the health care workers in the government and private sector are fatigued. “We will have to increase the number of vaccination centres to a large number for which additional personnel will be required.” “We are also expecting the price of the vaccine to drop further amid the increase in the demand and one more player (Sputnik) likely to be added in the next few weeks. At the same time, we are also planning to rope in the private sector by allowing the corporate houses to inoculate their employees and social organisations to hold the camps,” said the official. According to the details in the PIB statement issued on Monday, vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although the government’s release did not indicate a cap. Vaccine manufacturers will still need to supply half the vaccines to the Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group, and health care and front-line workers even after May 1. However, people under the age of 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups. The Centre said that the allocation of doses to states and Union territories will be on the basis of their active case load and their performance in vaccinating people, while wastage will be taken into effect as criteria that can affect a state negatively when doses are being distributed by Centre. “We never have stock for more than 3-4 days. We have been planning to ramp up the daily inoculation to 6-7 lakh people, but the short supply of the doses is causing a hindrance. Now the Centre has announced to allow the state to procure the stock directly from the manufacturers, but it remains to be seen if the manufacturers have the capacity of the production,” said another official from the health department. Both, Covishield and Covaxin are manufactured in India, by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech respectively. An executive of SII said that the company would be able to ramp up production from the current 60 million doses a month to 110 million doses by June. The Centre on Monday agreed to pay SII ₹3000 crore advance payment of two months for vaccines. J&J and Novavax already have licensed Indian companies (J&J has authorised Biological E and Novavax has authorised Serum Institute of India) to produce millions of doses. Tope said that the United Kingdom vaccinated 60% of its population within three months of the lockdown and it has helped it in bringing down the positivity and mortality rate drastically. He said that the Central government should continue to bear the financial burden for the people above 45 years. “The vaccine companies overwhelmed with the orders from other countries and the waiting period for the delivery is long. The Maharashtra government wants to register its orders for Pfizer, Moderna vaccines in advance,” a health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-for-all-adults-maharashtra-to-use-development-funds-101618940738240.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||'Health services have collapsed': Akhilesh Yadav on Covid-19 surge in UP||With Uttar Pradesh battling a surge in Covid-19 cases, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday claimed that health services in the state have "collapsed" and the situation is worse in villages as compared to cities.Taking a dig at the state government for converting hospitals and other buildings built by the erstwhile SP dispensation into Covid-19 facilities, Yadav said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is "allergic" to the work carried out by his party during its regime.Uttar Pradesh has registered a record increase in Covid-19 cases on five of the last seven days.The state's Covid-19 case count stands at 9,09,405 while 10,159 people have succumbed to the disease so far, according to official data."Health services in the state have collapsed," Yadav said in a statement issued here.The situation is bad not only in cities, it is worse in villages, where there is no one to hear the voice of the poor villagers, he claimed.Yadav further said, "The CM, who is allergic to the work carried out during the SP's regime, is playing with the lives of the people."The CM did not care about improving the health services. The SP had put forth this demand. But now as the situation is worsening, the government has decided to convert cancer hospital, Haj House, Awadh Shilpgram built during the SP's regime into Covid centres, he said."The priority of the BJP government and its CM is to be in power and win elections without caring about the spread of coronavirus even at his rallies. There is no value of people's lives for the BJP," he added.Yadav alleged that the BJP government has been befooling people for the last four years."Due to the lack of coordination among administrative officers, the situation is worsening day by day," he claimed.In another statement, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly and senior SP leader Ram Govind Chowdhury demanded the withdrawal of a state government order to impose a fine of ₹10,000 on those found without masks for a second time."This is a reminder of the British era and the CM should immediately roll back his decision. The Yogi government has handed over the state to vultures who are targeting the common man by realising fines and black marketing essential commodities," he said.The party whose PM and CM attended rallies without wearing masks do not have the moral right to penalise the common man for it, Chowdhury said, referring to Modi and Adityanath addressing public meetings in states where assembly elections are underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/health-services-have-collapsed-akhilesh-yadav-on-covid-19-surge-in-up-101618927118842.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Research institutes to help covid testing, sample collection in Lucknow||: Research institutes in Lucknow have decided to set up sample collection centres across the city to boost testing for coronavirus infection. Lucknow based National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Birbal Sahani Institute of Paleosciences (BSIP) and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) are planning to set up sample collection units in the city. “We are planning to begin Covid-19 sample collection as covid cases are increasing. Mass testing is one of the major aspects of controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection and we want to assist the health infrastructure of the state government,” said NBRI director Dr SK Barik. The move is in keeping with the state government’s decision to boost testing following the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases. The state recorded nearly 30,000 new cases on Tuesday. Of these, about 5000 cases were reported from state capital itself. At present majority of sample collection is being done by King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow, beside some private labs. Samples collected at government centres are then sent to these research institutes for testing. If research institutes begin samples collection for testing, an additional 1500 to 1700 Covid-19 samples could be tested each day. “Our staff is equipped to handle Covid-19 samples. We are in talks with the local administration about places where sample collection can be done. Once it is finalised we will be in position to begin sample collection within 72 hours,” said CDRI director Dr Tapas Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/research-institutes-to-help-covid-testing-sample-collection-in-lucknow-101618938638086.html
20-04-2021||Other||Student wings of political parties join efforts to help the Covid-hit||Lucknow: Student wing of major political parties have started efforts to help people suffering from Covid-19 in the state capital. Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has appointed four office bearers to coordinate support measures in Lucknow district on Tuesday. “We have appointed 30 members in 15 major districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) to help people infected with Covid-19. These people will work with young volunteers in the city for arranging help for such people,” said Devesh Sahu, a senior office bearer of ABVP. “These members will distribute food and other relief items to people in their respective areas,” Sahu said. Before this the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress Party, appointed 28 people and released their contact details to help people. “We are in touch with local authorities and have extended support for helping those in need. More than 200 volunteers of NSUI are working in different parts of UP to help those in need. We have also decided to set up open kitchens in Lucknow to distribute free food for marginal people,” Sahu said. Samajwadi Chhatra Sangh, the student wing of Samajwadi Party (SP) is in touch with students enrolled in various colleges in the state to help anyone in need. All India Student Federation (AISF) members are using social media to help people. “We have a three-member dedicated team which is scanning social media platform and arranging help for people seeking help. A 20-member team is assisting the online team in arranging help for needy. We are currently active in Lucknow, Kanpur and Prayagraj cities only,” said Sudhir Singh, an office bearer of AISF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/student-wings-of-political-parties-join-efforts-to-help-the-covidhit-101618938518072.html
20-04-2021||Other||Varanasi neurologist claims Favipiravir helpful in mild Covid||Professor Vijay Nath Mishra, a neurologist at IMS-BHU, on Tuesday, urged people to not run after Remdesivir and said in mild to moderate covid infection, Favipiravir is helpful. He, however, cautioned the masses against taking it on their own. “People should take it only on the advice of their physician,” he said. Prof Mishra said that Favipiravir was given to several Covid patients in last one week and results on patients have been very good and effective. Prof Mishra appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the MP from Varanasi, to post IAS officers with medical background in health departments of state and the centre. “Such bureaucrats would be able to better understand the medical needs and requirement for management of pandemic,” he said. He said that bureaucrats with medical background would better understand the medical requirements and help in taking decisions quickly to control the spread of covid infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-neurologist-claims-favipiravir-helpful-in-mild-covid-101618938458034.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, deaths; tally over 900,000||The national capital on Tuesday registered 28,395 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 277 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 905,541 and 12,638 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. Tuesday figures of cases and deaths in Delhi have been the highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic last year.As many as 19,430 people were recovered/discharged on Tuesday and the total recoveries from the disease are nearing 808,000 while the tally of active cases has gone up to 85,575, the bulletin showed.More than 86,500 tests were done for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours of which 29,802 are rapid antigen and the remaining 56,724 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat, it added. The containment zones in Delhi are at 17,151 while over 40,000 patients continue to remain under home isolation.As the Covid-19 cases in Delhi are increasing rapidly on a daily basis, hospitals are reporting a severe shortage of medical oxygen for the infected patients. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought urgent help from the Centre in this regard and said some hospitals are left with few hours of oxygen.Also Read| 'Hospitals have few hours of oxygen': Kejriwal seeks 'urgent' help from Centre"Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," Kejriwal tweeted. The CM is currently under self-isolation after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.Delhi records 28,395 new #COVID19, 19,430 discharges and 277 deaths.Total cases: 9,05,541Total discharges: 8,07,328Active cases: 85,575Death toll: 12,638 pic.twitter.com/ijLx9QFBzKA week-long lockdown has been imposed in the national capital till April 26 with a view to curb the spread of the disease. As per the rules, only essential services and government offices can function while those in private offices are ordered to work from home. Malls, spas, gyms and auditoriums are also closed while groceries, dairies will be kept open during the lockdown period.However, thousands of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi on Monday night to go back to their native places after the lockdown came into effect. They said the chief minister should have given them more time before shutting down Delhi for a week.Expressing concerns over this, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal urged them to not leave Delhi in panic and assured the government will take care of all their needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-highest-ever-single-day-spike-in-cases-deaths-tally-over-900000-101618937416225.html
20-04-2021||Ranchi||State’s case growth rate nearly double than national average||Jharkhand’s seven days’ Covid-19 growth rate was almost double than the national average, as the state discovered over 43,000 cases in last 19 days.According to the health department’s April 19 bulletin, the seven-day Covid-19 growth rate in the state was 2.10% against the national average of 1.18%.All parameters, except mortality rate, remained poor in comparison to the national average. While the state’s seven-day doubling period was 33.35 days, the national average was 59.25 days. Jharkhand’s recovery rate was 80.87% against the national 86%.Jharkhand, which logged 124,201 cases till March 31 this year, added 43,034 new cases in last 19 days with an average daily detection of around 2,265 cases.The state reported its highest-ever single-day spike recently on Monday after discovering 4,290 cases, that pushed the tally of active cases to over the 30,000-mark.Jharkhand has as many as 30,477 active cases, of which Ranchi contributed 11,726 active cases alone.However, the district has a total of 2,995 beds comprising isolation beds, oxygen-supported beds, ICU and ventilator beds in both government and private sectors.The rising number of cases in the state has put health care and services in crisis causing much trouble to patients, with many of them dying in last 10 days allegedly for want of adequate treatment.The state was also facing acute shortage of life-saving drugs, particularly Remdesivir injection meant for Covid-19 treatment.Taking seriously the pressing need of Remdesivir, chief minister Hemant Soren earlier wrote to Union minister of chemicals and fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda, seeking permission to import 50,000 vials of the said medicine worth one million dollars from Bangladesh-based pharmaceutical company BEXIMCO.Soren stated, “...The precariousness of the situation will be evident from the fact that against the total order of 76,640 vials, Jharkhand has received only 8,038 vials of Remdesivir injection in the last fortnight, leading to the medicine not being administered to many needy patients. Since we could not get this medicine as per our requirement from Indian manufacturers, we explored international markets and obtained a quotation from BEXIMCO, Bangladesh.”Many Jharkhand parliamentarians and legislators have released constituency funds for meeting the growing demand of oxygen cylinders and medicines.Recently on Monday, Union minister Arjun Munda released ₹50 lakh from his constituency fund for meeting the urgent requirement of medical oxygen in his Khunti constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/states-case-growth-rate-nearly-double-than-national-average-101618937498600.html
20-04-2021||Ranchi||State announces week-long lockdown from April 22||Strap: Named as Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, the lockdown restrictions will come into effect from 6am on April 22 till 6pm on April 29.  The state government on Tuesday announced a week-long lockdown from April 22 to 29, named as ‘Swasthya Surkasha Saptah’, in a bid to break the chain of the rapidly spreading coronavirus infection in the state.The restrictions will come into effect from 6am on Thursday and will end on 6pm on April 29, officials said. Chief minister Hemant Soren said, “It has become extremely necessary to break the chain of infection of coronavirus in the state. So, we have taken some important decisions in this regard. I hope we will be successful in our attempt through Swasthya Surakasha Saptah.”Giving details, Soren said barring shops selling essential commodities, all other shops will be shut during the period. All offices will remain closed, excluding central and state government offices and some identified offices of private sector.Religious places will remain open. However, devotees will not be allowed to visit them. Residents have been asked not to venture out of their homes, excluding those possessing a permit to do so. Gathering of five and more persons in one place was also prohibited.The chief minister, however, said activities related to agriculture, industry, construction and mining will function uninterrupted. “Our priority is to save lives and livelihood. We can stop the spread of the virus through people’s participation. So, I will appeal to people of the state to follow the government’s guidelines for Swasthya Suraksha Saptah,” he said.Earlier on Sunday last, the government ordered closure of all schools, colleges, coaching, training, and anaganwadi centres for a month. The number of attendees at weddings was also limited to 50 from the existing 200.Amid rising cases of Covid-19, the government was under pressure for taking strong decisions, as traders and most of the political parties were demanding lockdown-like restrictions in a bid to reduce cases and burden on the health infrastructure in the state.Jharkhand recorded 43,145 Covid-19 cases between April 1 and 19, while as many as 389 people lost their lives due to the disease during the period.Recently on Monday, Federation of Jharkhand chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) declared a self-imposed lockdown from Wednesday to April 25 in light of the grim situation. However, several markets went under voluntary lockdown from Monday in fear of rapid spread of infection.Besides, at the all-party meeting called by the chief minister on Saturday last, all major parties, including the BJP, JMM, RJD, AJSU and NCP demanded for imposing lockdown. However, the Congress did not support the unanimous demand. The party’s state president Ramehswar Oraon advocated for social and religious lockdown and not economic.Announcement triggers panic buying With news of lockdown making rounds since morning, panic buying was witnessed in urban markets across the state on Tuesday. Consumers thronged grocery and other retails shops to stock up items of daily need, despite the government’s announcement that shops of essential commodities will remain open. Ravi Paswan, while purchasing items at a grocery shop in Ranchi, said, “I want to stock up items of daily need, as I do not want to go outside for a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-announces-week-long-lockdown-from-april-22-101618937498000.html
20-04-2021||Other||Gradation exams on hold, students set to miss BEd entrance this year||PATNAFinal-year students stuck in various bachelor courses are likely to suffer because of delayed examinations as they might miss the chance of admission into BEd course this year.In view of sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, all state varsities and colleges have deferred their scheduled exams till further notice, which will not be conducted before May 15 as per state government’s guidelines.Meanwhile, Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, which is the nodal university for conducting BEd CET 2021, has commenced accepting online admission applications, which will end on May 7.In this scenario, all bachelor students of academic session 2018-21, aspiring for teaching profession, will miss the chance of getting admission into BEd course for the want of final marks of graduation.As per available status of examinations in the state, no varsity has completed final exams yet. Pragati Kumari, a third-year BA student of Magadh Mahila College, said, “I was preparing for getting enrolled in BEd course this year. However, there is no hope of completion of pending exams and results announcement anytime soon. By the time, admission in BEd course will be closed.”Another student Riya Singh, BCom student of Impact College, said, “It’s not our fault if the varsity has not completed the final exams. Why should we suffer the loss of one year? Either the varsity should promote us on the basis of previous marks or date for BEd admissions should be extended for students’ sake.”Bihar BEd-CET is conducted for admission to BEd courses offered by different colleges affiliated with 15 state universities. There are around 354 government and self-financing BEd colleges in Bihar with 35,000 seats approved by National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE).Ashok Kumar Mehta, state’s nodal officer of BEd CTET, said, “As per guidelines of NCTE, a candidate applying for the course must have secured at least 55% in bachelor degree. There is no provision for taking admission of ‘appearing’ bachelor students as aggregate marks of graduation is a mandatory eligibility criterion.”“Entrance test will be conducted on May 30 across 11 cities. Candidates will have to answer 120 objective question carrying one mark each,” he said.Last year, more than 1.22 lakh candidates applied for admission in the course.Aspiring teachers hit a wallEligibility A candidate applying for the BEd course must have secured at least 55% in bachelor degree. The hurdleDeadline for applications for BEd CET 2021 is May 9, while graduation exams are deferred till May 15.Up for grabsThere are 35,000 approved seats in 345 government and self-financing BEd colleges in state.Students wantEither BEd admissions be postponed or final-year students should be ‘passed’ basis past performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gradation-exams-on-hold-students-set-to-miss-bed-entrance-this-year-101618937438086.html
20-04-2021||Other||Over 10K cases in last 24 hrs, Patna worse hit||PATNAAs Bihar registered the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, reporting 10,455 cases in 24 hours, the state government requested the Centre to provide 72 metric tonnes (MTs) of liquid oxygen on a regular basis. “The state is producing 32 MT of Oxygen and if we get 72 MTs, we can make 104 MT of oxygen, which will easily meet the demand,” said Manoj Kumar, special secretary and executive director of Bihar State Health Society. Several state government hospitals and private hospitals have been facing acute shortage of oxygen for the last few days although the state received four tankers of oxygen from Jharkhand in the last 24 hours and five tankers of oxygen in last three days. Patna continued to record highest number of cases, reporting 2,186 on Tuesday, followed by Gaya (1081), Muzaffarpur (544) and Saran (530). The total number of active cases rose to 56,354 from 49,527. Recovery recovery fell from 84.52% on Sunday to 82.99% on Monday. The state, which is also facing the shortage of Remdesivir, got 1200 vials on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-10k-cases-in-last-24-hrs-patna-worse-hit-101618937378550.html
20-04-2021||Other||38 inmates test positive at juvenile home||PATNAAs many as 38 inmates of a juvenile home in Saran district tested positive for the Coronavirus late Monday night, Chapra civil surgeon Dr J P Sukumar said on Tuesday.The home, run by women and child development department, has inmates from three districts of Saran, Gopalganj and Siwan.While it has a sanctioned capacity of 80, the home currently has 113 inmates lodged in it, said an official. At present, all inmates are healthy and none of them has symptoms of Covid-19, said district project manager Arvind Kumar, who oversees functioning of juvenile and protection homes, adding that positive inmates have been shifted to an isolation ward of Sadar hospital for treatment. Sources in the juvenile home said one of the officials deputed there had tested positive earlier and was shifted to Patna.District magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore has instructed that the home be sanitised within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38-inmates-test-positive-at-juvenile-home-101618937378003.html
20-04-2021||Other||3-day lockdown from every Friday in Muzaffarpur||Muzaffarpur/ARAThe Muzaffarpur district administration on Tuesday announced a three-day lockdown every week beginning Friday following a surge in Covid-19 cases in last one week.Grocery shops will, however, remain open.The decision was taken during an emergency meeting of district magistrate Pranav Kumar with trade and commerce representatives on Monday evening.Kumar said the lockdown would be continued till further orders. He said the lockdown would be in force in municipal areas, nagar panchayats and headquarter towns of blocks.There will be no restrictions over transport, banking, postal, health and fire services, e-commerce and industrials services.At Bhojpur, vegetable vendors have been asked to shift to Ramna Maidan and wholesale vegetable sellers to Gola Bazar, which have sufficient space for maintaining social distancing, DM Roshan Kushwaha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3day-lockdown-from-every-friday-in-muzaffarpur-101618937317958.html
20-04-2021||Other||Bihar looks for fresh treatment protocol to catch up with virus||PATNAThe state health department has been asked to formulate a fresh treatment protocol to deal with burgeoning load of Covid patients in view of the challenges the state is grappling with during the second wave of pandemic.A special task force, led by industries director Panka Dixit, has been set up to monitor production of oxygen and its supply from the neighbouring states and ensure adequate availability of the vital gas to all hospitals, particularly those treating Covid patients.This was decided on Tuesday at a meeting of the crisis management group (CMG) on Covid, led by Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to chief minister Nitish Kumar.Officials said the treatment protocol would be changed in view of accelerated speed of virus infection among human being in its new avatar. The new treatment regime would stipulate early scanning of lungs and application of emergency drugs.The health department is likely to issue a fresh set of standard operation protocol very soon. Along with it, the district authorities have been asked to refurbish all health centres across the state with necessary infrastructure so that treatment of Covid-infected patients could be undertaken at the lower level after proper diagnostics.Chief minister Nitish Kumar had already directed the officials of health department to ramp up RT-PCR test and drastically curtail the reporting time so that fatalities could be cut significantly. The instruction was given by the CM after the death of former minister Mewalal Chaudhary, who died due to Covid for want of timely diagnosis of the disease.At the meeting that was held in virtual mode and was attended by development commissioner Amir Subhani, additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Amrit Lal Meena, principal secretary (health) Pratyay Amrit, director general of police SK Singhal and divisional commissioners, district magistrates and superintendents of police (SPs), DMs were directed to arrange required medical facilities like oxymeters, basic path lab, medicines and PPE kits at the PHCs, community health centres, subdivisional and district hospitals so that Covid patients could be treated there.“Only critically sick persons, who required critical care, shall be allowed admission in the premier hospitals like AIIMS, PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS, etc,” said the CM’s principal secretary. The task force on oxygen supply has been directed to stay in touch with the nearest refilling plants at Bokaro, Jamshedpur, Durgapur, etc, to streamline supply of liquid oxygen. Currently, three private plants in Patna, which generate oxygen from the air and refill up to 50 cylinders per hour, have been told to stay operational round-the-clock. Another oxygen plant set up in Begusarai has also be operationalised, while plants attached with premier hospitals have also be told to optimize their production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-looks-for-fresh-treatment-protocol-to-catch-up-with-virus-101618937257940.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||AAP versus UP govt over migrants workers’ exodus from Delhi||The exodus of migrant workers from Delhi after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of a six-day curfew has sparked A war of words between the Uttar Pradesh government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Siddharth Nath Singh, UP government spokesperson and MSME minister, alleged that the Delhi government had meted out step-motherly treatment to migrant workers belonging to UP and Bihar. “To hide the failure of his government, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital in haste,” he said. “The Delhi government failed to provide beds, hospitals and other facilities to Covid patients and when health services collapsed, they announced lockdown without any preparations,” said Singh. “The migrants were dumped on the Delhi-UP border on Monday night. The hapless people were left to their fate. Earlier too during the nationwide lockdown in March last year, the Delhi government had dumped the migrant workers,” he added. To send the migrants workers home, the UP government acted swiftly. On the direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, fleets of government and private buses were sent to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations located on Delhi border, said the minister. “Over one lakh migrant workers were sent home on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday,” said Singh. Also read: ‘Lockdown should be last resort’ - PM Modi urges states in address to nationCountering the statement of the UP minister, AAP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said, “Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said lockdown has been imposed for a small period to break the Covid infection chain.” “In a video message, he also appealed to migrants workers to stay in Delhi as the state government was arranging for their food and shelter. The Delhi government is providing all facilities to migrants including medical, food and lodging,” he added. Maheshwari said the UP government failed to provide basic facilities to Covid-19 patients across the state and a large number of them was not getting beds and oxygen in hospitals. “The UP government has failed in Covid management whereas the Delhi government is working sensitively to provide medical facilities to Covid patients,” he said. A state government official said the buses ferrying migrants from the Delhi border had been sent to all districts. Around 1,400 buses left the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday with migrants workers heading home in UP. The magistrates of all 75 districts were directed to screen migrants workers and those with Covid symptoms will stay in quarantine facilities set up by the government or in home isolation. Village surveillance committees will maintain a vigil on migrant workers and monitor their health conditions. According to the guidelines issued by the state government, migrants coming from other states will have to stay in seven days’ home quarantine even if they do not have Covid-19 symptoms, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/app-versus-up-govt-over-migrants-workers-exodus-from-delhi-101618936958769.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 62,097 new Covid-19 cases as tally nears 4 million||Maharashtra’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose by more than 60,000 fresh infections on Tuesday as 62,097 people tested positive for the viral disease, according to a health department bulletin. There were 519 related fatalities as well, the bulletin showed, as the death toll reached 61,343. The state’s infection tally stands at 3,960,359.On Monday, the western state reported 58,924 new cases and 351 deaths.As many as 52,412 patients across Maharashtra recovered on the day, taking the overall recoveries to 3,213,464. Also, 265,925 samples were tested for the disease, which is significantly higher than the 221,626 samples tested on the previous day. So far, 24,341,736 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state.Meanwhile, Mumbai, the state capital, reported 7,192 new Covid-19 infections and 34 related deaths. With this, the case tally in the city reached 594,059 while the death toll climbed to 12,446.Also read | Covid-19: In PM Modi’s address to nation, an appeal to his ‘young friends’In Mumbai, the active caseload witnessed a decrease of 2,476 cases and currently stands at 83,934 from the 86,410 reported on the previous day, data from a bulletin released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. Also, 9,641 patients have recovered from the disease on the day which took the total recoveries to 496,263, the bulletin also showed.The current recovery rate in the city stands at 83% and the doubling rate of the disease is currently 47 days, according to the bulletin. Also, between April 13 and 19, the overall growth rate of the coronavirus infections stood at 1.44%. As many as 105 active containment zones are currently in effect within the metropolis.Medical workers in the city tested 45,350 samples for the disease on the day, which pushed the total tests done to 5,027,882, the latest data showed.Amidst the ongoing 15-day curfew implemented on April 13, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued additional guidelines about opening of shops in the state. “All Groceries, Vegetable Shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, all type of food shops (including, chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs), shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as for organisations to be open only between 7am to 11am,” read an order signed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte. The order also says that home delivery from these shops could be availed between 7am and 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-62-097-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-nears-4-million-101618936354846.html
20-04-2021||Other||Hospital faces acute oxygen shortage; critical patient on ventilator succumbs||PUNE A Covid patient, who was critical and on ventilator support, succumbed on Tuesday, at Hadapsar based hospital which was facing acute shortage of oxygen supply. The hospital authorities said another patient on ventilator had to be shifted to different facility. According to doctors at Yog Multispecialty Hospital, the patient died as he was in critical condition. While he was critical, the hospital also faced lack of adequate oxygen supply, which was almost bottoming out when the administration, by the evening, sent 32 cylinders to the hospital. “For the past two days, we have been struggling due to lack of liquid oxygen. Currently, there are 11 patients on ventilators at our hospital. We have only an hour’s supply left,” Dr Abhijeet Darak had said on Tuesday afternoon, hours before his facility received 32 cylinders. Within an hour, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh organised 10 cylinders, even as the hospital had sought 20. “We have ensured adequate oxygen supply to Yog hospital. We are trying to restore it to other hospitals as well I am currently discussing same with Chief Secretary,” said District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh while refusing to speak further citing ongoing meeting. The hospital has 14 ICU beds and 23 oxygen beds with an hourly oxygen need of seven cylinders, said Darak. The district collector has assured supply of 20 oxygen cylinders, but the hospital administration is not aware of when will it reach them. “If those cylinders reach, they can last for another three to four hours,” Darak said.In merely 10 days, the number of patients on oxygen support has increased by 1,208 in Pune city. There has been an exponential growth in the number of critical patients as well. According to the daily Covid report issued by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on April 9, there were 4,662 patients who were on oxygen support. The number reached 5,870 on April 18. The number of critical patients has also increased by 247 in the last 10 days. Experts say early detection of the infection can help to prevent increase in critical cases. The acute demand-supply gap of oxygen has left the PMC as well as the district administration in an unprecedented situation. On Monday, a truck carrying medical oxygen to the Jumbo hospital at the College of Engineering and Dalvi hospital got delayed, jeopardising patients’ lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospital-faces-acute-oxygen-shortage-critical-patient-on-ventilator-succumbs-101618934977930.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Two arrested for forging RT-PCR reports in Wakad||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested two men and are on the lookout for two others for forging at least 28 RT-PCR test reports of people who were travelling from the bus stop along the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway in Wakad. The two men were identified as Pattaram Kesaramji Devasi (33), a resident of Bhagwanagar in Wakad; Rakeshkumar Bastiram Vaishnav (25), a resident of Dhankawadi in Pune. These two are travel agents who provide bus tickets near the Shani temple along the highway. “They charged ₹600 per test. We sent a decoy and they asked him to provide his Aadhaar after which he got an RT-PCR report within 15 minutes on his WhatsApp. While most of the reports were from Lifenity Wellness labs, there were some reports found on the phone of Vaishnav from GenePeth,” said assistant police inspector Sagar Kate of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. While the two have been remanded to two days in police custody, the police are on the lookout for two others who are suspected to have conducted the forgery part and sent soft copies of forged reports through WhatsApp. The tests were never conducted, and the logo of the laboratories was misused, according to the police and the labs. This is the second such case that has been brought to light in the past three days in Pune. The police are now investigating how long these men had been indulging in the forgery. On Sunday, the Pune city police had also arrested two technicians who were found to have forged reports of GenePath labs located on JM Road. “Our each and every report is secured by two different encrypted QR code algorithms, by scanning this QR code patient name and our lab name appears. Also, we received a call from Hinjewadi police station for the same. We found those reports were fake without QR code and were not provided by our lab and the same has been informed to police authorities,” said Mahesh Nade, operation manager of Lifenity lab in Pune. A case under Sections 336, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471, 269, 270, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Section 11 of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Prevention Regulations, 2020 was registered at Hinjewadi police station. Police sub inspector Yashwant Salunkhe will be investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-forging-rt-pcr-reports-in-wakad-101618934857899.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s third-coolest April since 1996: IMD||April this year, so far, has been the third coolest for Pune since 1996, as per IMD. This year, the highest temperature recorded in Pune in April was 39.6 degrees Celsius, on April 5. In 1996, the highest temperature was reported at 39.2 degrees Celsius. The highest temperature in April was recorded in 1897, with the mercury indicating 43.3 degrees Celsius, as per IMD records. This year, the city witnessed rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning, which reduced the heat. However, as per the weather department, a marginal rise in day temperature is expected in the coming days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there is no forecast for a heat wave-like situation in the city until the end of April.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that a heat wave is a common phenomenon in April. “However, this time, due to various weather systems over Maharashtra and Pune, we are witnessing isolated rainfall at places, and this has reduced the heat factor during the day. Currently, one after the other, we have western disturbances (WD), and also the wind patterns. There is wind discontinuity over Maharashtra and Pune which has resulted in dragging moisture from the Arabian Sea and partially, from the Bay of Bengal, resulting in cloudy days towards the afternoon,” said Kashyapi. He further added that this cloudy weather has ensured that the day temperature does not shoot up, thus giving respite from the heat. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature reported in Pune city was 37.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 20.8 degrees Celsius. “The maximum temperature is likely to increase in the next few days, but not so much for it to be a heat-wave like situation,” said Kashyapi. As per the IMD, cloudy afternoons in the city may continue until April 26. “The max temperature is likely to be as high as 38 degrees Celsius in Pune and the minimum temperature will be 20 degrees Celsius until April 26,” said IMD officials. Across Maharashtra, the weather will remain dry in Central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa until April 23. “Light rainfall with thunder and lightning is forecast at Vidarbha until April 23,” said IMD officials. On Tuesday, the highest maximum temperature reported in the state was 42.8 degrees Celsius in Chandrapur; and the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra was 18.1 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. Yesterday, the highest maximum temperature reported in the country was 43 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri in Vidarbha. Box Year-- maximum temperature in April (in degrees Celsius)1996: 39.2 degrees Celsius 1997 and 2006: 39.3 degrees Celsius 2021: 39.6 degrees Celsius 1897 (All-time record): 43.3 degrees Celsius Source: IMD, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-third-coolest-april-since-1996-imd-101618934737870.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Residents from 23 villages demand water quota before merger||Villagers from the newly proposed 23 villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits demanded to provide basic infrastructure and a reserved drinking water quota before taking a final decision on the merger. They also highlighted the lack of infrastructure in the 11 merged villages under the PMC limit. As per the state government directives, Pune divisional officials conducted a hearing on the proposed 23 villages merger into the PMC limits on April 19 and 20. Amidst the increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had been instructed to conduct an online hearing of the proposed 23 villages’ merger into the PMC. Earlier, it was decided to conduct an in-person hearing on April 19th and 20th. Of the 23 villages, only 11 villages filed suggestions and objections. The maximum number of 389 suggestions and objections were received from Pisoli villages. Pune Zilla Parishad deputy chief executive officer Sandeep Kohinkar, additional Municipal commissioner of PMC Rubal Agrawal, joint commissioner of town planning department Jagdish Patil, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division Pradeep Thengal were present in the hearing. Sanjivkumar Patil, chairman Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) said, “The hearing started almost one hour late at 12.30pm. We stated that Wagholi is one of the biggest and richest gram panchayats among the 23 villages that are proposed to be merged due to huge urbanisation. We paid taxes to the Pune Metropolitan Regional Authority (PMRDA). So, post-merger, the PMC should take a share of Wagholi village’s tax from PMRDA and utilise it to build infrastructure in Wagholi. We also demanded to give drinking water from Bhama-Askhed dam to Wagholi and hand over PMRDA water scheme to PMC.” Pradeep Thengal, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division, said, “Most of the villagers demanded to provide basic infrastructure, and not put reservation on farmlands, provide drinking water and gradually increase property tax. No one took objection on the merger.” “Pisoli villager’s number was 389 but, only 15 villagers attended the online hearing. All villagers demanded to not put reservations on the farmland since it is their bread and butter. It will directly affect their employment,” Thengal informed. Pune divisional office had received a total of 491 suggestions and objections from the upcoming 23 areas that will be merged under the PMC limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-from-23-villages-demand-water-quota-before-merger-101618934557909.html
20-04-2021||Pune||PMC fire department finds minor flaws in audit at two Covid centres||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire department conducted fire audits of Covid-19 Care Centres (CCC) run by the civic body in which minor problems were found at two Covid centres, Yerwada and Dalvi hospital. On the background of increasing temperature and Covid-19 cases in the city, the fire department conducted a fire audit of PMC-run hospitals and Covid-19 centres as a precautionary measure. The audit was conducted at jumbo Covid Centres at Shivajinagar, Baner and eight other centres along with private hospitals. Prashant Ranpise, PMC chief fire officer said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city and people are taking treatment in the PMC centres. To avoid fire incidents at centres, we conducted an audit and submitted a report to the health department and the construction department.” “In this audit, we suggested maintenance of fire systems at Dalvi hospital (Shivajinagar) and Rajiv Gandhi hospital (Yerawada). At other hospitals and centres, we did not find any flaws so far,” Ranpise said. “Besides that, the fire department provided training to hospital staff on how to control fire. In the last one week, the PMC gave training to more than 200 medical staff. The purpose is to control minor fire incidents at a preliminary stage and avoid a major tragedy,” he added. Dr Sajiv Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer said, “There is no major recommendation in the fire audit. The fire department suggested repairs and maintenance of the fire extinguisher and system. All systems are in the operation stage and they need some minor repairs.” The PMC construction department takes of repairs and maintenance of all PMC buildings, offices, hospitals. Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of Bhavan (construction) department said, “We received a report and there is a minor repair in the fire system as mentioned in fire audit. It is not for all Covid centres, only a few ones.” During the summer season, there is a rise in fire incidents in the city areas. Due to high temperature, the fire department received calls of 547 fire incidents in the last three months. As per experience, there were more incidents in the month of April and May as compared to March. Normally, the fire department receives 35-40 fire calls per week whereas during summer it goes above 70 per week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fire-department-finds-minor-flaws-in-audit-at-two-covid-centres-101618934497833.html
20-04-2021||Pune||SPPU amends rules to give old students opportunity to complete unfinished degree||An ammendment was made by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) academic council on Tuesday to allow students who left their degree education incomplete an opportunity to complete their unfinished degree.Several students pursuing their graduation or post-graduation courses left their education in between due to various problems like family issues, financially problem, physical problem or any other issues. After a few years, some of them want to complete their course and get the degree, but till then a new syllabus takes over and things are completely changed. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “The SPPU academic council has decided to give a similar opportunity to students before academic year 2016-17 to appear for the examination if they want. Now, they can take new subjects and appear for the exams and complete their pending graduate or post graduate degree courses.”In order to enforce this decision, new changes have been made by SPPU’s senior officials. Students who left college before the academic year 2016-17 can take subjects of the current syllabus for their remaining degree course, appear for the examination and get the degree completed. Earlier, there was no option for such students to appear for the exams with a previous syllabus. A decision was taken by the SPPU’s academic council that students with old syllabus can now appear for the exams with new subjects. It will benefit thousands of students who can again join back their education and complete their degree. Welcoming this decision of SPPU, Kedar Mane who had left his engineering degree course way back in 2010 said, “I left my mechanical engineering degree course in the last year due to some personal family issues. I had to work to earn money for my family and it was not possible for me to continue education and job at one time. Now I am happy that I can take new subjects and complete my engineering degree.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-amends-rules-to-give-old-students-opportunity-to-complete-unfinished-degree-101618934437967.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Six people booked for assaulting support staff, vandalising hospital||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police booked six people related to a Covid-19 patient for assaulting the support staff and vandalising the premises of Dehuroad Cantonment Hospital on Monday afternoon. The booked people were identified as Suraj Katare, Nagesh Avghade, Ramswami Rajalle, Suraj David, Yogesh David, and Bunty Kataria, according to the police. The incident occurred at 1:15pm inside the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, of Dehuroad Cantonment premises after the relatives were informed that their patient had expired. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Shrinivas Indrajit Chate (31) who works at the hospital and was present during the vandalism. The deceased patient was identified as Sagar Arjan Katare (28). Katare was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection when he was declared dead. The complainant stated that a group of 10-12 people started vandalising the space and assaulted the ward boy identified as Omkar Raje, sweeper identified as Hrishikesh Shridhar Pinjan, and watchman identified as Kunal Waghmare, according to the police. A case under Sections 143, 147, 332, 353, 504, and 506 was registered at Dehuroad police station. Police sub inspector S Govale of Dehuroad Dehuroad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-people-booked-for-assaulting-support-staff-vandalising-hospital-101618934377916.html
20-04-2021||Pune||150 students caught cheating during SPPU online exams||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) examination department has caught a total of 150 students cheating while appearing for the online first-semester exams. As a follow-up action, these students have now been told to appear before the SPPU’s grievances addressal committee. It’s a message SPPU wants to send that the university is vigilant against cheating despite the exams attempted remotely via the internet. The first semester examination is being held online for students from first to last year of all courses and started from April 10. The exam is conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. SPPU’s own Edutech foundation company is conducting this exam. Students from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district daily appear for the exams for over 3,700 subjects to be held throughout this examination period. From the last four days, the daily number of students appearing for the exams is over 1 lakh. SPPU is using an online ‘proctored test’ method to conduct the examinations for its courses. Through this method, students are able to give the exams from anywhere by using smartphones, tablet, laptop or desktop computers and even from the internet cyber cafes. SPPU is the first government university in the state to use this method for exams. Due to Covid-19 pandemic as students would not be able to come physically to university campus to give the entrance exams, a decision was taken to conduct exams through this method which is prominently used by IITs in the country “In this method when a student logs in to give the exam through smartphone, laptop or tablet, all the minute movements of the students are captured and monitored by the system. If a student is doing cheating or found doing any suspicious thing he/she is given warning three times. If the student continues their act then the student is disqualified from the exam.” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation. “Until now we have caught 150 students cheating through this method and they are going to appear before SPPU’s grievances addressal committee. Though our exams are conducted online, but students are not at all allowed to do cheating in the exams.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/150-students-caught-cheating-during-sppu-online-exams-101618934257960.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Class 12 student killed, several injured after tussle between two groups||A Class 12 student was killed while several others were injured after two groups living in OTA scheme area of Nigdi got into a tussle over a member of one group entering the locality of the other, according to the police. The deceased was identified as Bharat Dilip Londhe (20), a resident of PCMC colony of OTA scheme area in Nigdi. “He was injured and had recorded a complaint too. However, he succumbed to the injuries and the case was updated. His friends then went and beat up the members of the group that had assaulted the now deceased man. So, we have registered another attempted murder case,” said senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad of Nigdi police station. The people booked for his murder were identified as Sohel Santosh Jadhav (18), Hemand Khandagale (18), Ganesh Dhotre (18), Yash alias Gondya Khandagale (19), Vabhav Vavare (21), Shravan Kurhade (18), all residents of two localities of OTA scheme area. A case of attempted murder was initially registered against the six. However, later, a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(25)(27) of Arms Act; Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at the Nigdi police station shortly after midnight on Monday. Londhe’s friends gathered in the morning hours of Tuesday and assaulted some of the six people booked in the murder case. The youngsters used sharp weapons which led to the death of one and has left at least one with serious injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-12-student-killed-several-injured-after-tussle-between-two-groups-101618934197842.html
20-04-2021||Other||Pune district reports 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths||PUNE Pune district reported 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 31 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The progressive count of the district went up to 0.745 million cases, of which 0.619 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,910 and 1,17,521 is the active case number. Also 37,115 beneficiaries got vaccinated on Tuesday at 431 session sites. Pune rural reported 2,685 new cases, taking the final count to 1,74,917. Three more deaths took the toll to 2,344. Pune city reported 5,218 new cases taking the total number up to 3,87,181. With 21 more deaths, the death toll went up to 5,062. PCMC reported 2,543 new cases, which puts the count at 1,83,726. With seven more deaths the toll went up to 1,449.Pune district saw 37,000 vaccinations, of which 13,359 were from Pune rural, Pune city saw 15,679 vaccinations and PCMC saw 8,077 vaccinations. Of the 37,115 vaccinations, 29,847 were given Covishield and 7,268 were given Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-10-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-31-deaths-101618933897806.html
20-04-2021||Bangalore||They sold saline in Remdesivir vials to 900 desperate Covid patients; arrested||A group of five people who had been selling saline solution mixed with paracetamol in vials of anti-viral drug Remdesivir to Covid-19 patients have been arrested, the Mysuru police chief Dr Chandragupta said on Tuesday. Dr Chandragupta said the police had also started a massive exercise to trace at least 900 patients who bought fake doses over the last six months or so.The Mysuru police stumbled upon the racket when it started investigating possible instances of people selling Remdesivir on the black market. There have been multiple reports of shortage of Remdesivir vials in Karnataka due to the surge in coronavirus cases. According to medical practitioners, the drug which costs between ₹1,000 to ₹5,000 was being sold for upto ₹40,000 by unscrupulous people.One of the leads that the investigators received led them to a nurse working in a private hospital in Mysuru’s Vidhya Nagar locality, identified by the police as Girish.“We arrested him after sending a decoy (customer) to purchase the vials,” the Mysuru police commissioner Dr Chandragupta said. Girish had sold the vial to the decoy customer at the maximum retail price though he sold the medicine on the black market.Dr Chandragupta said when they tried to ascertain the source of his supply, he was evasive. “When we continued to question him about his supply, he claimed that he was selling fake medicine,” he said.Many vials labelled as Remdesivir, but filled with a mix of paracetamol and saline solution have been seized during the raids that followed.According to the national treatment protocol, Remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs approved for use in treating hospitalized Covid-19 patients. The drug has been in huge demand after the surge in Covid-19 cases; most chemists have run out of stocks due to its indiscriminate use by patients even though several experts contend that it is largely ineffective in the treatment of the viral disease. According to the Mysuru police, Girish, who had been selling fake doses of Remdesivir for months, procured used bottles of the medicine from a couple and filled it with saline solution. The couple who supplied the used vials and two medical representatives who helped Girish sell the fake does have also been arrested.Police said Girish has sold at least 900-1,000 vials to customers in Mysuru, Bengaluru and other places. Chandragupta said they were trying to trace the people who bought the fake doses. “We are collecting information from the accused and we will track down the patients who have taken medicines. Since he has been doing this since 2020 and he was selling the fake medicine at MRP (maximum retail price), there were a lot of customers,” the commissioner added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/they-sold-saline-in-remdesivir-vials-to-900-desperate-covid-patients-arrested-101618933598400.html
20-04-2021||Other||Crowds of migrant labourers at railway station as lockdown looms||As the Maharashtra cabinet urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a lockdown in the state, hundreds of workers marched towards the Pune railway station and various bus depots in the city to return to hometowns. At the Pune railway junction, long queues were witnessed by 8 pm on Tuesday, as migrants scrambled to board trains to leave for their native places. Many did not have advanced bookings, though workers hoped they would still be able to board the train. “I came here to go back to Lucknow as there will be complete lockdown in the state. My employer has already told me that our factory will be shut for next few days,” said Vijay Luhar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, working in Bhosari. The police and railway staff were struggling to keep order as the long queues grew by 9 pm, the departure time for a train for UP. Following the state cabinet meeting, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also cut the timings for essential commodity shops to remain open, to between 7am and 11 am, from the earlier 7am to 6 pm. While the government has allowed industrial units and construction sites with facility of labour camps to operate, many have either reduced operations of shut in Pune district. The smaller construction sites with no labour camps have stopped, leading to loss of employment. “I was working at a construction site in Ambegaon. However, since the past four days, the site has stopped. So I am returning to Uttar Pradesh,” said another worker, refusing to answer when he will be back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crowds-of-migrant-labourers-at-railway-station-as-lockdown-looms-101618931558004.html
20-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand announces week-long lockdown from April 22||Jharkhand government on Tuesday announced a week-long lockdown, from April 22 to April-29, named Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, in a bid to break the chain of Covid-19 spread in the state. The restrictions will come into effect from 6 am on Thursday till 6 am on April 29, the officials said.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren said, “It has become very necessary to break the chain of soaring infection of coronavirus in the state. So, we have taken some important decisions in this regard. I hope we will be successful to break the chain of the virus through ‘Swasthya Suraksha Saptah’.”Giving details of the fresh restrictions, CM Soren said barring shops of essential commodities, all other shops would be shut during the period. All offices will remain close excluding the central and state government offices and some identified offices of the private sector.Religious places will be opened but devotees would not be allowed there. Residents have been asked not to venture out of their homes, excluding those who hold permits. Not more than four people can assemble in a place.The chief minister, however, said activities related to agriculture, industry, construction and mining will function uninterrupted. Also read: Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries - Delhi HC“We can stop the spread of the virus through people’s participation. So, I would appeal to the people of the state to follow the government guideline for the Swasthya Suraksha Saptah,” he said, adding that a government order containing more details about the restrictions would be issued soon.Earlier on Sunday, the chief minister announced that all schools, colleges, coaching, training, and Anganwadi centres would remain closed for a month. The number of attendees at weddings was also limited to 50 from the existing 200 in the state.Amid rising cases of Covid-19, THE government was under pressure for taking some strong decisions as traders and almost all political parties have been demanding lockdown-like restrictions in a bid to reduce the cases and burden on hospitals.Jharkhand recorded 43,145 Covid-19 cases between April 1 and April 19. As many as 389 people have lost their lives due to the virus during the period.The federation of Jharkhand chamber of commerce and industries (FJCCI) on Monday declared a self-imposed lockdown from Wednesday to April 25. However, several markets have already imposed a lockdown from Monday. Shops at many major markets in the state capital Ranchi have shut their shutters in fear of the spread of the infection.During the all-party meeting called by the chief minister on Saturday, all major parties of the state demanded the imposition of a lockdown to break the chain of the virus. However, the Congress party was not in support of a complete lockdown. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon called for a social lockdown and not an economic one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-announces-week-long-lockdown-from-april-22-101618931198630.html
20-04-2021||Other||Ninth descendant of Bajirao Peshwa loses life to Covid-19||A descendant of Shrimant Bajirao Peshwa, Shrimant Mahendra Peshwa, born on October 15, 1963, a resident of Pune, passed away tragically while fighting Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was the ninth descendant of the Bajirao Peshwa and the working president of an organisation called the Hindavi Swarajya Mahasangh, comprising royal families of Maharashtra.“There are two Peshwa families in Pune. One is Dr Vinayakrao Peshwa, his wife Jayamangalaraje, daughter-in-law Aarti and their daughters. This is the 10th generation of the Peshwa family. Vinayakrao, 74, is a geologist and worked as a professor at the SPPU for 33 years. The second family belongs to Vinayakrao’s elder brother Krishnarao. Mahendra is his son. Krishnarao’s wife Usha Raje, son Mahendra, daughter-in-law Sucheta and their daughter live here. Mahendra had his own fabrication business. All the members are descendants of Amritrao Peshwa of the Peshwa dynasty,” said Kundan Kumar Sathe, secretary of the Bajirao Peshwe Pratishthan.“The British had taken possession of many properties of the Peshwas. Amritrao moved to Varanasi around 1800. Three generations ago the Peshwas came back to Pune,” Sathe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ninth-descendant-of-bajirao-peshwa-loses-life-to-covid19-101618929457647.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||'Hospitals left with few hours of oxygen': Kejriwal seeks 'urgent' help from Centre||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once again expressed concern over reports of oxygen crisis in city hospitals, saying on Tuesday that "hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Also Read | Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers"Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen," Kejriwal tweeted on Tuesday evening.Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Chaired a review meeting with officials over the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. We're working at war footing to ensure oxygen supply in hospitals and also talking to the central government. A mega effort is also on to increase the number of beds in hospitals," read another tweet posted by the chief minister, translated roughly into English.कोरोना के वर्तमान हालातों पर अधिकारियों के साथ समीक्षा बैठक की, दिल्ली में ऑक्सीजन सप्लाई सुनिश्चित करने के लिए युद्द स्तर पर काम कर रहे हैं, केंद्र सरकार से भी बात कर रहे हैं। बड़े स्तर पर ऑक्सीजन बैड्स बढ़ाने का काम भी जारी है।Kejriwal first expressed concern on acute shortage of oxygen in Delhi's hospitals on Sunday, remarking that it has become an "emergency in Delhi."Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DELKejriwal's tweets come on a day the Delhi high court passed an order, directing "immediate implementation" of Centre's order to suspend supply of oxygen to industries. "Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake," a bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government. The directions came when the bench was hearing a petition regarding Covid-19 tests, which the high court revived on April 19 amid a rise in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries: Delhi HCOn Sunday, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to state chief secretaries, directing them to take measures to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except for industries that fall in exempted categories, from April 22. Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical infections that arise due to Covid-19. The Centre called the ban "crucial" as there was a demand for liquid oxygen in several states like Maharashtra, Delhi, which have been witnessing a steep rise in their fresh infections of the viral disease.Also Read | Oxygen for industrial use to be diverted for Covid-19 patients: CentreLast week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired several meetings to review the current situation of oxygen supply to various states. Indian Railways has also started special "Oxygen Express" to transport liquid medical oxygen to states.Delhi began a six-day lockdown on Monday night which it will exit at 5am next Monday, as announced by CM Kejriwal. The Capital saw 23,686 new Covid-19 cases on the day, as per a health department bulletin, which took its infection tally to 877,146. The bulletin also showed that 240 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 12,361."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-left-with-few-hours-of-oxygen-kejriwal-seeks-urgent-help-from-centre-101618926506176.html
20-04-2021||Other||ZP employees donate one day’s pay to raise ₹1.97 crore for Covid fight||PUNE Employees of the Zilla Parishad in Pune have contributed one day’s salary to raise ₹1.97 crore to help improve health services in rural areas of the district, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, said Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad. The money will be given as an incentive to doctors serving Covid-19 patients, in addition to their salaries, Prasad said. “The employees of Pune Zilla Parishad have contributed one day’s salary to raise ₹1.97 crore. These are mostly those who are frontline workers,” said Prasad. According to Prasad, the Zilla Parishad has also published advertisements in newspapers in various states for hiring 130 doctors. “We aim to have the best doctors with us in the fight against Covid-19 and save the lives of people living in rural areas of Pune,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-employees-donate-one-day-s-pay-to-raise-1-97-crore-for-covid-fight-101618927897586.html
20-04-2021||Other||New phase of vaccination will be decisive: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the new phase of vaccination will prove decisive in the fight against Covid-19. He said all necessary arrangements should be made for the large-scale vaccination beginning on May 1. In this connection, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement for vaccination for all those above 18 years of age from May 1 was a welcome move. He described vaccination as the most effective protection against Covid-19. Those patients who had received both doses of the vaccine but were still getting the Covid-19 infection were recovering in four to five days and the discharge policy of hospitals should be prepared keeping this in mind, the chief minister suggested. He said separate monitoring should be done for L-1, L-2 and L-3 hospitals and oxygen be made available there. Oxygen supply Central oxygen supply was needed, the chief minister said, adding that every hospital should have oxygen back-up for 36 hours. He said all the oxygen being produced by the industry should be used for medical purposes only. These oxygen plants should be linked to the nearest hospital and an elaborate work plan should be worked out on Tuesday itself, he said. He said the units willing to reinvest in oxygen refilling should be encouraged. Orders should be issued immediately for the automatic renewal of licenses of oxygen producing units, he said. He also said police protection should be provided at all the oxygen plants and the vehicles carrying oxygen should be GPS fitted for monitoring. He said work had begun to set up five new oxygen producing plants and they should be made functional at the earliest. He said setting up of oxygen plant should be made mandatory for all the hospitals with 100 or more beds in future. Air separation units should be encouraged and their capacity should be increased in the state. He said the demand for oxygen should be sent to the Centre after evaluating the needs for future keeping in view the large population of the state. Efforts should be made for supply of oxygen to the state from the nearby cities like Modi Nagar, Panipat and Roorkee. He also said the minister for medical education should ensure a balance between demand and supply of oxygen. He also said there was a need for regular communication with those in home isolation. There should be medicines for seven days in the kit for them. He also said there was no shortage of Remdesivir injection or other lifesaving drugs. Their availability was being ensured in all the districts. He said regular contact should be maintained with leading manufacturers.Transparent distribution He said the transparent distribution of oxygen, Remdesivir and other life-saving drugs should be done after getting in touch with districts. Special attention should be paid to bring down the response time of ambulances, the chief minister added. He also said report with pictures should be obtained from districts about cleanliness, sanitization and fogging. Pay insured amount He said insured amount should be immediately paid to those who have died on Covid-19 duty. He said this would be great help to the bereaved families. He said there was a need to increase the testing capacity further and all necessary efforts should be made in this regard. Masks, containment zones He said penal action should be taken against those who ignore appeals for wearing a mask. He said provisions for containment zones and quarantine centres should be strictly implemented. He said regular communication should be made with monitoring committees and feedback should be obtained from them. He said uninterrupted supply of power should be ensured to oxygen producing and refilling units. Migrant labourers He said migrants were returning from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi and there was a need to take special precautions in the bordering districts. He said arrangements should be made to ensure smooth movement of migrant labourers/workers. The home department and the transport department should take action in this regard in coordination with each other, he added. Wheat procurement He said special attention should be paid to implementation of Covid protocol at wheat procurement centres. He said wheat procurement should be regularly monitored and there should be no delay in payment. Panchayat polls He said all arrangements should be made for protection of police and other personnel deployed for panchayat elections polls. More than five persons should not be allowed to assemble at one point in panchayat elections, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-phase-of-vaccination-will-be-decisive-yogi-101618927657550.html
20-04-2021||Other||Civic bodies on gas about oxygen supply for increasing bed count||PUNE With oxygen supply a major challenge given the current medical infrastructures, the administration is now worrying about the future.Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have 11,717 oxygen beds, with demand at 310 metric tonnes. Organisation and elected members are trying to ensure more oxygen beds in the city.A senior official of the district administration on condition of anonymity, said, “It’s good that more beds are getting ready, but the main question is how to provide oxygen? It’s getting difficult to provide it for the existing infrastructure.”Srinivas Kandul, a PMC officer involved in oxygen supply for PMC hospitals, said, “Oxygen demand is increasing in the city. It’s a hand-to-mouth situation.”Another officer also speaking on condition of anonymity said, “Some political leaders are helping increase the number of beds. There is an urgent need to increase oxygen supply to the city. It’s getting tough to provide oxygen to smaller centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-bodies-on-gas-about-oxygen-supply-for-increasing-bed-count-101618927537563.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Yogi announces weekend corona curfew||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday announced a two-day weekend corona curfew to be enforced from 8pm on Friday to 7am on Monday across the state as part of measures to fight Covid-19. In addition to the weekend curfew, no other activities, barring essential services, will be allowed from 8pm to 7am daily in the districts having more than 500 active cases of Covid-19. The new rules for the corona curfew will come into force immediately, he added. The chief minister was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a video conference with officers of Team-11 here. He said every citizen contributed in making corona curfew a success. People should not venture out unnecessarily and should celebrate festivals at home, he added. He also said the people should mandatorily use mask while moving out of their homes. There should be no crowding at public places and this should be strictly enforced, he added. State to have 15,000 more Covid-19 beds He said the number of Covid-19 beds should be doubled in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Jhansi, Gorakhpur and Meerut. As many as 200 beds should be increased in every district immediately, he said, adding that all these beds should have regular oxygen supply. He said with this, the state would have 15,000 more Covid-19 beds. He said a secretary-level officer should be deployed to oversee the increase in number of beds and this work should be carried out on top priority. Minister for medical education and minister for health should be in regular communication with the administration in different districts and ensure action, he added. The chief minister said King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and Balrampur hospitals should work as dedicated Covid hospitals to the optimum. He said Era, TS Mishra, Integral, Hind and Mayo Medical College should also use their capacity to the optimum and work as Covid-19 hospitals. Non-Covid patients undergoing treatment there should be shifted elsewhere, he added. The chief minister said more than 4,500 beds were available in Lucknow. He said new hospitals should be listed in L-2 and L-3 categories and the number of beds be increased there. He said a nodal officer should be appointed for all the hospitals of Lucknow and the situation there should be reviewed through integrated command and control centres. He said more than 800 beds were available at the Swaroop Rani Medical College and United Medical College of Prayagraj. The number of beds available in private hospitals was more than this and the number be increased further, he added. The chief minister said RT-PCR positivity rate was higher in Varanasi and the number of tests should be increased there. He said in view of the way the Covid-19 infection was spreading, the need for isolation and ICU beds was bound to increase there. Besides Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, Rama Medical College and Narayana Medical College, the resources of private medical colleges should also be used in the fight against Covid-19 in Kanpur, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-announces-weekend-corona-curfew-101618927297536.html
20-04-2021||Patna||‘Govt working overtime to smoothen oxygen supply, Remdesivir orders placed’: Bihar health minister||Amid a shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir anti-viral drug reported from various parts of Bihar, including capital city Patna, state health minister Mangal Pandey on Monday said efforts were underway to ensure adequate supplies and the situation is being monitored daily.“We are increasing the supply of oxygen but the situation is still not such that the private hospitals could keep stock. Our priority is to ensure regular daily supply. Some of the hospitals want to keep stock but that is not possible at present as the demand is growing everywhere in the country. No forecasts can be made about the pandemic which has stumped us all,” said Pandey.The minister said that three tankers of liquid oxygen had arrived on Saturday, followed by five on Sunday and seven are likely to arrive by Monday evening. He said the administration is expecting a further increase in the demand in the days to come.“There is no fixed requirement at present. A requirement of a patient for eight litres of oxygen could drop to four litres or increase to 16 litres from morning to evening. The number of patients in hospitals also varies. But we are doing everything possible to ensure the supply of oxygen. The oxygen plants at the PMCH, NMCH and DMCH are also functional but they too have a limited capacity of 40-50 cylinders,” he added.The minister said that efforts were also underway to ensure the supply of Remdesivir. “I have also urged Union chemical and fertilizer minister Mansukh Mandaviya for some extra procurement for Bihar and he has assured all help. I am also directly in touch with the companies producing Remdesivir. The centre has already capped the price, stopped export and given permission for doubling production. All this will work,” he added.The minister said that 1,200 vials of Remdesivir have been received while the government has already ordered 50,000 more through the Bihar medical services and infrastructure corporation Limited (BMSICL). “The supplies are also regulated as it is provided only on doctors’ prescription and Aadhaar Card,” he added, ruling out any possibility of black marketing due to limited and regulated supply.The acting superintendent of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Dr Vinod Kumar Singh, wrote to the health department last week to relieve him of the additional charge due to a shortage of oxygen cylinders in the state’s first dedicated Covid hospital. However, since then, the situation has improved at the NMCH, which now plans to increase the number of beds.While Singh wrote about the oxygen shortage, many other hospitals in the state capital are battling a huge shortage of oxygen and ventilators. Many private hospitals in Patna also discharged patients due to lack of oxygen or pasted notice that they could discharge patients if the stocks don’t arrive in time. Those who can afford are also taking patients to Delhi by air ambulance.Many suppliers of oxygen cylinders are also at their wit’s end, as those taking cylinders are not returning. “We were providing oxygen cylinders to the needy on a humanitarian basis. We had 42 cylinders and all have gone and now nobody is returning as they fear they would not get it again if they require it. We cannot supply to others,” said Sanjeev Deora of Marwari Seva Samiti.One of the biggest private hospitals in Patna, Ruban Hospital, is also facing the heat with a huge rush of patients. “We increased our capacity to 160 beds but we have 175 patients. For oxygen supply, the administration had been helping us but we lack ventilators as most of the patients reach here in critical condition. We have just 40. I have urged even the central authorities to arrange ventilators or divert from those places where they are lying unused. Now, oxygen cylinders are also in short supply while the number of patients is spiralling,” said Dr Satyajeet Singh, proprietor of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/govt-working-overtime-to-smoothen-oxygen-supply-remedesivir-orders-placed-bihar-health-minister-101618926638496.html
20-04-2021||Other||PMC seeks state govt permission to directly purchase vaccines from manufacturers||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought permission from state government to purchase the Covid-19 vaccines, as it aims to vaccinate all those above the age of 18 years.The Centre, on Monday, allowed everyone above the age of 18 to get the jabs from May 1, permitting states to purchase 50 per cent of vaccines directly from manufacturers. Vaccine manufacturers will also be allowed to sell the vaccine in the open market. Currently, only citizens above the age of 45 years and who have a comorbid condition, can get the vaccine.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked the Maharashtra government for permission to allow it to purchase the vaccines directly from manufacturers. In Pune, the Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the Oxford-AtraZeneca vaccine, Covishield. The vaccine is mostly being administered in the country. PMC claims that if the state allows it to purchase the vaccine directly from the firms, it will cover the entire Pune population by the end of July this year. Ganesh Bidkar, PMC’s leader of the house, said, “We have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and asked the government’s permission to procure the vaccine directly. PMC will bear the cost. Already, PMC has chalked out a plan for a massive vaccination drive.” On Monday, Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao had said, the administration has already undertaken “Mission 100 days” to inoculate everyone above the age of 18 by June 15, as the city and rural parts of the region battle a massive spike in the Covid-19 infection. “With the Centre’s decision and various stakeholders in Pune who are very aggressive, we are hoping to vaccinate all above the age of 18 before 100 days is up. This will be possible with the help of state government and local sponsors,” Rao had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-state-govt-permission-to-directly-purchase-vaccines-from-manufacturers-101618926577492.html
20-04-2021||Other||UP govt, AAP in war of words over migrants’ exodus from Delhi||LUCKNOW The exodus of migrant workers from Delhi after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of a six-day curfew has sparked war of words between the Uttar Pradesh government and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Siddharth Nath Singh, UP government spokesperson and MSME minister, alleged that the Delhi government had meted out step-motherly treatment to migrant workers belonging to UP and Bihar. “To hide the failure of his government, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a six-day lockdown in the National Capital in haste,” he said.The Delhi government failed to provide beds, hospitals and other facilities to Covid patients and when health services collapsed, they announced lockdown without any preparations, said Singh.“The migrants were dumped on the Delhi-UP border on Monday night. The hapless people were left to their fate. Earlier too during the nationwide lockdown in March last year, the Delhi government had dumped the migrant workers,” he added.To send the hapless migrants home, the UP government acted swiftly. On direction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, fleets of government and private buses were sent to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations located on Delhi border, said the minister. “Over one lakh migrants were sent home on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday,” said Singh.Countering the statement of the UP minister, AAP (Uttar Pradesh unit) spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said: “While announcing the six-day curfew, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said lockdown has been imposed for a small period to break the Covid infection chain.” “In a video message, he also appealed to migrants workers to stay in Delhi as the state government was arranging for their food and shelter. The Delhi government is providing all facilities to migrants including medical, food and lodging,” he added.Maheshwari said the UP government failed to provide basic facilities to Covid patients across the state and large number of them was not getting beds and oxygen in hospitals. “The UP government has failed in Covid management whereas the Delhi government is working in a sensitive manner to provide medical facilities to Covid patients,” he said.A state government officer said the buses ferrying migrants from the Delhi border had been sent to all districts. Around 1,400 buses left the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus stations on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday with migrants workers heading home in UP. The DMs of all 75 districts were directed to screen migrants. those with Covid symptoms will stay in quarantine facilities set up by the government or in home isolation. Village surveillance committees will maintain vigil on migrants and monitor their health conditions. According to the guidelines issued by the state government, migrants coming from other states will have to stay in seven days’ home quarantine, even if they do not have Covid symptoms, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-aap-in-war-of-words-over-migrants-exodus-from-delhi-101618923097372.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||570 UP cops test positive in 4 days; active cases count cross 1000 mark in police force||With at least 570 cops testing positive in the last four days, the total count of active cases in the state police force crossed the 1000 mark on Tuesday, said senior police officials at the DGP headquarters.Moreover, the Covid-19 infection claimed the lives of at least five police personnel during the same period, they added.A senior police official said the active cases in police force were merely 461 on April 16 which has increased to over double in four days as 1,008 active cases were reported on Tuesday. He said the maximum rise in cases was reported from district police units with 730 active cases at present.The official said the active cases figures, included 159 from other units, 50 from Government Railway Police (GRP), 47 from Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), 11 from the DGP headquarters and nine from police training centres and two cases from home guards’ wing.Sharing details of death toll, the official said that maximum numbers of 73 deaths were reported from district units, six from PAC, three from other units, two each from DGP headquarters and home guards’ wings and one from a police training centre.He said the special advisory had been issued to the police personnel deployed in panchayat poll duties to wear mask and carry sanitizers along with them. “The cases in the police force would increase drastically if proper measures were not taken during the poll duties,” he added.The official said a total 13,666 police personnel had been tested positive while 88 lost their lives after been infected to Covid-19 since April 24, 2020. He said as many as 10,851 police personnel in field duties in different districts across the state tested positive between April 24, 2020, and April 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/570-up-cops-test-positive-in-4-days-active-cases-count-cross-1000-mark-in-police-force-101618922858410.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Prof Arvind is new Punjabi University vice-chancellor||Indian Institute of Science and Research, Mohali, dean, research and development, professor Arvind, was on Tuesday appointed the new vice-chancellor of Punjabi University for three years. The post of a regular vice-chancellor has been vacant for the past six months since BS Ghuman resigned in November. Also read: Punjabi University passes ₹129-cr deficit budgetThe Punjab government appointed senior bureaucrat Ravneet Kaur as the officiating vice-chancellor. Arvind, who was awarded the doctorate from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 1997, takes over the reins of the university when the institution is going through turbulent times both financially and administratively. “I look forward to working positively in rebuilding and reshaping Punjabi University in the right direction,” he said, adding that the best possible methods will be rolled out to make it a centre of excellence of the region. Following his PhD, Arvind joined the faculty of physics at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, for two years before heading for the department of physics at Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai, in 2005. He joined IISER, Mohali, in 2007. The cash-strapped Punjabi University recently passed a ₹129-crore deficit budget for the 2021-22 financial year. There has been a major cut in expenditure with budgetary proposals putting it at ₹472 crore, a cut of almost 30% over last fiscal’s ₹676 crore. The university’s income, however, is also projected to fall to ₹342 crore, a reduction of 10% over last year’s ₹380 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prof-arvind-is-new-punjabi-university-vicechancellor-101618922857798.html
20-04-2021||Other||Petitioner seeks Kashi-court like excavation order for Sri Krishna Jamnbhoomi case||A petitioner in Sri Krishna Janmbhoomi case has moved an application seeking a court order like the one passed by the Varanasi court ordering scientific excavation at Shahi Masjid Eidgah in Mathura.The court has fixed May 5 as the date for disposal of the case.“There was a grand Sri Krishna Temple spread on 13.37 acre of land in Mathura which was demolished by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb and idols were taken away to Agra Fort where they were buried under stairs in the Red Fort of Agra. In place of Sri Krishna Janambhoomi, Shahi Masjid Eidgah was brought up,” said Mahendra Pratap Singh, the petitioner and a lawyer in the case.“The court in Varanasi has ordered ASI to excavate the evidence. We want similar order by Mathura Court asking the ASI to gather evidence by digging below the Shahi Masjid Eidgah in Mathura. The ASI will come across remains of temples on excavation and stones in wall,” said Singh. An application in this regard was moved by Mahendra Pratap Singh in the court of Civil Judge (Senior Division).“We have urged the court to order excavation in the scientific manner through GPR and Zeo Radiology System to excavate the facts. A five-member committee with both Hindus and Muslims as members can also be formed for the excavation exercise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petitioner-seeks-kashi-court-like-excavation-order-for-sri-krishna-jamnbhoomi-case-101618922797370.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet has urged CM Uddhav Thackeray to declare ‘strict’ lockdown: Health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday the state cabinet has requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to announce a strict lockdown in Maharashtra from tomorrow at 8pm. "This was the request of all ministers to CM, now it is his decision," Tope said while addressing reporters after a cabinet meeting was held.Echoing Tope's remarks, state minister Aslam Sheikh said the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are not going down despite imposing strict restrictions adding there is also a shortage of beds and oxygen.Maharashtra urban development minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said the situation is getting worrisome and requested Thackray to impose the lockdown "to break the chain of transmission."Also Read| Maharashtra tightens curbs, grocery shops to remain open from 7am to 11amIt was also announced after the cabinet meeting the state government will cancel the state board exams for class 10 and postpone the same for class 12.Maharashtra is currently the worst hit state from the Covid-19 pandemic across India and has clocked nearly 3.9 million cases and 60,824 deaths till now. On Monday, 58,924 new cases and 351 deaths were reported, according to the state health department's bulletin.Maharashtra is currently placed under section 144 which started from April 14, 8pm and will continue till May 1, 7am where no movement of residents is permitted without valid reasons and all essential services have to operate from 7am to 8pm.The state government on Tuesday the operational hours of shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, daily products and poultry will be restricted from 7am and 11am and will be imposed from today itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-move-towards-complete-lockdown-guidelines-to-be-out-soon-minister-101618922408321.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi belongs to you’: Lieutenant governor Baijal urges migrants to not leave national capital during lockdown||As scores of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi on Monday after the imposition of a week-long lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday urged them to not leave the national capital in panic. Taking it to Twitter, Baijal assured the migrant workers that the Delhi government will take care of all their requirements during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.“All necessary arrangements are being made for you (migrant workers). You run Delhi through with your tireless hard work and the city belongs to you,” he wrote on the microblogging siteEarlier in the day, Baijal had chaired an emergency meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev to take stock of the situation. He directed Kejriwal and Dev to take all steps possible to prevent a reverse migration. The chief minister is currently under self-isolation after his wife Sunita Kejriwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.मेरी दिल्ली के सभी प्रवासी नागरिकों से अपील है कि आप घबराहट में दिल्ली छोड़ कर ना जायें।मैं आपको भरोसा दिलाता हूँ कि कोरोना आपदा की इस स्थिति के दौरान सरकार आपकी सभी जरूरतों का ख्याल रखेगी।आपके लिए सभी आवश्यक इंतज़ाम सुनिश्चित किए जा रहे हैं।The Delhi L-G also appointed the principal secretary (home) and the special commissioners as ‘nodal officers’ to handle the overall situation.The government will open shelter homes and also provide free food to migrants in order to ensure they do not leave the city during the period when a lockdown is in place, officials told Hindustan Times on Tuesday. After making the announcement of the week-long lockdown on Monday, Kejriwal appealed to the migrant workers to stay put as it is for a short lockdown and assured that the government will take care of them.However, the distressed migrants said Kejriwal should have given more time before closing down Delhi for a week till April 26. “You should have given us a time period of one to two days before announcing a lockdown so that we could go back home,” one of the migrants told news agency ANI on Monday night after thousands thronged Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal to go back to their native places.Also Read| When will Covid-19 peak in India? Top doctor predictsAccording to the lockdown rules, only essential services and government offices are allowed to operate and section 144 has been imposed across Delhi. Those employed with private offices have been told to work from home. Malls, spas, gyms and auditoriums will remain closed while groceries, dairies will be kept open.Delhi has so far added nearly 878,000 cases and 12,361 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Monday, 23,868 people were found to be infected while 240 succumbed to the disease- the highest single day spike in deaths since the begging of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-belongs-to-you-l-g-urges-migrants-to-not-leave-capital-during-lockdown-101618921084671.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Sumitra Bhave: A multi-talented creative being who had power to bring about change||It’s very difficult for me today to take my character out of the joint identity Sumitra Bhave and I shared. She is not with us anymore, but she is with me in spirit. I think it is my responsibility to take her legacy forward through my life and film-making. As a person, I remember her as through multiple personalities - an artiste on one hand and a social scientist on the other. She was also an entrepreneur, leader, manager, and a humble activist immersed in social movements. She was also a free spirit going beyond any restrictions. One could find all the contradictions within her; a strong feminist who forever stood for women’s rights. At the same time, she was a simple human being and a compassionate woman caring for everyone. She would throw away all the ‘isms’ when it came to empathy and human values. She was an interesting, multi-faceted, multi-talented personality with layers of possibilities. I always feel that she could have been many persons at the same time. Had she pursued her career as a newsreader in All India Radio (AIR) in Delhi, she would have become director general and possibly changed the face of television. But then, she also wanted to become a painter and go to Paris. Possibly, she would have been a new age Amrita Shergil for us. She was a poet too and writers like Bhalchandra Nemade, Kavi Grace, loved her poetry in her college days. Perhaps we could have got a philosophical poet in her like Arun Kolhatkar. When social activist Medha Patkar worked with Sumitra in the Mumbai slums and on the children’s family programme during her work at a non-profit, the later was a boss. Had she continued, Sumitra probably would have been another Medha Patkar. She studied kathak dance under Rohini Bhate’s guidance. She could possibly have been a dancer or established a Kalagram like Protima Bedi, teaching various styles of dance to students. She chose to become a filmmaker and brought all these elements in her work. She was a social reformer and idolised persons like Gopal Ganesh Agarkar and Mahatma Phule and learnt how they fought to change the society and the mindset of people. The social reformer in her and all her ideas, converted into her filmmaking which was complex, where she wrote her own scripts. We directed films together to bring these ideas on screen. Today, I look at myself as her humble disciple, a person who was fortunate to be with her right since the age of 17, till her last breadth, and possibly even after that. I have learnt about conviction in filmmaking and her compassionate and humane attitude towards people and society helped me be what I am today. I will not just cherish my memories with her, but would try and find her in my own self and take it forward; take her crusade forward. Honestly, I would want to emulate her.---Filmmaker Sunil Sukthankar, along with Sumitra Bhave, together made various landmark films, some of national award winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sumitra-bhave-a-multi-talented-creative-being-who-had-power-to-bring-about-change-101618918838207.html
20-04-2021||Patna||Bihar unveils interest-free incentive scheme to promote women entrepreneurs||Bihar government on Monday cleared the release of ₹200 crore under the Mukhyamantri Mahila Udyami Yojana, a scheme to encourage entrepreneurship among women through cash subsidies and interest-free loans, each up to ₹5 lakh, for starting a business. This was part of Nitish Kumar’s chief pre-poll promises, popularised as Seven Resolves part-2, said state officials.Two other similar schemes were also approved by the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday, which aim to encourage entrepreneurship among the scheduled castes/scheduled tribes and extremely backward classes and also amongst the young population of all castes. The state cabinet also approved the release of ₹400 crore for these schemes on the same day. The beneficiaries of the three schemes, except the women and those from the SC/ST category, will be charged token 1% interest on the loans provided. All the beneficiaries are deemed to pay back the loan in 84 equal monthly instalments after one year of the cash transfer, said officials. The three schemes were among the nine proposals of different departments, which were approved by the cabinet.Additional chief secretary, industries, Brijesh Mehrotra said the cash incentive will be doled out in two instalments in the current fiscal depending on the business needs and the old practice of releasing at least three instalments will be discontinued. The candidates will get three months to apply for the scheme possibly after May 15.Social analyst Tarkeshwar Ojha said the Nitish Kumar government was generous with innovating schemes but they didn’t have the desired impact since doing business in the state was not easy owing to “deterioration in law and order, high cost of land and bureaucratic red-tape”.Akhilesh Kumar, an automobile dealer says there were only 240 women among the 21,112 applicants, who applied for incentive under the CM’s rural transport scheme launched in 2020. He feared women may not again participate in huge numbers in the new scheme. “Schemes for other classes might be lapped up in the job-scarce state like Bihar,” he added.Media in-charge of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) Rajesh Rathore alleged that the government had failed miserably in keeping up its employment-generation promises. “What happened to the CM’s call to provide jobs to all migrants during their return last year? They had to leave the state... Bihar would have developed a lot, had the government been sincere in executing even 5% of the cabinet decisions,” claimed the Congress leader.Janata Dal (Unite) leader and former minister Neeraj Kumar, however, dismissed the allegations and stated that Nitish Kumar was committed to “honest implementation” of the project. “And seven resolves are the schemes that the CM is committed to implement. He has been monitoring their implementation personally,” he said.In other important decisions taken on Tuesday, the cabinet raised the state contingency fund to ₹8,732.10 crore from the existing limit of ₹350 crore. The transport department’s proposal to incentivise the retailers of vehicles for selling registration numbers of choice also got its approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-unveils-interest-free-incentive-scheme-to-promote-women-entrepreneurship-101618918777818.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Thin layer of toxic foam floats near Yamuna River bank in Delhi||A thin layer of toxic foam was seen floating in the Yamuna river at Kalindi Kunj in the national capital on Tuesday.The toxic foam was seen floating in the Yamuna river on April 26 also.Environmentalists earlier have stated that the reason for the frothing could be the release of certain gases when reacting with few specific bacteria.Toxic foam at the Yamuna river hit global headlines when in 2019 pictures of devotees of Chhat puja were seen standing in waist-deep toxic forth in the Yamuna at Kalindi Kunj.Experts when asked about the particular episode of the surge in toxic level, stated that the froth was a common thing in the Yamuna but has increased in the last five-six years.The government of Delhi had sketched out a nine-point action plan to minimise frothing in the Yamuna river is happening due to the discharge of untreated sewage in the river.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) held a meeting on January 4, with the officials of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Irrigation and Water Resources Department of Haryana and Irrigation and Flood Control Department of Delhi to discuss the recurring issue of increase in Ammoniacal Nitrogen in Yamuna River and short and long term remedial actions required.Also, it was agreed to constitute a Joint Surveillance Squad comprising DJB, DPCC, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, Delhi, HSPCB, and Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Haryana.Moreover, litter and plastic waste in ample amounts could be found across the entire stretch of the river.A recent finding by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee revealed that in Delhi, compared to the pre-lockdown days, the river was cleaner by around 33 per cent. Additionally, the committee found that the water improved further downstream near Mathura. But since the lockdown was lifted in a phased manner from June 1, the clarity of the Yamuna water has also gone down during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thin-layer-of-toxic-foam-floats-near-yamuna-river-bank-in-delhi-101618913996497.html
20-04-2021||Other||As cases pile up in Dehradun, double mutant in Covid-19 samples causes concern||Three samples collected in Uttarakhand’s Dehradun recently contain the double mutant variant of Covid-19, causing concern among the health officials and experts. With the sharp rise in Covid cases in the state, amid Kumbh mela that attracted millions of devotees, the state government has imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am in all districts.In all, five samples were sent by Doon Government Hospital to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Delhi in March. The hospital got the result a few days ago which confirmed the presence of the double mutant Covid-19 virus in three samples and the UK strain in one. Confirming the development, Dr Deepak Juyal of the virology department in the hospital said, “The hospital had sent samples to detect the presence of the new strains in the samples collected in Dehradun. Five samples were sent, of those three from a private laboratory had the double mutant virus , B.1.617, and one had the UK strain, B.1.1.7.” Also Read | No crowds now: With akhadas pulling out, kumbh virtually overDr Juyal said the double mutant virus spreads at a much faster rate. “This is more virulent and if someone gets infected with it, the whole family would also get infected -- which was not the case last year.” Another expert, Dr DD Chowdhury, national vice president of Indian Medical Association, who has been treating at least 20 Covid-19 patients on a daily basis in Dehradun, suspected that, “most of the cases in Dehradun are of double mutant virus only”. “The transmission rate of this double mutant is more. But, the death rate is less. The patients infected from this virus are responding well to the treatment given by doctors,” he said. However, he said, “People need to take precautions, including wearing of masks, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. There should be no complacency in this as it could prove costly.”Uttarakhand has reported 126,193 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak last year. Of these, 102,899 have been treated. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state, 41,903, have been reported from Dehradun district so far. Till Monday, the total number of active cases in the state was 18,864 of which Dehradun had the most at 7,583.The state has so far reported 1,892 Covid-related deaths of which 1,087 were recorded in Dehradun alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-pile-up-in-dehradun-double-mutant-in-covid-19-samples-causes-concern-101618917397743.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||'Why are we wasting even one vaccine shot?' Delhi HC during hearing on Covid-19||The Delhi high court on Tuesday expressed serious concerns about wastage of Covid-19 vaccines, and stressed on the need to vaccinate more and more people. The court's observations came during a hearing on a petition filed by a lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking directions from the court to ramp up tests and take immediate measures to contain the grim Covid situation in the national capital.Citing news reports, the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, "The number of vaccines have been wasted is 44 lakh out of 10 crore vaccine. The vials have to be consumed once it has to be opened. Now the once which are not used are being wasted.""Why are we wasting even one shot, why can't we deal with it?" the bench further said.The judges also suggested creating a mobile application consisting of a list of people who can be vaccinated. "Give it to people willing to take it. Those drops which can save the lives, are being wasted," said the court.Talking about the dip in vaccination numbers, the court said, "If we wait for 10 days, the problem may persist. We are losing on valuable and young lives. The pandemic does not discriminate. Whomsoever needs vaccines, give them. Everyone needs vaccination."According to Hindustan Times' vaccine tracker, nearly 5 per cent vaccines are wasted in the national capital.In a meeting with the chief ministers earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that a major part of Covid-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage and appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated.The Prime Minister said the efforts are being made to improve the maximum manufacturing facility of the vaccine. Meanwhile, the development of new vaccines is also underway, he added.Days after that, Russia's Sputnik V received the approval from India's drug regulator for emergency use during Covid-19 crisis. It will now be used along with Covishield and Covaxin being used in the country for inoculating people as part of nationwide vaccination drive launched on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-are-we-wasting-even-one-vaccine-shot-delhi-hc-during-hearing-on-covid19-101618915257368.html
20-04-2021||West||Bengal Polls: Trinamool Congress urges state election commission to club remaining phases due to Covid surge||With three more phases left to the high-stakes assembly elections in West Bengal, the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the state election commission where it requested the commission to club the remaining sixth, seventh and eight phases of voting due to the surge coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. This comes just a day after TMC supremo and state chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested the Election Commission (EC) to club these three phases of voting into one.The sixth phase of polling in Bengal will take place on Thursday while the seventh and eight phases will be held on April 26 and April 29, respectively.In the memorandum addressed to the chief electoral officer of West Bengal, the TMC said at present the entire country, including Bengal, “is faced with a gargantuan need to use all its resources to fight the pandemic” along with the task of completing the remaining three phases of the ongoing elections in the state in the next 10 days.Also Read| BJP, TMC scale down campaigns amid spikeThe TMC cited an order of the Calcutta high court on April 13 where it instructed the state CEO to take urgent steps to address the serious concern at hand and pointed out that it is crucial to avert a deadly disaster which is staring at people in the form of “possible galloping rise in Covid-19 cases.” The Election Commission, however, only limited the campaigning period for the remaining phases of the election.In response, the TMC said that due to the nature of the pandemic cosmetic changes such as reducing the duration of the campaigning period was not a holistic solution.The memorandum also mentioned that the entire country is aware of the dangers of the unprecedented spread of the disease and several measures have been taken to combat the second wave before it stresses the resources of states. “Elections were announced on February 26. Since then, parties and candidates have spent almost 52 days campaigning. No prejudice will be caused if the phases are clubbed into one.”Also Read| Request EC with folded hands to hold next 3 election phases in 1 day: MamataThis year, elections have happened in four states and one Union Territory amid the worsening Covid-19 situation. Political parties especially in West Bengal, have faced heat over organising rallies and road shows where there is complete violation of all coronavirus-related protocol, such as wearing of masks and maintaining physical distancing during poll rallies and road shows.The TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Monday they will reduce their campaigning in Bengal for the last three phases. The BJP said people participating in rallies will be limited to 500 and meetings will be held in open spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/tmcurges-state-election-commission-to-club-remaining-phases-due-to-covid-surge-101618914276982.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||Revoke my suspension, let me serve Covid patients: Kafeel Khan to UP govt||Kafeel Khan, the suspended paediatrician of Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College, has written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath urging him to revoke his suspension and allow him to serve Covid-19 patients.“I have written 38 letters to the state government to revoke my suspension. The inquiry committee constituted by the state government has given a clean chit in the case. The Allahabad high court, as well as the Supreme Court in the orders passed in 2019, directed the state government to take a decision on my suspension within 90 days but even after 1,300 days, the suspension has not been revoked,” he wrote.Also Read | Lockdown in Delhi imposed ‘in a rush’ to ‘cover failures’: UP ministerKhan was suspended after he was accused of medical negligence during the August 2017 oxygen shortage tragedy that resulted in the deaths of children at BRD Medical College.He wrote he has 15-year experience in managing the patients admitted to the intensive care units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/revoke-my-suspension-let-me-serve-covid-patients-kafeel-khan-to-upgovt-101618913978076.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers||The Delhi Police created two dedicated corridors on Monday night for smooth passage of two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams on their way from Greater Noida and Faridabad and prevented a crisis at an outer Delhi hospital, where at least 235 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment amid depleting oxygen supply. They also arranged 25 cylinders from four hospitals for Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute.“The level of oxygen in our hospital’s liquid oxygen plant was reaching a critical level on Monday night due to a delay in supply through two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams at Noida and Faridabad borders. As per our protocol, we informed the concerned authorities that provided green corridors and the containers were immediately escorted to the hospital,” said Sunil Sumbli, the institute’s medical superintendent.The containers were carrying around 19,500 litres of oxygen. Also Read | Desperate for help, patients dial police for oxygen, hospital bedsThe Paschim Vihar East Police Station, under whose jurisdiction the hospital comes, formed two escort teams and dispatched them to Greater Noida and Faridabad in separate emergency response vehicles. The teams were directed to contact the drivers of the two containers, find their exact locations, and escort them to the hospital as early as possible. They were asked to keep the sirens and lights of the vehicles on so that motorists could see the emergency and give them clear passage, said a police officer who was part of the operation, requesting not to be named.Additional deputy police commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama said the teams set up dedicated corridors for the containers and escorted them to the hospital. “In the meantime, around 25 oxygen cylinders were also arranged...”The Delhi Police also arranged 20 oxygen cylinders and delivered them to a hospital with 35 Covid-19 patients in outer Delhi’s Nangloi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-create-green-corridors-for-movement-of-oxygen-containers-101618913497626.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows opening of shops from 7-11am, home delivery till 8pm||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced restrictions on timing of functioning of shops, as the state continued to observe a 15-day curfew with the imposition of section 144 as announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on April 13.Also Read | Facing flak for nephew’s Covid jabs, Fadnavis’ wife calls for action, decorum“Vegetable shops, vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, and all types of food shops, including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs to open only between 7am and 11am,” said an order signed by Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte.“Shops related to agriculture implements and farm produce pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as organisations, will observe the same restrictions,” the order further read.Home delivery from these shops, it added, may be allowed between 7am and 8pm, adding that the timings, however, may be changed by the local authorities.Also Read | Mumbai Police seize 2,200 vials of Remdesivir from exportersMaharashtra’s 15-day state-wide curfew began at 8pm on April 14, after an announcement by chief minister Thackeray in this regard the previous night. The western state is the worst-hit since the early days of the pandemic last year and has, in recent days, witnessed a single-day rise of more than 60,000 cases. Its capital city Mumbai has also been witnessing a rapid surge in its daily cases.However, on Monday, Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 count fell to 58,924, as per a health department bulletin, taking its caseload to 3,898,262. Also on that day, 351 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the state’s death toll to 60,824, the bulletin showed. A day ago, there were a record 68,631 cases as well as 503 related deaths.Meanwhile, in Mumbai, 586,867 people have tested positive thus far of which 12,412 have lost their lives. On Monday, 7,381 infections were detected in the metropolis, along with 7,381 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-opening-of-shops-from-7-11am-home-delivery-till-8pm-101618912791205.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police seize 2,200 vials of Remdesivir from exporters||The Mumbai police seized 2,200 vials of Remdesivir injection from the premises of two exporters located in Andheri and New Marine Lines area on Monday. Remdesivir is used to treat serious Covid-19 patients and has been in short supply in Maharashtra, leading to a political tug of war between the state and the Centre. The Central government last week banned Remdesivir’s export till the time the domestic situation improves.Deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu said that teams from Mumbai Police and Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) jointly raided two locations in the city on Monday after learning that certain exporters were hiding stocks of the crucial drug despite a direction by the government to declare their stocks for domestic use.2000 vials of the injection were recovered at one exporter’s location in Marol, Andheri East, which belongs to a pharmaceutical company. These 2000 vials were taken into possession by FDA for use/distribution in hospitals, he said.Another 200 vials of Remdesivir were recovered at another exporter’s location in the New Marine Lines area. These too were taken into possession by the FDA.“These 2,200 Remdesivir vials were produced for export but were kept stocked by the exporters as there is a ban on the export of Remdesivir. FDA officials are following due procedure to make these vials available to hospitals,” said Siriprolu, who is also the spokesperson for the Mumbai Police.Officials aware of the developments said the investigators are checking if the seized vials of Remdesivir were linked to Daman-based Bruck Pharma, an exporter of the drug at the centre of a recent political controversy, involving Mumbai police and senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Fadnavis had accused Maharashtra government of cheap politics and alleged that Mumbai police was harassing a Bruck Pharma executive over suspicion that it was hiding thousands of vials of the drug after its export was banned. Fadnavis claimed that the harassment took place at a time when the company was given permission to supply the stocked medicine to Maharashtra.The ruling coalition parties alleged in response that Fadnavis was more concerned about the pharma company than the residents of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-seize-2-200-vials-of-remdesivir-from-exporters-101618910617644.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Facing flak for nephew’s Covid jabs, Fadnavis’ wife calls for action, decorum||Under fire after Devendra Fadnavis’ 22-year-old nephew got vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s wife on Tuesday said “no one is above rules & law”. “Priority for any service should be on basis of decorum or prevalent policy. No one is above rules & law. The law can take its course and we stand for justice always ! We are with you on this issue, pls take action which will stop future queue breaking occurrences!” Amruta Fadnavis tweeted with a hashtag #tanmayfadnavis.Amruta Fadnavis also tagged Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, who along with several other politicians questioned how the former Maharashtra chief minister’s nephew Tanmay Fadnavis broke the queue and got both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Only frontline and healthcare workers and those over the age of 45 are eligible to receive the jabs under the current phase of the nationwide vaccination drive. Those above 18 years of age will be inoculated from May 1, according to the Centre’s announcement on Monday.Priority for any service should be on basis of decorum or prevalent policy. No one is above rules & law. The law can take its course and we stand for justice always ! We are with you on this issue, pls take action which will stop future queue breaking occurrences!#tanmayfadnavis https://t.co/SgLYOAMGeeAlso read | What changes from May 1 in Covid-19 vaccination drive? FAQs answered“Like someone said, this is privilegeitis,” Chaturvedi tweeted in the morning. Before that, she posted on Twitter that she confirmed Devendra Fadnavis’ nephew did get the doses. “Confirmed @Dev_Fadnavis nephew Tanmay Fadnavis did break the queue & get both his jabs. His grandmother Shobhatai is also a Bjp leader (dynasty) asks if it is a sin to get the vaccine. What a family of rule breakers,” she said.Like someone said, this is privilegeitis. https://t.co/cwQQeZ9PAYChaturvedi was referring to Shobhatai Fadnavis’ comment after reports of Tanmay Fadnavis getting the vaccines broke. “Is it a sin to get a vaccine?” Shobhatai Fadnavis asked on Monday.Tanmay Fadnavis shared a photo of him getting the jab on Instagram and people familiar with the matter said he received the first dose of the vaccine in Mumbai and the second one at the National Cancer Institute in Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/facing-flak-for-nephew-s-covid-jabs-fadnavis-wife-calls-for-action-decorum-101618909182962.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Three-fold increase in Covid beds in Delhi since April 3: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said there has been a three-fold increase in total Covid-19 beds across hospitals in the city since April 3, and around 2,700 more beds will be added within the next six days, even as he expressed concerns about the increase in Covid-19 cases. “The Covid-19 situation in the city is alarming. We are currently recording around 25,000 new cases a day. Going by the rate of increase in cases, it looks like the number of daily cases will soon rise to 28,000 -30,000. In the last 4-5 days, we have been working round-the-clock on providing hospital beds to Covid-19 patients. We are also increasing Covid-19 beds. On April 3, we had 6,071 beds in the city. As of now, we have 19,101 beds. We have increased beds by three times on a war footing in such a short time,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management and inter-ministerial coordination, in a video press briefing.Also Read | Kejriwal says will work with MCDs to defeat Covid, blame game begins soon afterHis comments came amid concerns regarding the rate at which hospital beds are getting occupied in the city. As on Tuesday noon, government records said there were 19,124 Covid-19 beds in the city, of which 16,661 (87.12%) were occupied, and there were only 32 ICU beds left in the city – out of a total of 4,447.“On Monday, the DRDO facility opened and all 250 beds got occupied within four hours. In that centre, 250 more beds are awaited. The city’s total Covid-19 bed capacity will increase by around 2,700 in the next 5-6 days,” said Sisodia.He named several Delhi government hospitals -- Burari hospital, Ambedkar Nagar hospital, DDU hospital, Acharya Bhikshu hospital, Raja Harishchandra Hospital and Lok Nayak hospital -- which are likely to witness augmentation of Covid-19 beds capacity in the coming days.On Monday, HT reported that the health department of the Delhi government had issued an order directing the 11 Delhi government-run Covid-19 hospitals to increase their total ward beds by 1,979 and ICU beds by 915. The names of the hospitals cited by Sisodia were mentioned in the order.Addressing concerns over the burden on the healthcare infrastructure, Sisodia said, “We appeal to people not to panic. Don’t rush to hospital on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive. If severe symptoms surface, then consult a doctor and consider checking for hospital availability on the app (Delhi government’s mobile application) and only then go to hospital. Running from one hospital to another exhausts the patients and also burdens the hospitals.”“Also, we have received a large number of complaints from patient attendants that doctors are not monitoring patients regularly. But it is not so. Please understand that you cannot identify doctors clad in PPE kits. So please don’t have such wrong perceptions. Doctors are doing their best and are completely invested in their work, risking their own lives.”In another press briefing, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain also addressed the issue of Covid beds and said, “Nearly 1,000 to 1,500 beds have been increased in the city each day. There were just about 6,000 Covid-19 beds as on April 8, which has now been tripled to over 18,000 beds. But, there has been an unprecedented increase in the number of cases.” He said that the makeshift facility at Radha Soami Satsang Beas is likely to open up on Tuesday, with 600 beds added on Monday at the Commonwealth games village facility. On being asked about patients with severe infection being refused admission without an RT-PCR positive report, the minister said, “There is a shortage of beds in Delhi; over 16,500 beds are already occupied by patients from Delhi as well as outside. Wherever there are beds available, patients are being admitted.” (With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/threefold-increase-in-covid-beds-in-delhi-since-april-3sisodia-101618904856991.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police raid 2 exporters, recover 2,200 Remdesivir vials||The Mumbai Police and Food and Drugs Administration raided two locations in the city on Monday and recovered 2,200 vials of Remdesivir, the drug which is in high demand to treat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Tuesday. As many as 2,000 vials of Remdesivir were recovered from an exporter in Marol in Andheri East, and 200 vials of the drug were found with another exporter in New Marine Lines.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“These 2200 Remdesivir vials were produced for export but were kept stocked by the exporters as there is a ban on the export of Remdesivir. FDA officials are following due procedure to make these vials available to hospitals,” the Mumbai Police’s spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The development comes at a time when several states have reported a short of the drug as they are struggling to tackle the rising number of cases in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government and the opposition are at loggerheads over the supply of the drug. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis of hoarding the antiviral drug. The Shiv Sena alleged that the BJP was aiding the black-marketing of the medicine. The BJP, on the other hand, accused the state government of resorting to “childish politics”.The accusations come in the backdrop of Mumbai Police questioning a director of a pharmaceutical company on Saturday following information that thousands of vials of Remdesivir were to be flown out of the country, despite a ban on its export. Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Darekar rushed to the police station when they found out about the company director’s interrogation. After the incident, the Sena raised doubts about the alleged politics being played on the issue of supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injections for treating Covid-19 patients.Maharashtra is facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 vials of Remdesivir injections daily, Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said on Monday. “We need at least 60,000 doses of Remdesivir daily and are currently facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 doses daily. Our problem is the number of patients is increasing daily,” Shingne said.The state’s health minister Rajesh Tope has assured that the situation will improve in the coming days. “Five companies are producing Remdesivir injections and their production is being ramped up. In addition, we will give pharmaceutical companies in Maharashtra the permission to sub-contract the production of this injection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-raid-2-exporters-recover-2-200-remdesivir-vials-101618900676267.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi L-G holds emergency meeting with CM; govt to provide meals, shelter to migrants||The Delhi government will open shelter homes for migrant workers and provide free meals to them so as to ensure they do not leave the city during the six-day lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the national Capital, senior officials privy to the development said on Tuesday. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also directed to set up a special committee to tackle the issue of migrant movement from the national Capital and principal secretary (home) and special commissioner of police have been appointed as “nodal officers” for migrant labour welfare.Based on ground reports and visuals that came in throughout the night on thousands of migrant workers wanting to leave through the Delhi-UP border around the Anand Vihar inter-state bus terminal hours after the Delhi government announced a week-long curfew in the national Capital, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal called for an “emergency meeting” with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at 11am on Tuesday. Chief secretary Vijay Dev was also present in the meeting.Also Read | Delhi Metro closes 20 stations to manage crowds amid curfew“The L-G has asked for taking immediate steps to address the issue of panicked reverse migration. He directed the police and district administrations to continuously make announcements saying they need not panic and leave Delhi,” said a senior official who attended the meeting.Chief minister Kejriwal, officials said, assured Baijal that the Delhi government has started making all arrangements for migrant workers. “Existing rain baseras (night shelters) and other DUSIB facilities will be used for housing those who have an issue of shelter. Food will be provided to them. Principal secretary (home) and special commissioner of police have been appointed as nodal officers for migrant labour welfare,” said a second official on the condition of anonymity.The L-G, through advertisements in newspapers on Tuesday, also appealed to people to not leave Delhi and assured that they will be taken care of. “The L-G is closely monitoring the situation and he told CM Kejriwal to meet him again in the evening, if need be,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-l-g-holds-emergency-meeting-with-cm-govt-to-provide-meals-shelter-to-migrants-101618901557648.html
20-04-2021||Patna||Bihar battles Covid-19: Shops in Patna to follow odd-even formula||Patna administration has ordered shops in the district to open on three days a week following an odd-even formula and it also staggered the timings of their operation to prevent crowding amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar. The state reported 7,487 new Covid-19 cases on Monday including 2,672 in Patna alone, said officials.Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh on Monday divided all shops into three categories and said essential commodity-related businesses will now be allowed to operate daily till 6pm, an hour less than the earlier deadline of 7pm. These include outlets selling medicines, grocery, vegetables, automobile parts, construction materials, petrol pumps, e-commerce and telecom operations.Put in the second category, shops selling electrical goods, furniture and jewellery and saloons are allowed to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while shops dealing in clothes, footwear, utensils, sports and agriculture equipment will be allowed to operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.A team of officials will monitor the implementation, the DM said. “Residents should buy commodities from their nearest area. Wearing a face mask is mandatory for all. Shop owners are responsible for maintaining social distancing at their shops. Those shops found violating norms will be shut down.”All educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, clubs, gymnasiums, stadiums and parks in the district will remain closed till May 15, said Singh.“No university or college will conduct any exam during the closure period. Educational institutions are supposed to only conduct online classes,” he added. All government offices have been ordered to close by 5pm and night curfew will be in force from 9pm to 5am during the period. However, there is no restriction on inter-district or interstate movement. The order comes in the backdrop of an unprecedented spurt in Covid-19 cases in the last one month and the addition of 8,690 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of active cases closer to 50,000 in the state. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar ruled out a lockdown in the state and asked district officials to take measures to ensure there was no crowding and Covid-appropriate behaviour was followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-battles-covid-19-shops-in-patna-to-follow-odd-even-formula-101618901498716.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana won’t impose lockdown on Ram Navami||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has said that the state government will not impose any lockdown on Ram Navami on Wednesday. Vij, who is also the state health minister, was responding to the plea of the Chandigarh administration for a Ram Navami lockdown in the tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali to contain the spread of coronavirus. Also read: UP govt moves SC against Allahabad HC order imposing Covid-19 curbs in 5 citiesWhile Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh endorsed the view of Chandigarh administration by ordering a lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday, the Haryana government rejected the idea. “We will not close down any religious place. Instead, we will strictly enforce the restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity has been allowed with a ceiling of 50 people for indoors and gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons outdoors,” the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-won-t-impose-lockdown-on-ram-navami-101618901136980.html
20-04-2021||Kolkata||90 railway drivers, guards test Covid-19 positive in Bengal, suburban train services hit||Eastern Railway on Tuesday said it has so far cancelled 56 local trains in the Sealdah section after around 90 drivers and guards tested positive for Covid- 19.No decision has been taken on cancellation of trains in the Howrah section, an official said."The situation is pretty grim. Some 90 drivers and guards are unable to report for duty due to Covid. We have cancelled 56 local trains to ensure mail and express train services are not impacted," Eastern Railway spokesperson Eklabya Chakraborty told PTI."As far as possible, the non-peak hour trains are cancelled to minimise the impact for commuters," he added.Suburban train services resumed in West Bengal on November 11 last year after more than seven months.In the wake of soaring Covid-19 cases, the Indian Railways had recently announced that commuters will be fined up to ₹500 for not wearing masks at rail premises and in trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/90-railway-drivers-guards-test-covid-19-positive-in-bengal-suburban-train-services-hit-101618900345026.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police set up anti-money laundering cell||The Himachal Pradesh Police have set up an anti-money laundering cell to collect and analyse information regarding criminal cases from all 12 districts to assess if it can be shared with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to initiate action under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “The cell has been constituted on the request from the ED,” director general of police Sanjay Kundu said after meeting ED north zone additional director Sunil Kumar Yadav, Anti-Corruption and Vigilance ADGP Anurag Garg, CID ADG N Venugopal, and IGP, southern range, Himanshu Misra in Shimla. Also read: US issues travel advisory against India as Covid-19 cases surgeThe anti-money laundering cell in the state police headquarters will share information with the focus on organised crime such as drug trafficking, illegal mining, wildlife violations, Excise Act, Prevention of Corruption Act and fake degree scams. The information will be shared on a fortnightly basis. The aim is to launch a multi-pronged action against organised crime in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-police-set-up-anti-money-laundering-cell-101618900296888.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: First 'Oxygen Express' rakes leave from Mumbai region to Vizag||The first 'Oxygen Express' departed from Central Railway's Kalamboli yard on Monday evening to ferry liquid oxygen for Maharashtra from Vishakhapatnam steel plant in Andhra Pradesh amid the worsening COVID-19 situation.In a statement, the ministry of railways informed that the Mumbai Division built a ramp overnight within 24 hours at Kalamboli goods yard to facilitate loading/unloading of tankers in/from flat wagons."The Ro-Ro (roll-on, roll-off) service with seven empty tankers departed from Kalamboli goods yard for Visakhapatnam steel plant siding at 8.05 pm on Monday."This train will move via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur, Raipur Junction to Visakhapatnam steel plant siding in ECoR zone where it will be loaded with Liquid Medical Oxygen.On Sunday, railway minister Piyush Goyal, in an interview to ANI, had informed that the central government was creating a green corridor for fast movement of 'Oxygen Express' trains to facilities for the smooth transport of oxygen to states."A decision has been taken to start transportation of oxygen cylinders or tankers in trains. The transportation of cylinders has already started. Green corridors will be introduced to ensure a fast supply of oxygen where these trains can reach their destination at a high speed," Goyal had said."For the transportation of liquid oxygen, military wagons will be used to transport 3.3 meter high tankers. These trains will not be stopped so that they can reach their destination at a fast speed," he added.The worsening Covid-19 situation has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many states are reporting a shortage in essential medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-first-oxygen-express-rakes-leave-from-mumbai-region-to-vizag-101618898207458.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad workers contribute one day's salary, raise 1.27 crore to improve health services||The Pune Zilla Parishad employees have contributed their one day's salary to raise ₹1.97 crore to help improve the health services in rural areas of the district amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said.The money would be given as an incentive to doctors serving the Covid-19 patients, in addition to their salaries, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad told PTI on Monday."The Zilla Parishad employees here in Maharashtra, all of whom are frontline workers, have contributed one day's salary to raise ₹1.97 crore," he said.The official said they have published advertisements in newspapers of various states to hire 130 doctors."We aim to have the best doctors with us in the fight against Covid-19 and save the lives of people living in rural areas of Pune," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zilla-parishad-workers-contribute-one-day-s-salary-for-health-services-101618896904062.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro closes 20 stations to manage crowds amid curfew||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday, the first day of the week-long curfew in Delhi, closed entry of over 20 stations to manage the peak hour rush. Metro began closing the entry to its stations at 6.30am with New Delhi station, which is near the railway station. DMRC tweeted, “Entry for New Delhi has been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Exit is allowed.” This was followed by Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk, Jhandewalan, RK Ashram Marg, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT Vaishali, Shadipur, and Dwarka Mor among others. Also Read | Migrant workers say Kejriwal should’ve given more time before declaring lockdownThere were many stations in the NCR which were also closed as a part of the crowd controlling measure. After the peak hour rush on Tuesday, the DMRC revised its train schedule. A lot of essential service providers, who are eligible to travel by Metro during curfew, were stuck as stations were closed. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “Services during morning (7am-11am) and evening (4pm-8pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway (frequency) of 15 minutes. For the rest of the hours of the day, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes. In addition, standby trains on each Line will also be available whole day for induction into services as per requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-closes-20-stations-to-manage-crowds-amid-curfew-101618896876737.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro shuts entry gates at multiple metro stations to avoid crowding. Check details here||To ensure social distancing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Tuesday temporarily closed entry points of several metro stations.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. "Entry for the following stations have been temporarily closed to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures: Jhandewalan, R K Ashram Marg, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT, Vaishali," the DMRC said in a series tweet.However, exit for all the temporarily closed stations is allowed, it informed the commuters.Other temporarily closed stations are: Shadipur, Dwarka Mor, Tagore Garden, Rajouri Garden, Patel Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Kirti Nagar, Rajendra Place, Moti Nagar, Bahadurgarh City, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Shyam Park, Raj Bagh and Mohan Nagar.Also, according to the DMRC, restricted entry is allowed for stations such as Rajiv Chowk, MG Road, New Delhi and Chandni Chowk as part of the crowd control measures.Metro trains are running on a reduced frequency during the six-day lockdown in Delhi over an exponential rise in coronavirus cases."Services during morning (8 AM to 10 AM) and evening (5 PM to 7 PM) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway (frequency) of 30 minutes," the DMRC said in a statement on Monday."For the rest of the hours of the day, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 60 minutes only," it added.Metro services can be availed only by the exempted category of people on the production of valid identity proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-shuts-entry-gates-at-multiple-metro-stations-to-avoid-crowding-101618896361880.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Noida admin asks housing societies to appoint 'corona vigilance officers'||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration on Monday asked residential societies and sectors to appoint a "corona vigilance officer" who would report Covid-19 cases to their respective Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) in a bid to check the spread of infection.The administration issued a list of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for RWAs amid a worsening Covid-19 situation in Noida and Greater Noida.Surveillance activities are allowed in containment areas to trace suspected patients, such as people suffering from influenza-like illnesses, those having symptoms of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and people having a co-morbid condition, it stated."Every RWA and society will appoint a corona vigilance officer for each building/tower. The vigilance officers will report the positive cases with lab reports and any violation made by Covid-19 positive people to the President or Secretary of societies or RWA," the SOP stated.The residents can report the problem regarding covid-19 on this link or for any help regarding Covid-19 call helpline number 18004192211, it added.The administration noted that in residential areas including societies and RWA shared spaces like gym, swimming pools, banquet hall, parks, community centres, corridors, elevators and stairs, parking places, cafeteria, meeting rooms and conference halls, Covid-19 infection can spread relatively fast among residents and visitors.Noting that there is a need to prevent the spread of infection and to respond in a timely and effective manner, it suggested measures to be implemented to check the virus."Residents in containment zones should inform the same to their society as well as RWA presidents or secretaries and not go outside their homes till the containment zone is de-notified," it stated."Swimming pool, indoor gym, community centres and common areas in containment zones shall remain closed except for medical and essential services," it added.According to the SOPs, only asymptomatic staff or visitors shall be allowed entry, individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in common places as far as feasible, and use face covers or masks at all times.Entrances of societies should have mandatory provisions for hand hygiene like sanitiser dispensers, thermal screening while there should be proper cleaning and frequent sanitisation, at least twice a day, of the frequently touched surfaces, it added.The SOPs also stated that the number of people in elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing norms for which proper markings should be made on the floor of the elevators."Cleaning and regular disinfection using one per cent sodium hypochlorite of frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, must be done in common areas at least twice a day," it stated."Shops must ensure physical distancing norms are being followed at all times and staff should take their temperature regularly and check for respiratory symptoms and must see a doctor if they feel unwell or show flu-like symptoms," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-admin-asks-housing-societies-to-appoint-corona-vigilance-officers-101618895867246.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Manmohan Singh's condition stable, under best possible care: Harsh Vardhan||The condition of former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and is admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for treatment, is stable, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday. "Followed up on Dr Manmohan Singh Ji's health with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, Delhi. His condition is stable. Best possible care is being provided to him. We all pray for his quick recovery," Harsh Vardhan tweeted.Followed up on Dr Manmohan Singh Ji’s health with the medical team attending to him at AIIMS, Delhi. His condition is stable.Best possible care is being provided to him. We all pray for his quick recovery.The 88-year-old Congress leader was diagnosed with Covid-19 and was on Monday admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre. Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sonia Gandhi, wished him a quick recovery and good health. "Wishing our former Prime Minister, Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji good health and a speedy recovery," PM Modi tweeted."I am deeply concerned to learn that Dr. Manmohan Singh is unwell & has been hospitalised. On behalf of all of us in the Congress Party I send my good wishes to him for a speedy & complete recovery," Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said in a message, which was tweeted by her party.On Saturday, Singh attended the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting and wrote to Prime Minister Modi and talked about a five ways to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. India on Tuesday reported 259,170 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,761 deaths, the biggest daily spike in fatalities, as several cities including Delhi and Mumbai are under strict curbs to arrest the surging infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manmohan-singh-s-condition-stable-under-best-possible-care-harsh-vardhan-101618895508974.html
20-04-2021||Pune||5,900 vials of Remdesivir distributed among 500 hospitals in Pune||A total of 5,900 vials of Remdesivir injection were received and distributed among more than 500 hospitals in the Pune district on Monday, FDA officials said.In view of the shortage of the anti-viral drug, which is in great demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, a control room has been set up for its distribution in the Pune district."A total of 18 flying squads for rural as well as urban areas have been formed to prevent black marketing of the drug. Today, we received 5,900 vials of the drug and distributed them among 511 hospitals through stockists," a senior Food and Drug Administration (FDA) official said.The hospitals have been directed by the state health department to use Remdesivir only for the needy patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5900-vials-of-remdesivir-distributed-among-500-hospitals-in-pune-101618890068073.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi under 6-day lockdown as Covid-19 cases, deaths soar||Delhi went under a complete lockdown from Monday night, which will remain in place till the morning, of April 26, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the city have been rising at a tremendous pace. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made the announcement on Monday as infections have increased by nearly 600% in the last two weeks in the national capital.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“Delhi’s health system is now unable to take in more patients. It is now necessary to impose a lockdown in Delhi from 10pm today to 5am on Monday (April 26). Essential services will remain open, food and medicine shops will be allowed to operate, weddings will be limited to 50 guests,” Arvind Kejriwal said in a media briefing.The massive spike in cases has triggered a shortage of medical supplies in hospitals in the Capital. With hospitals running out of beds, the Delhi government last week requested the Centre to make isolation coaches available at two railway stations, Shakur Basti and Anand Vihar, for Covid-19 patients.Due to the fear of the extension of the lockdown following Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement, scores of migrant workers were seen crowding at interstate bus terminals to leave the city. “We are daily wagers, the chief minister should have given us some time before announcing the lockdown. It takes us ₹200 to reach home, but they are charging ₹3000 to ₹4000 now. How will we go home?" a migrant labourer told news agency ANI.However, Arvind Kejriwal reached out to the migrants in Delhi. "I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for six days. Don't leave Delhi and go. I am very hopeful and that we won't need to further extend the lockdown. The government will take care of you," he said.During the six-day lockdown in Delhi, movement will be prohibited unless someone is seeking or providing essential services, medical help, or needs to go to exempted workplaces, such as government offices. People in some of these categories will require an e-pass from the government, while others need to carry an identity card, according to the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev.On Monday, Delhi reported record of 240 deaths due to the viral disease, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-under-6-day-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-deaths-soar-101618889737135.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Migrant workers start leaving Delhi, say Kejriwal should've given more time before announcing lockdown||Amid a massive surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, scores of migrant workers were seen leaving Delhi throughout Monday, hours before the six-day lockdown came into effect at 10pm. Despite Arvind Kejriwal's appeal to the migrant workers to not leave Delhi over what he called a "short lockdown", the distressed workers waiting for hours at the bus stops claimed that the chief minister should have given more time before announcing the lockdown because, in the face of this crisis, the trip back home is now costing 10 times more.Also Read: Record 240 deaths in Delhi, more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases"We are daily wagers, the chief minister should have given us some time before announcing the lockdown," one of the migrant labourers told news agency ANI during their long wait at the bus station. "It takes us ₹200 to reach home, but they are charging ₹3,000 to ₹4,000 now, how will we go home?" they added.Covid-19 protocols and social distancing went for a toss, the news agency reported, as hundreds of migrant workers thronged the Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in Delhi on Monday evening to board the buses for their native places, many of them waiting for hours. Exhausted women and children were seen laying on the ground with their heads on sacks looking numbly at the hustle, as more migrant workers joined the crowd in the bus terminal with heavy loads on their heads and shoulders. Several others were seen climbing atop buses that were leaving the station.The situation wasn't much different in Ghazipur or in Ghaziabad's Kaushambi, where the scene was reminiscent of the mass exodus of people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar last year when migrant workers had gathered in thousands at Anand Vihar after the central government announced a lockdown in March.Also Read: 'It's a short lockdown, don't leave Delhi': Kejriwal's appeal to migrant workersDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced a six-day Covid-19 lockdown from 10pm on April 19 till 5am on April 26 and urged migrant workers to not leave the national capital during this period. Kejriwal pointed out that its duration being only six days, the present lockdown was a relatively "short" one, and promised that the government will "take care" of them through this crisis. He also assured that the Delhi government will be working hard to ensure adequate medical facilities in the national capital and remained hopeful that the government won't need to extend the current lockdown any further.Lockdown-like measures introduced by several state governments usually spell a loss of livelihood for many migrant workers working in India’s major cities. These migrant workers, who form an essential part of any city’s economy, faced difficulties when the Centre imposed its first lockdown in 2020 following the first wave of Covid-19. Most of them were unable to find transport and had to walk home in desperation and many died due to exertion and lack of food.Delhi on Monday reported a record of 240 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data. The national capital has reported 823 deaths due to the infectious disease in the last five days, with the fourth wave of infections being the worst so far in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/migrant-workers-say-kejriwal-should-ve-given-more-time-before-declaring-lockdown-101618884796305.html
20-04-2021||Lucknow||UP says no need for lockdown, lists steps taken to tackle rising Covid-19 cases||The Uttar Pradesh government has said lockdown will not be imposed in the state even as Allahabad High Court directed it to shut down the capital city of Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur and Gorakhpur till April 26 amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday also interacted with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday and asked about the pandemic situation and the efforts his government has taken to control the coronavirus infection. "The state government is working with full commitment to control coronavirus infections and a strategy is being worked on for extensive testing, tracking and tracking of continuous supply of oxygen along with the availability of ICU beds for prevention of Covid-19," Adityanath said in an official statement, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Lucknow: ASHA workers again at forefront combating Covid-19Before that chief minister's office (CMO) said there will not be any lockdown in the state, which is recording a big spike in daily cases of Covid-19. "There is no need to impose a complete lockdown. Weekend lockdowns will continue to curb the spread of Covid-19," CMO said. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information), also said that the state government will not impose a complete lockdown in the cities but put in strict restrictions. "The UP government is submitting its reply before the court on its observations," Sehgal said, according to ANI.Among the steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government to tackle the coronavirus crisis, Adityanath said a new consignment of 20,000-30,000 Remdesivir vials reached the state on Monday. "A new consignment of Remedisvir will be received within the next three days. Except for special circumstances, total oxygen produced by all industrial units should be used for medical purposes only," the CMO said quoting chief minister Adityanath.Also read | Simplify hospital admission process of Covid patients, Priyanka tells AdityanathThe chief minister said three new oxygen plants will also be set up at different places in the state each week. "With DRDO's help, a new oxygen plant with a capacity of 220 cylinders will be installed and made operational in the next 2-3 days. The government of India has allocated 750 MT oxygen," he said. He also said before any medical college is recognized in the state, it should be ensured that the respective college has its own oxygen plant. "Dedicated Covid hospital with capacity of 225 beds has been operationalized at Lucknow's Balrampur Hospital. 700 more beds will be added. KGMU, RML, Era, Hind, Integral and Mayo Medical Colleges to be run as dedicated COVID hospitals," he said.Also read | Urge Govt to pay special attention on keeping supply of oxygen smooth: MayawatiFifty per cent of 108 ambulances will be dedicated for Covid-19 patients and rapid testing will begin at airports, bus and railway stations of inter-state passengers, he added. The Prime Minister was also informed that 104 private laboratories, 125 public sector laboratories are conducting Covid-19 test and that on April 18, private laboratories nearly conducted more than 19,000 RT-PCR tests. "Instructions have been given to all district collectors to try to increase the RTPCR testing capacity of private laboratories in their district and make full use of this capacity in addition. District administrations send samples collected by government institutions to private laboratories for RTPCR test at the rate of ₹500 per sample," he informed."Some selfish elements are trying to spread the rumour that private laboratories are not conducting Covid-19 tests. Contrary to this, so far about 17 lakh Covid-19 tests have been conducted in private laboratories including more than 884,000 RT-PCR tests," he added.Data showed on Monday Uttar Pradesh recorded 28,287 Covid-19 cases, which have pushed the tally of infection in the state to 879,831, and deaths rose by 167, the highest daily rise so far, to reach 9997. A health bulletin said the number of recoveries has increased with over 10,978 patients discharged in a day and that 661,311 people have recuperated so far from the disease in the state, which has 208,523 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-says-no-need-for-lockdown-lists-steps-taken-to-tackle-rising-covid-19-cases-101618886869856.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers refuse to call off stir; Delhi border traffic remains hit||A day after farmer leaders gave the call to intensify the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws, several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday.Farmers have refused to call off their stir despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed by the Delhi government on Monday night.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed.Also Read | Deep Sidhu sent to jail for 14 days in R-Day caseThe traffic police has advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-refuse-to-call-off-stir-delhi-border-traffic-remains-hit-101618887516178.html
20-04-2021||Indore||No nod for weddings till April 30 in Covid-19 hit Indore||The Indore district administration has decided not to give permission for weddings till April 30 amid the unprecedented increase of Covid-19 cases."No permission will be given for weddings as there's a higher risk of Covid-19 transmission. People are requested to postpone their weddings and stay home till April 30," said Indore District Magistrate Manish Singh."This will help us reduce numbers as hospitals' capacity is full now," he added.He also informed that they have been getting complaints of black marketing of Remdesivir injections."Two people who were caught yesterday, have been charged under NSA. Be it hospitals or shopkeepers, anyone involved in black marketing will be booked under NSA," Singh said.The worsening Covid-19 situation has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many states are reporting a shortage in essential medical supplies.The Covid-19 situation in India continues to deteriorate amid the second wave of coronavirus infections. For the past three days, the country has been reporting in excess of two lakh coronavirus infections and over 1,000 related deaths on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/no-nod-for-weddings-till-april-30-in-covid-19-hit-indore-amid-surge-101618886573821.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Record 240 deaths in Delhi, more than 23,000 Covid-19 cases||Delhi on Monday reported record 240 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, and 23,686 cases with a positivity rate of 26.12%, according to official data.The national capital has reported 823 deaths due to the infectious disease in the last five days, with the fourth wave of infections being the worst so far in the city.On Sunday, Delhi recorded the biggest jump in its daily Covid-19 tally with 25,462 fresh cases, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74%. On Saturday, 24,375 Covid-19 cases and 167 deaths were reported in the city. Delhi’s total death toll stands at 12,361. On June 16, 437 deaths were added to the city’s toll as the government added deaths it had missed out. The highest daily toll reported during the third wave was 131 and during the June-July surge was 101.“So far, there is hardly any difference in the mortality during this wave and the previous one, proving that the virus is not more fatal. However, the deaths may be higher now because of the health system being overburdened. And, we keep on adding more cases every day...,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at the Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/record-240-deaths-in-delhi-more-than-23-000-covid-19-cases-101618883573095.html
20-04-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 6,842 new Covid-19 cases, Gurugram worst-hit district||Haryana on Monday recorded 33 coronavirus-related deaths which pushed the toll to 3,448, while 6,842 fresh cases, another big spike in daily infection count, pushed the cumulative tally to 3,63,813, a health department bulletin said.Among the districts that reported a big spike in Covid-19 cases are Gurugram (1,809), Faridabad (1,080), Sonipat (588), Hisar (527) and Panipat (351) districts.Five of the new fatalities were from Gurugram, four from Panchkula and three each from Sonipat, Ambala and Panipat districts.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 45,363. So far, 3,15,002 people have recovered from the infection and the state has a recovery rate of 86.58 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-records-6-842-new-covid-19-cases-gurugram-worst-hit-district-101618883041330.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 9,582 new Covid-19 cases, death toll mounts to 11,535||Pune district of Maharashtra reported 9,582 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking its Covid-19 count to 7,32,058, a health department official said.He said the death toll rose to 11,535 with 107 more patients succumbing to the infection in the western Maharashtra district."Of the 9,582 cases, 4,587 were reported from Pune municipal corporation areas, where the count has increased to 3,71,824," the official said.Also, 6,473 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, he said.With 2,279 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in Pimpri-Chinchwad rose to 1,86,025, he said.The number of positive cases in rural and Pune cantonment board areas stood at 1,74,209, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-9-582-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-11535-101618882745344.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||‘Grim reality’: give migrants cooked food at their work site, directs HC to Delhi govt||Pulling up the Union and Delhi governments for “not learning from previous mistakes”, the Delhi high court on Monday directed the state government to provide cooked food to Delhi’s migrants at their worksites during the week-long lockdown in the Capital, in place till April 26.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said daily wage labourers “are faced with a grim reality once again”.“We would like that lessons be taken from the past lockdown… Both the state and central governments had miserably failed,” the bench said.The bench also came down heavily on the Delhi government for not utilising ₹3,000 crore from the funds available for the workers under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act.It said that hundreds of thousands of workers, whose membership of the Delhi construction board lapsed, were not given ex gratia payments, and said if the government is short of funds to give the workers food, it can take money from the funds available under the workers act.Also read: Religious places to open, but no visitors allowed“With the imposition of a curfew till April 26, the daily wage earners, who live hand to mouth and earn on a daily basis are faced with a grim reality.”Senior advocate Rahul Mehra appeared for the state government.“On the last occasion, civil society had come forward to provide food and other necessities to a large section of such needy people. Though Mehra says steps were taken, we may say with our full experience we found that the state failed to utilise thousands of crores in its accounts under the workers act. Lakhs of building workers, whose membership has lapsed due to non-renewal, were not given ex gratia”.The court also directed the state to engage the contractor engaged in providing midday meals in schools.Mehra said money would not be a factor and they would “beg, borrow and steal” to provide food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grim-reality-give-migrants-cooked-food-at-their-work-site-directs-hc-to-delhi-govt-101618882358672.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Noida Police fines 482 people for flouting Covid-19 protocols||As many as 482 people were found roaming in public places without a face mask and issued fines in Noida and Greater Noida on Monday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police said. ₹53,450 were collected in fines from the offenders during the patrolling by the police to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 protocols during the day, the officials said."Of these people, three were issued penalties of ₹1,000 as per new rule while action was taken against 52 people under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobeying government order) and FIRs lodged in 13 cases," a police spokesperson said.Also, owners of 1,016 vehicles were issued challans across Gautam Buddh Nagar district for flouting traffic rules and Covid-19 protocols, the official said, adding five vehicles were impounded in the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-fines-482-people-for-flouting-covid-19-protocols-101618882321945.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 helpline numbers. Check here||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-helpline-numbers-check-here-101618880463667.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi lockdown: No panic buying at stores but buyers show anxiety||Retailers in the National Capital on Monday said they witnessed anxiety buying to an extent at their stores after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown. People stocked up staples, processed food, ready to eat and immunity-boosting products in the past couple of days, according to retailers. However, customers have not panicked unlike the last lockdown and as they are assured of their supply and retailers are able to deliver goods at their doorstep after receiving orders either online, through apps and even after a telephone call, in which some are promising same-day delivery. Retailers, who have learnt their lessons in the last nationwide lockdown a year ago, are better equipped from their learnings and have sufficient stocks. "With the announcement of almost week-long curfew in Delhi, we are witnessing anxiety buying at our stores in Delhi today. We have been witnessing a surge in demand for essentials, processed food, ready to eat and immunity-boosting products in the past couple of days and expect this trend to continue," METRO Cash and Carry India MD and CEO Arvind Mediratta told PTI. To help the buyer, METRO Cash and Carry have increased visibility for Covid-related articles and have ensured adequate stock availability in critical articles. "We prioritise the health and safety of our customers and employees and customers, and follow a 30-step stringent safety measures at all our stores that includes social distancing and other requisite hygiene precautions,” he said. While Biz Bazaar said there was no panic buying this time, as people are assured of supply this time through online orders. "This time people are not panicked like the previous lockdown, which was a year before. Earlier people were fearing that they would not be able to get the goods, but now the customers have realised that they can get through home delivery,” said a Biz Bazaar spokesperson. He also assured that the proper stocks would be available at the stores and would be delivered at customers doorstep after getting orders online or calling at stores. V-Mart Retail CMD Lalit Agarwal said that though the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and restrictions would impact the business but assured availability of goods. "There is no panic buying at stores this time as people are assured that they are not going to face any difficulty. This time we have anticipated of lockdown and the availability of goods would be higher than the last time,” he said.Announcing the lockdown in the city earlier in the day, Kejriwal said it was necessary to prevent the health system of Delhi from collapsing under the increasing number of patients as there is an acute shortage of medicines, beds, ICUs and oxygen. In its order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said up to 50 people will be permitted to attend weddings, but they will have to show soft or hard copies of the marriage invitation cards. For funerals, 20 people will be allowed, it said.It further said essential services will be allowed during the lockdown, but private offices and other establishments like shops, malls, weekly markets, manufacturing units, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, restaurants, bars, assembly halls, auditoriums, public parks, sport complexes, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons and beauty parlours will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lockdown-no-panic-buying-at-stores-but-buyers-show-anxiety-101618876812528.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Beds filling fast, city can’t keep up with ICU, oxygen demand||Health care infrastructure in the Capital is under unprecedented stress, evidenced by the fact that the 250 beds operationalised on Monday morning in the army’s temporary hospital were full by the afternoon; Delhi government’s biggest hospital, Lok Nayak, has no beds left for the first time since the pandemic began; and the net availability of ICU beds stood in double digits on Monday despite the addition of 222 beds since Sunday.Of the 134 hospitals that have intensive care unit beds for patients with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), all the beds were occupied in 126 of them as on Monday evening.Only seven hospitals had ICU beds available as of Monday night. Madhukar Rainbow hospital in Malviya Nagar had 24, Sir Ganga Ram 11, ESIC Okhla five, AIIMS and Lady Hardinge four each, Acharya Shree Bhikshu two and Ram Manohar Lohia hospital one, all adding up to 51, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app.Neeraj Gupta was waiting outside west Delhi’s Kalra hospital since Monday morning. His sister and her husband needed admission in an ICU as their oxygen saturation had dipped to 80% (the normal oxygen saturation is 95% to 100%; anything less than 94% for a sustained period is considered to be serious).“The hospital does not have any ICU beds. I’ve called many others but we haven’t received any assurance of an available bed anywhere in the city. We are waiting here because this hospital has told us that beds might become available by 8pm. For now, they are in the car and using the one oxygen tank that I managed to get,” said Gupta.Eight-month pregnant Fareeha Khan was also brought to the emergency department of Holy Family hospital on Monday morning.“Her oxygen saturation had dipped to 82%; the doctors have given her oxygen but they do not have any beds to admit her. We have been calling several hospitals for admission,” said her father IS Khan.The doctors said that the situation was unprecedented and added that they didn’t see anything close to it even during the November surge in cases, which was previously the worst wave of infections in the Capital.“You know what the situation is; the hospital is completely full. We are making place for the sick as patients get discharged. We are keeping some of the others in the observation area,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.A similar situation existed in the Delhi government-run GTB hospital even though the hospital had 986 beds available on Monday evening, according to the Delhi Corona app.“There are 11 or 12 oxygen ports in the Covid-19 emergency; there are at least 70 patients here. The doctors in casualty are supposed to stabilise the patient, give them oxygen and medicines till they can be moved to the ward or ICU. However, all ICU beds and those with central oxygen supply are already occupied. This has clogged the emergency department,” said a doctor posted in the hospital emergency on condition of anonymity.Also read: 2020 rerun? Migrant exodus begins, againThe doctor said: “The 900 or so beds that are available do not have an oxygen pipeline, but can accommodate patients with oxygen cylinders. The only problem with oxygen cylinders is that they can provide oxygen at a speed of up to 15 litres a minute. They cannot be used to give high-flow oxygen, for which nearly 50 litres of oxygen are needed per minute.”At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), a senior administrator said, “We already have about 900 Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital; we do not have the capacity for more. We ask patients who come to the emergency to look for beds elsewhere; we cannot refer them because we do not know where to refer them to.”The administrator added, “Those who can wait, wait. Depending on their condition, they might have to wait anywhere between several hours to a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beds-filling-fast-city-can-t-keep-up-with-icu-oxygen-demand-101618873234592.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Local residents chip in with cooked meals||At a time when social media are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen, and other facilities, concerned citizens are stepping in to provide resources ranging from oxygen cylinders to cooked meals to families battling the infection.Anupriya Singh (Anna), a 42-year-old designer who doubles up as an aggregator of home chef services, recently formed another network of home chefs operating through WhatsApp groups to cater to Covid-affected families.“Right now, everyone knows someone or the other who is down with Covid. Seeing the situation, I started reaching out to home chefs so that we could cater to more people and save on crucial delivery time and expenses. As of today, we have over 120 chefs who are serving Covid-affected families. Every day, I create a new list of home chefs who can provide services in different parts of Delhi,” said Singh.She said nearly 40 chefs are joining the network on a daily basis, with requests for food pouring in from different quarters.“We are not allowing the chefs to price their thalis above ₹150. Some chefs are ready to deliver food for free, but recipients insist on paying for it. Money from such services will be used to start a fund through which we plan to support the needy,” said Singh.Also read: Can’t continue to obstruct others, SC tells farm leadersWithin the neighbourhood, chefs are relying on services of friends or security guards to deliver food to families whereas services of app-based aggregators are being availed of to deliver food to far-off addresses. “Some chefs are also sending their family members to deliver food. People are stepping out to make deliveries themselves despite the severity of the prevailing situation,” said Singh.Ankit Gupta, 28, an Urdu poet who has been living in Delhi for the past year, has been using Twitter to connect those seeking Covid-related help. Gupta said concerned individuals have been using Twitter as a platform to respond to calls for help. “Through social media, we have formed a network of volunteers who are reaching out to hospitals and government officials so that patients can be admitted or provided services at the earliest,” said Gupta.Besides queries related to hospitalisation, Gupta has also been receiving requests from those who are hassled by the curfew restrictions. On Monday, Gupta delivered packets of cooked meals to around 1,000 people near Kashmere Gate. “Due to the lockdown restrictions, people have lost jobs and are unable to pay for food or rent. Through social media, we raised money and were able to help such people,” said Gupta.Aryaman Bhatnagar, a resident, is among those who are using social media to verify crucial information and compile resources. Bhatnagar said the network was started on WhatsApp by citizens.“We provide verified leads and credible information -- pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and medicines -- to those in need. There is a lot of information doing the rounds of WhatsApp and other platforms but, most often, the information is either false or the numbers are not working. Our aim to make sure that a person in need can get verified information on one common list or link,” said Bhatnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/local-residents-chip-in-with-cooked-meals-101618870954744.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis under fire as 22-year-old nephew gets Covid-19 jab||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis Monday drew flak after photos of his 22-year-old nephew getting the Covid-19 vaccination surfaced on social media.In an Instagram post, Tanmay Fadnavis shared a photo of him getting the jab. According to people familiar with the matter, Tanmay received the first dose of the vaccine in Mumbai and the second dose at the National Cancer Institute in Nagpur.After the photos were widely shared on social media, several leaders questioned how the 22-year-old received the vaccine since only frontline or health care workers, and those over the age of 45 are eligible to receive the doses.Also watch | Fadnavis accuses Maha police of harassing Remdesivir supplier; DCP refutes claimCongress leader and Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut demanded an inquiry into the matter. “When eligible persons (45+) are struggling for vaccination, how can a relative of a BJP leader who is barely 22 years old get it,” he asked. He said that persons involved in such “favouritism” should be dealt with sternly and be booked.When contacted, Fadnavis’s office expressed surprise. “Even we were shocked when it appeared in social media as to how a 22-year-old boy got vaccinated,” said Ketan Pathak, who works in the media cell at the Bharatiya Janata Party leader’s office. Tanmay’s grandmother Shobhatai Fadnavis, who is a senior BJP leader, said, “Is it a sin to get a vaccine?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-under-fire-as-nephew-gets-vaccine-101618866644809.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement: Slow lifting leads to glut in mandis, farmers protest||Even as the government stopped procurement operations over the weekend, farmers were back to square one on Monday as they struggled to unload their produce amid space crunch in mandis.Despite deputy commissioners’ directions to speed up lifting operations at least 50% of procured wheat was still in mandis and the arrival of more grain created a glut in most northern districts of the state. With harvesting of wheat is its peak, sluggish lifting operations have added to farmers’ woes.A farmer, Surender Singh of Kurukshetra, who is waiting to unload his wheat at Ladwa grain market, said, “I harvested five acres of wheat on Friday but I did not receive any schedule over SMS. However, I had to bring the produce of two acres in the mandi as I do not have enough storage.” In Karnal, farmers, especially those from the border districts of Uttar Pradesh, staged a protest outside the Karnal grain market over non-procurement of produce.The protesting farmers said that had registered themselves on the ‘meri fasal mera bayora’ portal but they did not get any SMS to bring their produce to the mandis.After three hours, the farmers were allowed to bring their produce to the Karnal mandi. “As there was no space in the mandis farmers waiting from 3am were not given gate passes to enter till 10am,” said a commission agent Rishi Pal of Indri Grain Market of Karnal.As per Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar, 47% of 3.97 lakh tonnes of procured wheat in all mandis has been lifted so far. But 2.11 lakh tonnes of the grain is still lying in mandis of the district.In Karnal, of 5.98 lakh tonnes of wheat procured, 3.49 lakh tonnes have been lifted and 42% was still in the mandis. Similarly, in Kaithal, 4.8 lakh tonnes of grain had arrived but around 2 lakh tonnes were yet to be lifted.As per mandi officials, the government’s decision to stop procurement for two days did not provide any major relief to farmers who continued to bring their produce to the mandis without gate passes and commission agents. Besides tardy lifting, officials said the early peak season had led to the situation.Haryana govt procures 5.32 lakh tonne wheat (BOX)Chandigarh The Haryana government on Monday procured 5.32 lakh tonnes of wheat through different procurement agencies at minimum support price (MSP).Of the 60 lakh tonne wheat that has so far arrived across 396 mandis of the state, around 50 lakh tonnes have been procured. Until Monday, about seven lakh J- forms of nearly two lakh farmers had been issued and ₹2,336 crore transferred directly into the accounts of farmers, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-slow-lifting-leads-to-glut-in-mandis-farmers-protest-101618866213780.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary to be reinstated in Haryana assembly||The Himachal Pradesh high court stayed former Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary’s conviction in a rioting case on Monday, following which his membership to the Haryana assembly will be restored. Legal experts say the orders of the Haryana assembly speaker to unseat Chaudhary from the legislative assembly will have to be withdrawn. The HC order has also terminated prospects of an assembly bypoll. In January, a Nalagarh court had convicted and sentenced Chaudhary three years’ imprisonment on charges of rioting. The Congress leader was subsequently unseated as a member of the Haryana assembly as per Section 8 (3) of the Representation of the People Act. The disqualification provision says that a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his release. Chaudhary’s counsel Bipin Negi said a single judge bench of justice Sandeep Sharma of the HP high court suspended his conviction on Monday. “The Solan sessions court had already stayed his sentence. The suspension of the conviction will continue till the appellate court decides on our appeal against his conviction,’’ Negi said. Former Punjab advocate general Ashok Aggarwal said if the HC has stayed the conviction of the unseated MLA, the speaker will have to restore his membership. Former Haryana advocate general Mohan Jain said, “When the HC has decided in Chaudhary’s favour by suspending his conviction, then the assembly speaker has no other option but to withdraw the orders to disqualify him from the Assembly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exkalka-mla-pradeep-chaudhary-to-be-reinstated-in-haryana-assembly-101618866034927.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||No shortage of ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen: Vij||Despite massive increase in the Covid cases in Haryana, 89% isolation beds, 58% ICU beds and around 63% ventilators are vacant, health minister Anil Vij on Monday said, assuring citizens that oxygen availability was at least four times more than the consumption. Presiding over a state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting, the health minister said Critical Corona Care Centres will be set up in all government medical colleges of the state and that in view of the ongoing surge in Covid cases the surgery in civil hospitals has been discontinued. “At least 270MT of oxygen is available, while the state is consuming 60 MT,” Vij said, adding that there is no shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir in the state. The health minister said Haryana has 45,086 quarantine beds and 11,549 isolation beds, of which about 89% are vacant. He said of 2,131 ICU beds, 58% are vacant, while of 1,079 ventilators around 63% are vacant. He said that there are about 42,000 Covid cases in the state, of which around 30,000 are in home isolation. The management of the doctors of the AYUSH department has been given to civil surgeons of the respective districts so that Covid patients can be looked after properly, he said. A home isolation kit is being prepared, which will contain medicines, oximeter, Covid prevention literature and other necessary materials. The government has decided to conduct Covid test of patients going to private and government hospitals with symptoms such as cough, cold, sore throat or fever. Devotees returning from Haridwar after attending the Kumbh Mela will be tested at the entry points of Haryana. The health department will take initiatives to conduct Covid tests and administer the vaccine to farmers sitting on dharna on the Haryana border. For this, first talks will be held with farmers’ leaders. The state-level Covid monitoring committee that comprises senior IAS, IPS and health department officers, also includes chief principal secretary to CM DS Dhesi, and chief secretary Vijai Vardhan.No Ram Navami lockdown 
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Scribe ends life, 4 arrested for abetment in Bathinda||Four people, including a woman, have been arrested for abetting suicide of a Bathinda-based Punjabi journalist. The body of Kamaljit Singh Sidhu, 45, the Bathinda district in-charge of Ajit newspaper, was fished out from the lake in the compound of National Fertiliser Limited (NFL) on Monday afternoon.Sidhu was reported missing since Saturday afternoon. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said: “A handwritten note was found in the cover of Sidhu’s mobile phone naming four persons of a family, including a woman.” Bathinda DSP Aaswant Dhaliwal said the woman, her husband, who was dismissed from the police department last year, and their two sons have been arrested. A case under 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered and all four have been arrested.” Police said the woman had charged Sidhu’s brother-in-law Gursharan Singh, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), with rape last year.The woman, her husband and son were arrested with drugs by Gursharan’s team in July last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scribe-ends-life-4-arrested-for-abetment-in-bathinda-101618865193900.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||AJL re-allotment case: Enough material to take cognisance against Hooda: CBI court||Stating that it has enough materials to presume that the former chief minister has committed offences, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Haryana, has ordered framing of charges against Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the alleged illegal allotment of a plot in Panchkula to Associated Journal Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper.The court dismissed an application filed by Hooda, seeking discharge and said that the allegations are “specific”. “Whether or not those allegations are true, is a matter which cannot be determined at the stage of framing of charges. Any such determination can take place only at the conclusion of the trial,” special judge, CBI court, Sushil Kumar Garg said. On Friday, the court had framed charges against Hooda and AJL.The FIR was registered in 2016 during the BJP’s regime for the alleged offences in 2005 when the Congress leader was the chief minister. According to the CBI, a 3,360 square metres institutional plot (C-17) in Sector 6, Panchkula, was allotted by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) to AJL in 1982, but because construction was not carried out in 10 years, it was taken back in 1992. In 1995 and 1996, appeal and revisions were filed by AJL against resumption of the plot, but these were also dismissed by the HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner, town and country planning. However, when Hooda became the chief minister in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL on old rates, allegedly causing of loss of ₹62 lakh to the government exchequer.Hooda had argued that the CBI had failed to show any “dishonest intention” on his part and that re-allotment of the plot can be treated as an “error of judgment” which may be a civil claim. However, the court said that the argument has no force because “dishonest intention” of Hooda cannot be gathered from “the vacuum”, but from the facts and circumstances of the case. It took note of public prosecutor KP Singh’s argument that Hooda had full knowledge of everything but despite it all, he re-allotted the said plot to AJL, which allegedly revealed the dishonest intention on his part.Hooda had also argued that there is “no conflict of interest” and “no personal or institutional bias” in favour of AJL. “It is crystal clear that both accused belonged to the same party and M/s AJL is also associated with the Congress, one of whose objectives is to promote the party’s ideology,” the court observed, taking note of CBI’s argument that accused Motilal Vora (since deceased) was a veteran politician of the Congress party, which came into power in Haryana in 2005.“Prima facie sufficient grounds are made out to proceed with the trial against the accused and no ground for discharge is made out,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ajl-re-allotment-case-enough-material-to-take-cognisance-against-hooda-cbi-court-101618864953486.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre earmarks ₹906 cr for Punjab under Samagra Shiksha||The Centre has earmarked an outlay of ₹906 crore for Punjab for the financial year 2021-22 under the flagship Samagra Shiksha scheme. The tentative fund allocation has been conveyed by the Union ministry of education to the state government under the centrally sponsored integrated scheme for school education. Of this, the ₹544 crore will be provided by the Centre as its share and the remaining ₹362 crore by the state government. The programme aimed at ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education is jointly funded by the Centre and the state on 60:40 sharing basis. A school education department official said the funds earmarked by the central ministry for the current financial year are tentative estimates. “The department will submit its annual work plan and budget to the Union ministry of education for approval with details of activities and civil works to be undertaken this year. The final budget will be approved by the ministry’s project approval board on the basis of approvals granted for specific activities. Unspent balance of previous fiscal (2020-21) will also be carried forward,” said the official who is in the know of the matter. The department, which is giving final touches to the annual work plan and budget 2021-22, will submit it to the ministry in the next few days. The project approval board meeting was originally scheduled for April 16 and has been deferred. The new date is still to be decided. Of the estimated allocation of ₹906 crore, ₹615.42 crore, or say 68%, are proposed to be earmarked for elementary education and ₹276.20 crore for secondary education. A sum of ₹14.26 crore has been proposed for teacher education, including State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) and District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs). The ministry has informed the state government that the overall plan proposal should not exceed 125% of the estimated plan outlay. However, the school education department is hopeful of getting a higher allocation than the estimates conveyed by the central ministry due to an increase in student enrolment in government schools. The special enrolment drive, including a door-to-door campaign by primary and pre-primary teachers amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, has seen students shift to government schools from private ones during the past one year as the latter have been insisting on tuition feeds whereas everything, from education to textbooks and uniform, are free in the state-run schools. The thrust areas for the current year include early childhood development, care and education, digital initiatives, foundation literacy and numeracy, and universalisation of secondary and senior secondary education and funds will be allocated for activities accordingly. “The Covid-19 pandemic has presented unprecedented challenges for the education sector as the schools could not open for most part of this academic year and large migrations took place all over the country,” reads a letter sent by the department of school education and literacy, Union ministry of education, to the state government last month, laying emphasis on the importance of digital initiatives in these challenging times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-earmarks-rs-906-cr-for-punjab-under-samagra-shiksha-101618864833696.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||2 Dalit kids burnt to death: 6 years on, CBI court accepts closure report, clean chit to 11 accused||In a six-year-old case, pertaining to two infants burning to death, the special CBI court has accepted the investigating agency’s closure report and given 11 people the clean-chit. As per the FIR, on the night of October 19, the two children of Jitender from Sunped village,Faridabad, who belonged to the Dalit community, aged two years and nine months, were burnt to death after 11 people allegedly entered his house through the window, poured patrol and set the room on fire. Jitender said the 11 people while fleeing said they wanted to kill people of the community. In October, 2015 a case was registered against 11 persons by the police, however, two days later it was transferred to CBI following the Centre’s intervention.The CBI’s investigation revealed that in October 2014, four persons from the accused’s family were murdered and according to Jitender the men set his house on fire as revenge. Later, investigations revealed that some negotiations were going on between people belonging to the Thakur and Dalit community to reach a compromise in the previous murder, but to no avail. CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg observed: “The possibility cannot be ruled out that the complainant might have implicated the accused persons to settle scores of Dalits in the aforesaid murder case.”The order mentioned how the complainant and his wife had made several inconsistent statements. They also finally admitted that they did not see anybody setting the fire. Jitender also admitted that the names were given at the insistance of other villagers. Experts opined ‘no forcible entry’Experts from three laboratories — FSL Madhuban, Karnal, Haryana; CFSL New Delhi, and Telangana State Forensic Science Laboratory, Hyderabad — have opined that there was ‘no forcible entry’ into the bedroom and that the fire originated inside the bedroom from the Center of the bed and that the room was bolted from inside when the fire erupted.“Clearly observing that there was no indication of outsiders having come inside the room and there being no sign whatsoever of disturbance outside the room,”the order mentioned.Narco, polygraph test against the coupleIt adds: “The polygraph reports of the suspects and the couple indicate that the responses given by the suspects are not deceptive and consistent, whereas, responses of the couple reflect deception, indicating that they are hiding some vital information instead of revealing the truth. Even the narcoanalysis of Jitender makes his act and conduct doubtful.”The court ordered: “Mere suspicion cannot take the place of proof. Hence, this court is satisfied that there is not sufficient material against the above said accused persons. Thus, it would be a futile exercise in flogging a dead horse only on the ground of mere suspicion and without there being any substantive material on record.”Accepting the closure report of CBI, the court said that “the investigation has been conducted in right perspective and no doubt remains to be cleared either by way of re-investigation or by leading evidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-dalit-kids-burnt-to-death-6-years-on-cbi-court-accepts-closure-report-clean-chit-to-11-accused-101618864593430.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Dhindsa, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura announce merger of their SAD splinter groups||Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and former Khadur Sahib MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura on Monday announced the merger of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) splinter groups they had been heading.The two leaders, who had launched the SAD (Democratic) and the SAD (Taksali) after they were expelled from the Badals-led Akali Dal for raising a banner of revolt against the party leadership, said the name of the new outfit will be declared soon. At a press conference in Chandigarh, they said a six-member ‘ekta committee’ was formed to hold discussions with like-minded people. Committee spokesperson Karnail Singh Peermohammad termed coming together of the two senior leaders as an important political development. “This will have an impact on the results of the Punjab assembly polls scheduled in 2022. We will also contest the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections if held before the state elections,” he said. The organisational structure of the new outfit will be announced in the first week of May, he added. In February 2020, Dhindsa along with his MLA son and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa were expelled from the SAD after he held party president Sukhbir Singh Badal responsible for the 2017 assembly poll debacle besides being unable to handle the sacrilege incidents during the SAD-BJP government. Brahmpura and his son Ravinder Brahmpura were expelled from SAD in November 2018. Dhindsa appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the demands of farmers who have been agitating against the three agriculture reform laws for several months. He accused Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and the Badals of playing a friendly match, saying it was the state that was suffering due to this. He said Amarinder had big promises ahead of the 2017 state polls but failed to deliver on any of them. Besides Brahmpura and Dhindsa, Ujagar Singh Badali, Mahinder Singh Hussainpur, Jagdish Singh Garcha, Ranjit Singh Talwandi and Shinderpal Singh Brar were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhdev-dhindsa-ranjit-singh-brahmpura-announce-merger-of-their-sad-splinter-groups-101618864533594.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Virus spread creates new record in Haryana||The number of coronavirus infected patients in Haryana went through the roof last week (April 12-18) with the state reporting a record high of 40,090 new infections. This is more than double the numbers reported the week before. The virus trajectory which started climbing 10 weeks ago had already reached an apex level the week before (April 5-11) with 18,748 fresh infections. Before the two new records in terms of highest number of weekly infections were set in the past fortnight, the highest number of cases during the last surge was 17,426 infections reported between November 16 and 22. The surge has also pushed the number of active cases to 45,363. The state also reported 147 deaths last week even though the case fatality rate was below 1%. As per health department statistics, the sample positivity rate jumped to 5.23% in the last week as compared to 4.82% the week before and the recovery rate dropped to 87.22% from 91.96%. National capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram with around 12,000 active infections, Faridabad with around 5,500 active infections, Sonepat with over 3,400 infections were the major contributors to the tally. Karnal with over 3,100 active infections, Hisar with over 2,700 active cases, Panchkula with over 2,100 cases and Ambala with around 2,000 active cases also caused concern among health authorities, officials said. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said that they are stepping up sampling and vaccination at Singhu and Tikri borders where a large number of farmers have assembled. “Also, we are going to conduct RT-PCR tests on those returning from Kumbh at three locations – Kala Amb, Yamunanagar and Karnal near the UP borders,’’ Arora said. Vaccination crosses 3 million mark Health officials said around 32 lakh individuals have been vaccinated and the authorities were sampling 2 lakh peopel every week. “We are planning to further step up the vaccination drive in the coming days,’’ said an official. Panipat enters critical category, Jhajjar exits desirable Panipat district with a sample positivity rate of 6% has entered the critical category, joining four other districts -Faridabad (9.05%), Gurugram (7.51%), Panchkula (6.77%) and Rewari (6.38%). Officials said Ambala with a positivity rate of 5.82% and Karnal with a positivity rate 5.68% are fast-approaching the critical positivity mark of over 6%. With Jhajjar making an exit from the desirable positivity rate category, only two districts- Nuh (0.83%) and Charkhi Dadri (1.17%) now have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-spread-creates-new-record-in-haryana-101618864236479.html
20-04-2021||Other||300 cops on ground to enforce curbs in Dugri containment zone||As many as 300 police personnel were deployed to enforce the restrictions at Urban Estate Phase 1 and 2 in Dugri, a day after the administration declared it a containment zone. Most residents, however, were unaware of the fact that their area had been sealed and were seen fighting tooth and nail with cops, to enter or exit the area. Dugri station house officer, inspector Surinder Chopra said as many as 45 checkpoints have been set up in the area and only people with emergencies will be allowed to go out. “As the area is connected with other parts of the city through multiple roads, we have deployed our personnel on each and every road and street to ensure foolproof sealing,” he said.A cop, who was on duty at one of the checkpoints, said, “Many residents were not prepared for the lockdown; so they came out of their houses to buy necessary items. The grocery stores within the area are already running out of stocks.” Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Phase 1, said, “My family owns a land in Meharban area. My father has gone there to harvest the wheat crop. Now, I don’t know if the cops will allow him to return home. Cops themselves seem confused as to whether they should allow people to enter or not.” Another resident, Jagjit Singh, said he has a shop in Shimlapuri but he couldn’t go there today due to the curbs. He added that the authorities should issue passes for shopkeepers and factory workers so that they can carry on with their work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/300-cops-to-check-movement-in-ludhiana-s-containment-zone-101618864113627.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab positivity rate jumps 36% in two weeks||Blurb: Out of 22 districts, nine on Monday recorded positivity rate of more than 10% Chandigarh With Covid-19 spreading its wings wide and fast in the second wave, Punjab’s daily positivity rate has jumped by nearly 36% in the past fifteen days from nearly 7.8% to 10.6% as on Monday. Maximum and the highest ever positivity rate (12.6%) the state witnessed was on April 15, as per the information gathered from the health department, when a record 4,333 cases were witnessed out of 34,409 tests conducted. On other days, in the last one week, state’s positivity rate has remained more than 10%, meaning of every 100 samples tested for the virus, 10 were found positive. Punjab’s single day spike touched a new high of 4,957 cases on Sunday but state’s positivity rate remained 10.49% as tests conducted on the day were also the highest (47,247). Punjab’s overall positivity rate till date remained around 4.5% but there is no district at present which is showing less than 5% of positivity rate as on Monday. Muktsar has the highest positivity rate of 27.10% in the state, whereas Ferozepur has the lowest (5.7%). Out of Punjab’s 22 districts, nine districts — SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Faridkot, Fazilka, Muktsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Tarn Taran, Moga and Mansa — on Monday recorded positivity rate of more than 10%. State’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said state’s positivity has increased in past few days but the good thing is that it has remained constant at around 10% when the state is moving towards peak. “The best thing is we have been utilising most of our testing capacities with around 45,000 tests being done daily,” said the nodal officer. Situation grim in SAS Nagar SAS Nagar (Mohali) district has emerged as the biggest concern for the health authorities in past one week, with the district on Sunday witnessing around 36.53% of positivity rate, as per health functionaries. On Monday, Mohali’s positivity rate was 21.10% with the district witnessing 792 cases, maximum for any district. “There have been a few questions over the low testing in the district in past few days and now the district administration has been asked to ramp it up. On Monday, some fresh instructions were passed on to the district administration to implement the restrictions strictly and increase testing,” a senior health department functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-positivity-rate-jumps-36-in-two-weeks-101618864055126.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Let’s ‘shake’ CM to make him to perform his duty on Sacrilege issue: Sidhu to Phoolka||Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday asked noted lawyer and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Harvinder Singh Phoolka to join hands with him to “shake” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to make him perform his duty by taking action against the culprits of the 2015 sacrilege and police firing incidents. The former minister said this in reply to a letter written to him by Phoolka wherein the latter asked him to do something “concrete” to take the issue to a logical conclusion and ensure justice to the Sikh community in the matter. The case was a talking point again in Punjab’s political circle after the high court ordered to quash the Kotakapura police firing probe conducted by the special investigation team (SIT) led by inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. In his reply, Sidhu said, “The Punjab assembly is supreme authority on making laws for the state. Apart from making laws, we work to make the executive answerable before the people. You are well aware that in the sacrilege case that the assembly can only guide the executive on the path to be followed.” “While campaigning for Congress during a rally in Bathinda, I raised the demand that justice must be delivered in the sacrilege case at every cost. I demanded exemplary punishment to those who ordering firing on protesters. My ministerial portfolio was changed due to my utterance but I chose to resign because no post is above the Guru’s honour,” he said.“Being a representative of people, I don’t care who holds power. The case needs registration of an FIR, investigation and making arrests, but this cannot be done even by calling 10 assembly sessions because only the state’s home minister has the power to do it,” the Congress MLA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lets-shake-cm-to-make-him-to-perform-his-duty-on-sacrilege-issue-sidhu-to-phoolka-101618863998683.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur residents write to chief secretary seeking probe into felling of trees||Residents of Sangrur have written to the Punjab chief secretary demanding investigation into cutting of trees in the town in the name of development. Calling the felling of trees “senseless”, the residents citing information obtained through right to information (RTI) from the local municipal council said trees were axed near the bus stand, civil hospital and other places without permission. “In the first week of March, 27 trees were felled on Kali Mata Mandir road even as we protested against the move. The PWD has been cutting trees to carry out roadworks without due permission. The residents have been complaining against the illegal act with the local administration, but to no avail,” they said. A copy of the complaint was also marked to the additional chief secretary (forest and wildlife preservation), principal secretary (public works) and principal secretary (local bodies) and the Sangrur deputy commissioner.Sangrur MC executive officer Ramesh Kumar said development works were started in public interest and by following due process.Deputy commissioner Ramvir said he has sought a report from the department concerned in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-residents-write-to-chief-secretary-seeking-probe-into-felling-of-trees-101618863997095.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM accepts IG Kunwar Vijay’s resignation||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday accepted the premature retirement request of IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh was heading the special investigation team probing the 2015 Kotakpura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases. The incidents had taken place after the alleged desecration of a religious text in Faridkot. The 1998-batch officer of the Punjab cadre had tendered his resignation on April 11, two days after the Punjab and Haryana high court had quashed the probe by the SIT into the Kotkapura firing incident. Though Amarinder had earlier refused to accept Kunwar’s resignation but the officer was firm on his stand. The CM has forwarded IG’s resignation to the home department for further action, said official sources. Kunwar Vijay, who otherwise was to retire in 2029, had assured the government of full help and support even outside his service in connection with the probe led by him in two cases of police firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-accepts-ig-kunwar-vijay-s-resignation-101618863934384.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will file defamation suit against IG Kunwar Vijay over witness claim: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday said he will file a defamation suit against inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh for falsely claiming that he tried to lure the witness in the Kotkapura police firing case with the promise of a job in the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). In a press statement, the former deputy chief minister claimed that had never met Ajit Singh, the witness, and it was clear that Kunwar Vijay was obsessed with targeting the SAD and the Badal family. It was with this purpose that the police officer forwarded a “malicious” letter to the director general of police (DGP) making such wild allegations, he said. “The IG knew from the proceedings of the Kotkapura case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court that his probe would be set aside. The latest allegation is a result of this frustration and aimed at politicising a case. He wanted to implicate the SAD leadership at the behest of the Congress government but did not succeed. Now he taking the letter route to defame our leadership,” said Sukhbir. “Ajit Singh had also set the record straight by asserting that he had not been approached by anyone for a job or the other way round. Despite such a clear-cut rebuttal from the witness, the IG prevailed upon a section of the media to publish this malafide report. Our lawyers are looking into the case to ascertain if there is a wider conspiracy to defame me,” he added. Kunwar Vijay set to join AAP: Majithia Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday accused IGP Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh of deliberately politicising the Kotakpura firing case as he was set to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the 2021 Punjab assembly elections. Talking to mediapersons after the election of office-bearers of the Majitha municipal council, the former minister claimed that the IG flouted all service rules by disrespecting the Punjab and Haryana High Court orders. The political vendetta launched by him against the SAD was exposed by the court, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-file-defamation-suit-against-ig-kunwar-vijay-over-witness-claim-sukhbir-badal-101618863933347.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Procurement picks up pace in Doaba amid snags||JALANDHAR Farmers on Monday protested against the delay in procurement of their produce at Nadala grain market of Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Hoshiarpur districts. Farmers Puran Singh and Nawjinder Singh said they were camping at the grain market for five days and didn’t succeed in selling their crop yet. District mandi officer Arvinder Singh said most of the issues have already been resolved. “We have already procured more than 40% of the crop as compared to last year,” he said. District food supply controller Geeta said that the issue of gunny bags has already been resolved as the government has allowed arhtiyas to use the old gunny bags. “The delay in payment was due to holidays, while lifting has picked up pace. The procurement will as smooth as before in a day,” she said. In Jalandhar, the procurement has by and large been smooth at 137 purchase centres amid complaints of gunny bag shortage and late payments. District mandi officials said the issues farmers raised were being resolved immediately. Tardy lifting in Hoshiarpur In Hoshiarpur district, wheat arrival is gathering pace but the lifting is slow. Of the 66,573 metric tonnes wheat procured in the district by Monday, only 18,127 MT could be lifted. Payment is also tardy as only 9 per cent of due amount has been cleared so far. District food supply controller (DFSC) Rajnish Kaur said the lifting was affected due to rains. She said the payment got delayed due to some technical glitches but the problem is being resolved by the head office. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, nearly 97% of wheat has been purchased of the total arrived in the grain markets, said deputy commissioner Shena Aggarwal. She said the procurement process got partially hit due to the bad weather. Farmers alleged shortage of gunny bags in Banga sub-division of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district. DFSC Rajesh Bhaskar said the problems faced in Banga have been resolved. Principal secretary, food and civil supplies, KAP Sinha said, there was no shortage of gunny bales as Centre has allowed reuse of gunny bags. “We have made arrangement of 68,000 bales from arhtiyas for the second time use. There was a shortage of more than 10% bales, as we need total 5.24 lakh bales to procure 130 lakh tonnes wheat expected to come for procurement in the current season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/procurement-picks-up-pace-in-doaba-amid-snags-101618863635347.html
20-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC restricts public entry in its offices||Amid soaring Covid cases in the district, the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday restricted public entry in its office. Residents have been directed to submit complaints online and entry will only be allowed if necessary. In an order issued by municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, zonal commissioners have been directed to place complaint boxes outside the offices. They have also been told to ensure that entry, when necessary, should be allowed from one entry gate only. Staff should be deployed to ensure that the visitors wear a mask and get the hands sanitised.Residents can also get the complaints registered at 0161-4085013 and 0161-4085038. Sabharwal stated that any individual or organisation/group which wants to submit a memorandum, should do it online.An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that even though entry into the civic body’s offices has been restricted, many residents will still have to visit for work like submitting documents to get TS1 (NOC) and change of ownership. The official added that the MC should shut down its offices completely till second wave resides. While residents appreciated the step, they also demanded that MC should ensure timely solution for complaints submitted online.Tanvir Singh, a resident of Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, said, “MC takes many days to resolve complaints submitted online. The step taken by the civic body to restrict entry is appreciable, but they must ensure time-bound redressal of grievances.” Sabharwal said, “The decision has been taken after discussions with mayor Balkar Sandhu, keeping in mind the safety of the public and MC staff. Large number of residents visit MC offices to submit complaints and for other work, which can be done online. Directions have been issued to officials to resolve complaints received online at the earliest. Residents can also submit complaints on the MC’s official website, mcludhiana.gov.in. In case of any other problem, they can submit a complaint on commissionermcl@gmail.com.Sabharwal said that he has also directed the MC officials to provide masks and hand sanitisers to the field staff. Last year, over 50 MC employees including zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh, had tested Covid positive and three Class-4 staffers had succumbed to the disease. Email ids of important MC officials:Additional commissioner - additionalcomm.mcl@gmail.comZonal commissioner Zone A - acdmcl1@gmail.comZonal commissioner Zone B - zonalcomm.zb@gmail.comZonal commissioner Zone C - zonalcomm.zcmcl@gmail.comZonal commissioner Zone D - zonalcomm.d@gmail.comSecretary advertisement - jassekhonn@gmail.comSuperintending engineer (O and M cell Zone A and B) - xenzoneb1234@gmail.comSuperintending engineer (O and M cell Zone C and D) - assistantcommissionerzd@gmail.comMunicipal town planner- mtpludhiana@gmail.com or mtp.mcludhiana@gmail.comSuperintending engineer (B and R cell Zone A) - seticmcl@gmail.comSuperintending engineer (B and R cell Zone B)- rdeep3036@gmail.comSuperintending engineer (B and R cell Zone C)- xenmcl@gmail.comSuperintending Engineer (B and R cell Zone D)- Isclceo@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-restricts-public-entry-in-its-offices-101618863393411.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gap in arrival, purchase and lifting weighs heavy in south Malwa||BATHINDA Kulwant Singh of Kishangarh village in Mansa district has been camping at the grain market in Bareta for the last eight days to sell his wheat. He has 12-acres of land and harvested only a part of the total area. “Officials and arhtiyas say there are no gunny bags. In absence of packaging material, procurement has slowed down work and farmers are hassled,” said Singh. As per official records, only 4,895 metric tonnes (MT) wheat was purchased by different agencies in Bareta mandi on Monday and only 400 MT food grain was lifted. President of arhtiyas’ association at Bareta Jitender Mohan Garg blames the state authorities for poor preparedness for the procurement. “Contrary to the claims of the Punjab government, the purchase is disappointingly slow as there has hardly been any availability of gunny bags. There is no space left in the mandi,” he added. In the south Malwa region, Bathinda and Mansa districts have more problems related to procurement. In the last three days, farmer protests have been reported at various places of the two districts against the slow purchase. Of 3.68 lakh MT wheat arrived in Bathinda so far, nearly 74,000 MT is still lying unsold at various centers across the district. Wheat grower Sikander Singh had to travel 20 km to Bathinda last Friday as procurement at the purchase centre at his native Shergarh village was delayed. “I am waiting here for the last four days and it may take at least three more days for my turn due to the heavy rush. Authorities should expedite lifting and ensure smooth supply of gunny bags,” he said. Officials admit the tardy lifting of the wheat is now threatening to create a glut-like situation in the coming days as heavy more crop has been harvested that will flood the grain markets. An arhtiya at Talwandi Sabo Sukhpal Singh said a delay in the supply of bags could lead to a situation where farmers will struggle to find a place for their crop inside the grain markets. To date, about 38,000 MT has arrived at Talwandi and 10,000 MT grains stand unsold. “There is no coordination or support from the authorities. As the stock is lying unsold, farmers are unable to bring the harvested crop to mandis,” said. Bathinda district mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said the situation is likely to improve by Tuesday afternoon after additional supply has been assured by the state authorities. “It is more of fear in the mandis whereas the real situation is not very alarming. Wheat purchase is a massive exercise and Bathinda, the largest district of southern Punjab, is expected to procure 10.31 lakh metric tonnes wheat and these issues will be resolved soon,” said the official. Officials in Fazilka said there have been more complaints of delay in uploading farmers’ details on the web portal for direct payments. “There is a lack of technical support for the teething problems in the new payment system. But the state administration is working to fix the challenges,” said a district functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gap-in-arrival-purchase-and-lifting-weighs-heavy-in-south-malwa-101618863215003.html
20-04-2021||Other||Submit details of late brother’s assets, composer Sajid told by Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) last week directed music composer Sajid Khan of Sajid-Wajid fame and his mother to submit details of all the investments and assets of his late brother Wajid, along with the audited accounts, to establish their total worth.The directions were issued after Wajid’s wife Kamalrukh approached the court, seeking probate of a will made by the late music composer in 2012, in which he had bequeathed most of his assets to his wife and children. The wife claimed that after Wajid’s untimely death due to Covid-19 last June, Khan had been trying to transfer all of her late husband’s assets to their mother’s name, and thus refusing any benefits to the petitioner and her two children.The single bench of justice Gautam Patel, while hearing the interim application in the testamentary petition filed by Kamalrukh Khan, Wajid’s wife through video-conferencing was informed that she sought directions to her mother-in-law, Khan and her late husband’s chartered accountant to furnish details of all properties and assets, including eight paintings of MF Husain and other renowned painters, in his name which he had earned during his illustrious career of more than 20 years in Bollywood. Kamalrukh claimed that Wajid had amassed immovable and movable assets in his name, valued in crores of rupees, and also had a share in the Sajid-Wajid Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) firm floated by the two brothers. However, after Wajid’s demise, Sajid had been trying to transfer the properties in his name for himself and their mother and hence she sought details of all properties and assets in the name of Wajid, Kamalrukh claimed. Advocate Zubin Behramkamdin, who along with Bahraiz and Behzad Irani represented Kamalrukh, informed the bench that she did not convert to Islam after marriage and remained a Parsi, as a result of which Wajid’s mother did not like her. Wajid had executed the Hibahnama (gift deed) last May in which he allegedly “desired to give nothing to his children and Kamalrukh”. Moreover, they applied for “letters of administration” of Wajid’s estate, based on the Hibahnama , without informing Kamalrukh, following which she moved HC. Wajid had tried to pacify his mother by filing for divorce, but never pursued it. The advocates submitted that there was no animosity between the couple and hence, after his demise, his property should be inherited by his wife, mother and children, which was his intention as per his will he prepared in 2012. The will was not probated, and a case awaiting its adjudication in HC is pending. Khan and his mother’s advocate Birendra Saraf informed the court that they would not create any third-party rights in the property in Wajid’s name till the next hearing, which was accepted by the bench. Thereafter justice Patel directed, “The Respondents will file an affidavit in reply on or before 21st April 2021. The Reply is to disclose the entire estate of the deceased the late Mr Wajid S Khan along with the necessary tax returns and their accompanied computation of income or sale. Also required will be the returns of the Limited Liability Company in which the deceased had an interest. All other similar commercial entities in which the deceased had any interest or share (apart from regular investments) are also to be disclosed with their complete financials.” The petition is posted for hearing for Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/submit-details-of-late-brother-s-assets-composer-sajid-told-by-bombay-hc-101618863152799.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Provide potable water to 84 govt schools in Ludhiana: NGT to Punjab chief secy||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab chief secretary to take steps to provide safe drinking water to students in 84 government schools in Ludhiana district. While disposing an application filed by Chandigarh-based lawyer HC Arora, the NGT observed that as per RTI information, the water of 63 government schools in Ludhiana district was found to be exceeding laid down parameters of alkalinity, hardness, calcium and total dissolved solids (TDS). The water being supplied through submersible pumps to 23 other government schools in the district was also found to have bacterial contamination, as per RTI information.The NGT said steps need to be taken for preventing pollution of water, and pending such steps, wherever water is contaminated, steps are required to be taken for providing safe drinking water. “This is the primary obligation of the state. Thus, remedial action is required to be taken by the state authorities,” it said, directing the chief secretary to look into the matter in co-ordination with the other departments, ascertain the causes of contamination, and take remedial action. A meeting with departments concerned for the purpose may be held within one month, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/provide-potable-water-to-84-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-ngt-to-punjab-chief-secy-101618862853318.html
20-04-2021||Other||Mumbai cyber police nabs engineer for duping using fake websites||Cyber police officers of Mumbai have arrested a computer engineer from Bihar for allegedly cheating dozens of people through around 160 fake websites. The websites, allegedly made by the accused Sonu Kumar Chaudhari, were used by online fraudsters to cheat people under the pretext of allotting them the dealerships of some companies, advancing loans and data entry jobs, said the police. Chaudhari would charge ₹2 lakh for making a website. During his interrogation, he revealed that was doing so to make easy money, as during the lockdown, his computer solutions company had shut down and he was left unemployed. Chaudhari also owns a small firm, Mithila Info Software, which had to be shut during the lockdown. Hence, he decided to work for the online fraud groups, a police officer said. Chaudhari holds a BTech degree and is currently pursuing an MTech course. He was arrested after the representatives of a tyre manufacturing giant approached the cyber police in January, alleging that their company’s fake website had been created, and under the pretext of allotting dealerships, people were being cheated through the website. The police registered a first information report (FIR) and found some technical leads in the matter. “We traced the suspect to Darbhanga, Bihar, and arrested him recently. Chaudhari admitted that he had created 15 similar websites and helped coding 150 others. For each fake website, he would get around ₹2 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Cyber, Rashmi Karandikar. Around ₹50 lakh has been found from his bank account, the police said. The police have seized Chaudhari’s phones, laptop, tabs and hard disk. They are analysing his phone call details and are looking for his partners, another Cyber police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cyber-police-nabs-engineer-for-duping-using-fake-websites-101618862612889.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Send vaccines, give approval for oxygen plants: Capt to Centre||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday urged the Centre to send immediate supplies of coronavirus vaccines and give approval to two new oxygen plants in the state amid concerns over depleting stocks.On the availability of vaccines, state chief secretary Vini Mahajan told the CM that the situation was critical with only three days of stocks left, but the central government has assured that more would be sent soon. Medical education minister OP Soni cited shortage of oxygen supply at an Amritsar hospital, on which the chief secretary said though Indian Oil Limited (OIL) was providing the state with supplies, the situation was a matter of concern. “A close watch was being kept on the demand-supply situation at both government and private hospitals,” she said. A committee has been formed by the state government under the principal secretary industries to monitor the situation and coordinate with the centre, added the chief secretary. Health Secretary Hussan Lal said three plants had been operationalised since the last surge, and two plants at medical colleges of Amritsar and Patiala were awaiting the Centre’s approval. He said the coronavirus figures are expected to go up further with more testing and by May 5, the state is projected to report 6,000 cases a day if urgent measures are not taken in Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Patiala, which will be drivers of the spike.The CM directed all departments to make all efforts to maximise vaccination among the eligible population. He also urged large industries to take responsibility for getting their employees vaccinated.IOC refinery begins supply of oxygen to hospitals Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, India’s largest refiner, Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IndianOil), has started the supply of 150 metric tonnes of oxygen at no cost to various hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. The first batch of medical grade oxygen was dispatched to a hospital in Delhi on Monday, IndianOil chairman SM Vaidya said in a press statement. The corporation has diverted the high-purity oxygen used in its mono ethylene glycol (MEG) unit to produce medical-grade liquid oxygen at its Panipat refinery and petrochemical Complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/send-vaccines-give-approval-for-oxygen-plants-capt-to-centre-101618862553323.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||At 84, Punjab reports highest single-day deaths this year||Punjab on Monday reported 84 deaths, the highest single-day fatalities due to the coronavirus this year, pushing the toll to 7,985, according to a medical bulletin.The state had seen the maximum daily toll of 106 in September last year. With 4,653 fresh COVID-19 cases, the infection tally jumped to 3,04,660, the bulletin said.The number of active cases stands at 35,311 in the state.Twelve new fatalities linked to the virus were reported in Amritsar, 10 in Ludhiana, eight in Sangrur and seven in Patiala.Mohali reported a maximum of 792 new cases, followed by 758 in Ludhiana, 380 in Jalandhar, 342 in Amritsar and 304 in Patiala, according to the bulletin.A total of 3,418 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, bringing the recovery count to 2,61,364, it said.There are 43 critical COVID-19 patients who are on ventilator support while 463 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 66,39,409 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-84-punjab-reports-highest-single-day-deaths-this-year-101618862433351.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||CRZ violations rampant near Alibag’s Mandwa Jetty, says environment group||Dumping of untreated mixed waste and blockage of intertidal water flow to the mangroves is rampant near Mandwa Jetty in Alibag, a city-based environment group has alleged in the complaint to the district collector, Raigad, and forest department’s mangrove cell. The group has also claimed that permanent structures have emerged on the Alibag shorefront, in blatant violation of coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) rules. Nidhi Choudhury, Raigad district collector, could not be reached for comment, despite multiple attempts. Ashish Thakre, deputy conservator of forests, Alibag, responded saying the site in question does not fall under the jurisdiction of the forest department. “The site in question is about a kilometre away from Mandwa jetty. Solid waste (non-biodegradable and mixed) is being dumped on mangroves and a garbage dumping ground is being created. Multiple sluice gates have been put in place that are preventing the flow of tide water to the mangroves. Already, a large portion of the intertidal land was reclaimed for cultivation of paddy, which is being used to set up resorts and cottages as the area dries up,” wrote D Stalin, director, Vanashakti NGO, in his letter to the authorities last week, which featured geotagged images of the violations.Stalin also said permanent structures on Mandwa beach are not being used for indigenous purposes such as storing of boats or mending of fishing nets. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Stalin said, “Each week, new CRZ violations are being reported from different parts of the city. Despite constant intimations to the authorities, most such cases are going unchecked.” Stalin also called for immediate restoration of the flow of tidal water to the mangroves near Mandwa jetty. “The purpose of installing sluice gates is only to prevent high tide ingress during episodes of heavy rain or during cyclones. By shutting of the flow of tide water, there is heavy siltation in the water channel. It will cause waterlogging in the landward areas during the upcoming monsoon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crz-violations-rampant-near-alibag-s-mandwa-jetty-says-environment-group-101618862375486.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Row over Remdesivir intensifies||The row over the supply of Remdesivir medicine to Maharashtra intensified on Monday with the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Party, accusing former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of hoarding the antiviral drug.The Shiv Sena alleged that the BJP was aiding the black-marketing of the medicine, even as the BJP accused the state government of resorting to “childish politics”.Targeting the BJP, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “What happened [on Saturday] is unfortunate. Whether it is Maharashtra’s opposition or any other [party], nobody should indulge in politics over any medicine. I do not know what is the helplessness of Maharashtra’s opposition party that they are standing in support of black marketers, hoarders and profiteers.”He was referring to Fadnavis calling the questioning of Daman-based pharmaceutical manufacturer Bruck Pharma’s director about a stock of the drug “a shameful act”. The executive, who was supposed to supply Remdesivir to Maharashtra, was questioned by the Vile Parle police for about 45 minutes on Saturday and later let go.The opposition leader visited the police station on Saturday night along with other BJP leaders and enquired why the executive was questioned.Also read: Harsh Vardhan targets Manmohan over letter, Congress charges backThe Congress, which is a part of the MVA government, also slammed the BJP leader.State revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said, “We did not understand the need for leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis to go to the police station. He has worked as the chief minister, and we expected him to help to handover the stock to the government....”The BJP hit back, saying that the ruling alliance was politicizing the issue. A delegation of BJP leaders also met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the issue.Fadnavis said the BJP was trying to procure the anti-viral drug for the people of Maharashtra. “...Even this time, we were trying to ensure that the stock of Remdesivir is procured for the people of Maharashtra. It was not meant for the BJP, but for the patients in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-hoarding-row-mva-trains-guns-on-fadnavis-bjp-hits-back-101618862376008.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gunny bag shortage, tardy lifting leave farmers stuck for days in Tarn Taran||Shortage of gunny bags, tardy lifting and delay in payment for the procured wheat have added to the woes of farming community, who is already opposing the Centre’s three farm laws, in the grain markets of Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts.The farmers are also not happy over the lack of basic facilities, including drinking water and washrooms in the grain markets. In Tarn Taran grain market, Covid-19 protocols were not being followed and there was no arrangement for the hand sanitiser or face mask for the farmers, labourers and the commission agents.“I came here (Tarn Taran grain market) with my produce at around 6am on Monday. It is 4pm and I have not seen any official approaching me for the purchase. It appears that I will have to stay here for at least two more days,” said 85-year-old Sewa Singh of Palasaur village in Tarn Taran.Another farmer Bohar Singh (55) of Jarmastpur village in Tarn Taran said, “I have been in the mandi since Sunday. So far, no one has approached me for the procurement. I am finding it too difficult to get bardana. My 8-acre produce is lying in the open and what will happen if rain comes?”He said, “Like me, many farmers have been waiting for two days to get their produce purchased. Even those farmers whose crop has been purchased in the last three days have still not got the payment.”Amandeep Singh, 40, a farmer in Bhikhiwind village of Tarn Taran said, “I remained in Bhikhiwind mandi for three days before my crop was purchased on Friday. However, still I have not got the payment.”General secretary of Tarn Taran Arhtiya Association Yashpal Sharma said, “Barring Warehouse and FCI, the procurement agencies have no bardana. Due to this, the farmers and commission agents have been facing problems for the last three days. There has been no lifting from Tarn Taran grain market.”Avtar Singh (62), a farmer of Manawala village, who owns 15 acres of land, said he came to Bhagtanwala grain market with his 70 quintal wheat early Monday morning. “It is 4pm and there is no hope for the purchase because of non-availability of bardana,” he said.Bhagwanwala grain market’s Arhtiya Association president Amandeep Singh Chhinna said, “Nearly 5,000 metric tonne wheat has reached the grain market, but there has been zero lifting so far. Only Markfed and FCI agencies have purchased the crop of a few farmers. There is a big problem due to bardana.”Tarn Taran deputy commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh said there is no shortage of bardana. He said, “There is a requirement of 25,328 gunny bags overall in the district and we have already got 13,197 bags. So far, only 1,770 bags have been used. We will soon get the remaining bags.”Tarn Taran district food supply controller Sukhwinder Singh said, “Out of the total pending ₹11 crore, payment of ₹2 crore has been released to farmers. There had been a technical glitch due to the new DBT system. We are trying to release the payment within 48 hours of the purchase.”Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khehra said out of the total 21,002 metric tonne that has reached the grain markets, 11,015 metric tonne has been purchased. He said all the arrangements are in order. Amritsar district administration also released a press note of some farmers expressing their gratitude for the adequate arrangements for the procurement in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gunny-bag-shortage-tardy-lifting-leave-farmers-stuck-for-days-in-tarn-taran-101618862375028.html
20-04-2021||Other||IELTS, coaching centres closed in Ludhiana||District magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday ordered the closing of IELTS and coaching centres in the district till April 30 in view of the rising cases of Covid-19. In the order, Sharma said that schools and colleges are already closed since April 9, but it has been found that IELTS and other coaching centres are running in full capacity. Due to the sharp resurgence of Covid cases and to avoid gathering of students, Sharma said that these centres could conduct online classes. He said violators would face legal action. He also prohibited the use of oxygen for industrial purposes, except in nine industries, to meet the rising demand for oxygen for Covid-19 patients. The order will not apply for nine industries, including ampoules and vials, pharmaceutical, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, wastewater treatment plants, food and water purification and process industries which require the uninterrupted operation of fume processes as approved by Punjab Government. The orders will come into effect from April 22 and non-compliance will be dealt with strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ielts-coaching-centres-closed-in-ludhiana-101618862313951.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt announces SOPs for housing societies with over 5 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra government on Monday unveiled a series of measures to be adopted by housing societies which have been declared as micro-containment zones (MCZ) due to the presence of five or more Covid-19 positive patients in that building.The standard operating procedures (SOPs) presented by state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte pointed that societies have to interact with disaster management authority (DMA), who will enforce these rules. The rules prohibit doorstep delivery and add that milk, medicines and other essential products through e-commerce sites will be delivered at a common place like lobby or main entrance. It also mandates that private security guards need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, especially when interacting with delivery executives. The government has also ordered the closure of gymnasiums, swimming polls and other common areas in society premises. As per the SOP, societies are to restrict movement of residents as well as vehicles and also note down the purpose of people moving out of the MCZ.The Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MSWA) said putting the onus on the society will only create friction among members. “The government does not give any power to the society to penalise the offenders. In such circumstances few violators will spoil the entire harmony of the society,” said Ramesh Prabhu, Chairman, MSWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-announces-sops-for-housing-societies-with-over-5-covid-19-cases-101618862312746.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Facing shortage of 20K Remdesivir injections: Maharashtra FDA minister||The state is facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 vials of Remdesivir injections daily, according to Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne, adding the pressure is due to the increase in the number of new Covid-19 cases.Most researches have shown Remdesivir, made affordable by India’s generics companies, and expensive by a thriving black market, to be largely ineffective in the treatment of the viral disease. “We need at least 60,000 doses of Remdesivir daily and are currently facing a shortage of 18,000 to 20,000 doses daily. Our problem is the number of patients is increasing daily,” said Shingne.He pushed for a mini lockdown in the state. “This will serve to reduce the number of patients and hence the pressure on this injection will decrease,” said Shingne.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the situation will improve in the coming days. “Five companies are producing Remdesivir injections and their production is being ramped up. In addition, we will give pharmaceutical companies in Maharashtra the permission to sub-contract the production of this injection,” said Tope.The situation in the state at ground level remains grim as relatives are frantically searching for injections. “My husband suffered from pneumonia apart from Covid-19 and we were told to get six vials of Remdesivir. We arranged two from a medical store in Dharavi, the next two were available at a medical store in Kalyan. We were lucky as the hospital arranged for the rest. We had to spend days to get them and we suffered lot of tension and stress,” said Sarika Mishra, whose husband was admitted to a private hospital at Malad.M H Saboo Siddique Hospital Medical at Bhendi Bazar received 200 vials on Saturday, which were exhausted within two hours. “More than 500 patients lined up for the injection, but we could not accommodate all,” said Owais Maniyar, owner of the medical store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/facing-shortage-of-20k-remdesivir-injections-maharashtra-fda-minister-101618862193409.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to set up 3 new jumbo Covid centres with 5,300 beds||In the coming months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to add around 5,300 beds by setting up three additional jumbo centres in the city. BMC said it has identified three locations for the same that includes Kanjurmarg, Malad and Sion. The additional beds are being created in the wake of cases increasing drastically in the city.According to BMC officials, by next month Kanjurmarg will have a jumbo centre ready, followed by Malad and Sion. 70% of the beds in these jumbo centres will be with oxygen facility while remaining will be intensive care unit (ICU) beds and beds with ventilator facility. Currently there are six jumbo centres —Dahisar jumbo centre, Kandarpada jumbo centre in Dahisar, NESCO jumbo centre at Goregaon, Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre, NSCI Worli jumbo centre and Mulund jumbo centre.According to BMC’s dashboard, bed occupancy in the city stands at 82% which means 17,005 of the total 20,608 beds are occupied. The occupancy rate for ICU beds is 98.44% for a total of 2,765 beds, followed by oxygenated bed with an occupancy rate of 93.53% for 10,227 beds and ventilator beds with 98.72% occupancy rate for 1,415 beds, as of Sunday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “In the coming days, we will have around 5,300 additional beds in the city at three new jumbo centres. The one at Kanjurmarg will come next month followed by the ones at Malad and Sion. Also, currently there is no bed shortage... Our ward war rooms are giving 24-hour service to citizens to ensure every citizen gets a bed.”Apart from the jumbo centres, there are around 65,000 beds available in the city for quarantining mild and moderate cases. Overall, in the past 13 months, BMC has traced 49,622 citizens who have been high-risk or low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients. Overall, five million tests have been conducted with a positivity rate of 11.50%.On Monday, 7,381 new cases and 58 deaths were reported in the city, pushing the tally to 586,867 and toll to 12,412. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 83.78% with 487,882 recoveries. Fatality rate is 2.11% and there are 85,321 active cases. Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician, said, “It will always be better to be prepared with more ICU beds, ventilators as the second wave hits us, considering we were almost not able to cope up with the pressure. Though cases in the city have stabilised, I feel we should still be prepared for the third wave. In this case, being extra cautious will be good for controlling spread in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-set-up-3-new-jumbo-covid-centres-with-5-300-beds-101618862192738.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Over 90 million people from Maharashtra can get Covid vaccine||With the Centre allowing all above 18 years to get vaccinated from May 1, over 90 million from Maharashtra will be eligible for the vaccine shots. The state has welcomed the decision by the Modi government and said it will help contain the spread of the virus. About 73% of the population in Maharashtra is above 18 years old as per the 2011 Census. Maharashtra’s projected population is over 125 million. Maharashtra has inoculated 11.23 million people with 12.64 million doses till Monday evening. At least 60 million citizens or 50% of the population will now be added to the list of 33.8 million who are eligible for vaccination in the allotted categories of priority groups. In Mumbai, four million more will be added to the list of 4 million earmarked so far. “We are expecting to cover around 90 million people. This will help avert the potential third wave. Though the details are yet to come, vaccine manufacturers are allowed to supply 50% of their stock directly to the states. The stock will be again divided equally between private and government-run vaccination centres,” said Dr TP Lahane, director of Medical Education and Research. “As per data from My Family My Responsibility surveys, approximately 4 million more people in Mumbai will be eligible (for vaccination),” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The state government is yet to ascertain the estimated cost they will have to bear for the inoculation and the period it would need to vaccinate the people. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that as the 18-44 age group is at high risk as their mobility rate is high. “The working class in this age group steps out of the house more than the others. The rate of the infection among them was on the rise. We hope they will overwhelmingly participate in the drive,” he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has thanked the central government for the decision. “I had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow all above 25 years for inoculation. I am happy that the PM positively considered our request. Maharashtra government will plan systematically to accommodate the younger lot. We expect adequate supply of the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-90-million-people-from-maharashtra-can-get-covid-vaccine-101618862134836.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala: 95% wheat harvested, only 50% purchased, 15% payments cleared||With 95 per cent of targeted wheat produce already there in mandis, shortage of bardana (gunny bags) has badly affected the procurement of the grain in chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s home district. Officials say over 50 per cent of the arrived produce is yet to be purchased. Also, of the crop procured till Monday evening, payments have been cleared for only 15 per cent. Farmers are protesting against the delay in purchase and payments for the last three days the long at different locations. On Monday, farmers blocked the Patiala-Cheeka road for more than three hours, while on Sunday they had blocked Patiala-Sirhind Road. Overall, there were protests in Bhadson Road, Patiala Rural, Sanaur, Patran, Nabha and every prominent grain market of Patiala in the last one week. “We are short of gunny bags. Against the requirement, I have got only 50 per cent of the packing material. How can I ensure smooth procurement?” said a government agency official, requesting anonymity. The procurement staff said that the decision to postpone procurement by 10 days was not a wise decision. “The harvesting in Patiala and Sangrur begins 10 days ahead of other parts of Punjab. The 10-day delay in procurement derailed the entire system,” said a Pungrain official. “There is chaos. No purchase. Official and commission agents are also helpless as they have no bardana. I am struggling to sell the crop. Such a thing never happened in the past for wheat crop,” said Nirmal Singh, who was among the protesters on Cheeka road. In all, different agencies have purchased about 5 lakh tonnes of wheat. “They purchased our crop only on papers and didn’t upload data online from where the payment is processed. Against due payments of ₹900 crore, only ₹149 crore was cleared till April 19. This reflects failure of the government,” said Angrej Singh, a farmer union leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-95-wheat-harvested-only-50-purchased-15-payments-cleared-101618862134312.html
20-04-2021||Other||Amid crisis, two Thane centres to get oxygen plants by Apr 30||On April 17, Waghbil resident Rajesh Shetty, 41, received a call from the private hospital where his uncle had been admitted. The hospital staff asked Shetty to either shift his uncle to another hospital or make provision for an oxygen cylinder, as the facility’s oxygen supply was depleting. With scarcity of beds in top hospitals and no information on oxygen providers, Shetty and his family had to run from pillar to post due to the situation. “We got a call in the afternoon that the present supply will last merely for two hours and we will either have to shift the patient to a different hospital or arrange for an oxygen cylinder. We did not know where to shift him on a Saturday evening as there is already shortage of beds. We had to call up many people to find a cylinder. By evening, we managed to find one, and the hospital had also found a cylinder. However, it’s a nightmare for common people to look for oxygen cylinder or shift their loved ones,” Shetty said. Most patients who need oxygen at various hospitals in the city are facing similar situation. On April 10, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had to shift around 30 patients from its parking plaza Covid-19 hospital to Global Hospital due to lack of oxygen supply in the parking facility. Though TMC claimed the problem would sustain only for one night, the parking facility continues to be devoid of oxygen supply. Another resident, Shyam Pillai, 38, was in a similar situation as Shetty on Sunday. “My friend’s mother was admitted to a hospital and needed oxygen. I had few numbers through different WhatsApp groups but when I tried contacting them, they quoted prices as high as Rs20,000 or Rs10,000 for one cylinder which is not priced beyond Rs1500. There seems to be a complete black marketing of oxygen cylinders. Finally an NGO arranged for a cylinder at the actual cost,” said Pillai. In Thane, of the 4,666 beds available within the city, 2,671 are oxygen beds. Of these, the 1,500 oxygen beds at the parking plaza and Voltas Company Covid-19 facility are lying vacant, as there is no oxygen supply. “We merely are getting 23 tonnes of oxygen at present while the requirement is 46 tonnes. At present, we have oxygen beds only at Thane Global Hospital where the 23 tonnes are supplied on a daily basis. We are unable to use the oxygen beds at parking plaza and Voltas facilities,” a senior TMC official said. The corporation has also planned to set up three oxygen plants in the city, two of which will be operational by April 30. “Thane Global Hospital and parking plaza facility will each get 20- tonne plants, which will supply oxygen to 175 cylinders in 24 hours. Apart from this, two oxygen tanks of 12 kilolitres, one each at an open place near Kharegaon in Kalwa and the other at Kausa in Mumbra are in pipeline. This will be liquid oxygen and permission needs to be taken from the Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO) to install them.” Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde on Monday informed that with the three oxygen generator plants, Thane will be self-sufficient in its oxygen needs. “I had a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, where we have suggested that other districts should also plan for its own plants to deal with the oxygen shortage,” Shinde said. Meanwhile, private hospitals have approached the collector to help them with the oxygen shortage. Dr Santosh Kadam, president of Indian Medical Association, Thane chapter, said, “Private hospitals are reeling under shortage of oxygen. Last week, there were instances when due to lack of supply some patients were shifted to other hospitals on an emergency basis. It becomes difficult to coordinate and manage the oxygen supply at such times. We have requested the collector to keep emergency oxygen supply handy for such situations. This will ensure patients health remains priority.” (Inputs by Ankita Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-crisis-two-thane-centres-to-get-oxygen-plants-by-apr-30-101618862072803.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 58,924 Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 58,924 Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 3,898,262, even as deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar decided to restrict timings of grocery shops for four hours between 7am and 11am every day. The state saw 351 deaths, taking the toll to 60,824. The surge has led to a sharp rise in active cases as its tally stood at 676,520. It comes to 17.35% of the total cases reported till date.The surge in Covid-19 cases has been on in Maharashtra for more than two months. For the past three days, it has been reporting its highest single-day spikes, including Sunday’s 68,631 infections. It has also recorded over a million cases (1,085,196) in the last 19 days and is likely to cross 1.5 million cases within a month, the officials said. Health experts, however, said the state is likely to hit a plateau in the next 10 days and a drop may start from the middle of next month.The stricter curbs imposed from April 14 have yet to show results, to which state health minister Rajesh Tope said they expect people to cooperate and strictly follow all restrictions. He also said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may take a decision on a complete lockdown if required.The decision was taken in a review meeting called to take stock of the situation. It was found people roam around unnecessarily the whole day in the name of buying groceries and the restriction in timings will prevent them from doing so, the officials said.An official order to this effect is yet to be issued.“The objective behind imposing stricter curbs is to break the chain of transmission, but for this, people’s cooperation is also needed. Now, directives have been issued to the police force for strict implementation of all restrictions. Today, in a meeting chaired by the deputy chief minister it was also decided to restrict timings of grocery stores,” the health minister said.“The state government will take a decision if it is found absolutely necessary,” Tope said, in response to a question over complete lockdown will be imposed.“Though there is no impact of the restrictions at present, in the next 10 days, the daily cases are likely to hit a plateau and by May 15 a decline in daily cases is expected. By June-end, daily cases are likely to come down reasonably. But to get the expected results, the state has to continue the stricter restrictions,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on the Covid-19 and former director general of health services.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 221,626 samples and had a positivity rate of 26.58%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 16.19%. It has also reported recoveries of 52,412 patients on Monday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 3,159,240.Mumbai recorded 7,381 fresh cases in a day and its tally increased to 586,867. City’s active case count was 85,321. With 7,307 cases, Pune recorded the second highest cases across the state. Of them, Pune city and district recorded 4,616 and 2,691 respectively in a day.Meanwhile, the state inoculated 127,079 beneficiaries on Monday, taking the total of beneficiaries of the vaccination drive to 12,283,050 till date. The drive was conducted at 1,515 centres. “We are still receiving much fewer doses than what has been demanded from the Centre. The supply is not constant in numbers and also not as per our demand. We require 4 million doses a week to inoculate 500,000 beneficiaries a day, which is not possible to achieve if vaccine doses are not provided in adequate numbers,” said an official, wishing not to be named.Salunkhe said that the state needs to immunise at least 25 to 30% of its total population by June-end only by then it can avoid future troubles that are going to come because of this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-58-924-covid-19-infections-101618862013477.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen Express leaves, to be back in Maharashtra on Wed||The first ‘Oxygen Express’, a service of the railways carrying seven tankers that will get liquid oxygen to Maharashtra, departed from Central Railway’s Kalamboli yard on Monday evening. The seven tankers will ferry about 105 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Vishakhapatnam steel plant in Andhra Pradesh. The oxygen loaded tankers are expected to arrive in Maharashtra by Wednesday night, from where they will be transport using roll-on, roll-off (Roro) services. The train will move via Vasai Road, Jalgaon, Nagpur and Raipur Junction to Visakhapatnam steel plant siding in the East Coast railway zone. Further, the tankers will be loaded with liquid oxygen at the Visakhapatnam steel plant, put on the freight wagon and brought back to Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai. They will then head via road to different locations in Maharashtra. The railway ministry on Friday approved transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its Roro model as a special case following request from the Maharashtra government. A green corridor with movement priority will be given to the Oxygen Express. “The express will be given priority. It will take nearly 35 to 40 hours to come back,” said a senior railway official. Transport minister Anil Parab said the responsibility to coordinate for the transport has been entrusted to his department. “The entire plan for transport oxygen is ready. The day the filled tankers return, a green corridor will be made to transport them on priority to districts that require them,” he said. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said, “The tankers have been given the status of ambulances. There will be no toll for them, they need not stop anywhere, so it will be ferried faster.” Meanwhile, the government has pressed in its state transport bus drivers, as there is a shortage of drivers. “Some drivers have gone to their native places. In case there is a need, we will send ST drivers to transport oxygen tankers,” Parab said. Another similar Oxygen Express is also likely to be operated soon from Boisar railway yard in Palghar district of Maharashtra. Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR, said, “In Boisar, we are ready and waiting for the rakes.” The flat wagons being used can accommodate upto 32 tankers. Such trains are already being used for RoRo freight service of the Konkan Railway. “The Mumbai Railways division built a ramp overnight at Kalamboli yard to facilitate loading and unloading of tankers from flat wagons,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. Earlier, a meeting between railway board officials and state transport commissioners took place on the transportation of liquid oxygen. (With inputs from Ram Parmar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-express-leaves-to-be-back-in-maharashtra-on-wed-101618862012759.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs highest daily spike in Covid cases, 1,695 test +ve||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded highest single-day spike of 1,695 cases since the outbreak last year, taking the state’s caseload to 78,070. The death toll has mounted to 1,190 after 13 patients died due to virus related complications. Of the new cases, highest 526 were recorded in Kangra. This is highest single-day spike ever in any district. Kangra has now replaced Shimla as worst-hit district. Kangra deputy commissioner (DC) Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the situation has become alarming in the district. There is no big hotspot, but cases have been reported from entire district, he said. The DC said the situation may spiral out of control in three to four days if the surge doesn’t relent as the health facilities may run out of Covid beds. It is worth mentioning that Kangra also gets patients from surrounding districts of Chamba, Una, Mandi and Hamirpur. Meanwhile, Solan recorded 308 cases, Shimla 196, Mandi 185, Sirmaur 145, Kullu 88, Bilaspur 73, Una 68, Hamirpur 36, Kinnaur 35, Chamba 34 and Lahaul-Spiti two. Active cases shot up to 9,783 while recoveries reached 67,072 after 593 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 12,709 cases followed by Shimla having reported 12,451 infections to date and Mandi with 11,948 cases. Educational institutions to remain close till May 1 The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to keep all the educational institutions closed till May 1. Earlier, the schools and colleges were closed till April 21. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Teachers will also not attend their duties, it was decided. State government has also put complete ban on transfers of field functional staff. The state cabinet meeting would be held on April 22 wherein new curbs could be introduced. The CM directed the officials to enhance the bed capacity in hospitals and said that steps would be taken to ensure proper availability of oxygen and medical staff. He said that bed capacity would be enhanced in Nerchowk medical college, IGMC, Dharamshala zonal hospital, Tanda medical college, Sundernagar hospital and other health institutions. He said that health workers would be posted in appropriate number for care of Covid-19 patients. Strengthening mechanism of home isolation need of the hour: Jai RamHimachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said that strengthening the mechanism of home isolation was need of the hour as about 95% of the Covid-19 active patients were at homes. He appealed to doctors, medics, paramedics and Ashas to bring behavioural changes while treating and visiting infected people. He reviewed the Covid spread in Bilaspur district, and also assessed the drought-like conditions prevailing in the state. The CM said most of the doctors and other paramedical staff were working with great dedication to treat patients, but still greater commitment was required to ensure better results. He said effective data about the patients in home isolation must be collected and they should also be provided pulse oxymeter, hand sanitiser along other essential medicines. He said that active involvement of local pradhans in rural areas should be ensured to effectively coordinate with the family members of the patients. Effective mechanism must be evolved to regularly monitor health parameters of the patients in home isolation besides motivating the people, he added. Thakur urged the members of ‘vyapar mandals’ to extend support to the state government in its fight against the virus. He said the district administration must keep a watch on people coming back from religious congregations from other states. The CM said that a special campaign must be launched to ensure active participation of elected representatives of PRIs and urban local bodies, NGOs, mahila mandals, and yuvak mandals to strengthen the mechanism of home isolation. While reviewing the water situation in Bilaspur, Thakur said there was a need for rationing of water supply in a planned manner. He said that hand pumps could also be installed in areas which were facing severe water crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-highest-daily-spike-in-covid-cases-1-695-test-ve-101618861953276.html
20-04-2021||Other||Hospitals, kin scramble to find oxygen in Mumbai||At Sunday noon, the 51-bed Sai Hospital in Dharavi had oxygen to last only for about 30 minutes. All of its 51 patients were on oxygen support and the only option was to discharge them to be accommodated in other facilities. Fortunately, a spare dura cylinder from Worli’s National Sports Club of India was brought to the Dharavi hospital just in time. “We were on the verge of making arrangements to shift out the patients,” said Dr Khalid Shaikh, the director of the Dharavi facility. “A delay of a few minutes could have put all our patients in danger,” he said. According to Dr Shaikh, earlier the dura cylinders used to be replaced thrice a day. But after the shortage hit, this process has been irregular. On Saturday night, even as the oxygen at the facility was fast depleting, it could manage getting only one empty cylinder replaced with a filled one. “The vendor was supposed to come back on Sunday morning, but he did not,” said Dr Khalid Shaikh. As Mumbai battles a lethal second wave of the pandemic, oxygen shortage has hit the city badly. Smaller hospitals, struggling to cope with the short supply, have been shifting out their patients to jumbo facilities. Many are spending hours calling vendors and fellow doctors in amid panic to arrange for oxygen cylinders. According to Dr Shaikh, his Dharavi facility has four dura cylinders. “We use three and keep one as a backup. But this was the first time that our back up was also getting exhausted,” said Dr Shaikh adding that the demand for oxygen beds has increased so much that he has to turn down more than 50 bed requests every day. “I am spending hours on the phone simply coordinating with vendors and other doctors to arrange for oxygen,” he said. One dura cylinder is equivalent to around 30 jumbo cylinders and one jumbo cylinder contains 7,000 litres of oxygen. With some patients requiring as high as eight to 10 litres of oxygen per minute, a jumbo cylinder can get exhausted in less than an hour. Mumbai has a little over 150 public and private hospitals managing Covid-19 patients. Their daily oxygen requirement had touched 235 metric tonnes in the ongoing second wave and with the rising number of patients, the demand for oxygen has risen further. “A lot of smaller hospitals have started admitting Covid-19 patients, without managing the oxygen back up,” said Dr Prince Surana, who is running a 75-bed Covid-19 hospital in Chembur and a 50-bed one at Malad. “We now know that oxygen is the key to saving the lives of Covid-19 patients. Just having a bed is not enough,” he said. At his Chembur facility, Dr Surana is currently utilising six dura cylinders per day, while the Malad facility needs 70 jumbo cylinders daily. “I am carefully managing with a buffer. But I have to refuse patients to manage the existing ones,” he said. Doctors across the city have formed WhatsApp groups to coordinate and loan cylinders at this time of emergency. For instance, Dr Surana sent five jumbo cylinders to a hospital in Ghatkopar where two cancer patients required oxygen urgently. “Most small facilities are running with such coordination and are alerting the groups when they have less than four hours of supply,” said Dr Deepak Baid, secretary of the Association of Medical Consultants. The shortage has left patients and relatives in a lurch. It took more than 50 hours for 73-year-old Mohammad Shaikh to get an oxygen bed. By the time he was shifted to the civic-run Bhabha Hospital in Kurla, his saturation had drastically fallen to 45%. “We were on the verge of a breakdown when we finally found the bed,” said Misbah Waghoo, Shaikh’s daughter-in-law. Shaikh was admitted to Kurla’s Arpan Hospital for treatment of bronchitis when he was diagnosed with Covid-19. While the hospital, a non-Covid facility, asked the family to shift him, panic struck when the facility exhausted their oxygen cylinders. “We managed an oxygen concentrator but it was not enough. His oxygen level kept dipping,” said Waghoo, adding that they spent hours coordinating with the civic war room, till they received a call for an oxygen bed. BMC run peripheral hospitals are the worst hit with the shortage due to the breakdown of the supply chain of their main distributor. On April 17, as many as 168 patients were shifted out after six hospitals -- Bhabha Hospital (Bandra), Bhabha Hospital (Kurla), Bhagwati Hospital (Borivli), Centenary Hospital (Govandi), MT Agarwal (Mulund), Trauma Hospital (Jogeshwari) -- ran out of oxygen. A day before, 46 patients were shifted out of Bhagwati Hospital to other jumbo centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/search-leaves-hospital-staff-kin-breathless-in-mumbai-101618861895746.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rahiman Paani Rakhiye: 130 stepwells in rejuvenation mode in HP’s Dharamshala||With the unprecedented climate change affecting the glaciers on Dhauladhar mountain range and altering the rainfall patterns which would likely result in acute water crisis in future, Dharamshala authorities have turned focus to rejuvenate the old stepwells in the region.This month, Dharamshala block development office launched ‘Rahiman Paani Rakhiye’ project that is aimed at restoration of 130 stepwells in Dharamshala town and surrounding villages.Dharamshala is known for its temples, monasteries and waterfalls, but its ancient stepwells largely remained unnoticed, said Dharamshala BDO Abhineet Katyayan, who helms the ambitious project.These remarkable water bodies not only provide communities with water throughout the year, but also serve as active places of worship and are living heritage of Dharamshala.Katyayan said before outlining the project, the development office in collaboration with Centre for Urban and Regional Excellence (CURE), India, conducted a water assessment study in Dharamshala block covering nearly 200 stepwells. The eight-month study that completed in January this year has been submitted to University of Twente in the Netherlands and will feature in the European Union Programme for water conservation.The survey involved creating a GIS dataset of all stepwells mapping of discharge rate, use value and usage whether religious, agricultural or household.“More than 70 parameters relating to each stepwells were collected. During the study, it was also noticed that all villages covered experienced scarcity of water, particularly in summers,” said Katyayan, adding that the stepwells in the rural areas of Dharamshala are of two types — pool and flow.The pool type stepwell has broader surfaces, while the flow type is a narrow pipeline outlet. The streams in the region are also losing water and have become seasonal from perennial. Stepwells too have significantly lost discharge and quality of water has declined, pushing people to go to far-off places to fetch water.This eventually takes a toll on health and hygiene, animals, crop yield and burdens the family, especially women and children. On top of it, conflicts arise among the communities, he said. Katyayan said the current state of stepwells is also impacting the local ecology and biodiversity. It is a fact that stepwells contribute to the base flow in the streams, so depleting state of springs has led to depletion of flows in streams posing multiple water- related issues downstream, he added. “Our collective future depends upon how we address the issue of water and in order to do so, a pilot project, Rahiman Pani Rakhiye, has been launched,” Katyayan said.It involves restoration of one stepwell every month per panchayat. Many of the stepwells being renovated are closer to a century old.To ensure public participation, he said, special gram sabhas were organised in all 27 panchayats of Dharamshala block on March 22 and 130 stepwells were identified for the renovation.Under the project, four key factors will be taken care of — hydrological intervention, recharge intervention, storage and regulation.The activities to be undertaken in the restoration project involve reserving the source of stepwells, ensuring good connectivity; fencing; separating the bathing area and animal drinking space.The structures would also be covered. Besides, additional waste flowing water will be tapped by constructing a tank or soak pit nearby the stepwells.Proper drainage channels surrounding the wells will be constructed to minimise chemicals surface run-off. Plantation will be also done around the spring.The funds will be spent under MGNREGA in convergence with 15th finance commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rahiman-paani-rakhiye-130-stepwells-in-rejuvenation-mode-in-hp-s-dharamshala-101618861894674.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||7/11 Mumbai train blasts: Death row convict dies of Covid-19||Kamal Ansari, a death row convict of 2006 serial train blast case, died of Covid-19 in a Nagpur hospital on Monday. He was convicted for planting one of the bombs which exploded at Matunga railway station, killing 28 people and injuring 122 others.“Ansari was on ventilator since the past few days as his condition deteriorated after getting infected with coronavirus. Doctors declared him dead on Monday afternoon,” said his lawyer, advocate Shahid Ansari.Ansari was arrested on July 20, 2006 for his role as a planter in the serial blast case wherein in a total of 188 people were killed and 816 injured. He was one of the convicts awarded capital punishment by the special court. The case is still pending before the high court for confirmation of capital punishment.Ansari, a resident of Bihar, grew up in poverty. He left his studies to help his family. Initially, he learned tailoring in his village at Basupatti. For better prospect, he left for Delhi where he worked at different garment companies. Then he left for training in Pakistan.As per prosecution case, Ansari was accused of providing aide to Pakistani nationals wanted in the blast case to reach Mumbai via Nepal. He also helped conspirators procure explosive materials. On July 11, 2006, seven blasts tore through first-class compartments of crowded local trains in a span of 11 minutes during the evening rush hour as millions of office-goers were heading home. The blast occurred between Khar Road-Santacruz, Bandra-Khar Road, Jogeshwari-Mahim Junction, Mira Road-Bhayander, Matunga-Mahim Junction and at Borivli.According to investigators, around 20kg of RDX were packed into pressure cookers, placed in bags and hidden under newspapers and umbrellas. The explosions were so powerful that they ripped through the double layered steel roof and sides of train compartments. Police said the suspects targeted local trains as they were crowded and security was not as tight. They divided themselves in seven teams, each consisting of a Pakistani national and an Indian national, and the bombs were taken to Churchgate station on July 11 by taxis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/711-mumbai-train-blasts-death-row-convict-dies-of-covid19-101618861895168.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||‘There is no shortage of medicine or vaccine in J&K’||As J&K is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has started to ramp up its infrastructure and add more Covid-19 beds. On Sunday, J&K had recorded 1,526 fresh infections, highest daily surge in last eight months. Currently, the Union territory’s case tally reached 1,46,692 and while death toll went up to 2,057. In April alone, 63 people have lost their lives to the disease. For the past six days, the UT has recorded above 1,000 cases. J&K had an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Even on Sunday, with 520 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of the new infections.Financial commissioner, health and medical education department, Atal Dulloo, said that they are ready to meet any challenge. “We are adding more beds to the hospitals across the UT. And, we don’t have any shortage of medicine or vaccine.”Kashmir director, health, Dr Mushtaq said that Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Hospital is the apex Covid hospital of the directorate and the oxygen generation capacity is being increased from 300 LPM (litre/minute) to 1,300 LPM.“Once complete, oxygen plant could be able to serve more high-risk Covid patients where high-flow oxygen is indicated,” he added. Currently, there are more than 11,000 active cases in J&K — the highest number of cases are in Srinagar and Jammu. Many experts, however, say if cases start going up further, then J&K administration could also face problems like other states.“We are prepared to some critical point beyond that capacity. So, everybody is praying that things remain under control in J&K,” said a senior doctor at Government Medical College, who is overseeing the Covid patients.Last week, Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital had designated six new wards for Covid patients due to fresh influx. “For us, this is a wake up call. If we make decisions this time, things can become easy,” said another doctor. The government had closed many Covid centres and hospitals and now, it is finding it difficult to get them open again, especially in Baramulla district.1,516 infections recorded in UTFor the second day in a row, Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid infections crossed 1,500 mark with 1,516 new cases, the highest single-day count since September 16, taking the Union territory’s case tally to 1,48,208.With six fresh fatalities — four in Kashmir and two in Jammu division — the toll reached 2,063, health officials said. Of the new cases, 748 are from Kashmir division while 768 are from Jammu. Among the Monday’s cases, 231 are travellers.So far, 69 people have lost their lives to the disease this month. This is for the seventh consecutive day that the UT has recorded over 1,000 cases. J&K had an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 451 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by Srinagar with 383 cases, Baramulla 110, Reasi 102 (including 79 travellers),Udhampur 81, Anantnag 48 and Budgam 46. Four out of the 20 districts reported single-digit cases. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily, reached 12,164, officials said. On Monday, 813 patients recovered, including 606 in Kashmir and 207 from Jammu. As many as 1,33,981 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 90.40% from the highest of around 98% which was seen in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.79 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory so far.Central University of Kashmir postpones some examsCentral University of Kashmir on Monday postponed some of the semester exams and rescheduled some other exams to ensure the attendance on the campus is thinner amid the surge in Covid-19 across the Valley. The university has also decided to impose a fine of ₹50 on students and ₹200 on employees if they are found without masks on the campus. The measures come a day after HT reported that students of the Central University of Kashmir have been demanding that their ongoing examinations should either be postponed or shifted online as the Covid cases were increasing. Alleging that the varsity officials are not even following Covid-19 protocols while calling them to campus for semester exams, the students said that this is putting their lives, and that of their families, at risk.Vice-chancellor of the varsity, Mehraj ud Din Mir, on Monday inspected the examination centres of the varsity across various campuses. “(He) expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made in view of the Covid-19,” said varsity PRO Arshad Meraj in a statement. The V-C was informed that strict Covid protocols are followed while conducting the examinations and “SOPs are followed in letter and spirit”. Mir, according to the statement, exhorted upon the employees of the health section of the university to take all necessary precautions and measures to ensure Covid-free examination.The statement informed that Tulmulla campus director Prof (Dr) Shahid Rasool, while accompanying the V-C at Tulmulla campus, informed him that Covid protocol officers have been designated in each department of the campus, who are given the responsibility to ensure full compliance with the SOPs issued by the government. He said that rapid antigen testing was conducted on Monday on the campus and the students and staff were tested on the spot for any possible case, but none was found infected. Posters and banners have been installed at entry points of departments and prominent places across the campus, informing the students, faculty and staff about the Covid SOPs. He further said a fine of ₹50 would be charged from a student and ₹200 from the employees found without wearing a mask on the campus at any time.Later, Prof Mehraj ud Din Mir chaired a meeting of the deans and discussed the issues related to re-emergence of Covid-19 cases. Some of the exams have been postponed and some rescheduled to ensure the attendance on the campus is thinner. The counselling of PhD aspirants for the recently held entrance test has also been postponed, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/there-is-no-shortage-of-medicine-or-vaccine-in-jk-101618861893450.html
20-04-2021||Other||‘Patients moved out of 6 Mumbai hospitals last week due to tech fault, not O2 shortage’||eeshanpriya@htlive.com Mumbai Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Monday said that the patients moved out of six civic hospitals last week was not on account of oxygen shortage but due to a “technical fault”, even as officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) confirmed that the civic body will hire another oxygen supplier by the middle of the week to ensure a steady supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), needed to treat critical patients of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. The city, which had 43 ICU beds (out of 2762) and 20 ventilator beds (out of 1410) as of Monday night, has seen shortage of oxygen supply in many private and public hospitals. On April 17, the civic body had to shift 168 patients from six hospitals to jumbo Covid facilities and Rajwadi hospital, after the oxygen supply in these suburban hospitals ran out. Mumbai’s daily demand of 235MT oxygen is currently being met by two vendors who supply to the BMC. A third will be added by Wednesday to ensure that the supply does not fall short. “The problem we had three days ago was because of non-refilling of the existing cylinders on time. We have seen that the cylinder-based system is not completely workable,” Kakani said. He added that the problem did not arise due to a shortage of oxygen in the city. “There was a technical fault in the manufacturing plant [oxygen suppliers] due to which we were on short supply of oxygen,” Kakani said. Since the cases began rising in the city since mid-February, oxygen demand has increased by about 20%, official figures show. BMC uses oxygen that is available in cylinders which are re-filled from mega plants (cylinder-based system). Some facilities also use the oxygen directly from mega plants, such as the one at Seven Hills hospital, which the manufacturers fill. BMC is studying the cost implications of setting up an oxygen plant, as well as the availability of oxygen in the market versus demand to consider if it should set up its own treatment plant. “Oxygen manufacturing requires a specific ecosystem. Its power requirement is tremendous, and it requires an industrial area. In Mumbai, finding such an area is not possible. We are still examining the possibility [of setting up BMC-owned oxygen manufacturing plants within hospital premises or in the city limits], and no decision has been taken in this regard yet,” Kakani said. Private hospitals across the city are also facing a shortage of oxygen supply. “Private hospitals have their own vendors in the market from whom they directly purchase oxygen for their patients. Due to the recent short supply of oxygen in the market in general, some private hospitals have approached the BMC and asked for oxygen. BMC has provided it,” an official from the civic health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patients-moved-out-of-6-mumbai-hospitals-last-week-due-to-tech-fault-not-o2-shortage-101618861832776.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||How healthcare workers in Mumbai Metropolitan Region are coping with Covid second wave||On a balmy Sunday afternoon, 30-year-old Dr Vishal Rakh, a frontline worker at the city’s BYL Nair hospital, is taking a quick shower. All the while, he can hear his phone ring. In the 10 minutes he was away from his phone, he missed 12 calls and 15 text messages, none of which were personal. Over the next 20 minutes, Rakh patiently responded to messages and returned the calls, taking requests for bed, making allotments to patients, and helping relatives of Covid patients with contacts of pharmacists. Having tested positive for the virus last week, he himself is in quarantine, but he works remotely. Rakh, an assistant professor at Nair hospital, is responsible for the vaccination drive his hospital, as well as the allotment of beds to Covid-19 patients as part of the E ward’s war room. Nair hospital has allocated 104 undergraduate medical students—all supervised by Rakh—to the war room facilities of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Each of the city’s 24 war rooms receives calls from incoming patients seeking a bed; the war rooms also reach out to Covid positive patients, once the BMC receives their reports. Apart from civic-run hospitals, the BMC also has command over all ICU beds and 80% of the other category of beds in private hospitals. In short, every allotment of a bed or a ventilator takes place through the war room. Hospitals are required to update the centralised dashboard signalling the number of beds, ventilators and ICU facilities, twice a day. Rakh’s job involves categorising the patients based on the severity of their symptoms using the triage method. He then allots beds accordingly to dedicated healthcare hospitals and Covid-care centres. A cool bath, a quiet dinner and uninterrupted sleep at night are luxuries that frontline workers, like Rakh can’t afford. On an average, Rakh fields around 500 calls a day but a single missed call notification can turn into a trigger for him. “Last year in May, I had confirmed a bed for patient coming from Chembur. However, upon reaching the hospital, he died waiting for his turn in the queue. So, I feel like every call I miss is one person I could have helped,” he said. Most healthcare workers can’t access their mobile phones in the Covid-19 wards because Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) gear makes it difficult for them to operate one. By the end of their eight-hour long shifts, the doctors we spoke to said that they often find close to 200 missed calls and countless messages seeking beds, oxygen or advice on Covid medication. During the first wave, several health care workers —doctors, nurses, technicians and support staff—pulled up to 12-hour shifts at a stretch and stayed quarantined from their family members; now as the second wave hits the country and stretches our health care infrastructure to its limit, frontline workers are facing the brunt again. Making frequent calls to see if there are any beds available for patients needing urgent attention has become the new normal for 47-year-old Smita Mohite, sister in-charge of the casualty department at Rukminibai civic hospital in Kalyan. These days her workday begins at 9am and goes well past 5pm. Two days ago, when a 50-year-old suspected Covid patient was breathless, Mohite looked frantically for a bed for him. However, when she managed to find a bed after two days, she finally decided against moving him, as his condition had deteriorated. “By the time I found a bed for him, the patient was gasping. So, then I had to find a more advanced set up for his treatment, but he died right in front of me. The worst part is that even though I found a bed, I could not help him,” said Mohite, who has been associated with the hospital for the past 24 years. “To see them (patients) in pain and not able to find a bed has been straining on my mental health but I have to keep trying,” said Mohite. Mumbai has been consistently recording around 8,500 cases on average a day. And while the city is inching towards a crisis in beds – the BMC dashboard that is updated daily, on Sunday showed an 82.5% occupancy of beds, and 98.4% occupancy of ICU beds – it is currently facing a severe shortage of oxygen. Last week, the BMC had to shift 168 patients out of six civic-run hospitals to jumbo centres; private hospitals aren’t immune either. What this means is that while hospital beds may be available, medical grade oxygen, needed for critical patients, may not be available. For a majority of health care workers, however, it’s a limitation to the care that they can provide – and that’s hitting many of them hard. Dr Jalil Parkar, a city-based pulmonologist consulting at Lilavati Hospital, said, “Doctors have always felt a moral obligation towards patients, but it has been heightened during the pandemic, so much so that it has started affecting our mental health. There’s a sense of guilt I feel for not being able to take a call.” “The work just doesn’t end. Treat Covid patients, go on rounds, perform procedures, teach students and the cycle repeats,” Parkar said. Doctors, nurses and support staff agree that the second wave is much more challenging that the first one. “We are dehydrated, exhausted and constantly worried of missing a life-saving call,” said Rakh. Taking a bathroom break is a hassle as it entails removal of PPE and changing into new ones. To minimise this hassle, they limit their liquid intake but profuse sweating under the layers of protective gear leads to severe dehydration. Along with Rakh, two more doctors from Nair hospital tested positive for the virus last week. They are among the 2,000-odd frontline workers at the hospital who are yet to receive the vaccination. Their names couldn’t be uploaded to the portal due to a technical glitch. The vaccination drive in Maharashtra kicked off on January 16 for healthcare and frontline workers, which was later extended to senior citizens and those above 45 years of age. As on Sunday, the BMC has administered 1.96 million doses. Among healthcare workers, 172,000 have received their first dose and 93,642 have received the second shot. “Paristhiti gambhir hai. Logon ko samajhna chahiye (The situation is grim. People must understand that),” Usha Jagtap, a scale-4 employee at the government-run Kasturba hospital, said in a fatigued voice. In the 13 years of her career, she has not seen a disease of this magnitude. Through the day, ward boys and caretakers end up making four to five rounds of the ward, distributing meals, at times feeding patients, filling water bottles, giving medication, ferrying patients in and out of wards, taking them for tests, and getting reports among a myriad of other tasks. “I think our biggest job is to help patients cheer up. In a gloomy ward, it is important to whisper positive thoughts into patients’ ears. Only if they eat well, take care, will they get well soon,” Jagtap said. Jagtap said she had no time to think about herself. “This is the worst outbreak of any virus that I have seen in my life. I can imagine how frightened the patients must be. So I tell myself that I must comfort them, for my sake and theirs,” said Jagtap, who is worried that she may contract the disease or worse, give it to her son and nephew, who reside with her. Tushar Parmar, Critical care specialist at Apollo hospital in Navi Mumbai, feels the burden of the pandemic more keenly. “Aside from treating patients, we have an added responsibility of being spokespersons. With family unable to be near them, it is our duty to convey their messages to the family. After the rounds, the next duty is to call each family member and convey about their condition and their messages,” Parmar said. “They are not mere patients anymore as I know much more about them. During the course of stay, we interact a lot and, in the process, start to know them even more. Since they don’t get to physically meet any family member, it becomes our responsibility to make them feel comfortable psychologically, too,” Parmar said. The longest stay one of the patients had stayed was for 90 days in the beginning of the pandemic. One of the toughest decisions that Parmar had to take was to send his eight-year-old daughter away to his parents in Gujarat as cases rose—something he had done last year as well. She had only returned to him and his wife in September last year and life was just about returning to normal. “She is safer there rather than with us as the situation is getting worse now,” said Parmar, whose wife is also a doctor. Rakh’s family in Beed —parents, grandparents and a younger sister— has seen him only once over the past year. “While we are proud of him, we miss him, too. He has little time, so we have very quick calls to see how he is doing,” says his father Ashruba. As the number of cases began to rise last year, the BMC increased the number of beds steadily – from 16,000 in June to 18,000 by October. The civic body also set up six jumbo centres in various locations: in September 2020, the number of beds available for moderate to serious patients in these facilities was 14,927; by April 17, 2021, the number has risen to 20,608. However, even as the health care infrastructure has seen an incremental increase, the caseload has grown tremendously. In the first wave, the city saw its highest single day peak on October 7 with 2848 cases; the highest single-day peak of 11,302 in the second wave was recorded on April 4. Rucha Salgaonkar, matron at Nair Hospital pointed out that health care is spread thin. “Manpower shortage is a major problem for us at the moment. Of the 580 nurses and staff we have on board, 90 are on leave for genuine reasons,” said hospital. While it is ideal to have one or two staff members per bed, now, health care personnel are spread thin to two staff per 20 beds.” Jibin TC, a home care nurse and president of the Maharashtra chapter of the United Nurses Association, said, “Ideally, there should be one nurse for six patients in a ward and one nurse for each critical patient. But now there is one nurse for 50 patients. How are we supposed to do justice to job of caregiving?” At a time when healthcare providers are dealing with a more infectious variant of the virus, the general public has done precious little to ease their burden. “Wearing a mask is the most efficient way of containing the spread of the virus. How difficult is it to wear one?” a furious Parkar asked. “Try wearing a PPE kit for an hour. You don’t have to do anything. Just sit. You’ll get a taste of what we are going through,” Jibin said. With inputs from Sajana Nambiar and Raina Shine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-healthcare-workers-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-are-coping-with-covid-second-wave-101618861772781.html
20-04-2021||Other||Distribute 10,000 Remdesivir vials to Nagpur immediately: Bombay HC to state||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Maharashtra government to supply at least 10,000 vials of Remdesivir to Nagpur city immediately, as well as ensure its fair and equitable distribution to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals through their in-house pharma units. As Remdesivir was not supplied on Sunday, and only 400 vials were supplied on Saturday to merely three hospitals, the Nagpur bench of HC on Monday afternoon directed its urgent supply to facilities in the city, while describing the situation as “very alarming” amid the steepest-ever rise in the number of Covid-19 patients. HC refused to accept the apparent “discriminatory and step-motherly” treatment to Nagpur patients who received insufficient quantity of Remdesivir as compared to those in districts like Thane and directed the immediate supply of the much-needed drug to the city by Monday night itself. Passing this important order, a division bench consisting of justice Sunil Shukre and justice SM Modak reminded the state of its “solemn obligation and constitutional duty to protect precious human life”. “There has been a disparity in the distribution of Remdesivir to various districts, and this life-saving injection is not being released in proportion to the requirements,” HC tersely observed. About the ongoing blame-game between the Maharashtra government and Centre over the supply of Remdesivir, the court directed the two authorities to place on record the details about the demand raised by the state and response of the Centre to facilitate its procurement. “Considering the patient load in Maharashtra, the state needs more quantity of Remdesivir, oxygen and other life-saving drugs,” the bench further stated. Amicus curiae (friend of court) Shreerang Bhandarkar and counsels for the interveners, Tushar Mandlekar and M Anil Kumar, informed HC that the Thane collector had allocated 5,328 vials for 2,664 patients, which is two Remdesivir injections for one patient, while at Nagpur, there was an allocation of 3,326 vials for 8,215 patients. As per protocol, six vials are required for the patients, including two vials on the first day, they stated, while demanding immediate respite to the patients who are already admitted. Besides, supply should be more for cities like Nagpur where spike is more. The amicus blamed the state for not paying the drug-manufacturing companies and cited it as a major reason for low supply. However the state, on behalf of its lawyers, vehemently denied the allegation and maintained that it was doing its best to procure life-saving drugs. About the oxygen shortage, HC directed the district collector and municipal commissioner to grant immediate permission to private hospitals which are ready to install oxygen-generating plants using air separation technique. The court also directed to make available 500 sq ft space required by some of these hospitals to install oxygen plants on payment at market value, if they apply for permission to use the adjoining place belonging to the state government or local authority. On the plight of the Covid-19 patients waiting outside Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur, and other hospitals, the court directed the municipal corporation and district administration to set up temporary healthcare facilities for such patients and use the district mining and district planning committee (DPC) funds with immediate effect. Meanwhile, as many as 6,364 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday in Nagpur district while 113 deaths were recorded, the highest single day deaths since the pandemic broke out last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/distribute-10-000-remdesivir-vials-to-nagpur-immediately-bombay-hc-to-state-101618861532730.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Hold online exams or promote medical students, say parents||Days after state minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh and Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) postponed second and third-year medical exams, social media is abuzz with mixed reactions. While many were happy with the state’s decision, especially in view of rising Covid-19 cases across the state and country, some feel this delay will once again affect the next academic year. “These exams were originally supposed to take place in January-February, but were delayed due to rising cases. Now the government has scheduled them from June 2, but there’s no guarantee the situation will be better by then as well,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent of an MBBS student. She added that instead of postponing exams any further, authorities should instead hold online exams or promote second and third-year students based on their performance through the year. Last week, several medical students had approached MUHS stating that at least 500 students from several medical colleges in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Satara and Solapur are currently in quarantine after testing positive, while many have family members who tested positive recently and have to follow the two-week quarantine period. This exam affects between 40,000-50,000 students across the state. Delay in the exams also means there will be delay in completing the next academic year. For courses which are already reeling under delays of the last academic year, this means more chaos. “Every year, final-year MBBS students graduate and start internship by first week of May. If this delay persists, hospitals will have no interns coming in May 2022. Authorities need to keep this in mind as well,” said Brijesh Sutaria, a parent. Admissions to various professional courses were delayed this year and one of the worst affected lot were those aiming for undergraduate nursing courses in the state, admissions to which got over recently. “Every year hospitals get first-year nursing students as interns to help them, and this is important especially at a time when the country is in the middle of a pandemic. But due to the delay in admissions, no first-year intern has made it to hospitals, leaving the hospital staff overworked,” said Dr Ramling Mali, member of the Indian Nursing Council, and former president of Maharashtra Nursing Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrahold-online-exams-or-promote-medical-students-say-parents-101618861472838.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: With new academic year starting, complaints of fee hikes resurface||As some schools reopen for the new academic year this month while others gear up for it, complaints about fee hikes have resurfaced among parents of students from city schools. Over the past few days, parents of several schools have complained about the schools imposing a fee hike for the academic year 2021-22. For instance, nearly a thousand parents from Podar International School in Powai wrote to the school recently to revoke a fee hike put in place this year. “At a time when there are demands of reducing fees among parents across the country, the school has imposed a hike amid the pandemic. When parents resisted the hike and demanded a rollback, the school blocked access to e-books and student resources and also levied a fine of ₹200 per day for non-payment of advance fee,” said a parent. In its official response the school, however, said, “As a support to our parents, the school deferred the PTA (parent teacher association) approved fee hike from 2020-21 to 2021-22. The School remains in full compliance with all government and high court mandated fee guidelines. The school is providing comprehensive virtual classes and conducting online exams for all students irrespective of fee payment.”Last week, a Mira Road-based school was issued a notice by the education department asking the school if it had adhered to norms with respect to fee hike. “The process of approving fee hikes should be transparent and all norms with respect to the same should be followed,” stated the notice. Recently, the Maharashtra government had invited suggestions on amending the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011 and received 2,825 suggestions, majority of which are from parents. The government-appointed committee will now examine the suggestions and will give its report in this regard.A government resolution (GR) released on May 8, 2020 stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, 2020 in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The court lifted the stay in March this year and said the state may initiate action against a school in case of complaints from parents or even take suo motu cognisance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-with-new-academic-year-starting-complaints-of-fee-hikes-resurface-101618861412788.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare-bizman murder: NIA team visits Mansukh Hiran’s family||Newly appointed inspector general (IG) of National Investigation Agency (NIA) Gyanendra Verma visited the residence of slain auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran in Thane along with other NIA officers on Monday.NIA officers spent about three-and-a-half hours with Hiran’s family and conversed with Hiran’s wife Vimala and elder brother Vinod. Sources said the team apprised the family about the investigation. However, NIA officers did not share details of their investigation in Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case.Verma reached Hiran’s house with NIA superintendent of police (SP) Vikram Khalate around 2pm. When contact, Vinod said, “A team of NIA officers came to have a conversation with us. The new IG informed us that he has taken charge and further general conservation happened with them regarding the case. The NIA officers, however, did not reveal any details related to the investigation.”A resident of the society said, “In the past few days there was peace around our society. Suddenly a team of officers arrived, so we were a little worried. We asked the family whether everything was fine and they seemed fine. The team left around 5.40pm. We are really praying that the case is solved at the earliest, as the family is in real trauma. We are supporting them, but no one can move on till it is solved.”Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in south Mumbai with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, was found dead on March 5. His body was recovered from Kalwa Creek hours after his family reported him missing. He had informed the police that the Mahindra Scorpio found outside Antilia was in his possession for the past three years and that he had reported it stolen on February 18 at Vikhroli police station.NIA is probing both the cases and arrested four persons so far — suspended Mumbai Police officers Sachin Vaze and Riyazuddin Kazi; former police constable and a life convict in Lakhan Bhaiyya fake encounter killing case, Vinayak Shinde; and cricket bookie Naresh Gor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-bizman-murder-nia-team-visits-mansukh-hiran-s-family-101618861352805.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five arrested for running betting racket on IPL matches||NM Joshi Marg police busted a cricket betting racket and arrested five people including a woman from a five-star hotel in Lower Parel for allegedly accepting bets on Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 cricket matches. Police seized ₹97,000, eight mobile phones, a laptop and an Audi car, worth a total of ₹9 lakh from their possession.The arrested accused are Pravesh Rajesh Bafna, Chetan Lalchand Salecha, Ayushi Prasad Kesarkar, Kiran Kantilal Shah and Rajesh Amritlal Jain, all residents of Mumbai.Senior inspector Pratap Bhosale of NM Joshi Marg police station received specific input that few people were running a cricket betting racket using a mobile app from a five-star hotel on the match between Chennai Super Kings and Punjab Kings.Acting on the tip-off, a police team raided the hotel room on Friday around 9pm and nabbed three persons — Bafna, Salecha and Kesarkar. After questioning the trio, police arrested Shah and Jain on Sunday, said a police officer.“During interrogation, we found that the accused were watching live cricket on lotusbook247.com and were allegedly found betting money on cricket players. The accused were found using illegal gambling websites to cheat people by accepting money and betting on IPL cricket matches,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-five-arrested-for-running-betting-racket-on-ipl-matches-101618861232712.html
20-04-2021||Mumbai||Railway staffer risks life to save 6-year-old boy near Mumbai||In a heroic move, a Central Railway Mumbai division pointman Mayur Shelke, 36, risked his life to save a visually-challenged 6-year-old boy, who lost his balance while walking along platform no. 2 at Vangani station with his visually-impaired mother and fell on the tracks. The woman, Sangita Shirsat,34, was unable to locate her son while an express train was approaching along the track. Shelke ran towards the boy and picked him up before the train could approach and saved him. The video of the incident went viral following which railway minister Piyush Goyal applauded Shelke’s action in his tweet. On Saturday around 5pm, the boy was heading home with his mother. While walking on platform no. 2, they both lost the direction and the boy fell on the track along. A Central Railway official said, “At the same time we heard the horn of a fast train coming, but we were far from the spot. The woman was unable to locate her son. Shelke without thinking about his own safety ran towards the boy and within three seconds he managed to save boy and then jumped to the platform. He would have lost his life too if he was even a bit slower.” Goyal in a tweet said, “Very proud of Mayur Shelke, Railwayman from Vangani Railway Station in Mumbai who has done an exceptionally courageous act, risked his own life and saved a child’s life.” Shelke used to work as a pointman at Karjat for five years and was transferred to Vangani around eight months ago. He said, “We were waiting to send signal to Udyan Express towards Mumbai. I saw the visually-impaired woman and her son on the platform walking towards Karjat side. Suddenly the boy came to the corner of the platform and lost his footing and fell off. I was 60 metres away from them and saw the express approaching.” He added, “I realised that even though we will show the red flag, the express could not come to a halt immediately, as the distance between the boy and the train was too less and the speed of the train was high. I decided to save him at any cost. I ran towards him and put him on the platform. I was scared at the same time as the train was near me, but I gathered all my courage and jumped up. I was clueless what I had done and realised the impact only when everyone around me started appreciating.” He was felicitated by local GRP and passenger’s association for his bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railway-staffer-risks-life-to-save-6-year-old-boy-near-mumbai-101618861172651.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Capital back in lockdown||A six-day lockdown will be in force in Delhi till the morning of April 26, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday, citing a relentless surge in Covid-19 infections that has risen by close to 600% in the last two weeks and has now inundated hospitals and triggered a shortage in critical medical supplies.Kejriwal said the city added 23,500 new cases in the last 24 hours, and that the curfew was necessary to allow enhancements in the numbers of beds and supplies of life-saving drugs and oxygen to catch up. The city, according to Delhi’s health bulletin on Monday, now has 76,887 active cases. It also registered a record 240 deaths -- the first time casualties were above 200 in a single day.“Delhi’s health system is now unable to take in more patients. It is now necessary to impose a lockdown in Delhi from 10 pm today to 5am on Monday (April 26). Essential services will remain open, food and medicine shops will be allowed to operate, weddings will be limited to 50 guests. A detailed order will be released soon,” he said.The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting held between Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal on Monday morning. “The situation of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a very sharp increase in Covid-19 cases along with very high positivity rate over the last few days and therefore, it is felt that in order to contain the fast spread of the virus, a curfew needs to be imposed in the territory of NCT of Delhi, except for essential activities/services, as an emergency measure, in order to break the transmission chain of Covid-19 virus and for the overall well being and safety of the people of Delhi,” said the order issued shortly afterwards by chief secretary Vijay Dev.While the restrictions are not entirely a curfew, movement will be prohibited unless someone is seeking or providing essential services, medical help, or has to go to a handful of exempted workplaces, such as government offices. People in some of these categories will require an e-pass from the government, the order added, while others will need to show an identity card. The rules are almost identical to those for the weekend and night curfews that have been in place in Delhi.According to HT’s dashboard, the average number of cases added in the Capital each day has risen 586% from April 4 till April 18. In this period, the average test positivity rate – a proxy for how large an outbreak may be beyond case numbers – has risen from 3.57% to 19.39%. The daily positivity rate, according to the Monday bulletin, was 26.12%.The Delhi government’s Delhi Corona mobile application showed that as of 10.30pm, only 26 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators (and an equal number without ventilators) were vacant in the city. More than 83% of the city’s nearly 20,000 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients were occupied, the app showed.This surge prompted a consensus among citizens to support a lockdown-like period of restriction. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said the decision was a “much-needed” step. “The CAIT was continuously demanding a lockdown in Delhi... We have urged the L-G and the CM to nominate five nodal officers dividing Delhi into five zones namely Central, East, West, North and South Delhi to collaborate with CAIT team leaders for ensuring smooth passage of supply of essential goods to Delhi people. According to our estimate, each day there will be a business loss of about ₹600 crore per day in Delhi during the curfew,” said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, CAIT.Some trader groups, who were initially opposed to restrictions because of their economic toll, on Sunday suggested they will voluntarily close some markers to arrest the surge.Also read: Delhi govt forms 12 oxygen audit committees to plug wastageThe Delhi government also issued a circular advancing the summer vacation in all schools. The vacation, earlier scheduled from May 11 to June 3, will now begin from April 20 and schools will remain shut till June 9.“Since the past 15 to 20 days we have been demanding a complete lockdown in Delhi as we had sensed the trouble when numbers started rising from March end. Now, the things have been delayed to such an extent that the entire system has collapsed with no beds, no ventilators, no oxygen, no medicines all over the city. The Delhi government must take extra caution on the issues which may lead to huge mortalities. It must act on war footing to save precious human lives. RWAs of Delhi will support the government in every possible manner,” said BS Vohra, president of east Delhi RWAs.The Delhi government and the L-G’s office also began efforts to discourage migrant workers from attempting to return to their cities in order to avoid the sort of crisis that took place during the nationwide lockdown one year ago. “I am requesting all migrant workers with folded hands to stay where they are. This is a small lockdown. It is just a matter of six days. If you leave, you’ll waste your time, energy and money in going and coming back only. I am there for you. We will take good care of you all. Please do not leave the city. I am hoping we will not need to extend this lockdown any further if all of you cooperate with us,” Kejriwal said at the briefing. Senior officials in the L-G office said Baijal has asked officials to strictly address the issue of migrant workers who might start congregating at transit points across the city to leave for their home states.“If you ask me, the lockdown became inevitable. The situation was getting out of hand; the medical system was collapsing. Patients were running from pillar to post to get a bed. It was also very difficult to get an RT-PCR test; you cannot wait for four to five days for a result when the disease course is of 10 days,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. “A lockdown was required to curtail the transmission. Yes, there are economic consequences but this is a matter of life and death. The policymakers waited for the infection to get under control but it did not, so a lockdown had to be implemented,” said Khilnani, a former member of Delhi’s first committee on Covid-19 control and management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-back-in-lockdown-101618859919506.html
20-04-2021||Other||Kanpur hospitals also battle oxygen crisis||Like other parts of the state where cases of COVID-19 are rising, the crisis of oxygen, essential for treatment of positive patients, has reached a critical level in Kanpur.The demand for oxygen in Kanpur hospitals is about 75 tons against the availability of 18-20 tons. Long queues of people could be witnessed outside the gas plants in hopes of getting a cylinder, the cost of which is ₹13,000 for a 10 litre one.Only two types of cylinders are available, one is 4.5 litres for ₹9000 and other is 10 litres.At one gas plant in Dada Nagar about 1000 people nearly broke into late on Sunday night. Worse is the oxygen kit has disappeared from the surgical and medical stores.Enormity of crisis could be gleaned from the fact that most of the new Covid-19 hospitals are wary of admitting the patients. As of now four of them have started admitting while others continue to prepare for ‘admission’.“How can we admit people when there is no oxygen available with us; we cannot admit people to die, who will be responsible?” one of hospital owners said on condition of anonymity.“Oxygen suppliers are asking to bring cylinders for refill, they will not deliver. Pressure from officers on us is immense to admit but they aren’t able to provide oxygen,” said owner of another hospital.A team from government and food and drug department inspected these hospitals on Monday to assess the requirement of oxygen. Last night Kanpur received just 20 tons from Rae Bareli, but doctors said it was not going to solve the problem at hands.In LLR hospital on Sunday only 44 cylinders against 216 was given. The demand in the hospital is for 310 cylinders. “Never before I saw people pooling in money to bring oxygen concentrator to keep people alive, it happened in LLR,” said an employee.Four people, according to him, allegedly died in the hospital for want of oxygen.Three women who could not get admission in hospitals passed away as they could not get oxygen. One of them was Neelam Chaurasia, former chairperson of Ghatampur municipal body.Her husband Ajay Chaurasia said the hospital ran out of oxygen and it could not be arranged. “I saw her dying every minute,” he said choking with emotions.At present, Kanpur has 1340 beds, all of them are occupied, and another 890 are expected to be added once all the 19 new hospitals become functional. The crisis worsened when the drug department diverted oxygen to nearby districts on Sunday all of sudden. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr AK Mishra blamed drug department for exacerbating the problem. He said FIR would be lodged after identifying the people for the goof up.Drug inspector Sandesh Kumar Maurya said the efforts were underway to maintain a good back up of oxygen. The industrial oxygen suppliers have been asked to provide it to the hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-hospitals-also-battle-oxygen-crisis-101618860092565.html
20-04-2021||Other||One-time lockdown in Punjab’s Mohali district on April 21||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced a one-day lockdown in Mohali for Wednesday.It was the Chandigarh administration that had proposed this one-time measure across the tricity on the occasion of Ram Navami. UT adviser Manoj Parida approached the chief secretaries of both Punjab and Haryana with the proposal after discussions with the administrator on Monday. “Imposition of lockdown simultaneously in the tricity will help break the chain of infection. There is a public holiday on Wednesday, and government offices will be closed. So, I requested for the one-day lockdown. Even the weekend curfew would have been more successful if it were imposed in the entire tricity,” he said.However, awaiting the Haryana government’s response, the Chandigarh administration in the evening decided to take the final call during the Covid review meeting on Tuesday. “In case, the lockdown is not imposed in Panchkula, even we will not do so,” said Parida, while adding that no long lockdown is planned in the city. Later, Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij confirmed that the state government will not impose any lockdown on Ram Navami on Wednesday and will only strictly enforce the existing restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. Repeated attempts made to get Parida’s comment on the fresh development proved futile.More curbs in the districtHowever, on the day Capt Amarinder Singh announced various curbs across the state, it also gave nod to the Wednesday lockdown in Mohali. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the lockdown will begin at 12am on Wednesday and last till 12am on Thursday. Only shops providing essential items will remain open, while people have been advised to carry their identity cards while moving out for work and essential errands. All kinds of gatherings are also banned, said the DC.Meanwhile, the chief minister has ordered stricter restrictions across Punjab, beginning Tuesday, including extension of night curfew timings (8pm to 5am, instead of 9pm to 5am) and closure of all bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres, sports complexes. Restaurants will remain closed on Sunday and will provide only takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday. “The new restrictions, which also include closure of all malls, shops and markets on Sundays, coupled with the ones imposed earlier will remain in effect till April 30. All weekly markets have also been ordered to be shut down,” said Dayalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/onetime-lockdown-in-punjab-s-mohali-district-on-april-21-101618858953110.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||12 more people succumb to Covid in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 12 patients died of Covid-19 across the tricity on Monday, highest in a day during the second wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, 1,681 people tested positive, just three less that the all-time high of 1,684 recorded the previous day.Mohali district reported 792 cases, followed by 612 in Chandigarh and 277 in Panchkula district. When it came to fatalities, all three recorded four each.Worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali has reported 36,865 cases so far, of which 6,390 are active. While 29,969 patients have been cured, 506 have died.In Chandigarh, the deceased include a 45-year-old woman besides three senior citizens. The total has reached 34,546, of which 3,804 cases remain active. The toll stands at 417 and the number of recovered patients at 30,325.In Panchkula, besides two senior citizens, two 45-year-old men succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 172. As many as 17,065 have tested positive so far, of whom 14,717 have recovered and 2,176 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-more-people-succumb-to-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-101618858773643.html
20-04-2021||Other||Delhi: 31 community Covid care centres identified, to add 541 beds||New Delhi:District administrations on Monday identified at least 31 community Covid care centres as on Monday that would add 541 oxygenated beds to the city’s Covid health infrastructure. This comes two days after Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asked all district magistrates (DMs) to arrange oxygenated beds in residential colonies by roping in resident welfare associations (RWAs). “The response has been quite positive so far as DMs have identified 31 such sites with a total bed capacity of 541 as on Monday. Of these, at least 6 sites comprising 57 beds were opened and made operational on Monday itself. All the remaining sites will be operational by Tuesday,” said a senior government official involved in the project.The official added that the Central government has also taken note of this model and is likely to advise other states to do the same as well. On Saturday, the L-G had asked all 11 DMs to identify and create small facilities at the RWA level where a willing doctor from the local community could supervise the provision of oxygen to needy patients in the colony with an aim of assisting them in the critical period when their SpO2 levels start falling. “Such cases could then be addressed without going to hospitals that are already overburdened with more serious patients,” said a senior government official who attended the meeting the L-G and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had with all DMs. On Sunday, the Delhi government issued guidelines for gated residential complexes, which want to set up Covid care centres and isolation facilities. The guidelines state that a doctor residing in the residential area concerned or one engaged by the RWA or NGO should act as the medical officer of such a facility and each patient will have to be clinically assessed for symptoms. The medical officer will also be entrusted with monitoring the health of each patient round the clock, even though there will be routine inspections by district medical officers and surveillance officers, said the guideline document.The guidelines bar the use of such facilities for patients with moderate and severe symptoms, the elderly, children below the age of 10 years, pregnant women, lactating mothers and patients with comorbidities. The guidelines further said that such facilities cannot allow “intermixing” of suspect and confirmed cases and each of them have to be mandatorily linked to the district surveillance teams and at least one ambulance service provider, the document said.Further, it states that such centres can be set up in community halls, common utility areas and vacant flats which are “location-wise” isolated. The centres need to have separate entry and exit passages, adequate ventilation, ACs to be maintained at the range of 24-30 degrees and relative humidity of 40-70%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi31-community-covid-care-centres-identified-to-add-541-beds-101618858772409.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Two held for Remdesivir black marketing after sting operation by news channel||The owner of a pharmacy shop in east Delhi and his employee have been arrested for allegedly black marketing Remdesivir, a drug used in the treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patients, the Delhi Police said on Monday.According to the police, the arrests were in response to a sting operation by new channel ABP News, whose reporter had posed as a decoy customer to seek Remdesivir vials.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal identified the arrested men as the pharmacy shop owner Basant Goel, 41, and his employee, Ramaoutar Singh, 27.Goel, a resident of Vivek Vihar, runs a pharmacy shop by the name ‘Goyal Medicos’ in east Delhi’s Durgapuri Extension, the officer said.The duo has been booked on charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy in a case registered by the crime branch on Monday.The sting video purportedly showed one of the two arrested men offering Remdesivir vials at a price between ₹18,000 and ₹20,000 per vial -- more than three times its original price. The man seen in the video is purportedly heard saying that the unavailability of the drug has led to the price shooting up to ₹25,000 per vial.HT could not independently verify the contents of the sting video put out by the news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-remdesivir-black-marketing-after-sting-operation-by-news-channel-101618858654593.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rising Covid cases put pressure on health infra in Panchkula||Amid a steep rise in active cases, nearly 90% of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients have been occupied at the four government facilities in Panchkula district. The number of active cases has gone up from 953 at the beginning of April to 2,176 on Monday. Critical cases are also on the rise, as 18 patients have succumbed to the virus in just 19 days this month, as compared to 12 in the first three months.With limited health infrastructure, the authorities are finding it challenging to treat the critical patients.According to data shared by the Panchkula health department, as on April 18, there were 252 beds for Covid patients at four hospitals, of which 226 beds were occupied. Also, 30 beds were occupied at Covid care centres.Meanwhile, of 35 beds with ventilators, 23 are occupied, and of 225 oxygen beds, 216 are occupied. However, according to the authorities, there are additional 106 isolation beds with oxygen, if needed.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula said: “The requirement of beds, especially for patients needing oxygen and ICU services, is increasing. All four Covid hospitals in Panchkula are under constant pressure for admission of serious patients not only from Panchkula but neighbouring areas too. Efforts are being made to add more beds.”According to the data, nearly 60% Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals here are from outside Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-covid-cases-put-pressure-on-health-infra-in-panchkula-101618858654150.html
20-04-2021||Other||Only 19 ICU beds available for Covid patients in B’luru||Bengaluru Less than 20 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and those with ventilators are available in Bengaluru on Monday, according to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, showing the stretching of hospitals by the virus surge that has made it harder for critically ill Covid-19 patients in the city. According to the real-time bed availability portal of BBMP, out of the 608 beds allocated for Covid-19 treatment in government and private medical facilities with ICU/ICU-V (ventilators), 589 are occupied, leaving just 19 beds for critically ill persons. Data shows that out of the total 5,847 beds allocated across public and private medical facilities, 4,471 are full as of 6.23 pm on Monday, leaving 1,376 vacant. Though the Karnataka government has claimed that there are enough beds in Bengaluru, its own data says otherwise, painting a grave picture of the city’s crumbling and inadequate healthcare infrastructure amid a raging pandemic, experts and elected representatives said. Bengaluru is recording around 10,000 new Covid-19 positive cases a day and even if 5% of them require hospitalisation, the system could be overburdened, or could collapse, they said. Apart from the stress on the healthcare system, there are reports about blackmarketing of critical drugs like remdesivir and hoarding of oxygen tanks, which have added to the challenges in containing the pandemic. The situation in other parts of the state also continues to deteriorate. “For last 2 days, there is a huge shortage of #Remedisivir in BRIMS (Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences); 286 Covid patients urgently need this injection to save their life. What was the reason behind this shortage? Who will take responsibility if something wrong happened with patients?” tweeted Eshwar Khandre, the Congress working president and legislator from the border district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-19-icu-beds-available-for-covid-patients-in-bluru-101618858652426.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||North Delhi municipal body augments cremation/burial facilities||Given the alarming rise in Covid-19 related deaths -- the city saw 240 deaths on Monday, the highest single-day toll so far -- the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has augmented the burial and cremation facilities under its jurisdiction.The corporation has added a few more cremation grounds and also increased the capacity of existing facilities to handle Covid-19 related bodies.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “Earlier, we had capacity to cremate about 150 Covid-19 related bodies and we have increased that to 230. There are a few crematoria such as the ones in Sant Nagar, Paschim Vihar, Haiderpur and Badli, which will continue to be used for non-Covid deaths. At Nigambodh Ghat, we have a capacity to cremate 174 bodies a day, of which 131 slots have been reserved for Covid-19.”In Rohini zone of the North corporation, the Mangolpuri Muslim burial ground has space for 150 more bodies and the Mangolpuri Christian cemetery has space for 60 bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-delhi-municipal-body-augments-cremation-burial-facilities-101618858592863.html
20-04-2021||Other||Siddaramaiah asks CM to release Covid white paper||BengaluruSenior Congress leader and former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded that the BS Yediyurappa-led government release a white paper on its performance in containing and dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.“@BJP4Karnataka government should release a White paper about their initiatives and performance in managing the pandemic instead of just framing new rules, regulations and restrictions to the public,” Siddaramaiah tweeted on Monday.The statements come a day before the scheduled virtual meeting of the chief minister, opposition leader (Siddaramaiah) and other senior leaders with the Karnataka governor, Vajubai Vala, on Tuesday to finalise the guidelines for Bengaluru and other parts of the state, which is firmly under the tightening grip of a raging second wave of the pandemic.Yediyurappa, who is currently undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Bengaluru after testing positive for Covid-19 for a second time since August, is expected to release a new set of guidelines for the state on Tuesday.The Congress has cornered the government on various issues during the pandemic, especially related to providing financial assistance to the needy and inadequate healthcare infrastructure in the city and state.“@BJP4Karnataka government ministers and BJP MLAs are openly flouting the rules of their own govt. @BSYBJP has no control over his ministers or MLAs. This has resulted in the complete chaos & confusion in the State,” Siddaramaiah said in a second post.He added that the health crisis was worsening every day in the state.Karnataka continues to report a surge and its capital city, Bengaluru, is among the worst affected regions in the country.The active case count in Bengaluru stands at 103,178 while the state has 142,084 active cases at the moment.Bengaluru reported 97 fatalities in the 24 hours on Sunday that took the death toll across the state in a single day to 146, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Siddaramaiah said there were no hospital beds in government hospitals and there was no stock of oxygen cylinders.“There are no beds for coronavirus patients at government hospitals, (and) people cannot afford private hospitals, there is no oxygen stock and there is a shortage of life saving Remdesivir drug,” Siddaramaiah said.He alleged that the pandemic was used for corruption by the government.Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the government should earmark ₹30,000 crore for the health sector, stop all other activities and focus its resources on resolving the crisis on hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/siddaramaiah-asks-cm-to-release-covid-white-paper-101618858592328.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi to set up Covid-19 care facility, seeks help from docs living on campus||The Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-Delhi) on Monday announced that it will set up a Covid-19 care facility for students and staff on its campus, in view of the fact that the city’s medical infrastructure was overburdened by the “unprecedented crisis”. It also sought help from doctors residing on campus to provide consultations.In an email sent to students, faculty and staff members on Monday, IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said, “As you know, we are facing an unprecedented crisis. Medical infrastructure within the campus and outside is unable to cope with the rise in cases. Institute is working with the Delhi government to create a Covid centre within the campus which will be used strictly for Covid positive persons on the campus, including students. While those living in homes are allowed to isolate themselves, all Covid positive students living in hostels right now have to go to Delhi government Covid centres. This is causing huge issues for students. We are working with the local administration to see if we can create a facility on campus…hopefully, we will be able to work out something in the next day or two.”Also read| HC wants curbs in 5 UP cities; not possible: GovtIIT-Delhi currently has around 23 active Covid cases, of which 15 are students.The “unavailability of doctors” on campus is a major problem, Rao said. “Four of our own doctors are down with Covid and we do not have enough doctors for consultations. I am aware that spouses of many faculty, staff, and PhD students are registered medical doctors serving in various clinics and hospitals. Parents of many students are also doctors.”He appealed to these doctors to come forward and help. “If you have a doctor at home, and are willing to provide one hour a day for consultations to the IIT-Delhi community, please provide their contact details. Institute will contact them and connect them with the persons who need help and advice,” the director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitdelhi-to-set-up-covid-care-facility-on-campus-for-its-residents-students-101618858536370.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt forms 12 oxygen audit committees to plug wastage||The city administration on Monday constituted 12 “oxygen audit committees”, one in each Delhi government hospital meant for Covid-19 treatment, to plug wastage of oxygen and suggest ways to economise its usage. The audit committees, each comprising two doctors, have been formed a day after Union minister of commerce and industries Piyush Goyal said states must keep the “oxygen demand under control” and “stop its wastage”. “Oxygen is a critical ingredient in the management of certain categories of Covid-19 patients and its consumption has undergone a quantum increase with the admission of a large number of critically ill Covid patients who require oxygen support. This has led to an unprecedented demand for oxygen throughout the country leading to supply lines getting stressed. In such a situation, it is necessary that the stocks of oxygen, and its consumption, are closely managed and rationalised,” read the order issued by the Delhi health department on Monday.As per the order, the government has deployed a total of 24 doctors in 12 government hospitals. A team of two doctors has been deployed in each of the 12 hospitals, which include GTB hospital, Burari hospital, Lok Nayak hospital, Dean Dayal Upadhyay hospital, RGSS hospital and so on. It further stated that the committees will carry out an audit of daily stock receipts, consumption and balance stock of oxygen, both liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and cylinders. “It will ensure that the use of oxygen for management of Covid patients is rational and as per the prescribed treatment protocols. It will also identify areas of wasteful consumption and suggest means of economising consumption. The committees shall submit their reports to the nodal officer in-charge of the hospital, not later than 5pm every day,” read the order. On Sunday, Goyal told news agency ANI that states need to stop wastage of medical oxygen. “We need to use medical oxygen rationally and stop its wastage. Patients should be given the required amount of oxygen only. There are reports of oxygen wastage and about patients being given oxygen even when they don’t need it. We’ve urged state governments to keep an eye on this,” he had said. “State governments should keep demand (for medical oxygen) under control. The demand-side management is as important as the supply-side management. Containing Covid-19 spread is the responsibility of state governments and they should fulfil this responsibility,” Goyal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-forms-12-oxygen-audit-committees-to-plug-wastage-101618858536986.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Powermen to go on one-day strike in Chandigarh||The UT Powermen Union has called for a strike on Tuesday to oppose the Chandigarh administration’s decision to privatise the electricity department and over non-fulfilment of long pending demands. Members of the union will hold a rally from 11.30am to 1.30pm in front of the electricity office in Sector 17. “The strike is being held against the administration’s decision to privatise the properly running UT electricity department as well as the adamant attitude of the authorities towards other long pending demands including filling up vacant posts of promotion and direct quota, removal of the pay anomalies, offer of appointment to the next of kin of deceased employees and regularisation of all temporary workers,” said Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary of the union.A spokesperson of the Chandigarh administration said the principle of “No work, no pay” will be strictly enforced. “The employees are advised to attend duty. Defaulting employees will also be liable for other disciplinary action,” the spokesperson said. “Necessary arrangements to maintain the continuity of power supply have been made. But, chances of disruptions due to any untoward incident, cannot be ruled out,” the spokesperson added. In case of power disruption, residents can contact the control room in Sector 17 on 0172-2703242; control room in Sector 9 on 0172-2740475, 9779152283; and citizen facilitation centre on 0172- 4639999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/powermen-to-go-on-one-day-strike-in-chandigarh-101618858535822.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Protesting farmer unions announce ‘resistance week’ from today||With the Delhi government announcing a week-long curfew to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, protesting farmers at the capital’s borders – Singhu, Tikri, and Ghaziabad – said they fear that the government would use Covid as a “pretext” to clear the protest sites. To pre-empt any such attempt, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) and Samyukta Kisan Morcha have called upon its members to reach Tikri Border from April 21 to intensify the agitation.Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a collective of over 40 farmer unions, announced a week-long “resistance week” beginning Tuesday and invited more farmers to reach the protest site with the slogan “phir Dilli chalo”.Also read: Deep Sidhu sent to jail for 14 days in R-Day case“Because it is the harvesting season, many farmers had returned to villages. There are indications that the government is plotting to end the peasant movement on the pretext of the Covid pandemic,” SKM said in a statement on Monday.Farmer leader Darshan Pal said vaccination camps will be started at protest sites and mask awareness and compliance will be encouraged. He said all medical camps will be equipped to handle and provide care to any suspected patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fearing-action-farmers-intensify-stir-announce-vaccination-camps-at-agitation-spots-101618858532417.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Containment zones remain on paper in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Monday declared 49 more micro-containment zones, taking the total to close to 200. Amid an unprecedented growth in Covid-19 cases, the Centre has been insisting on creation of localised containment zones to restrict the spread of infection.However, a reality check done by Hindustan Times on Monday revealed that unlike the first wave of pandemic, when strict perimeter control was observed across containment zones, this time around there is extreme laxity in enforcement. While affected houses in Sector 33 were barricaded and residents were not allowed to venture out by two district administration employees deployed there, in Sectors 22 and 23, there was no barricading or restrictions. According to the administration’s April 13 order, wherein these areas were declared micro-containment zones, the curbs are to last till April 30. One of the residents in Sector 23 even came out of the house to talk to this correspondent. When asked why there were no barricades, the resident, requesting anonymity, said: “We are no longer part of the containment zone.” A resident of the neighbouring house, also declared a micro-containment zone, said: “No barricades were erected here. Anyway, my parents have now tested negative; so there is no such requirement.” At houses in Sector 22, residents confirmed that there is no perimeter control. “But we don’t go outside the house as we have been told not to,” said one. During the first wave in September 2020, when active cases had peaked at 3,171, the administration was deploying police to strictly enforce the containment zone restrictions. Now, when the active cases stand at 3,804, there were zones in Sectors 22, 23 and 35 where not a single personnel, either from the administration or from police, was posted to enforce the curbs. Dr Rajesh Ahuja, former head of the department of community medicine and public health, PGIMER, said: “Strict perimeter control is very crucial to achieve full benefits of the containment zone.”According to the central guidelines, the local district, police and municipal authorities are responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. There has to be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “It is the failure of officials concerned. We will get it checked and rectified. There should be strict perimeter control at containment zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/containment-zones-remain-on-paper-in-chandigarh-101618858475217.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Chandigarh to function with 50% staff till April 30||Following the Chandigarh administration’s order to allow 50% of the staff to come to offices, the UT education department has issued directions along similar lines for all government and aided educational institutes, including schools and colleges, in the city.The order issued by education secretary SS Gill has asked schools to function with 50% of both teaching and non-teaching staff till April 30. The school heads will prepare a roster chart for this and the staff won’t be allowed to go out of station without permission. In case of emergency, extra staff can be called, the order states.It adds that the heads of the institutes will have to attend office on a regular basis, while no offline exams will be conducted in schools without the prior approval of the UT district education officer.PU offices to work at half strength too Panjab University has decided that its offices will also function with 50% staff strength till April 30.The decision has been taken in view of the recent surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh. All the heads of the departments have been asked to prepare a roster in such a way that routine as well as examination-related work, senate election and other time-bound assignments may not suffer.Moreover, officers at the level of superintendents and above have been asked to attend work on a daily basis with scattered timings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-schools-in-chandigarh-to-function-with-50-staff-till-april-30-101618858417509.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Over 75% turnout in panchayat polls held in GB Nagar||Greater Noida: The panchayat elections were held peacefully on Monday in the three blocks -- Jewar, Dadri and Bisrakh -- of Gautam Budh Nagar district, police said. The district registered a turnout of 75.32% in the polls, officials said.The polls for 88 gram panchayat seats and five zila panchayat (district council) seats started at 7am and ended at 6pm. Of them, 12 seats were in central Noida’s Badalpur jurisdiction and 76 in Greater Noida.“Things went smoothly. Our teams remained on alert throughout the day. Six PAC units had been deployed, in addition to the local police and mobile units. We also had drone surveillance. There were no law and order issues reported,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3. Police officials said that arrangements were made to ensure that teams reached any disputed booths in less than five minutes of receiving information at the control room.According to the GB Nagar administration, there was an overall 75.32% turnout in the district, with Bisrakh registering 76.46%, Dadri 72.47% and Jewar 77.04 %.Senior police and administration officials also inspected the polling booths throughout the day. The officials also claimed that all Covid-19 regulations of social distancing and wearing masks were implemented at the centres while urging people to follow the guidelines.The GB Nagar administration had received around 3,000 nomination forms against 1,325 posts in the local elections.This was the second phase of the four-phase panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. In districts like Ghaziabad, Agra, Kanpur, etc., the elections took place on April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-75-turnout-in-panchayat-polls-held-in-gb-nagar-101618858412460.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Summer break in schools starts early, to end June 9||The Delhi government on Monday ordered all public and private schools in the national capital to begin their summer vacation three weeks earlier than planned, given the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases. All schools will shut for the summer from April 20 to June 9. The direction, however, has not gone down well with several private schools.The order came on a day when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a week-long curfew in Delhi to tackle the spread of Covid-19.Heads of schools have been asked to share the information among stakeholders. During the break, schools will be allowed to call in vacation staff as per the work requirement.Several private schools, however, said the reschedule would disrupt the teaching-learning process.Terming the order “wrong”, SK Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Schools, said, “The existing rules suggest that the education department cannot decide on the dates of summer vacation of private schools. Schools have the liberty to do that. We will have a discussion among ourselves on whether we will accept the notification or challenge it.”Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “Private schools have had the autonomy to declare vacations as per their schedule. Earlier, the department issued guidelines and advisories but this order calls for strict compliance. We are waiting for some clarity to decide on online classes on Tuesday.”An education department official said private schools can continue online classes as long as “children are not called to the premises”.“Announcing summer vacations in all schools comes under the ambit of the directorate of education. What usually happens during summer vacations — activities or extra classes — may still be done provided children are not called physically,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/summer-vacations-advanced-delhi-schools-shut-from-today-till-june-9-101618858413084.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi minister directs action against those found overcharging for essential items||Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Monday directed officials to take strict action against retailers or distributors found overcharging for essential items, including medicines, oxygen and injections remdesivir and tocilizumab that are needed for the treatment of Covid-19. “The minister directed senior officers to review the functioning of field staff on a daily basis. He further directed that at no cost should chemists, retailers or traders be allowed to take undue advantage of the health crisis. Violators and defaulters will be dealt with strictly, as per law,” said Hussain in a press statement issued on Monday. He directed the constitution of a district-wise enforcement team, whose contact details must be prominently displayed on the department’s or the Delhi government’s website for the convenience of the public. Hussain also instructed senior officers to review the action taken by the field staff in this regard on a daily basis and to send a report daily by 5pm to his office, besides informing him personally about the action taken.“I appeal to chemists, retailers, traders and manufacturers to scrupulously comply with the provisions of the packaged commodity rules and desist from overcharging for the benefit of consumers and join hands with the government in the fight against Covid-19,” Hussain said. Packaged commodity rules prescribe mandatory declarations on the packaged commodities -- the name and address of the manufacturer/packer/importer; the common name of the product; the net quantity; month and year of manufacturing/packing and expiry; MRP (inclusive of all taxes) and name, address, telephone number of the person who can be contacted by the consumer in case of a complaint. Failure to comply with rules renders the retailer/manufacturer/trader liable for prosecution under the Legal Metrology Act, 2009, and the Packaged Commodities Rules, 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-directs-action-against-those-found-overcharging-for-essential-items-101618858352950.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Man robbed on pretext of selling mobile phone on e-commerce site, two held||Noida: Two men were arrested on Sunday night for allegedly robbing a Delhi resident of ₹8,000 on the pretext of selling an iPhone on an e-commerce site.The suspects, believed to be in their early twenties, were identified as Vishal and Arun, both residents of Ghaziabad’s Khoda colony, police said. According to police, the duo was notorious for contacting sellers or buyers on e-commerce sites on the pretext of selling goods and then robbing them of their valuables. “Nearly two months ago, they had advertised for an iPhone to be sold, and for which they met a buyer. However, they robbed him of his phone and cash and then fled. No case was registered in this instance, but the victim started tracing his phone and found that the same sellers were advertising for an iPhone again. He then asked his friend, a resident of Delhi, to contact the duo and fixed a meeting,” said a senior police official.Police officials said that the deal was finalised for ₹8,000 and the meeting took place on April 17 near the Sector 16 metro station. “They took ₹8,000 from the victim first and then engaged him in some talks. Eventually, they fled with the money in a Santro car without handing over the phone that was to be sold,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Following the incident, a case of robbery (Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at Sector 20 police station. The duo was nabbed following tip-offs from near a media house in Sector 16A, police said.Police recovered the car, the iPhone, another smartphone, two knives and ₹2,200 from the suspects. The duo has used similar modus operandi to dupe people in Delhi as well, said police.The suspects kept weapons with them to scare the victims and one of the two usually waited in the car to drive away, police officials said, adding that they were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-robbed-on-pretext-of-selling-mobile-phone-on-e-commerce-site-two-held-101618858293741.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Fresh peak of 827 cases in Ghaziabad, positivity rate highest since Sept 2020||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad recorded a fresh single-day spike of 827 on Monday, which was the highest since March 2020. According to the health department officials, the sample positivity in the district has increased to 4.18% in April — with 4,168 samples testing positive, out of 99,723 tested till April 19, which was the highest since September 2020. In September 2020, it was 5.92% with 6,417 testing positive, out of the total 108,429 samples.The state control room records indicate that Ghaziabad, till April 19, 2021, reported a total of 31,292 total cases, which include 27,909 discharges, 108 deaths, and 3,275 active cases.On September 12, 2020, the district had recorded the highest single-day spike of 303 cases, however, a new high was achieved on April 15, with 538 cases, and another single-day spike of 595 new cases on April 16. The previous highest peak of active cases was 2,449 active cases on April 17, with a new peak of 3,275 active cases on April 19. The officials said that they are trying to increase the number of beds patients amid the rise in the cases. “We are trying to rope in Divya Jyoti College as a healthcare facility, which will provide 250 more beds. We are in a process of starting with the ESIC Hospital in Sahibabad, which will have 76 more beds. Apart from this, surveillance, testing, and contact tracing are carried out on a daily basis,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, did not comment on this.At present, Ghaziabad has 25 private hospitals and three government hospitals comprising 2,569 Covid-19 beds, of which 1,901 beds (about 74%) are occupied, said a person familiar with the development. “Of the 484 ICU beds available in hospitals, 452 are occupied,” the officer added.Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested.“With another spike in the cases, it is high time for us to continue with the utmost precautions. Testing needs to be increased, and all Covid-19 protocols should be adhered to. The cases may rise further as we are heading towards a peak,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president, Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.On Monday evening, the district magistrate also barred dine-in facilities at all restaurants, including open restaurants. He also directed that no customers would be allowed to stand and eat food at roadside eateries and kiosks of street vendors till further orders. The direction suggested that such facilities will be used for “take away” and “online” order of food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fresh-peak-of-827-cases-in-ghaziabad-positivity-rate-highest-since-sept-2020-101618858292386.html
20-04-2021||Noida||As Covid-19 cases increase, disposing biomedical waste becomes a challenge for Noida authority||NOIDA: As the Covid-19 cases increase rapidly, there has also been a sharp rise in the volume of biomedical waste in the city. Noida has started producing around 60 kg of biomedical waste daily which is generated on account of Covid-19, officials of the Noida authority said. In the beginning of March this year, the city was producing 10 kg of Covid waste that includes PPE kits, masks, and gloves, they said, adding that it’s a challenge to handle such waste produced in housing societies and other residential areas across the city. The officials said that it has laid down a system to handle the hazardous medical waste. “A private agency is tasked with collecting the biomedical waste in black dustbins placed in vehicles that collect waste from every household. The Covid waste quantity has increased rapidly this month to 60kg daily,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer, Noida authority. After collecting the Covid waste, the authority hands it over to a private agency that treats it scientifically at a Meerut facility, said the officials. On Sunday, Gautam Budh Nagar had reported 700 new cases, pushing the overall tally of positive cases in the district to over 30,000-mark. According to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin, the district on Sunday also reported three deaths due to the infection, taking the number of fatalities to 103.In November last year, the production of Covid waste was about 30 kg daily when a daily average of 128 positive cases had been reported, said the authority officials. The authority is also taking help of apartment owners associations (AOAs) and other social groups in proper collection of Covid waste to contain the outbreak. “We are encouraging the social groups in societies to appeal to residents to dump the Covid waste only in designated bags so that it is disposed of scientifically,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA), an umbrella body of AOAs. Meanwhile, the Noida authority has decided to impose ₹5,000 fine on those, who were found dumping the Covid waste at undesignated places. “Dumping the waste at places, which are not meant for it, will invite fine. We appeal to citizens to cooperate in proper disposal of the waste,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-covid-19-cases-increase-disposing-biomedical-waste-becomes-a-challenge-for-noida-authority-101618858293042.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn ropes in 2 officers for Covid management at GMCH-32||To streamline Covid care at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, the Chandigarh administration has appointed two senior officers.UT adviser Manoj Parida on Monday ordered that Yashpal Garg, CEO of Chandigarh Housing Board, will be the overall in-charge of Covid management at GMCH-32. He will be assisted by Sorabh Arora, joint commissioner of Chandigarh municipal corporation.“Garg will coordinate with the GMCH-32 director-principal and medical superintendent to ensure availability of beds, medicines, doctors, and other infrastructure for Covid patients. He will report to the principal health secretary,” UT adviser’s order stated.The move comes after the top brass of the hospital failed to implement the directions of the administration, confirmed three senior UT officials.Reports of rift in top brass“There were reports of internal rift among the senior doctors at the hospital and despite strict directions, they repeatedly failed to ramp up facilities amid increasing virus cases in the city. There were issues related to procurement of essential equipment at the hospital as well,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity.When asked, Parida said the order was passed for better management of Covid-19 related emergencies amid problems among the top brass at GMCH-32. “Things will be streamlined now,” he said.GMCH-32 is tasked with providing home isolation care to patients in the southern sectors which also include villages like Burail and Maloya. The hospital has also been asked to dedicate 150 beds for Covid patients at its Sector 32 campus, of which 65 are functional. Also, the Sector 48 hospital which is a dedicated Covid facility with a capacity of 100 beds is being managed by GMCH-32. The staff for isolation centres created at Shri Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College, Sector 46, and Sood Dharamshala is being provided by the hospital.Amid Covid surge, the hospital has closed physical OPDs. However, obstetric cases and cancer patients are being seen with precautions. Only emergency surgeries are performed currently.After being deputed as Covid in-charge, Yashpaul Garg said, “If there are any issues with coordination among doctors and problems related to procurement, I will try to solve them.”Officials said Garg will function from the temporary office at the GMCH-32 campus.Efforts ramped up, says hospitalIn a statement released on Monday, GMCH-32 said that additional steps have taken for better Covid management. This includes more helplines for patients requiring help from the rapid response teams, distribution of medicines among patients in home isolation, besides addition of 10 teams for collection of samples from containment zones and contacts of Covid patients in south zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-ropes-in-2-officers-for-covid-management-at-gmch32-101618858236947.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Video of couple without masks and e-pass abusing cops goes viral, arrested||A husband and wife, seen in a widely shared video purportedly “misbehaving, abusing and provoking” a police team in central Delhi’s Daryaganj, after being stopped for violating the weekend curfew and not wearing masks on Sunday, have been arrested, the Delhi Police said.According to the police, the couple was sent to jail after a court refused them bail.“Police personnel working on ground 24x7 have been sensitised to deal with the public in a humane manner, while enforcing the guidelines firmly. Their politeness is not a sign of weakness but a demeanour adopted to serve the people better. However, law breakers shall be firmly dealt with,” Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, said on Monday after the video was widely shared on social media.The police identified the couple as Abha and her husband Pankaj, both residents of Patel Nagar.According to the police, the couple was driving through Daryaganj on Sunday afternoon when a police team on the road signalled them to stop to check their movement pass.“Neither did they have a pass nor were they wearing masks. When we decided to fine them, they began misbehaving and abusing us,” Biswal said.Visuals showed the woman shouting at the policemen and daring them to act against them. Her husband intermittently took on the police, the video purportedly showed.“The two violators were arrested under the Indian Penal Code sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), section 269 (unlawfully or negligently does any act which likely to spread the infection or disease), section 353 (assault or use of criminal force against public servant in the execution of his duty) and a section of the Delhi Disaster Management Act,” the police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/video-of-couple-without-masks-and-e-pass-abusing-cops-goes-viral-arrested-101618858233828.html
20-04-2021||Noida||14% samples taken from GB Nagar in April test positive; 3 more die of Covid||NOIDA: Out of the nearly 35,000 samples collected for reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests from Gautam Budh Nagar in April 2021, approximately 5,000 people (14.28%) have tested positive for Covid-19. The test reports after April 16 are yet to come, said the officials.Meanwhile, taking a serious note of the surge in the cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration has extended the night curfew from 8 pm to 7am till April 30, which was earlier imposed till April 17.Suhas LY, district magistrate (DM), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that just like the previous order, all government and private educational institutes (except medical, paramedical and nursing), including coaching institutes, shall be barred from holding physical classes during this period. “However, all the examinations, including the practical tests shall be held as per the schedule, and are exempted from this order. There shall be an intensive enforcement of wearing masks and other Covid-19 protocols in public places, including workplaces, by the police, the incident commanders, and the departments concerned. The curfew restrictions will be effective between 8 pm and 7 am till April 30,” the DM said.Attributing the higher number of testing for the surge in the cases, the DM said that the total number of cases is always directly proportional to the number of tests done. “To have complete control on the viral spread, we are trying to detect as many cases as possible. Currently, the district administration’s main aim is to provide beds to the critically infected patients. For this, we have started 25 exclusive cells in the integrated Covid-19 control room in Sector 59 where 21 doctors and 31 administrative and police personnel have been deployed. While Dr Sunil Dohre will take care of patient allocation and admission, bed availability in the hospitals will be monitored by Dr Chandan Soni. The overall co-ordination between these cells will be monitored jointly by chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri, chief development officer (CDO) Anil Kumar Singh, and a senior police officer designated by the Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police (CP),” the DM added.Providing the details of the standard protocol to be adopted in the containment zones to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the DM said that special instructions have been issued for all the residential areas, including housing complexes and resident welfare associations (RWAs), that share spaces like gyms, swimming pools, banquet halls, parks, community centres, corridors, elevators and stairs, parking areas, cafeterias, meeting rooms, and conference halls among others.“As the viral infection can spread relatively faster among residents and visitors, all the people living in containment zones should inform the same to their societies and the RWA presidents / secretaries, and not go outside their homes till the containment zone is denotified. Only asymptomatic staff or visitors shall be allowed entry. Individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in common places, as far as feasible, and use face covers or masks at all times,” he said.The DM also said that the entrances of housing complexes should have mandatory provisions for hand hygiene like sanitiser dispensers, thermal screening, and frequently touched surfaces be cleaned properly at least twice in a day. “The number of people in elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing — for which proper markings should be made on the floor of the elevators. Surveillance activities are allowed in containment areas to trace suspected patients, such as people suffering from influenza-like illnesses, those having symptoms of severe acute respiratory illnesses, and people having comorbid conditions. Besides, every RWA and housing complex will appoint a Corona vigilance officer for each building/ tower, who will report the positive cases with lab reports, and any violation made by Covid-positive people to the office-bearers of the apartment complex,” the DM said, adding that the residents can report their problems regarding Covid-19 on this link: tinyurl.com/GBN-COVID-HELP, or call on the helpline number: 18004192211.Also, following several messages on the social media platforms for many hours on Monday, eminent Hindi crime fiction writer Surendra Mohan Pathak, and his son Sunil Pathak were allocated beds in the Covid-dedicated facility in Sharda Hospital. CMO Dr Ohri said that the writer and his son had to wait as the bed allocation team was exploring the best possible option for them. “They had to wait for two hours due to some technical issues. Pathak and his son have been admitted to Sharda Hospital. We are providing them the best possible care, and pray for their quick recovery,” Ohri said.Meanwhile, with 425 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the overall tally of the positive cases in the district has hit 30,955. The death toll has reached 106 with three deaths in the past 24 hours. With 3,386 active cases, Gautam Budh Nagar is on the ninth position among Uttar Pradesh districts recording maximum number of active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/14-samples-taken-from-gb-nagar-in-april-test-positive-3-more-die-of-covid-101618858233147.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||CBI to probe ₹207 crore alleged ‘scam’ in DUSIB||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against some unknown officials of Bank of Baroda and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) for alleged misappropriation of ₹207 crore, people familiar with the development said.DUSIB is an autonomous body under the Delhi government. To be sure, the agency has not named any individual as accused in its First Information Report (FIR), registered on April 16 under sections related to forgery and criminal breach of trust.The CBI conducted a surprise check at the accounts department of DUSIB on April 13 and found irregularities after scrutinising the documents.It is alleged that DUSIB has invested its surplus funds in the form of fixed deposit receipts (FDRs) in different banks and diverted the same into suspected fake account/FDRs.Also read: Can’t continue to obstruct others, SC tells farm leadersIn a statement, CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said, “It was alleged that during the year 2020-2021, DUSIB has transferred money from five different accounts of DUSIB maintained in Central Bank of India, Vikas Kutir, New Delhi to Bank of Baroda, Paharganj branch for the purpose of investing in FDRs, but the unknown officials of DUSIB in conspiracy with the unknown officials of Bank of Baroda diverted the said funds to the tune of ₹207.99 crore (approximately).”A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the matter,In a statement, DUSIB CEO Vijay Kumar Bidhuri said, “It’s a common practice in government departments to invest in FDs... This decision and procedure followed by the internal finance division is not directly handled by the CEO. Here, CBI is saying the FDs issued by Bank of Baroda are fake and only three are genuine. It’s a matter of investigation and DUSIB also wants that truth should come out at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-registers-case-in-alleged-corruption-by-delhi-shelter-body-101618858232411.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Curfew announcement in Delhi leads to queues outside liquor shops||The announcement of a week-long curfew in the national capital on Monday resulted in long queues outside liquor shops throughout the day even as police struggled to ensure social distancing outside these shops.Similar to the lockdown last year, alcohol shops are not on the list of essential services that are allowed during the curfew. This essentially meant that residents would be able to buy alcohol in Delhi only after a week and so began the rush to stock up before the curfew kicked in on Monday night. Satyarth (goes by a single name), a lawyer who was among those who queued up at a shop in north Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, said, “My flatmate and I stood in queue for over an hour before we bought enough bottles to last us through the week.” He said the shopkeeper did not put any limit on purchase per customer.Satyarth said he decided to step out despite the high risk of infection as he had to shell out more last year to purchase alcohol from bootleggers during the lockdown.Vinod Giri, director general, Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), termed the rush a “panic reaction”, “driven by people’s memory of lockdown extensions last year”.“For lakhs of people all over India, alcohol is a part of their regular consumption basket and they do not wish to be deprived of it. While we hope that the public and shopkeepers in Delhi adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour, steps to reassure public would also help. The decision of Maharashtra (government) to allow home delivery of liquor, for example, has helped contain panic buying there. We urge the Delhi government to think of similar steps,” he said.Police officers said they deployed more personnel outside liquor shops when they learnt of the long queues. “We acted against shopkeepers and customers wherever we felt that social distancing norms were being flouted. In New Friends Colony, for example, we registered a case against the owner of the shop. We also prosecuted some customers,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curfew-announcement-in-delhi-leads-to-queues-outside-liquor-shops-101618858173510.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: People wait in queues, complain of ‘missing’ samples and reports||Ghaziabad: Many people who arrived for Covid-19 test reports at the government testing centre at MMG Hospital on Monday complained of “missing samples and test reports”. According to them, they were “asked to give their swab samples again”. People, who joined a long queue at the centre as early as 7am on Monday, waited till 1 pm for the submission of the samples, they said.At present, the district government is conducting Covid-19 tests at about 30 locations in Ghaziabad. Of the 30 centres, 13 are static booths where residents can walk-in and get themselves tested for free. The Covid-19 centre at MMG Hospital is one of the static testing centres. HT visited the site on Monday and noticed both men and women standing in long queues, and they hardly maintained social distancing.Nisheeth Nigam, a resident of Vasundhara, who has been suffering from a recurrent fever for the past few days, came to the testing centre on Monday morning. “I came here on Sunday as well, and my rapid antigen report was negative. They had asked me to come on Monday for the RT-PCR test. Today, when it was my turn, they said that the process for RT-PCR testing was done, and they conducted another rapid antigen test. I tested positive... I waited for someone to call me and suggest some medicines, or take stock of my health conditions, but nobody called. It did not get any medicine till now,” he said.As per the recent directions, Covid-positive patients are to be provided with medicine pouches at testing centres.Manish Kumar, a resident of Govindpuram, arrived for collecting his test report on Monday, but was told that samples he gave earlier were missing. “I had given my samples at the testing booth in Sanjay Nagar hospital on April 13. On Monday, I came to collect my report, but I was told that the samples might have been misplaced. They asked me to stand in a queue again and submit my swab samples again. I waited for more than two hours, but the queue did not move fast,” he added.Like others, Philip Abraham from Bagu Colony in Vijay Nagar also stood in the queue since early Monday morning, and it was not his turn till 1 pm. “The staff testing the people came here at 10.30 am, while we have been waiting in the line from as early as 7 am. I had given my samples on April 16, and they asked me to come on April 19. When I came here, they told me that my report got misplaced somehow,” Abraham said.When the issue faced by the people at the testing centre in MMG Hospital were taken up with Dr RK Gupta, district surveillance officer, he said that he will get it checked, and conduct an inquiry about the “misplaced reports and samples”. “There may be some shortcomings at the centre, and we will get these inquired, and sort it out. At present, a lot of people are coming to get tested, and this is a big issue for the staff and the infrastructure... However, we are conducting tests as per the given target, and our daily average is about 5,500 to 6,000 samples,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).As per the directions last week, the Uttar Pradesh government directed the health authorities in Ghaziabad to conduct 3,500 rapid antigen tests, and another 1,700 RT-PCR tests on a daily basis.Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, did not comment on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-people-wait-in-queues-complain-of-missing-samples-and-reports-101618858172337.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Beds replace blackboards as 4 schools turn hospitals||To augment bed strength in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, at least four government schools in the national capital will be converted into Covid hospitals.Apart from linking these schools to hospitals in their respective districts, the government has also tied up with several non-government organisations (NGOs) to provide the schools with food, oxygen, beds, medicines, and PPE kits for all health care staff.On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya Rouse Avenue on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg to inspect the 125-bed hospital set up in around 14 rooms of the school, including classrooms and the auditorium.The premises has been divided into two zones. Patients will be in the red zone, and the administrative work by medical staff and school authorities will be done in the green zone.The school’s principal Devendra (who goes by one name) said, “The classrooms still have drawings by our children and it is a little unsettling to see desks getting replaced by beds. But we have to focus on helping people during this pandemic. While one part of the school will function as a hospital, the other part will be for urgent administrative work.”The Rouse Avenue school auditorium has around 45 beds, with oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders.The makeshift hospitals will have separate zones for men, women, and children. Upon entering the hospital, triage will be done by the medical staff and basic details of the patients will be recorded. Dr Ravikant Singh, the founder of Doctors For You (DFY), said they will maintain the facility at Rouse Avenue along with hospitals at two stadiums and a banquet hall.Three other schools in north-east district have been attached to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital in Tahirpur and Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital. However, beds and other infrastructure are yet to be set up in these schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiat-least-four-govt-schools-to-be-converted-into-covid-hospitals-101618858112354.html
20-04-2021||Noida||Lockdown fears: Huge rush at ISBT Kaushambi as migrants leave for home towns||Ghaziabad: Panic gripped daily wagers and labourers on Monday, as they swarmed the Kaushambi Interstate Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Ghaziabad hours after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown in the national capital. The Kaushambi ISBT was a hotbed of large-scale migrant labourers in 2020, when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed.Thousands of migrants, all natives of Uttar Pradesh, have been returning to the state since Monday afternoon, and the officials of the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said that they expect a massive gathering till late night. Majority of the people at the ISBT were, however, heading to their homes. They said that the lockdown could be extended, like the one imposed last year, and that they do not want to wait for six more days to know whether the lockdown will be lifted or not.Delhi is already under a weekend curfew, and now, a 10 pm to 5 am restrictions are in place till April 30.“My wife died due to tuberculosis during the lockdown last year. So, I had sent my minor daughter home, and now I’m returning to my hometown with my minor son. The eatery where I worked and prepared rumali roti will also remain closed... I hope to go back to work as soon as possible. Otherwise, all the money I have will be spent during the lockdown,” said 32-year-old migrant worker Mohammad Adil. Adil, who is a native of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, lives in Delhi’s Shastri Park.Hemant Kumar, 22, also rushed to the ISBT in search of a bus to his home in UP’s Auraiya. “In 2020, the daily wagers suffered irreparable losses due to lockdown. Many waited for a month, but the lockdown was extended for three months. So, we are not taking any chance this time. I had come here in search of a job and was staying with my brother in Seelampur. Now, I’m returning home. There was a weekend lockdown for two days, and now, another announcement of a week-long lockdown,” Hemant said.On Monday, the sole foot over bridge connecting the ISBT in Anand Vihar was fully packed with migrants. “It took me more than 30 minutes to cross the foot over bridge and reach the bus station. There was a mad rush towards the bus station, and no one adhered to social distancing. Nobody maintained Covid-19 protocols... I had joined a call centre in Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar three months ago. I earned ₹10,000 per month. I called my parents after the announcement of the lockdown today. They have told me to return home. I resigned from my job today,” said Prince Dubey, who is a native of Etawah.Meanwhile, the private bus operators made hay by overcharging passengers amid the Monday chaos. Suraj Kumar, attendant of one of the private buses, was seen searching for passengers at the ISBT though their buses operate from EDM Mall near the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. “The seats are full, and there is a huge demand for buses. We are charging ₹2,200 for Gorakhpur, and ₹1,400 for cities like Kanpur and Lucknow,” Suraj said.The UPSRTC officials said that the fare of government buses for Gorakhpur is about ₹1,400, and about ₹650 for Lucknow. “We can’t intervene much as the area is under jurisdiction of Delhi. We dispatched around 600 buses from Kaushambi, and 150 from ISBT in Anand Vihar by Monday evening. We expect to dispatch around 1,200 buses by Monday late night. We are also making arrangements for another 1,000 buses that will be dispatched throughout the night. We are trying to maintain Covid-19 protocols, but there’s a huge crowd which is likely to increase till late night,” said AK Singh, regional manager, UPSRTC.On a normal day, the UPSRTC operates around 600 buses from Kaushambi — which also includes around 250 buses on local routes like Hapur and Meerut, among others, according to the officials. “Generally, the occupancy in 52-seater buses is about 50-60%. Today, we have full occupancy in buses departing to various districts in Uttar Pradesh,” said another UPSRTC official, adding that only 60 buses departed from Kaushambi on Sunday due to the weekend lockdown in Delhi.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to the calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lockdown-fears-huge-rush-at-isbt-kaushambi-as-migrants-leave-for-home-towns-101618858052369.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Desperate for help, patients dial police for oxygen, hospital beds||From arranging beds and oxygen for Covid-19 patients to sending patients to hospitals and the dead to crematoriums, Delhi Police has been handling a multitude of requests from across the city over the past few days. Police sources say the tasks they are performing now are vastly different from a year ago, when they only had to arrange meals and masks, apart from their regular duties.In less than a week, police have arranged oxygen for a critically short outer Delhi hospital, sent the antiviral drug Remdesivir to patients in other states, turned a public park into a hospital for an ailing woman and rushed an elderly patient to hospital in the absence of any relative, among others.Police said while much of these duties are beyond their purview, they are expecting such requests to mount in the coming weeks. “People believe that the police can help them in times of need. We are working hard to do whatever we can to save lives and ease the troubles of patients,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north Delhi).While social media sites are the primary go-to option for most people seeking medical help, the police say they too are being bombarded with calls for help.“Several requests for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines are being received by police stations. My office too received about 15 different kinds of requests for medical help on Sunday. We are tying up with hospitals and individuals to help as many people as we can,” said RP Meena, DCP (south-east).One task successfully executed by Meena’s team was to arrange Remdesivir for a critically ill patient in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday.Also read: Beds filling fast, city can’t keep up with ICU, oxygen demandIn central Delhi’s Rajender Nagar, the police on Sunday had to shift an 80-year-old infected man from his home to hospital after his daughter called them for help. “The daughter couldn’t tend to her father since he was infected. So, we stepped in,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP (central). As it turned out, the elderly man had put up a notice outside his house asking that his body be handed over to the police in case he died.DCP Singh said several individuals and organisations working to help people with oxygen and hospital beds are aware that victims in distress often reach out to police. “So, these people are approaching us with their willingness to help and we are the bridge between them and patients,” said Singh.Otherwise, at their level and within the department, it is the chowki (police post) in-charges and personnel deployed at hospitals who are being approached for liaising when requests for help pour in, said Santosh Meena, DCP (north).On Sunday, his colleagues in Dwarka had to step in after a family couldn’t find a vehicle to move their loved one’s body -- he had died of Covid-- to the crematorium. On Sunday, Meena received about 10 requests for help with hospitals and medicines.The police are also catering to a lot of requests for plasma. “Since many personnel got infected and recovered, relatives of patients believe that we are in a position to help. My colleagues who are eligible to donate plasma are doing so when we receive requests,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.More than 8,000 Delhi Police personnel have been infected so far and 35 of them have died. But nearly 90% of them have also received the first dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-help-bridge-the-gap-between-distressed-patients-and-aid-101618857994026.html
20-04-2021||Chandigarh||No platform to check live status of Covid beds in Chandigarh||At a time when the number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh has reached an all-time high with around 3,800 being currently infected, the UT administration has failed to come up with a transparent platform where patients can check real-time availability of beds in dedicated hospitals in the city.As of now, three hospitals have been identified for treatment of severe virus patients in Chandigarh.Though the administration has a platform to publicise orders concerning Covid, critical information required by patients in emergency situations is not available. Even the daily bulletin released by the UT health department comprises only virus cases and fatalities with no data on the availability of medical infrastructure for such patients in the city.While only a few states are providing data on bed occupancy in their daily Covid bulletins, the Delhi government has created an online platform that gives information regarding the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients.Residents seek online portal on lines of Delhi“The administration should be transparent about bed occupancy in the hospitals at the time when there is so much fear and anxiety among infected persons. The process should be hassle-free and if someone requires hospitalisation, the person should be able to check the availability,” RK Garg, a social activist and president of Second Innings Association, said.“In these challenging times, an infected person feels harried and clueless about the availability of a hospital bed before leaving the house. To help them, bed vacancies in both government and private hospitals in the tricity should be displayed on a public portal, on the Delhi pattern. Such a portal should be updated every six hours,” said SC Luthra, senior vice-president of Resident Welfare Association, Manimajra Housing Complex.A senior UT official, wishing anonymity, said the administration was keen on developing such a platform, but the idea was dropped in view of influx of patients from neighbouring states.Over 60% patients from neighbouring states“At present, over 60% Covid patients in the city hospitals are not Chandigarh residents. To help the native patients, helplines have been set up,” the official said.Claiming that an adequate number of beds were available for Covid patients, UT adviser Manoj Parida said those requiring hospitalisation can go to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, if their health deteriorates.PGIMER adds 30 Covid beds, nurses demand extra workforcePost Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has added 30 more beds for Covid-19 patients after its initial capacity was fully occupied. However, the nurses’ association has written to the institute administration demanding more health workers for better management of patients. The institute earlier had 253 beds which have now been increased to 283. These include 53 beds with ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-platform-to-check-live-status-of-covid-beds-in-chandigarh-101618857993574.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Religious places to open, but no visitors allowed||Religious places in Delhi will stay closed to visitors for the next week in accordance with the curfew order issued on Monday.The curbs have been imposed at a time when the devotees are observing Navratras and Ramzan, wherein they fast and participate in special prayers.Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the shahi imam of Jama Masjid, said the mosque will remain closed and only the staff residing on its premises will be allowed to participate in prayers. “I have requested other mosques to not allow the faithful and encourage them to pray at home,” he said.The managements at Kalkaji Mandir and Hanuman Mandir also said they will continue the daily prayers but without devotees. Surendra Nath Avdhoot, mahant (head priest) Kalkaji Mandir, said, “None will be allowed to participate in daily prayers except for priests and staff living on the premises.”Manjinder Singh Sirsa, elected member of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, said he has appealed to all gurdwaras to follow the curfew guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-curfew-religious-places-to-remain-closed-to-visitors-101618857992374.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Good Samaritans step up to make food deliveries, co-ordinate resource availability||At a time when social media are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen, and other facilities, concerned citizens are stepping in to provide resources ranging from oxygen cylinders to cooked meals to families battling the infection.Anupriya Singh (Anna), a 42-year-old designer who doubles up as an aggregator of home chef services, recently formed another network of home chefs operating through WhatsApp groups to cater to Covid-affected families. “Right now, everyone knows someone or the other who is down with Covid. Seeing the situation, I started reaching out to home chefs so that we could cater to more people and save on crucial delivery time and expenses. As of today, we have over 120 chefs who are serving Covid-affected families. Every day, I create a new list of home chefs who can provide services in different parts of Delhi,” said Singh. She said nearly 40 chefs are joining the network on a daily basis, with requests for food pouring in from different quarters. “We are not allowing the chefs to price their thalis above ₹150. Some chefs are ready to deliver food for free, but recipients insist on paying for it. Money from such services will be used to start a fund through which we plan to support the needy,” said Singh. Within the neighbourhood, chefs are relying on services of friends or security guards to deliver food to families whereas services of app-based aggregators are being availed of to deliver food to far-off addresses. “Some chefs are also sending their family members to deliver food. People are stepping out to make deliveries themselves despite the severity of the prevailing situation,” said Singh. Ankit Gupta, 28, an Urdu poet who has been living in Delhi for the past year, has been using Twitter to connect those seeking Covid-related help. Gupta said concerned individuals have been using Twitter as a platform to respond to calls for help. “Through social media, we have formed a network of volunteers who are reaching out to hospitals and government officials so that patients can be admitted or provided services at the earliest,” said Gupta.Besides queries related to hospitalisation, Gupta has also been receiving requests from those who are hassled by the curfew restrictions. On Monday, Gupta delivered packets of cooked meals to around 1,000 people near Kashmiri Gate. “Due to the lockdown restrictions, people have lost jobs and are unable to pay for food or rent. Through social media, we raised money and were able to help such people,” said Gupta. Aryaman Bhatnagar, a resident, is among those who are using social media to verify crucial information and compile resources. Bhatnagar said the network was started on WhatsApp by citizens. “We provide verified leads and credible information -- pertaining to bed availability, oxygen, and medicines -- to those in need. There is a lot of information doing the rounds of WhatsApp and other platforms but, most often, the information is either false or the numbers are not working. Our aim to make sure that a person in need can get verified information on one common list or link,” said Bhatnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/good-samaritans-step-up-to-make-food-deliveries-co-ordinate-resource-availability-101618857872884.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Resident, market bodies say will step up to enforce curbs||Resident groups and market associations across the national capital on Monday said they will strictly follow the six-day curfew imposed by the Delhi government on Monday, even as stakeholders across markets in the city expressed concerns over the impact of the curbs on their businesses.Delhi’s resident welfare associations (RWAs) said they will take several steps to ensure the curbs are implemented successfully, including putting in place measures such as shutting most gates of a colony; blocking entrances to restrict movement; restricting the entry of domestic help, drivers, and other workforce; allowing in only a select few vegetable and fruit vendors; and prohibiting all construction.Sanjay Rana, president of the Greater Kailash 2 RWA, said they have asked police to install barricades at all of the locality’s entry and exit points for the duration of the lockdown.“Only one entry and exit point, which opens from M Block on to the main road, will stay open for residents’ movement. We will not allow domestic help, drivers, and other staff to enter for a week. Only medical help for patients or elderly residents will be let in. We will also set fixed timings for vegetable and fruit vendors.”Also read: Public transport services to be open only for workers in essential servicesRWAs of other areas, including Lajpat Nagar 3, Vasant Kunj, and Sundar Nagar said they will not allow domestic help and drivers to enter the colonies.Amit Agarwal, president of the Vasant Kunj Sector A RWA, said, “All gates will be closed, and only e-pass holders and government officials with valid ID cards will be allowed to enter and exit the area. We have told residents to avoid calling their domestic help during the curbs.”Amarjeet Singh, president of the Lajpat Nagar 3 RWA, said only two of the 15 gates will remain open in the neighbourhood. “Only vegetable and fruit vendors will enter the area. Domestic help, drivers, and other staff will not be allowed in for a week,” he said.In Sundar Nagar, RWAs have decided to make arrangements for security guards to live in the area for a week.While market bodies said they will also follow all restrictions as laid down by the state government, many said they hoped the curbs would not be extended.Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar market association, said, “We will strictly follow the government guidelines. But this will be another blow for traders, who have still not recovered from last year’s losses. We hope it [the lockdown] isn’t extended.”Some associations also demanded that the government extend support to help them tide over their losses for the period of the coming lockdown.Atul Bhargawa, president of the Connaught Place market association, said, “With any such decision, the government should also announce some relaxations for traders at least in rent and electricity charges,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-rwas-vows-to-strictly-follow-week-long-curfew-101618857752921.html
20-04-2021||Delhi||Public transport services to be open only for workers in essential services||All regional transport offices (RTOs) will be shut during the six-day lockdown in Delhi -- from Monday 10pm to 5am next Monday (April 26) -- and public transport will be available only for those engaged in essential services, senior transport officials said.While the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said trains will operate at a frequency of 30 minutes during peak hours, and one hour during off-peak hours, auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, gramin sewas and phat phat sewas will be allowed only with two passengers in each vehicle. Five passengers will be allowed in maxi cabs, and RTVs will be allowed to carry up to 11 passengers, the officials said.The Delhi Metro and the state-run DTC and cluster buses are already running at 50% capacity.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said Metro services during the morning (8am to 10 am) and evening (5pm to 7pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a headway of 30 minutes. “For rest of the hours, services across the network will be available with a frequency of 60 minutes only. Metro services during this period can be availed only by the exempted category of people on production of the valid IDs,” he said.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in Monday’s order imposing the curfew, imposed fresh restrictions on the movement of people and public transport -- largely in line with the weekend curfew that was in place from late on April 16 to early April 18.Officials said the announcement left some confused about scheduled appointments for transport-related services such as driving licence tests. But Delhi transport commissioner Ashish Kundra clarified that all RTOs in the Capital will remain shut during curfew period.“Apart from all RTOs being shut, all appointments that were given for this week will be cancelled. People will have to apply for fresh applications once the lockdown is lifted. However, an extension will be given to all the learners’ licenses that expire during this period,” said another senior transport official.The third official said those travelling by road from other states will not be allowed entry into the Capital unless they fall in the essential services category, or have a medical emergency, with valid papers such as e-passes. However, interstate bus terminals will operate as usual, and only passengers with valid tickets will be allowed to travel to and from the terminals.“Anyone who has a valid ticket on any public transport heading outside Delhi will be allowed to travel upon presenting a valid ticket,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-curfew-fresh-curbs-on-autos-e-rickshaws-taxis-101618857752272.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune district Covid positivity rate may have hit a plateau: Rao||Pune: The positivity rate of Pune district for the last week (April 12-April 18) has slightly decreased as compared to the week earlier. The positivity rate for last week stood at 25.54% as total 290,007 samples were tested and 74,083 positive cases were reported in the district during April 12-April 18. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao admitted that the Covid positivity has stabilised in the last two weeks. “It looks like Pune has reached a plateau. We discussed this in the state meeting on Monday. The trend clearly indicated downward graph. Particular this week has been very promising as the positivity rate has gone down. It is just the matter of couple of weeks to further consolidate this trend,” Rao said. “There is a slight decrease in the positivity rate of Pune district. We have increased tests and are trying our best to improve the facilities,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector. The highest positivity rate of 41% so far in the current month was recorded on April 4. After stricter curbs were placed in the district, the positivity rate has dropped. Positivity rate reflects the spread of the infection and the number of positives reported for every 100 tests. The positivity rate for the week earlier (April 5-April 11) was 27.10%. Around 271,376 samples were tested and 73,564 positive cases were reported during this period. The highest positivity rate of last week was recorded on Sunday at 28.82 % as the district reported 12,707 cases and 44,090 samples were tested. The lowest positivity rate was recorded on Wednesday (April 14) at 20.69% as on this day 7,888 cases were reported in Pune district and 38,120 samples were tested. The total number of tests has also been increased as compared to the earlier week. On April 17, the highest number of samples were tested in the week. While 47,276 samples were tested on April 17 and 12,836 were reported positive in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-covid-positivity-rate-may-have-hit-a-plateau-rao-101618852472020.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Cremation figure belies PMC count||PUNE: Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation has reported around 50 Covid fatalities in the city on Sunday, the bodies that arrived at various crematoriums actually outnumbered the figure shared by the civic body. According to officials involved in looking after crematoriums, the last three-four days have seen more than 100 cremations of Covid bodies happening each day. This at a time when PMC has reported 53 deaths on Sunday and 54 on Saturday. The state health department puts the fatalities in the city on Sunday and Saturday at 36 and 25 respectively. Shrinivas Kandul, PMC electric department head and incharge of crematoriums tasked with coordination for last rites of Covid-19 bodies, said, “It is true that for last few days there is more burden and waiting period for ambulances carrying bodies have extended up to five hours at various crematoriums.” On being asked about the mismatch of figures shared by PMC and number of bodies arriving at crematoriums, Kandul said, “It could possibly be because some people are bringing their dead at homes and registration at PMC may be happening later. “Along with hospitals, bodies of those passed away at homes are also coming to crematoriums. For the past two days, around 150 cremations have happened in the city,” said Kandul, adding that PMC has allowed cremating bodies traditionally using wood though previously they were allowed only at electric crematoriums. The municipal administration has also decided to open all the 21 crematoriums in the city for performing the final rites. As the fatalities have started increasing, Pune Municipal Corporation has appealed to various organisations to help them in performing the final rites. PMC official said the civic body has appealed to various organisations to come forward for cremation work. “We are training 30 Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh members on how to cremate bodies. They will carry out cremation at Vaikunth and we are planning to send bodies from Sassoon General hospital at Vaikunth,” said Kandul. Another PMC official on anonymity media, “Situation is very bad on the ground. To avoid the waiting period, we are transporting bodies from one crematorium to another where there is less rush, but some elected members are opposing to send the bodies from other areas. Many a times, resident of one area may be taking treatment at a hospital far from his home. If death happens at the hospital, we try and send it to a nearby crematorium though relatives or some elected members have been opposing it and demanding the bodies to be brought to the crematoriums located in their areas, leading to mismanagement. We are requesting all to look it as a city and not take an area- specific approach.” Rashid Khan, who is a Shiv Sena leader and helping PMC for last one year in carrying out cremation of Covid death victims, said, “For last one week, it’s a really bad situation. We are working round the clock. From 8am t0 midnight we are performing final rites. Earlier we were doing only for Muslims and Christians, but are now helping to do final rites on Hindu bodies too.” Khan said, “At least seven to eight bodies are waiting at various hospitals to be picked up.” Ambulance driver Anita Gosavi who is helping to carry Covid death victims said, “On Monday I waited for three hours at Bhosari crematorium to drop the body as earlier ambulances were in queue. As there is rush at crematoriums, we cannot reach hospitals on time to pick up next body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cremation-figure-belies-pmc-count-101618851811893.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Situation worse than last year at crematoriums in Pune||Pune: With the sudden surge in Covid deaths in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations, NGOs and body disposal officers are struggling to cremate bodies.“The situation is worse than last year. Daily more than 100 bodies are coming for cremation and last rites are performed round the clock,” said Javed Khan, founder-president of social organisation Ummat.“Pune Municipal Corporation has called us for assistance because of the rise in deaths and our members are cremating bodies,” said Khan, under whom 40 members are working for the cause.Khan had divided the members of the social organisation as per zones across the city.“We have divided hospitals among our members. Once PMC informs us about deaths, we keep things ready at the crematoriums and bodies are cremated as per rites by our members after the ambulance arrives with the bodies,” said Khan.PMC has provided adequate PPE kits, hand gloves, surgical masks and other requirements and have addressed the shortfalls faced during the first wave.“PMC is providing everything on time to all the body disposal officers and the NGOs. Since there is a heavy rush of bodies in all the crematoriums, the process is taking time,” said Khan, whose NGO performs last rites for free.Arun Jangam, a body disposal officer with Pune Municipal Corporation said, “Since last 10 days, the workload has increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/situation-worse-than-last-year-at-crematoriums-in-pune-101618850251913.html
20-04-2021||Other||Sealing orders cast shadow over Ashtami & Navmi celebrations in Ludhiana’s Urban Estate||Confined to their homes since the sealing orders came into effect on Sunday, residents Urban Estate Phase 1 and Phase 2, Dugri, are in a tizzy over how to go about with the Ashtami and Ram Navmi celebrations.Traditionally, girl children are invited home for the prayer ceremonies and rituals but the restrictions and risk of infection have cast a shadow on the celebrations. Mamta Goyal, a resident of Urban Estate Phase II, said, “We don’t know who is carrying the infection. It is being said that children are the carriers of infection. In such a situation, inviting children home for the prayer ceremony may prove risky. This time, my mother-in-law has told me to perform the ceremony at home with just family members, and then distribute sweets among other children.”Parents of girl children, too, are hesitant to send them out for the prayer ceremonies. “We have decided that we won’t send our children anywhere. We have no way of knowing who may be carrying the infection. If my children visit a house where someone is infected, they will also catch the infection,” said Rajiv Kapoor.Due to the surge in infections, even temples, which earlier used to remain crowded during navratras, are wearing a deserted look this time around.Priests get frantic calls about ritualsAkhilesh Kumar Sharma, priest of Ma Durga temple in Dugri, said he has been receiving frantic calls from residents, asking him about what other rituals they can perform now. “We are going through a tough time so we are to adapt to the situation accordingly. There are problems due restriction, but presently that is the safest option. I would suggest people to stay indoors and perform their rituals at home itself,” said Akhilesh Sharma.Residents unhappy with restrictionsRupesh Kumar, a resident of one of the sealed areas, said that instead of announcing a complete ban on movement, the authorities must crack a whip on defaulters who encourage violations. “The chopaties (eateries) have turned into a breeding ground of infection. I had recently visited Fountain Chowk and Dandi Swami Road with my family and was shocked to see a huge crowd gathered at the ice-cream parlours. But no action was taken against such establishments. Instead the entire Dugri area has been sealed,” said Rupesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sealing-orders-cast-a-shadow-over-ashtami-navmi-celebrations-101618836691125.html
