21-04-2021||Other||FIR against Kanpur hospital, 4 doctors in custody after judge needing treatment faces chaos||A first information report (FIR) was lodged against a private Covid-19 facility here and four doctors were taken into custody after the Kanpur district judge, who tested positive for the coronavirus, was not admitted to the hospital for an hour and saw first-hand the alleged mismanagement and maltreatment there. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra, who accompanied district judge to the hospital for admission, has filed the FIR against the hospital, its owner Amit Narayan, duty doctors and the staff. In the FIR, a copy of which is available with HT, Dr Mishra said he accompanied the judge to hospital with the chief metropolitan magistrate. The lift was not working and all of them remained stuck inside. Thereafter, no one attended the judge, nor the treatment was started, he alleged. When they reached the portico, many patients complained to them about the “complete chaotic situation” in the hospital, according to the FIR. As the CMO spoke to the hospital owner, the latter shouted and said, “send me to jail, get my hospital sealed”, according to the FIR. Dr Mishra said the case was lodged because of utter negligence shown by the hospital with regard to the district judge and shabby management of the Covid-19 facility. District judge RP Singh and hospital owner Amit Narayan were not available for their comments. DCP (Kanpur) South Ravina Tyagi said, “I am looking into the matter and action will be taken.” The Panki police said the case was being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-kanpur-hospital-4-doctors-in-custody-after-judge-needing-treatment-faces-chaos-101619029544059.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees over 24,000 new Covid-19 cases, day after registering record rise||Delhi on Wednesday reported 24,638 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a health department bulletin showed, a day after a record 28,395 cases were detected in the Capital. Also, as per the bulletin, 249 more people succumbed to the infection on the day, pushing the city’s death toll to 12,887. Currently, cumulative positive cases in the national capital stand at 930,179, as per the bulletin.The slight dip in cases on Wednesday comes alongside a decrease in the number of samples tested for the viral disease on the day. As many as 78,768 samples (including 45,088 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 33,680 Rapid Antigen Tests) were tested on April 21, while more than 90,000 and 86,000 tests were conducted on April 19 and 20 respectively. This meant a positivity rate of 31.28% as against 32.82% a day ago.So far, medical workers have tested 16,484,000 samples for the disease in the city and the tests per million count stands at 867,578, the bulletin showed.Also read | ‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygenActive caseload in Delhi currently stands at 85,364, a slight decrease of 211 cases from the 85,575 reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 24,600 patients were discharged on the day which took the overall recoveries to 831,928 and the recovery rate to 89.43 per cent, according to the latest data.The cumulative positivity rate in Delhi, considering the total tests done and the total cases detected, stands at 5.64 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, data from the bulletin showed. As many as 19,624 active containment zones are in effect within the city and 42,768 patients are currently in home isolation.As many as 49,461 beneficiaries received their Covid-19 vaccine shots under the city’s vaccination drive in the last 24 hours. This includes the 34,627 who received the first dose and 14,834 who received the second. So far, 2,722,958 people have been vaccinated, as per the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-24-000-new-covid-19-cases-day-after-registering-record-rise-101619028220272.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Industrialists save the day with oxygen supply||Manesar-based industrialists on Wednesday answered the district administration’s request for oxygen supply, providing 10,000 litres, as city-based hospitals were running low on their supplies earlier in the day, officials of the health department said.Officials of the district administration said that although the volume was not high, it helped hospitals tide over short supply till the evening, when the stock from their distributor in Panipat was expected to arrive. Officials of the health department confirmed in the evening that a tanker was on its way to Gurugram.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram confirmed that help was sought from the industrialists in Manesar to source oxygen. “Yes, we have got it,” said Garg, on Wednesday afternoon.Health department officials said that industrial units supply oxygen directly to hospitals and they have no role to play in it. “Since the regular supply from Bhiwadi is disrupted, the hospitals have sought our help,” said a health department official requesting anonymity, adding that surge in Covid-19 cases led to excess demand and the problem was complicated due to disruption in supply. The health department official said that a tanker ferrying 22 metric tonnes of oxygen is on its way from Panipat. “We will distribute to all the hospitals using liquid oxygen,” the official said. Pawan Yadav, the president of IMT Industrial Association, said that they were told that oxygen supply in Gurugram hospitals would last only until the afternoon and they needed help to tide over the situation as the regular supply would be provided by the evening. “We got a call from deputy commissioner, Gurugram, in this matter and soon after, the industry owners started an exercise to reach out to one another,” said Yadav. He said that the owner of an industrial gas production company in Manesar supplied 10,000 litres of oxygen through cylinders to the district administration.The demand for oxygen shot up in the last two weeks due to an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in the district, said officials. While the consumption of oxygen prior to the surge was five to six metric tonnes, it has now risen 13 to 14 tonnes per day. On Wednesday, the number of cases reported in the district stood at 2,988, the highest single-day spike since the start of the pandemic.Yadav said that the 10,000 litres of oxygen were given to the district administration free of cost and that industrialists will pool in money to bear the cost. “This gas is worth ₹16 lakh, but it was decided that no money would be charged and it would be a free service for the people of the city. The industrialists will contribute towards the cost,” said Yadav. “We had stock of few hundred cylinders in our factory and some in large tanks. We decided to recall supplied gas from large customers and this was filled into cylinders for delivery to hospitals,” said Deepak Shami, managing director, Star Specual Air Gas Pvt Ltd, which provided the supply to the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/industrialists-save-the-day-with-oxygen-supply-101619027985320.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram inches closer to 3,000 daily infections||The district on Wednesday reported 2,988 Covid-19 cases, which is the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, according to the health department data, surpassing the previous high of 2.549 cases reported last Saturday.With the record spike, the number of active cases increased to 16,027, with the health department officials contemplating to increase the number of containment zones, despite isolating several clusters since the spike began over four weeks ago.The health department also reported four deaths on Covid-19 on Wednesday, with the fatality rate at 0.4% at present. The weekly case positivity rate stood at 16%.Officials of the health department attributed the spike in number of daily cases to increased testing, with over 10,000 conducted every day. “Heavy testing is being carried out to identify local spread and these are notified as containment zones,” said Dr Virender Yadav, adding that to manage the emerging situation, the health department is working with the district administration to increase the number of beds. Officials said that 1,227 Covid-19 patients recovered on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries in the district to 72,448. The rate of recovery in the city stands at 83% while the total deaths caused by Covid related complications stood at 391. According to the data, 15,010 people in Gurugram are in home isolation, while 74 patients were sent to institutional quarantine on Wednesday. The health department on Wednesday collected 10,108 samples for testing. Health department officials said that 4,019 people took the vaccine shots at 100 session sites on Wednesday. Out of the eligible 428,000 people, over 340,000 beneficiaries in the prioritised age groups have already taken the jab. “The vaccination outreach will be expanded to cover maximum people in the new few days,” said Yadav, adding that fewer vaccination sites were set up on the day at government establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-inches-closer-to-3-000-daily-infections-101619027984525.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Portal launched for reserving beds||The district administration on Wednesday launched a portal that allows residents to request Covid-19 hospital beds and also provide real time data on the availability of beds in hospitals. Officials said that reservations can be made only by those who have a local address, as per their Aadhaar card.On Wednesday, the data available on the portal -- covidggn.com -- showed that there were 43 beds with oxygen support and three ICU beds were available, while no ventilator beds were free, at 10pm.Health department officials said that they were also working on increasing the bed availability at Civil Hospital, SGT Hospital and Medeor Hospital in Manesar.Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that hospital beds at SGT Medical College and Civil Hospital were increased on Wednesday by around 200 and the health department and district administration were working in tandem to ensure increased availability. “Beds in the two hospitals were increased today and a portal was also launched for people to get registered for a hospital bed, which shall be allotted on the basis of requirement. The portal provides real time information on beds, ventilators, ICUs and other facilities,” said Yadav.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that all efforts would be made to segregate patients through the portal and ensure that those in need of hospitalisation receive the necessary support. “We are working to increase the number of beds in hospitals and it would also be ensured that Covid safeguards are followed strictly,” he said.The district administration on Wednesday reiterated that there would not be any lockdown in the state and warned traders and shopkeepers not to indulge in black-marketing essential items. “The shopkeepers should not try to take advantage of the situation and overcharge for essential items or any other items. There is no possibility of any lockdown in the state and people, in general, should refrain from spreading panic,” said Garg.Garg also referred to the statement by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who stated that economic activities would not be stopped. “The district administration is ready to meet the emerging situation caused by the surge in Covid-19 cases,” said Garg, adding that the district administration had already appointed nodal officers for management of hospital beds and to work towards better facilities for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/portal-launched-for-reserving-beds-101619027983927.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Officially, only 8 died of Covid in Gurugram in 2 days, but crematoriums handle over 100 such bodies||The health department in Gurugram reported four Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday and four more on Wednesday, but cremation ground staff say they have performed the last rites of at least 106 bodies, as per Covid-19 protocols, over the past two days(till 10pm Wednesday). While a few of these bodies were sent from Ghaziabad and Delhi, a majority of them are from Gurugram, the staffers said.The crematorium records, accessed by Hindustan Times, show that the Sector 32 crematorium alone recorded 17 and 40 Covid-19 deaths of city residents on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, while the Madanpuri crematorium recorded 23 and 26 Covid-19 deaths, respectively, over the past two days. According to the health department data, however, 13 deaths were reported in the past three days from Gurugram, including five on Monday. Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “Over 45 bodies arrived within the past 12 hours (from Wednesday noon). Of these, 40 were of Covid-19 deaths from Gurugram. The others were from Ghaziabad and New Delhi. In the past four days, the count of bodies has increased and we have been cremating bodies till 11 in the night.” “We fill all details of the deceased and follow protocols set by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). All bodies of Covid-19 deaths cremated here are recorded,” he said. Sharma said they receive at least eight to 10 calls daily from people informing them of Covid-19 deaths at home and enquiring about funeral proceedings. In some cases, the Covid-19 test reports are awaited, but cremation is done as per Covid-19 protocols. Such cases are not recorded as Covid deaths, he said.Officials of the health department attributed the discrepancy in numbers to differences in protocols followed by the MCG. The health department data shows that 31 deaths were recorded in the district from April 1 to 21.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Only those deaths confirmed by hospitals as Covid-19 are shown as official in the health department bulletin. The crematorium data comes under the MCG.” However, officials of the MCG said their data is based on hospital reports.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said, “We collect death summary and Covid-19 positive reports. We are not aware why the data of the health department is not matching with crematoria data. We are collecting our data on a daily basis.”The city has three Covid-19 cremation grounds at Sector 32, Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk, and Madan Puri near Pataudi Chowk, while three burial grounds have been earmarked in Sector 58 near the Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village, and Badshahpur village. Singla said they presently have two dedicated ambulances for transporting Covid-19 bodies to crematoriums from hospitals and that two more vehicles will be addedto handle the surge. “The two ambulances are transporting over 30 Covid-19 bodies daily. Before handing over the bodies to the ambulance drivers, the hospital staff issue death summary and Covid-19 positive reports and these are duly handed over to the crematorium staff,” he said. Amit Kumar (33), a private ambulance driver for the past 10 years, said on average, he is transporting two Covid-19 bodies to cremation grounds daily. “I have never seen this kind of rush. There is no space to even park vehicles and bodies are lined up on platforms,” he said. A spot check by an HT team at the Madanpuri cremation ground found that bodies were lined up on all 26 cremation platforms, of which two are electric. Grieving kin in PPE overalls stood at a distance and watched as MCG workers placed the bodies on pyres. A team of four workers prepared one pyre after another, as ambulances kept arriving without a break. “The rush has been ongoing for days. Families are not allowed to come near the body. The family member who has to perform the last rites lights the torch. But it is the MCG worker who puts the torch to the pyre,” said Vinod Kumar, who has been working 12-hour shifts at the electric crematorium since the pandemic started. “Every day, over 30 bodies of Covid-19 patients arrive here for last rites,” he said. It is in the last week that hospitalisation has increased dramatically from at least 171 on April 1 to 806 on Wednesday, stretching the existing health infrastructure to saturation point. The situation is constantly deteriorating due to a record surge in daily new infections. Gurugam on Wednesday reported 2,988 new infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. The total number of cases now stands at 88,866, of which 16,027 are active. Families of Covid-19 victims continued to opt for last rites instead of electric cremations, even as protocols state that electric cremations should be preferred to avoid the spread of infection. “There are only two electric furnaces, but most of the people refuse an electric cremation. Since rituals take time, there is a waiting time of at least an hour for a cremation on platforms,” said Kumar. The teams performing last rites have undergone basic training on sanitising the body, covering it in a transparent, protective sheet even as families watch from a distance. MCG officials said the ashes are handed over to the family later. Singla said the ambulances are thoroughly disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride upon returning to the MCG’s health branch office in Sector 39, where the vehicles are stationed. “To ensure there is no contact with the driver, each ambulance has two compartments, separating the space where the body is kept from the driver,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/officially-only-8-died-of-covid-in-gurugram-in-2-days-but-crematoriums-handle-over-100-such-bodies-101619027923818.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Plasma stock low amid rising demand due to case spike||The plasma bank set up by the district administration in the district has almost run out of stock amid increasing demand due to rising Covid-19 infections, with residents being allowed to avail of stock only if they bring along a donor.Dr Mahima Kilhor, medical officer at Rotary Blood Bank, who is also the nodal in-charge of the plasma bank, said, “At present, the stock at plasma bank is almost nil because voluntary donation of plasma is not happening. In the past few months, when Covid-19 cases reduced, people stopped donating plasma and now, suddenly, there is a peak in cases, with increased demand for plasma.”However, Dr Kilhor could not provide data about stock availability or the demand at present.Virendra Yadav, the chief medical officer said, “We are constantly working with the district administration to increase the stock of plasma in the bank. We have roped in societies like Red Cross to help us ensure availability of plasma and are also trying to motivate public to come forward and donate voluntarily.”According to the health department data, Gurugram’s active caseload stands at 16,027 cases, with over 12,000 patients in home isolation. Due to the rising number of cases, the rate of recovery in Gurugram has gone down from 90-99% and stands around 82% at present. The fatality rate in the district currently stands at 0.44%.“At present, the requests that we are getting for plasma are being met with replacements. If anyone is Covid-19 positive and needs plasma, then their family members, relatives or friends are donating the same. A particular data has not been maintained regarding the demand, but it is quite high, and we are getting calls on a daily basis,” added Dr Kilhor.A person, who has fully recovered from Covid-19, can donate plasma, which contains antibodies to fight the infection. In July last year, the district administration inaugurated Gurugram’s first convalescent plasma bank for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at the Rotary Blood Bank in Sector 10. The bank has a capacity of storing over 1,000 units of plasma, with each unit costing ₹8,500.When asked if any sensitisation campaigns are being planned, she said that appeals have been made to recovered patients to donate plasma, “but the willingness to do so is lesser this year among people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plasma-stock-low-amid-rising-demand-due-to-case-spike-101619027864632.html
21-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents allege lack of dedicated waste collection from Covid households||Residents of Mayfield Gardens and South City-2 alleged a lack of separate waste collection facilities for households with Covid-19 patients and raised concerns over the risk posed to the general public as well as sanitation staff.SP Thakran, a resident of Mayfield Gardens Block J, said, “Waste from houses where Covid-19 positive patients are isolating is being collected along with waste from other houses, with no segregation. This increases the chances of the virus spreading to other houses and exposure to the person collecting the garbage. Not just this, waste collection is also not taking place on a daily basis.”SN Bharadwaj, a member of the South City-2 residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “Waste is being collected regularly, but the separate collection of waste is an issue. Waste is dumped by residents in a common dustbin, from where it is collected. There is no segregation and we do not know how this is being monitored.”Officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) called on the RWAs to help them ensure that waste from houses where positive patients are isolating is collected separately.Dheeraj Kumar, MCG’s joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission, said, “Residents need to understand that if they are mixing biomedical waste with household waste, then segregation automatically becomes difficult. We have dedicated vehicles deputed to collect waste from houses where Covid-19 positive patients are isolating, but residents need to also understand that waste should not be mixed.”“Adequate arrangements have been made by the MCG for cleaning, sanitisation, fogging and lifting of garbage from the houses of Covid-19 infected persons across Gurugram,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.However, RWA members said that residents who are testing positive for the coronavirus disease are not informing authorities, due to which segregation becomes difficult.Navin Jha, office in-charge of RWA Mayfield Gardens, said, “Residents are not informing us if they are testing positive, and in such a situation, how are we supposed to inform the garbage collectors to pick up waste from those houses separately? At present, I have information from only three houses, but cases must be more than that.”YC Bharadwaj, a resident of Mayfield Gardens Block C, said, “Waste from all houses is being collected together. The waste is kept in a single area by residents and then it is collected together, no such separate segregation is taking place.”Amid complaints from residents, the MCG issued a statement on Wednesday reiterating that Ecogreen, the concessionaire for waste management in the city, has eight dedicated vehicles for this task, two in each of its four zones.The MCG’s joint commissioner for Swacch Bharat Mission said that the corporation regularly updates Ecogreen of locations where positive cases are being reported, so that waste can be collected separately.Sanjeev Sharma, the official spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “We have eight dedicated vehicles for collection of waste from houses where positive patients are isolating, which can be increased to 10 also if the need arises; but residents should cooperate with us and not give mixed waste.”Mobile phone numbers of supervisors of these vehicles were made public by the MCG on Wednesday.Ecogreen’s supervisors a call away for waste segregation:Zone 1 - 7428841966Zone 2 - 8882231294Zone 3 - 9319050212Zone 4 - 8383937376||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-allege-lack-of-dedicated-waste-collection-from-covid-households-101619027863990.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 10,852 new Covid-19 cases, 35 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 10,852 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths due to the infection in the last 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The district’s progressive count went up to 0.756 million cases, of which 0.626 million patients have recovered; 8,945 have been declared dead; and 121,284 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,998 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 177,915 and with nine more deaths, the toll went up to 2,353. Pune city reported 5,538 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the count to 392,719. With 21 deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll went up to 5,083. PCMC reported 2,316 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the count to 186,042. With five more deaths the toll went up to 1,454. Pune also saw 58,900 vaccinations on Wednesday, of which Pune rural saw 30,300, Pune city saw 20,431, while PCMC saw 8,173 vaccinations. Of these 58,904 vaccinations, 54,196 beneficiaries received Covisheild and the remaining got Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-10-852-new-covid-19-cases-35-deaths-101619027683796.html
21-04-2021||Other||Lesson learnt after oxygen tragedy, Gorakhpur now supplies it to 25 districts||Government and private hospitals in Gorakhpur are not only getting uninterrupted supply of oxygen but the district is also supplying oxygen to neighbouring districts. Meanwhile, hospitals in various districts of the state, including Lucknow, continue to battle for oxygen.Four years back, in August 2017, the district was in the limelight after the death of 60 children in the BRD Medical College due to the oxygen crisis. An inquiry was ordered and the medical officers including the then principal of the medical college were suspended.With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave, the district witnessed a large flow of patients to government and private hospitals. On Wednesday, the district reported 987 fresh cases taking the tally of active cases (number of patients under treatment) to 6,909. According to the chief medical officer Sudhakar Pandey, cases are being reported from both the urban and rural areas of the district and the details of the patients are being uploaded on the portal for allotment of beds by the integrated command and control centre.District magistrate K Vijyendra Pandian said that there is no crisis of oxygen to hospitals in Gorakhpur, rather the oxygen plants in the district are supplying oxygen to 25 districts in Faizabad, Basti, Azamgarh and Prayagraj divisions. If required we will supply oxygen to Lucknow and Varanasi as well, he said.This is the result of meticulous planning that has ensured a regular supply of oxygen to hospitals even as the flow of critical Covid-19 patients increased. The capacity of Modi Chemicals factory had been increased from 800 metric tonnes to 2,600 metric tonnes, the closed RK Oxygen factory has been started with the production of 3,600 MT, while a liquid oxygen tank has been set up at BRD Medical College to supply oxygen to the wards, he said.An effort is also on re-start the closed Annapurna Oxygen Factory, located in the industrial development area of the district. The North Eastern Railways has supplied 500 oxygen cylinders and we have received 200 cylinders from the Gorakhpur Fertilizer Factory. A bank of 2,000 oxygen cylinders has been set up in the district collectorate for emergency supply to hospitals and needy as well, the DM said.Regular supply of oxygen is being maintained to 40 private hospitals that have started admitting Covid-19 patients with a 48-hour oxygen supply back up, Pandian said.The owner of Modi Chemicals, Praveen Modi, said that the factory has enhanced its production capacity by installing new technology. There will be uninterrupted supply of oxygen to all hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lesson-learnt-after-oxygen-tragedy-gorakhpur-now-supplies-it-to-25-districts-101619026483746.html
21-04-2021||Other||Kanpur gasps for oxygen but brass says all is well!||The Kanpur administration maintains that there is no scarcity of oxygen in the city despite incidents to the contrary and doctors accepting that the demand and supply gap was huge.In a late night briefing district magistrate Alok Tiwari and municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi addressed reporters and maintained that the oxygen availability was adequate and the situation was being monitored closely. Contrary to their claim, Swaroop Narayan Srivastava, 82, was taken to LLR Hospital suffering from pneumonia and in desperate need of oxygen. His relative, Deepak Srivastava, said that doctors told him to bring his own oxygen cylinder. “Now, we are moving him to a non-Covid private hospital. We are lucky, we got a bed. LLR people were not ready to begin treatment without the cylinder,” he said. LLR Hospital, the biggest hospital, has seen oxygen demand shoot up to 12,000 litres in a day, said the doctors, adding that the situation became critical in the early hours of Tuesday. Somehow it was managed. The LLR Hospital arranged for some 100 cylinders from Bharua Sumerpur in Hamirpur and one tanker is coming from Dehradun daily, said doctors, on condition of anonymity. They said still the supply was not enough considering the influx of patients. Meanwhile, at Anurag Hospital in Sharda Nagar, an announcement was made for people to take away patients or arrange for oxygen cylinders. The hospital had run out of oxygen and it was not made available. A patient, Ashutosh, was also allegedly assaulted when he registered his protest with the hospital staff. He had to call the police to save himself as the guard allegedly held him at gunpoint. SHO Kalyanpur Vir Singh confirmed the incident said it was being looked into. Oxygen consumption in Covid-19 hospitals has also risen to 53 tonnes in Kanpur. While the city had 12 tonnes in stock, 16 tonnes was made available additionally. Another 25 tonnes was on the way from Chandauli. “At the most it will last less than 24 hours; we need consistent supply,” said a hospital owner whose hospital ran out of essential items for treatment at 3 am on Tuesday. At present, the overall demand was of 8,500 cylinders and the availability was roughly between 5,500, and thus, a shortfall of 3,500 cylinders, said doctors of GSVM Medical College and private hospital owners. In his briefing, the Kanpur DM said that he had deputed magistrates at four oxygen plants to ensure that the oxygen reaches the right places. Similarly, magistrates have been deployed in all Covid-19 hospitals to check ‘black marketing of beds’ so that patients get a bed conveniently. Meanwhile, a private company has been hired to run the integrated command centre more efficiently, and it will take over the centre in a day or two, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-gasps-for-oxygen-but-brass-says-all-is-well-101619026003749.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to impose fresh Covid restrictions from April 22 onwards. Check SOPs here||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced a fresh series of restrictions to curb the increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These restrictions will come into effect from April 22, 8pm and continue till May 1, 7am.The state government’s decision comes just a day after health minister Rajesh Tope and other ministers in the cabinet requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a complete lockdown in the state.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 caseload has surpassed the 4-million mark with 61,911 deaths, 3,268,449 recoveries and 695,747 active cases. On Wednesday, 568 deaths were reported- the highest ever single spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. While, 67,468 people tested positive for the disease on Wednesday.Here are the list of SOPs which have to been announced by the Maharashtra government:1. Office attendanceAll government offices will operate with only 15 per cent attendance apart from those for emergency services which are directly related to the management of the Covid-19 outbreak.Those offices falling under section 5 of the April 13 order can function with 15 per cent attendance or five people whichever is more, Wednesday’s order said.All offices required for essential services under section 2 of the April 13 order should work at the lowest required capacity for the same and should not go beyond 50 per cent.The attendance of all personnel delivering essential services on ground should be lowered. However it can extend up to 100 per cent as per the need.2. MarriagesOnly 25 people will be allowed to attend weddings. The marriage function cannot extend beyond two hours.Those found flouting the rules will be fined ₹50,000 and any location”which is misused or is defaulting in the spirit of the restrictions shall be closed till promulgation of Covid-19 as a disaster remains in force,” the order read.🚨New strict restrictions under #BreakTheChain🚨To be implemented from 22nd April 2021, 8pm onwards pic.twitter.com/ifyrcQCbnH3. TransportationThe order said all private passenger transport excluding buses can ply for only emergency services or other valid reasons with driver and 50 per cent of the seating capacity.Private buses can ply with 50 per cent seating capacity without standing passengers.In case of inter-city or inter-district travel, the bus operator must restrict stoppages to two. Passengers getting off at stops should be stamped on the hand for a 14 day quarantine and the bus operator will give the stamp.Thermal screening will be done and those testing positive will be moved to a hospital or a Covid care centre, the order said. Bus operators found violating these rules will have to pay a fine of ₹10,000. The local disaster management authorities (DMA) can conduct rapid antigen tests at the stops.🚨New strict restrictions under #BreakTheChain🚨To be implemented from 22nd April 2021, 8pm onwards pic.twitter.com/ifyrcQCbnHWith regard to public transport, only government and medical personnel and those needing medical treatment or specially-abled and one person accompanying the needy will be allowed to travel. These people will be allowed to use local trains, metro and mono rail.Bus owned by state or local governments will ply at 50 per cent capacity with no standing passengers.In case of inter-city or inter-district travel, passengers getting off at their stops will also be stamped with a 14-day home quarantine and they will be thermally screened too. The local DMAs may do the rapid antigen tests at the stops, according to the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-impose-fresh-covid-restrictions-from-april-22-onwards-check-sops-here-101619024596171.html
21-04-2021||Jaipur||Battling record Covid-19 surge, Rajasthan urges Centre to increase oxygen quota||Amid an alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday urged the Centre to increase the state's quota of oxygen from 250 metric tonnes (MT) to 325 MT and ensure a steady supply of Remdevisir vaccines, an official statement said.State Health Minister Raghu Sharma spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan over the issues on Wednesday and has also written a letter to him, it said.Sharma urged Vardhan to increase the state's current allocation of 250 MT of liquid medical oxygen to 325 MT by the end of this month. He also sought an urgent allocation of an additional 120 tonnes of oxygen to tackle the emergency situation in the state, the statement said.In his letter, Sharma said the number of coronavirus cases in Rajasthan is continuously increasing and presently, there are more than 85,000 active cases in the state. Due to this, the demand for medical oxygen in the state is also increasing continuously.Sharma further requested the Centre to ensure a steady supply of Remdesvir vaccines, used for the treatment of coronavirus infection, to the state, according to the statement.Rajasthan's Covid-19 tally surged to 4,53,407 on Wednesday with 14,622 fresh cases – the sixth record daily jump in as many days, according to an official bulletin.Sixty-two more people succumbed to the disease, taking the state's death toll to 3,330, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/battling-record-covid-19-surge-rajasthan-urges-centre-to-increase-oxygen-quota-101619014751713.html
21-04-2021||Ranchi||Daily detection of cases up to 5k in just 10 days||The state has been witnessing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, as the daily tally jumped to 5,000 from 2,000 in just 10 days, according to an analysis of the state health department’s daily Covid-19 bulletin.According to the health department’s April 20 bulletin, Jharkhand discovered 4,969 cases, that took the total tally to 172,315. This includes 137,590 recoveries, 33,178 active cases and 1,547 deaths.Prior to April 10, the state was discovering less than 2,000 cases daily. However, an unprecedented growth was witnessed after that with the daily detection of cases almost touching the 5,000-mark on April 21.The growth of cases, however, broke all previous records on April 15, when the state discovered 3,480 cases, registering its highest-ever single-day spike since the pandemic’s outbreak last year.Last year, the daily case tally peaked on August 31 with the discovery of 3,331 cases after a special testing drive.After April 15 this year, each subsequent day broke the previous day’s record as growth of cases continued unabated.The death toll in last 10 days also shot up tremendously, as 355 mortalities were recorded during this period. The state during last year pick discovered 311 and 296 deaths in August and September, respectively.According to experts, cases will keep increasing over the next 15 days. The lockdown may slow down the spread and was likely to ease out the already overburdened system, they said.BoxDaily detection of cases and deaths in last 10 daysDate. Cases/DeathsApril 20: 4969/45April 19:. 4401/46April 18:. 3992/50April 17:. 3838/30April 16:. 3843/56April 15:. 3480/28April 14: 3198/31April 13:. 2844/29April 12:. 2366/19April 11:. 2296/21||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/daily-detection-of-cases-up-to-5k-in-just-10-days-101619023663571.html
21-04-2021||Ranchi||Week-long lockdown begins today, public transport on||With no special mention in the state government’s order, public transport, including inter and intrastate bus services and auto-rickshaws will continue to offer services to train, air and other passengers during the week-long lockdown that begins on April 22, officials said on Wednesday.State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said no fresh direction was issued for the transport sector. He said, “Public transport will automatically slow down, as there will be mere movement of passengers during the week.”The state government on Tuesday announced a week-long lockdown from April 22 to 29, named Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, in a bid to break the curb the rapidly spreading coronavirus infection in the state. The restrictions will come into effect from 6am on Thursday and continue till 6am on April 29.Bus and auto-rickshaw associations have, however, decided to impose some self-made restrictions in a bid to curb spread of coronavirus infection.Ranchi Bus Owners’ Association (RBOA) on Wednesday said they will be plying with 100% passenger capacity while following Covid-19 protocol. “Besides mandatory use of mask, we are also planning to restart thermal scanning of passengers, which will help stop spread of the virus,” said RBOA president Krishna Mohan Singh.He said the buses will be sanitized on a regular basis and passengers will also be asked to sanitize their hands at frequently. “Since train and air services are operational, bus services will be required for long-distance passengers,” he said.Meanwhile, Jharkhand state diesel auto drivers’ association members said auto services will be available for train and air passengers in Ranchi. “Auto service will also be available for medical exigencies such as vaccination and other purposes,” the association president Dinesh Soni said.He said the auto owners have been asked to follow all Covid-19 guideline.Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration held a meeting regarding implementation of the week-long lockdown. Deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan said the Swastya Suraksha Saptah will be followed strictly. “Textile, footwear, jewellery, salons, sports, books and stationaries shops will remain completely closed, while grocery shops, liquor stores, sweet and meat shops will remain open during the week,” he said. To remain closedAll shops, establishments and offices will remain closed excluding some exceptionsReligious places to remain open but entry of visitors will remain prohibitedAll indoor and outdoor congregation of more than five persons are prohibited with exception of marriage function with upper limit of 50 persons and last rites related function with maximum limit of 30 personsAll processions including religious are prohibitedAll schools, colleges, coaching, training, and anaganwadi centres would remain closedFair, exhibition, movie halls, multiplexes, stadium, gymnasium, swimming pools, parks will remain closedTo remain opened Medicine, healthcare, medicine related shopsGrocery shops, PDS shopsPetrol pumpsFruit, vegetable, foodgrains, milk and milk products, animal feed and sweet shopsHotels, restaurants but dining is prohibited. Home delivery is permittedDhabas on national and state highwaysAgriculture, construction, industrial, mining activitiesE-commerce, veterinary care shops, liquor shops, vehicle repair shopsCold storage, ware housesPrint, electronic mediaCourier services, telecom related services and security servicesEOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/weeklong-lockdown-begins-today-public-transport-on-101619023603573.html
21-04-2021||Other||Woman dies, 7 cops hurt as villagers clash with raiding police team||BETTIAHAn 80-year-old woman died and seven policemen were injured on Wednesday morning when a police team raiding the house of a suspected liquor smuggler in East Champaran allegedly came under attack. The incident happened at Naiyaka Tola village.According to Achhelal Yadav, son of the deceased woman Sushila Devi, she died after the police personnel hit her. “My mother slumped on the ground and died immediately. The policemen escaped, leaving behind their vehicles,” Yadav said. However, Nitin Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kotwa police station, refuted the allegations. He said the police team, which was raiding the house of Acchelal Yadav following inputs about liquor trade, came under attack from the villagers when it stumbled upon liquor manufacturing machines. “Caught unawares, a woman began writhing in pain, holding her chest. She had probably suffered a heart attack. In the meantime, Acchelal raised alarm and a group of villagers attacked and snatched arms from one of the policemen. In all, seven policemen, including two sub-inspectors, were injured in the attack,” said Kumar, who himself sustained injuries on his arms. Sources quoting eye-witnesses said the village resembled a battle ground as locals went after the police team, pelting stones at them. “The INSAS rifle snatched from a policeman was returned after pressure was brought upon by the village headman,” said a village resident. Arun Kumar Gupta, subdivisional police officer (SDPO), said, “The reason behind the woman’s death could only be known after autopsy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-dies-7-cops-hurt-as-villagers-clash-with-raiding-police-team-101619023544126.html
21-04-2021||Other||Two temple priests beheaded in Madhubani||PATNABeheaded bodies of two priests of Dharoharnath Mahadeo Temple at Khirhar on the outskirts of Madhubani town were found in the temple courtyard late Tuesday evening. The slain priests were identified as Hira Das and Anand Mishra. The bodies were spotted by villagers after they found the temple door open. Police said the two were perhaps killed while asleep as there were no clues of any kind of resistance. While chief priest of the temple, Narayan Mukhia, alleged both were hacked to death by one Dipak Choudhary, police are looking at the robbery angle since donation boxes were found outside the temple premises and the offerings, mainly cash, was missing.Police said that before escaping, the miscreants also ransacked the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in search of more valuables and cash. Station house officer of Khirhar police station, Anjesh Kumar, a case had been registered in on the basis of the statement of Narayan Mukhia against suspect Dipak Choudhary and a probe team was being formed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-temple-priests-beheaded-in-madhubani-101619023543521.html
21-04-2021||Other||15 of 19 Covid +ve runaway juveniles traced||ChapraOut of 19 Covid positive inmates of a remand home who had escaped from the hospital isolation ward, 15 have been located and a search is on for the others, superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar said on Wednesday.All of them had escaped Tuesday night out of fear of the disease, the SP said.Of them, 11 who hailed from the Saran district, of which Chapra is the headquarter, have been found at their home, he said, adding the rest right were from the neighbouring districts and among them four have been tracked.Among 11 locals, guardians of six have said they would bring back their ward to the sadar hospital.The rest preferred to stay in home isolation and they will be under watch of the police stations concerned, the SP said.After a Covid test for all 39 juveniles of a local remand home here, 19 had tested positive on Monday and they were put up in a quarantine centre of the sadar hospital.All 19 escaped after removing iron roads of the window of the isolation ward.The SP said he himself visited the centre during the day and found that policemen on duty there did not had access to the ward on the first floor of the building in the rear side of the campus.“It has now been decided that all those returning to the hospital will be quarantined in an another building under watch of the policemen,” Kumar said.He said the juveniles in the age category of 14 to 18 had run away out of panic after they were found infected. They either reached their own home or that of some kin.Bihar is also experiencing second surge of coronavirus.As per the last health bulletin, total 10,455 new cases were recorded from across the state Tuesday while 51 had succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, Saran district accounted for 530 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-of-19-covid-ve-runaway-juveniles-traced-101619023484939.html
21-04-2021||Other||Free vaccination for all above 18: Nitish||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday announced free vaccination to all people aged 18 years and above even as the state 12222 new cases in the last 24 hours, its highest single-day spike.“The state government will provide free vaccination to those aged 18 years and above,” Kumar tweeted. The state government is already providing free vaccination to all people above 45 years of age at its hospitals.Providing free vaccination was one of the election promises made by the NDA during the assembly elections held last year. Earlier in the day, former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi demanded that the state government provide free vaccination to those aged 18 years and above who would be vaccinated from May 1. “Governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, etc., have made an announcement in this regard. The NDA has announced during elections to provide free vaccination to all and this benefit should be extended to 18-plus people as well,” he said. Meanwhile, the state reported 63,746 active cases on Tuesday, with Patna alone reporting 2,919 cases, followed by Gaya (891). The Patna district administration issued a press release claiming improvement in oxygen supply in the state capital. It said 5,750 oxygen cylinders were supplied on Wednesday and 27,904 cylinders between April 17 and 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-vaccination-for-all-above-18-nitish-101619023484183.html
21-04-2021||Other||Patna hospitals packed, put up ‘no bed’ notices||PATNAAmid the surging Covid-19 cases, finding a bed in a hospital with oxygen facility is turning out to be an impossibility in Patna, which has four medical college hospitals, something few cities in the country can march, besides the ubiquitous private nursing homes, registered or unregistered.HT visited at least 15 hospitals and almost everywhere it found notices announcing “no beds” put up prominently. “I had to first buy an oxygen cylinder for ₹18,000 and then admit my husband to a private nursing home, as no nursing home was ready to admit him due to uncertainty of oxygen supply. One of them agreed on the condition that oxygen supply would be my concern. In the government hospitals, the seats are only available for VVIPs,” said Kavita Srivastava, a resident of Friends Colony.Oxygen supply is a big concern for the private hospitals. Kin of several patients are already weighing options of shifting them to Delhi. “You ask the government and they say everything is fine, while the situation is so bad that even for a thermometer or a steam inhaler, one has to keep running from one medical shop to another, let alone oxygen,” said Ravish Kumar, a resident of Patna City area. Ravish Narayan (48), a Covid-19 patient and a resident of Danapur, had to face an even more harrowing ordeal. After his health deteriorated on Tuesday evening, his family rushed him to a leading hospital near their residence in Rajabazar area. Despite their pleas, they were advised to take him home. “There is no vacant bed and he will be managed better at home,” they were told. As the night progressed, his condition worsened, with oxygen levels dipping to dangerous levels, leaving him gasping for every breath that he took. Their efforts to find “a bed with oxygen cylinder” also failed in hospitals. After hundreds of frantic phone calls to friends and beyond, Narayan was finally accommodated at a private hospital. Currently, he is struggling for life. Attendant of another patient said he had to cough up ₹54,000 for Remdesivir injection. “I paid as I needed it. My doctor had asked for it. I was left with no choice but to pay. Remdesivir has become like liquor in dry Bihar. It is officially not available, but the black market provides the facility of home delivery. What I am saying is no hearsay. I have myself paid for it and I am thankful that the black market at least makes it available,” he says, not wishing to be identified.With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases creating a record each day, the situation is likely to aggravate fuehrer. AIIMS is the first choice for patients in Patna, but it has limited number of beds and VVIPs hardly leave enough space for the commoners. Rajabazar’s private hospital was packed to capacity on Wednesday when this correspondent reached there. “There’s no bed at all,” a hospital employee on duty told this.At AIIMS, patients and attendants were seen waiting for admission, without success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-hospitals-packed-put-up-no-bed-notices-101619023483625.html
21-04-2021||Other||Panchayat polls set for delay, decision only after 15 days||PATNAIt’s official now. The upcoming panchayat polls in the state will be delayed as the State Election Commission (SEC) on Wednesday decided to take a decision on holding the elections for rural local bodies only after reviewing the situation of Covid-19 cases after 15 days in the wake of surge in infections owing to second wave of the Coronavirus. In a press statement, the SEC said there were plans to send the proposal for notification of panchayat polls to the state government by end of April, but the situation has changed owing to the recent spike in Corona cases. It said the entire administration in districts was had been mobilised to tackle the situation and many in the state poll panel and other departments had contracted the virus. Officials said the training programme for officials drafted for election duty has been also suspended. The current five-year term of elected representatives for 2.54 lakh posts in three-tier rural local bodies ends on June 15. With panchayat polls set to be delayed, chances are that these bodies would be run it through administrators after June 15 till the time elections are held, sources said. The panchayat raj department has already started working on a proposal to appoint administrators to run these bodies by notifying designated officers so that development works carried through the rural local bodies continues smoothly. SEC officials, however, said the election date would be fixed once the situation normalises and that the preparations for holding the polls were already in place. Recently, the SEC and Election Commission of India (ECI) resolved the dispute over the procurement of EVMs by deciding to hold panchayat polls through simple EVMs ( which are used in assembly/parliamentary polls), instead of multi-post EVMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-set-for-delay-decision-only-after-15-days-101619023423517.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s revised supply plan: Haryana gets 162 MT medical oxygen||Following a wrestle over supply of medical oxygen, the Union health ministry on Wednesday issued an updated supply plan for Haryana, Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.A total of 19 states and UTs have been included in the new supply plan. Delhi will get a higher 480 MT medical oxygen against 378 MT allocated earlier.The earlier allocation plans were issued by the central government on April 15 and April 18 did not include all the states.However, allocation was revised for Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on April 18.Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday had said that a Faridabad-bound tanker carrying medical oxygen from Panipat was waylaid in Delhi and the oxygen was forcibly taken by the Delhi government.Vij said that following the incident, he has ordered that all vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders will be escorted by police.Following parleys between the state and central officials, Centre, later in the evening, said that supply of medical allocation plan is being updated.“This is keeping in view the increased demands from states on quantity of oxygen supply and its sources. The supply plan has be made in consultation with the states, oxygen manufacturers, department for promotion of industry and internal trade, All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association and Union steel ministry, under the overall guidance of the Empowered Group-II,” said a communication from joint secretary, Union health ministry, Nipun Vinayak to the state governments.As per the revised supply plan, Haryana has been allocated 162 MT oxygen. Delhi has been allocated 480 MT, Punjab 136 MT, Chandigarh 20 MT, Himachal 15 MT and Jammu and Kashmir 12 MT oxygen.“The Union home secretary will have a video conference with top officials of the state governments to emphasise the need for adhering to allocation and allowing unhindered passage to medical oxygen carriers passing through their states,” said an official.ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed that medical oxygen supplies emanating from manufacturing units in Haryana should be moved in an organised manner as per schedule. “This will help reduce chaos and disarray,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-revised-supply-plan-haryana-gets-162-mt-medical-oxygen-101619023068940.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Alarming situation: Haryana records 9,623 fresh Covid cases, highest single-day spike||Haryana on Wednesday witnessed the most alarming outbreak of Covid-19 infection with 9,623 new cases, in what was by far the biggest single-day surge along with 45 fatalities.In yet another ominous indicator of how the cases are surging in state, the cumulative number of active cases in Haryana on Wednesday reached 55,422 from 10,362 on April 1, which is 45,060 more cases in just 21 days.The combined Covid-19 active caseload of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar and Karnal has galloped from 46% to 63% since April 1, according to health department data.The state saw 45 more patients succumbing to the contagion in 13 districts - five each in Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Panchkula, and Jind; four each in Gurugram, Karnal and Bhiwani; three in Fatehabad, two in Ambala and one each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Nuh.Gurugram again recorded the highest number of fresh cases 2,988, followed by Faridabad with 1,339 new cases, Sonepat 960, Hisar 664, Karnal 548, Panipat 548, Jind 344, Ambala 258, Yamunanagar 253, Fatehabad 240, Kurukshetra 235, Bhiwani 211, Panchkula 209, Rohtak 174, Sirsa 160, Jhajjar 140, Kaithal 106, Rewari 67, Mahendergarh 61, Charkhi Dadri 48, Palwal 42, and Nuh 28.In the past 24 hours, Haryana collected 45,826 samples. Over 3,900 people recovered on Wednesday, still the recovery rate came down to 84.54% and the positivity rate rose to 5.48%.There are 1,389 critically-ill patients, including 158 on ventilator support and rest on oxygen support, battling Covid across 41 health institutions in state.SUMMER VACATION IN SCHOOLS TILL MAY 31With Covid-19 spreading at an alarming pace, the Haryana government on Wednesday declared summer vacation in schools till May 31.The decision to advance the vacation comes after the state closed all the educational institutions, including colleges and universities, till April 30.State education minister Kanwar Pal, in a tweet, announced that schools will remain closed from April 22 to May 31.Pal said, “Teachers are regularly coming to schools to prepare exam results. Safety of teachers and students is our responsibility. So, summer vacation schedule has been declared in advance.”BOX:ACS REVIEWS ANTI-COVID ARRANGEMENTS IN KARNAL
21-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Over 23,000 new Covid-19 cases in record daily spike, as fresh restrictions take effect||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 23,558 new infections of the coronavirus disease, the state’s highest ever spike in a 24-hour time span. So far, 1,222,202 people have tested positive in the state. Also, 116 new patients succumbed to the disease, which pushed the death toll to 13,762, a bulletin from the state health department showed.Earlier in the day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare red-flagged Karnataka as one among the five states of concern, along with Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Kerala. Daily new cases in Karnataka have remained upwards of 20,000 cases for the second consecutive day. Earlier on Tuesday, 21,794 new cases were reported.The fresh spike in daily new infections comes as a new set of Covid-19 related restrictions came into effect in the state from 9pm on Wednesday and would remain until 6am on May 4.Also read | Karnataka announces new Covid-19 restrictions after record single-day spikeActive caseload too witnessed a significant spike of 17,030 cases and currently stands at 176,188 from the 159,158 reported on Tuesday. It crossed the 100,000 mark on April 16 when 107,315 active cases were reported. Meanwhile, 6,412 people were discharged on the day which pushed the total recoveries to 1,032,233 and the recovery rate to 84.45 per cent, the bulletin showed.Medical workers in the state tested 152,281 samples for the disease on the day, consisting 16,899 Rapid Antigen Detection tests and 135,382 RT PCR and other tests, the bulletin showed. This took the total samples tested so far to 24,016,635, the bulletin also showed.Bengaluru Urban contributed the maximum to the daily new cases on Wednesday with 13,640 cases. It continues to remain the worst affected district in the state with 583,675 cases detected so far and 124,894 active cases, the highest in the state. Also, 5,382 fatalities have been reported in the state so far. However, the state also leads the list of districts with maximum vaccination coverage and recoveries. While 453,398 patients have recovered so far, 1,167,479 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered as of 3.30pm on the day, the bulletin showed.Earlier on Tuesday, the state government announced that a night curfew and a weekend curfew would be implemented across the state with limited exemptions.Under the state’s Covid-19 vaccination drive, 7,460,493 doses of the vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries so far with no severe or serious adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) reported, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-over-23-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-record-daily-spike-as-fresh-restrictions-take-effect-101619020658088.html
21-04-2021||Patna||Bihar to provide free Covid-19 vaccination to all above the age of 18: CM Kumar||The Bihar government on Wednesday announced that it will provide free Covid vaccination to all aged above 18. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar informed this through a tweet message. Kumar said the state government will bear the cost of administering jabs to all citizens of the state above 18 years of age starting from May 1. From the beginning the state government has been providing vaccine to its natives of all the categories without any payment, in the government as well as in the listed private hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccination-to-all-above-the-age-of-18-cm-kumar-101619020012813.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Doctor assaulted, hospital vandalised by relatives of deceased man||A group of 15-20 unidentified relatives of a 65-year-old deceased man have been booked for assaulting a doctor and vandalising a security cabin at a private hospital in Pune. The incident happened on Wednesday at Prime Hospital in Fakri Hills, Kondhwa. The patient had not undergone a Covid-19 test, but was suspected to be infected and arrived at the hospital in a cardiac ambulance. “The patient was in a cardiac ambulance. The family members believed that the death happened due to a delay in providing oxygen, but the doctors said that the patient had passed away before he could be admitted,” said police inspector (crime) Shabbir Sayyed of the Kondhwa police station, who is investigating the case. The 25-year-old resident doctor, identified as Dr Siddhant Totla, was allegedly attacked with a metal pipe, while the group rained down kicks and blows on him, according to his complaint to the police. The doctor has not sustained any serious injuries, the police said. A case under Sections 324, 323, 504, 427, 188, 269, and 270 of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Medical Practitioners Act, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Prevention Regulation, Sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, and Section 37(1), with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/doctor-assaulted-hospital-vandalised-by-relatives-of-deceased-man-101619020663408.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Couple duped of ₹65 lakh under false investment promise||A husband and wife have been booked for duping another wife and husband of ₹65 lakh under the false promise of investing the money in the share market, according to police. The accused, identified as Santosh Kachru Bhangre and Chaya Santosh Bhangre, residents of Old Sangvi, told the couple that the man was a civil engineer and invested in the share market as well. The complainant has been identified as Surekha Deepak Jagtap and her husband, Deepak Jagtap. The accused couple told the Jagtaps that they needed investors and provided attractive returns. With a written deal on stamp paper, the Jagtaps invested a sum of ₹65,66,520 in the accused couple’s company in 2017. However, the accused couple failed to return the money, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sangvi police station. Assistant police inspector Satish Kamble of Sangvi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-duped-of-rs-65-lakh-under-false-investment-promise-101619020543350.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sanjay Kakade arrested over suspected affiliation with gangster Marne||Former Parliamentarian Sanjay Kakade was arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday, over suspicion of his involvement with Gajanan Marne, a local gangster. The arrest was made by a team of the anti-narcotic cell of the Pune police. Kakade is a former member of the Rajya Sabha. The police submission in a local court while seeking custody of Kakade stated that they have information about direct and indirect links between the ex-MP and the gangster. “For the rally that was arranged after Marne’s release from Taloja, a case was registered at Bund Garden police station. Sanjay Kakade has been arrested in that case. While the narcotics cell has nothing to do with the case, the arrest was done by an inspector of the anti-narcotics cell,” said Surendranath Deshmukh, assistant commissioner of police, Crime-1. “This is being done to tarnish his political image in the light of upcoming municipal elections. There is no connection between Gajanan Marne and Kakade, who had no part in that rally and did not spread any clips or photos online either,” said advocate Vijaysinh Thombre, representing Kakade. Thombre had also represented Marne in court when he was arrested after the rally. A series of cases have been registered against Gajanan Marne and his accomplices, after a massive rally was held to celebrate his release after his acquittal. A case was registered under Sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for); 506 (criminal intimidation); and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act; and Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act. This case was registered against Marne and his accomplice for social media posts. These posts were published in a planned manner then spread through various platforms like YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook by Marne’s followers, according to a police statement on February 23. The police submission in court, on Wednesday, states that Kakade’s police custody is required to investigate others who allegedly helped him spread fear through the social media posts related to Marne’s rally. Marne was acquitted in a murder case in February and was later arrested by Pune rural police in another case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sanjay-kakade-arrested-over-suspected-affiliation-with-gangster-marne-101619020423495.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Six booked for cheating investors via pyramid schemes||The office-bearers of a company named Dreamvision4u, in Moshi, have been booked for cheating investors via multiple pyramid schemes. The alleged schemes of the company offered attractive returns, including trips to Thailand, upon an investment of ₹7,500, and bringing in more investors to the company. The accused have been identified as Dinesh Kurkute, Deepika Kurkute, Vinayak Shirole, Navnath Magar, Amitkumar Ponde, and Nitin Kurkute, according to the police. However, none of them have been arrested in the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prachand Dadsaheb Bhusare (42), a resident of Dongaon in Kej taluka of Beed. The company had offered four different types of investment schemes, of which the complainant had invested in a scheme that promised him 5% of the company profit, a tour to Thailand, and 24 months of returns. The complainant invested a total of ₹8,55,000 since June 2018, and got ₹92,275 in return since then, according to his complaint. A case under Sections 420 (cheating); 406 (criminal breach of trust); and 34 (common intention), of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Depositors Interest Act, 1999, has been registered at Bhosari MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-booked-for-cheating-investors-via-pyramid-schemes-101619020243358.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Civil society members want detailed clarification on riverfront project||Civil society organisations and citizens have written to Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar expressing serious concerns and demanding a public presentation of the riverfront rejuvenation and improvement project. Many organisations have also requested a rethink of the entire project. They have raised concerns on the lines of flooding, destruction of the river ecosystem, biodiversity, and have demanded a public presentation of the project. “The project does not address the core issues of water quality and need for scientific ecological restoration of the degraded river ecosystem, and it proposes to narrow the river channels with a view to commercialising adjoining land which is currently within the flood lines, putting lives at risk and destroying biodiversity for commercial interests,” said Shaileja Deshpande of Jeevit Nadi. Deshpande also pointed out that a hydro-geological study has not been done. “As a group of concerned citizens and civil society organisations, we want to understand the proposed River Rejuvenation and Improvement Project in detail,” said the letter addressed to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar. The PMC, PCMC, Cantonment boards are to jointly take up this project for which a special purpose vehicle will be set up but what the members fear that the project is ill-conceived and will add to issues of river flooding, and destruction of the river ecosystem and biodiversity. The members have raised questions about how the project will benefit the residents of Pune. “The key issues related to the river systems in Pune include pollution, primarily due to untreated sewage in flows, encroachment, degradation, and destruction of the right of way of the river, banks, riverbed, channel and other physical attributes of the river due to the construction of roads, metro pillars, dumping of debris have reduced the carrying capacity of the river,” stated the letter. “Given the situation of climate change and the impacts Pune is already facing, the priority of river-related projects should be to improve the city’s resilience to extreme rainfall, flash floods, and restoring the degraded river ecosystem. These urgent needs are not considered. The city should focus on projects to improve resilience, and not land development and beautification,” said Sanskriti Menon, Centre for Environmental Education (CEE)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civil-society-members-want-detailed-clarification-on-riverfront-project-101619020123444.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sangvi residents irate over frequent power cuts, MSEDCL blames PCMC||The residents of Sangvi are frustrated due to frequent power cuts which officials of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) say is because of the civic body’s road digging work. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is carrying out road development work in Sangvi due to which MSEDCL has registered 405 underground high tension and low-tension cable damages in the past one year. In Pimpri division, Sangvi is a subdivision which includes Wakad, Tathavade, old and new Sangvi, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Gurav, Pimple Nilakh, Vishal nagar and Thergaon area. The MSEDCL supplies power to around two lakh residents. Sandesh Pawar, resident of Mamtanagar, Sangvi said, “Our whole family tested positive. We have had a home quarantine for the last eight days. We are suffering a frequent power failure in our areas. We cannot go outside, and have to sit at home despite power failure. One one side, patients are struggling to get oxygen bed, ambulance, Remdesivir injection, vaccination and on the other, we have to struggle to get uninterrupted power. We are facing a very difficult situation.” Rohit Suryawanshi, resident of Sangvi, “I am working in an IT firm and doing work from home but, frequent power failure creates huge problems at work from home. In a day, we face power failure almost twice in a day, the situation is very unbearable one.” Shivaji Waifalka, executive engineer of Pimpri division of MSEDCL said, “In Sangvi area, the PCMC has undertaken road development work in which daily two-three underground cables of MSEDCL are damaged and residents have to face power failure problems during summer season. We have written several letters to PCMC officials to take care of underground cables and coordinate with MSEDCL officials during their work. However, the PCMC officials, especially contractors, are not co-operating with MSEDCL officials. Due to which, people have to face frequent power failure problems. In the last month, MSEDCL conducted a load shedding in Sangvi as 132 kilowatt high tension underground cables were damaged.” Vijay Bhojane, additional city engineer of PCMC said, “The PCMC is carrying out development work of road, water and drainage department as well as smart city work. We have given instruction to the contractor to contact the MSEDCL person before doing any digging work. However, MSEDCL is not able to provide a person who can guide contractors and workers about underground electrical cables.” MSEDCL cautions PCMC MSEDCL officials have informed PCMC about the interruption of power supply to Covid hospitals in Sangvi. MSEDCL mentioned in a press release that if PCMC fails to take precaution during development work there are chances of power failure in Covid-19 hospitals as well as other hospitals located in Sangvi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sangvi-residents-irate-over-frequent-power-cuts-msedcl-blames-pcmc-101619019943408.html
21-04-2021||Pune||PMC asks citizens to vacate dilapidated wadas||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued notices to citizens who are staying in dilapidated wadas and buildings in the city and asked them to vacate it due to safety reasons.Every year, the PMC issues a public notice before monsoon to avoid any accident. City engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “The PMC conducted a survey of dilapidated wadas and issued notices to citizens who are living in them.” A PMC officer on anonymity said, “It is an annual routine process to issue the notice, but citizens do not vacate their homes and continue to stay in dangerous buildings. As there is a tenant and owner issue, tenants are worried that if they vacate the home, they will not retain any claim on property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-asks-citizens-to-vacate-dilapidated-wadas-101619019883463.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Parents anxious over FYJC admission after board exam cancellation||Due to the increasing number of Covid cases in the state and a fear of infection to students, the state government cancelled Class 10 board examinations, however, parents, teachers now fear a complex admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC). “The decision taken by the state government to cancel Class 10 board exams is appreciated, looking at the safety of students but at the same time assessment of their marks and further admission process also needs to be checked. It is necessary to make a proper system for FYJC admissions for this batch, or else there would be lot of issues in their career,” said Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of Pune district principals’ association. “In the last one year, no internal assessment of students was done in any of the schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic and so we cannot give proper marks for Class 10 students. While cancelling the board exams, what was the policy decided and its impact on future Class 11 admissions was taken into consideration or not? All this needs to be scrutinised and then further important decision of Class 11 admissions should be taken,” said Avinash Takwale, principal of Poona Night school. Umesh Chavan whose daughter is in Class 10 said, “We are happy that the state government considered safety of students first and took a decision to cancel the board examination. However, if my daughter gets less marks in the internal assessment from school which will impact her college admissions, then who will be responsible for it? There are lot of unanswered questions and confusion amongst students and parents.” Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of coaching classes teachers federation said, “The decision taken by the state government to cancel the board exams of Class 10 is completely wrong and it is going to have a long-lasting impact on students’ career. Not only for further Class 11 admissions, but at every step of their career when they will be marked Covid passed on their passing certificates. If the board exams for Class 12 can be conducted, then Class 10 can also be held.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-anxious-over-fyjc-admission-after-board-exam-cancellation-101619019763365.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygen||The Delhi high court on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre for depleting supply of oxygen at many private hospitals in the national capital. The court was hearing a petition filed by Max Healthcare, which runs many hospitals in Delhi."Today, Max is before us, and we are sure soon there will be other hospitals too. Whatever Inox is supplying, is fine, but we are surprised that despite yesterday's order you haven't done anything," the bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.The court had on Tuesday directed immediate implementation of an order to stop oxygen for industrial use to meet the demand by hospitals, ramping up of medicine supplies and vaccinating more people.The judges sought to know that why the Centre isn't diverting oxygen from petroleum and steel industries to give to Covid-19 patients who are in dire need of it. "Even if these industries are run at lower capacity since medical oxygen is needed, heavens are not going to fall. But with the stoppage of oxygen at this stage hell will break loose," it said, calling the Centre's decision to not stop the supply of oxygen to the industries as "completely ridiculous"."We don't care, beg, borrow, steal or requisition new plants if you want," said the judges asking the Centre to fulfill the hospitals' need of oxygen, critical for treatment and recovery of Covid-19 patients.Justices Sanghi and Palli also took note of the tragedy in Maharashtra's Nashik where 24 Covid-19 patients lost their lives due to disruption in oxygen supply.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the court that oxygen has been delivered at two of the Max hospitals - at Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh. He said that more oxygen is on its way and will reach the hospital shortly. "I have spoken to the highest authority, all efforts are being made to get oxygen supplied," said Mehta.The lawyers appearing for Max hospital hold the court that they have oxygen stock for just eight hours at Vaishali and Gurgaon facilities. The court then said that shortage of oxygen has become a national emergency and called for exercising sovereign power. Mehta replied saying there could be some constraints and that he will talk to the Centre. The court will hear the matter on Thursday.Many hospitals in Delhi, including Sir Ganga Ram, sent SOS to the government about their depleting stocks of oxygen. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also held a press conference where he pleaded the Centre to intervene and ensure adequate supply to the hospitals in the city.He also asked for increasing the oxygen quota of Delhi, which was okayed by the Centre late on Wednesday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the Centre for it."Why is the Centre not waking up to the gravity of the situation? We are shocked and dismayed hospitals running out of oxygen but steel plants are running," the high court said.Meanwhile, the Centre said on Wednesday that of the total 7,500 metric tonnes of oxygen being produced in India per day, 6,600 metric tonnes, as on date, is being allocated to states for medical use and assured that efforts are being made to increase its supplies in the coming days.At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul appealed to the states, hospitals and nursing homes to ensure rational use of oxygen.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan further said that a 24x7 control room has been set up where state governments can raise the problems bring faced by them like if their truck is stuck somewhere or the if movement is being hindered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/beg-borrow-steal-delhi-high-court-slams-centre-over-depleting-oxygen-supply-101619019513133.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Nashik oxygen tank leak: Directives given to check oxygen tanks and pipelines in Pune||PUNE: After the Nashik oxygen tank leak incident, instructions have been given to check and safety audit oxygen tanks at all the Covid hospitals in the city.After the Nashik accident, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar gave instructions to officials carry out safety audit of oxygen tanks in the city and district to avoid any such incident.PMC oxygen supply co-ordinator Srinivas Kandul said, “We have directed all the civic body-run and private hospitals to inspect oxygen tanks and pipelines.”Heavy load leaves electric crematoriums non-functionalWith the Covid tally rising, crematoriums are overburdened having received more bodies than usual during the last few days. Many electric crematoriums that are running round the clock have become dysfunctional. An official, on condition of anonymity, said that many electric crematoriums need repairs and maintenance because of the overload and some have become non-functional. The official said that maintenance of electric crematorium takes the whole day. Meanwhile, PMC had given permission to perform final rites using wood as per tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-oxygen-tank-leak-directives-given-to-check-oxygen-tanks-and-pipelines-in-pune-101619018923338.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen scarcity: Small hospitals in Pune referring patients to multi-speciality medical centres||Pune: With the city facing an acute shortage of oxygen, many small hospitals have stopped taking in new patients and are advising patients to look for multi-speciality hospitals. “Eighty per cent of small hospitals in Pune district are now advising people to opt for larger hospitals. Smaller hospitals are solely dependent on oxygen cylinders and earlier, they were getting 30 per day, but now they are getting only two or three in a day,” said Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Pune Hospital Board of India. To deal with the situation of increasing Covid patients, many hospitals, since April, had started to take in more oxygen cylinders, but now the situation has changed. “In initial days, smaller hospitals managed to provide support to bigger hospitals with oxygen, but now it is not possible. In multi-speciality hospitals they have two options - either they have their own oxygen plant or have cylinders. This is not the case with small hospitals,” added Patil. “Large hospitals are not having a problem, only smaller ones as they depend on multiple cylinders,” said Bomi Bhote, head of the Private Hospital Association in Pune. “My father’s oxygen level is fluctuating and the hospital in Karvenagar where we take treatment now says that we need to approach another hospital. Most multi-speciality hospitals prefer doing all the diagnosis tests again, so my father will have to face these primary tests again,” said Chetan Kumbhar, a resident of Karvenagar. “We have been using an oxygen concentrator since the last two days for my aunt and her situation is all good. Our regular doctor is suggesting that we should admit her for a few days in a hospital where an oxygen bed is available as a precautionary measure. His own clinic has a facility, but they are not admitting any patients since they don’t have spare oxygen cylinders,” said Bharat Khadpe, a resident of Bavdhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-scarcity-small-hospitals-in-pune-referring-patients-to-multi-speciality-medical-centres-101619017663270.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees record jump in daily Covid deaths at 568; Mumbai’s new cases remain below 8,000||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded the highest ever-single day spike in deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 568 succumbing in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 67,468 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the caseload to over 4 million which includes 61,911 deaths, 3,268,449 recoveries, the bulletin showed.The state capital Mumbai, however, once again reported less than 8,000 cases on Wednesday (7,654 to be exact) which took the total number of cases in the city to 601,713. More than 12,500 people have died so far in Mumbai with 62 deaths more reported in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra is currently the worst-hit state from the Covid-19 pandemic across India. According to the Union health ministry’s update on Wednesday morning, Maharashtra along with 11 other states such as Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi etc is witnessing an upwards trajectory in the number of daily new cases. Maharashtra is also the highest contributor with regard to the country’s daily death’s to, the health ministry’s update said.Also Read| 'My mother died gasping for breath,' says woman as Nashik toll rises to 24The state’s health infrastructure is in severe crisis amid the massive spike in cases and deaths. Despite the introduction of several measures to contain the spread of the Covid-19 disease such as night curfew, weekend lockdown and prohibitory orders under Section 144, the figures are not coming down and Maharashtra is staring at a complete lockdown to break the chain of transmission.On Tuesday, health minister Rajesh Tope along with several other ministers in the Maharashtra cabinet such as Eknath Shinde and Aslam Sheikh, requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a strict lockdown in the state. A decision in this regard will be announced by Thackeray soon.Also Read| 'Have sufficient supply but use Remdesivir, oxygen wisely': Maharashtra ministerThe state witnessed a heart wrenching incident on Wednesday after 24 Covid-19 patients of the Dr Zakir Hussain Municipal Hospital in the Nashik district died as the supply of oxygen was interrupted due to a leakage in one of the storage tankers. CM Thackeray has ordered a high level probe into the incident and said those responsible will not be spared, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO). He has also announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakhs for the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-record-jump-in-daily-covid-19-deaths-at-568-67-468-new-cases-101619016479574.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Higher number of post-Covid patients in Pune report Mucormycosis, a rare fungal infection||Pune: More hospitals in the city are reporting an increased number of people diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Most of these reported cases are from those who have recovered from Covid-19. Mucormycosis is rare and serious fungal infection coupled with a high mortality rate. Earlier only a nominal number of cases were being reported throughout the year. Now almost every hospital is reporting about 10 more cases every month. Dr Sudhir Halikar, head of department, ENT, at Noble Hospital, said, “Mucormycosis is a serious fungal infection of sinonasal cavities which is usually seen in patients with uncontrolled diabetes with very high blood sugar levels and ketoacidosis. However, recently we have witnessed this serious fungal infection in patients treated for and recovering from Covid infection. Use of high doses of steroids, other medications leading to high blood sugar levels with compromised immunity probably is a reason for this dreaded infection.” A 60-year-old man was recovering from Covid, but he developed some cellulitis and redness on his cheek area which spread to the eye and was diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Dr Abhishek Ghosh, a microvascular reconstructive surgeon who treated the patient, said, “He was seen by the local ophthalmologist near Daund. Then they got an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) done and they came to our hospital. We started with advanced antifungals and put him up for surgery the next day. We did orbital exenteration and endoscopic sinus clearance. He is doing well and doesn’t need ICU and is on antifungal treatment which will last for three to four weeks.” “Last month, we treated six patients in the age group between 36 years and 70 years in our hospital alone. Two of them were non-diabetic, but developed high sugar levels during the course of treatment for Covid. Early diagnosis and treatment are critical in saving vision and life in such patients. We have saved two patients with intact vision and eyeballs, but in four cases the disease has already spread to orbit with the dead eye (and complete loss of vision),” Dr Ghosh added. Symptoms of Mucormycosis post-Covid may include redness or induration near the cheek or the eye or may have some sinusitis infection, bouts of headache, heaviness, blackish discharge from the nose, vision will suddenly deteriorate. Sudden onset of headache on one part of the brain along with redness or induration near the cheek or eye should be considered a warning signal in these post-Covidpatients. Once the vision is lost, the eyeball has to be completely removed along with sinus clearance through a surgery called orbital and sinonasal exenteration. Dr Halikar said, “There is a high mortality rate while treating Mucormycosis, but surgery is the only option. If that is not performed then the infection is likely to spread to the brain.” Dr Ameet Dravid, infectious disease control specialist from Poona Hospital, said, “India being the diabetes capital of the world, more number of cases of Mucormycosis post-Covid-19 are seen in India. Previously, we used to see two to three cases of Mucormycosis in a year. Now, we have started seeing 8 to 10 cases a month. This is an alarming rise. Poorly controlled diabetes and random prescription of steroids are leading to patients coming up with Mucormycosis at tertiary care centres. There is a high possibility that many cases are underreported, and people are losing their lives. This is happening because the symptoms are very subtle and timely investigations is not done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/higher-number-of-post-covid-patients-in-pune-report-mucormycosis-a-rare-fungal-infection-101619016283235.html
21-04-2021||Kolkata||2nd Covid wave Modi-made disaster, says Mamata, rules out lockdown in Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sharpened her attack on the prime minister over the resurgence of Covid-19, terming it a "Modi-made disaster" and demanded that he quit if unable to provide adequate medical supplies to combat the disease.She also ruled out the possibility of a lockdown in the state amid spurting Covid-19 cases and said a universal vaccination drive for people aged 18 years and above will start from May 5.She alleged that 65 per cent of the drugs manufactured in the country for tackling the pandemic have already been exported."The Covid-19 pandemic had subsided in the country but has surged in a second wave owing to the monumental failure of the central government and negligence and total incompetence on its part," she said addressing public meetings at Chanchal in Malda and at Harirampur in Dakshin Dinajpur districts.As the Election Commission did not accede to Trinamool Congress' request to hold the last three of the eight-phase election in West Bengal on a single day, Banerjee said she is forced to combat the sharp rise in infections in the state as its chief minister as well campaign for Trinamool Congress, her party.Later, addressing a press conference in Malda, she said a lockdown will not be imposed but underscored the need for following Covid-appropriate behaviour."We are not in favour of a lockdown. We want everyone to adhere to Covid norms such as wearing masks, social distancing and using sanitisers. We don't want people to go back to those days of staying back at home. Lockdown is not a solution as it takes a heavy toll on people, jobs and economy," she said.She also said she will write a "strong letter" to Modi over "discriminatory" prices of Covid vaccines to be supplied by manufacturers to the Centre and states.The chief minister said around one crore people have so far been vaccinated against Covid in the state.Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi at her election rallies, Banerjee said, "The country is facing a Modi-made disaster. Modi Babu will have to take responsibility . Why medicines to treat Covid-19 are not available? You have to provide medicines or leave the chair. Either you control Corona or move out.""The second Covid wave is more intense. There are no injections or oxygen. Vaccines and medicines are being shipped abroad even as there is a scarcity of these items in the country," she earlier told a rally at Balurghat in Dakshin Dinajpur district."It is not a man-made disaster, it is Modi made." she added.Alleging that 65 per cent of drugs manufactured in the country to treat coronavirus have been exported, she said, while medicines may be given to other countries, it has to be also ensured that Indians get adequate supply on a priority basis."The BJP is attempting to break the spine of Bengal (but) we (TMC) have resolved to break its backbone," the feisty TMC supremo claimed, adding that none other than her party had the strength to fight Modi."Bengal is the land of Royal Bengal Tiger and we fight like one," Banerjee asserted.The chief minister claimed that her government has done a lot for the welfare of Rajbanshis, an ethnic group inhabiting parts of North Bengal, Assam and Meghalaya, and minorities in the state.Banerjee urged the people "not to allow division of votes" and to unitedly support the TMC.She said if the TMC is re-elected for a third consecutive term, her government will arrange soft loans of up to ₹10 lakh for higher education.Addressing a gathering in the Muslim-dominated Malda district, Banerjee asked the electorate to cast their votes in favour of the TMC irrespective of their religious beliefs as it is the "only party which has not allowed any division on grounds of religion".There is "no one else in the market" that can provide a government which will protect religious faith and rights of all people other than the TMC, Banerjee asserted and urged people not to divide anti-BJP votes by supporting the Congress or the Left Front.Earlier addressing an election rally at Balurghat, the TMC chief asserted that West Bengal will be run only by a "Bengal engine government" and not by "Modi's double-engine"."We will not allow Gujarat to capture our state or run it from Delhi. Bengal will rule Bengal," she said.The term "double-engine government" often used by BJP leaders denotes the government of the same party at the Centre and the state.The TMC chief also urged people not to vote for Left- Congress-ISF alliance candidates claiming that voting for them will strengthen the BJP's hand.She said that her administration is finding it difficult to set up safe homes for Covid patients as many government buildings are being used to house central forces.Banerjee claimed that the BJP is saying different things at different places on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2nd-covid-wave-modi-made-disaster-says-mamata-rules-out-lockdown-in-bengal-101619015156660.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine wastage in Haryana declines to 5.65%||Over three months after the start of anti-coronavirus vaccination drive, Haryana’s average vaccine wastage has come down to 5.65% from the 9.43% reported in January-end.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that their vaccine wastage is much below the programmatic wastage of 10% allowed by the Union ministry of health.“The wastage has been declining here. It came down to 8.30% in February, 6.09% till April 9 and is at 5.65% by April 20,” the ACS said.Arora said that the vaccine wastage data is sourced from the electronic vaccine intelligence network (e-Vin) portal. “Till April 20, the state has vaccinated 33,47,548 people against total vaccine consumption of 35,48,130. Thus, the consumption is 94.35%,” he said.“E-Vin is data source for calculating consumption. The data source of coverage is taken as per actual reported coverage of vaccination reported by districts on daily-basis at state headquarters in Chandigarh. The portal gives actual consumption in real time. The Union health ministry is taking consumption data from e-Vin but considering Co-WIN data source for coverage,” the ACS said on discrepancy in state and central data.The ACS said that maximum vaccine wastage was in Covaxin, which has 10ml vials (20 doses). However, the new Covaxin vials are expected to be of 5ml (10 doses) and this will further reduce the wastage, he said.Meanwhile, the state government on Wednesday constituted a committee of three officers to examine the new vaccine policy announced by the central government and suggest a roadmap for achieving maximum vaccination in light of ‘vaccination for all’ starting from May 1.The committee — comprising Haryana Medical Systems Corporation managing director Saket Kumar, NHM mission director Prabhjot Singh, and director general health services Dr Veena Singh — has been asked to submit its report by Thursday.Under the new policy, vaccine manufacturers will supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Centre and will be free to supply the remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the open market.The Serum Institute of India which manufactures Covishield fixed the price at ₹600 per dose for private hospitals and ₹400 per dose for state governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-wastage-in-haryana-declines-to-565-101619015446812.html
21-04-2021||Indore||Over 130 Remdesivir vials stolen from private hospital in MP's Indore||Over 130 vials of remdesivir, an anti-viral drug used in the treatment of Covid-19, were allegedly stolen from a private hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, police said on Wednesday.An FIR has been registered against Bhupendra Shailiwal, a drugstore employee of Shalby Hospital in the city, under section 381 (theft by an employee) of the IPC, said Kamlesh Sharma, in-charge of Tukoganj police station."The hospital management has alleged that Shailiwal stole 133 vials of remdesivir from the drugstore and sold it at high prices to customers," he said.According to the hospital management, the vials of remdesivir were stolen before April 5.The police have been conducting a detailed probe into the case and the accused is yet to be arrested, he said, adding that the role of other employees of the drugstore is also being investigated.Several persons have been arrested for black marketing of remdesivir injection in different parts of the state.Last week, an FIR was registered for theft of 860 vials of remdesivir from the government-run Hamidia Hospital in Bhopal. But the police are yet to confirm the theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/over-130-remdesivir-vials-stolen-from-private-hospital-in-mp-s-indore-101619014247606.html
21-04-2021||Bangalore||K'taka CM directs ministers to take measures to contain Covid in districts||Amid the raging Covid-19 cases in Karantaka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday directed all his cabinet colleagues to work more proactively in districts they are in charge of to check the spread of the deadly disease. The direction comes a day after opposition leaders, at an all party meeting, criticised the government over its handling of Covid crisis. In a letter to the ministers, the Chief Minister said the second wave of coronavirus is taking the entire nation into its grip and all the districts need to take measures to contain it. "Against this backdrop, you need to swing into action to prevent the spread of the disease in your district concerned, get in touch with the district authorities continuously and create awareness among people on controlling the spread of the virus," Yediyurappa stated. The state government has issued guidelines aimed at controlling the spread of Covid, effective from tonight to May 4, according to which night curfew will be imposed in the entire state from 9 pm to 6 am and there shall be weekend curfew from Friday 9 pm to Monday 6 am. It has also ordered closure of theatres, malls, bars and dine-in services at hotels to keep people from venturing out. The CM also asked the ministers to ensure medical treatment is provided to those who have contracted the disease, so that situation does not go out of hand. Karnataka on Tuesday had reported its biggest single day spike of 21,794 new cases of Covid-19, and 149 related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 11.98 lakh and the toll to 13,646.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-directs-ministers-to-take-measures-to-contain-covid-in-districts-101619006611341.html
21-04-2021||Other||Poor planning at civil surgeon’s office continues to put people at risk of infection||As the district grapples with the fast-spreading second wave of Covid infections, the health department’s poor planning seems to be putting several healthy persons at risk for infection. A day after Hindustan Times highlighted how Covid testing and vaccinations were being carried out in close proximity at the civil surgeon’s office, no corrective steps were taken.Though the health department and civil surgeon’s offices were closed on Wednesday, on account of Ram Navami, residents continued to throng the premises for testing and vaccination. Some residents complained that they had started queuing up since 8am, which is the official time for the start of vaccinations, but the health professionals did not turn up till about 9am.Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Civil Lines, said he had arrived at the vaccination unit around 8am but there were no health officials present. He added that the cotton swabs given after administering the vaccine were also seen scattered at the spot. “It was only after a few of us raised the issue that a dustbin was placed to discard cotton swabs. Also, initially people were queuing up at the site haphazardly. We took up the matter with a cop on duty there following which the authorities started issuing tokens,” said Kumar. Gaurav Kumar, another resident, who was waiting for his turn to get tested, said, “In government offices, it is now mandatory to show a Covid negative report before entering. I have to visit the RTA office so I am getting a test. But there seems to be no one to regulate the crowd here. It is very risky,” Sunil Kumar, another resident who had turned up for testing, said, “There are so many rooms lying vacant on the premises. But the authorities are still adamant on packing everyone together.”Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said due caution was taken to avoid mingling of the two groups. The issue will be resolved soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-planning-at-civil-surgeon-s-office-continues-to-put-people-at-risk-of-infection-101619012743036.html
21-04-2021||Other||Kashi gets temporary crematorium for Covid victims||City’s civic body, Varanasi Nagar Nigam, has made an alternative arrangement for cremation of bodies of patients who died of COVID-19 by creating a temporary crematorium near Vishwasundari Bridge. The temporary crematorium started functioning on Tuesday, said officials.“The alternative arrangement has been made near Vishwasundari Bridge on the instructions of municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi. Barricading has been done and a counter has been set up under a temporary tent for issuing certificate,” said a senior official of VNN.According to the official, four bodies were cremated at the temporary crematorium. Funeral of the unclaimed bodies was to be performed at the spot where the alternative arrangements had been made. Help from Pawan Chaudhary, who performed funeral there earlier too, is being taken. Proper sanitization and cleanliness are being done regularly at the alternative arrangement. At a time, 10 bodies can be cremated at the site.An official, who doesn’t wish to be named, said the arrangement had been made to ensure that bodies do not pile up and people do not have to wait in queue for the funeral. On Tuesday, seven people died of Covid in Varanasi, according to chief medical officer, Varanasi, Dr NP Singh. At Manikarnika Ghat, 100 t0 120 bodies are arriving daily for cremation these days, said, Gulshan Kapoor, manager of Baba Mashannath Temple, Manikarnika Ghat. According to Kapoor, the figure was between 60 and 80 till last week of March. Bodies from adjoining districts and state of Bihar are brought for funeral at the ghat. At Harishchandra Ghat, 20 to 40 bodies are arriving daily for cremation. The official said bodies of Covid-19 patient will not have to wait for funeral and will be taken to alternative arrangement. Moreover, some locals living in the villages near Vishwasundari bridge area opposed creating alternative arrangement for cremation near their villages. The officials, however, have pacified them by assuring that it was just an alternative arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-gets-temporary-crematorium-for-covid-victims-101619012143889.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Urge Centre to increase quota of oxygen in Delhi, says Manish Sisodia as Capital continues to see shortage||As Delhi continues to face a shortage of oxygen to treat the increasing number of patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the Centre on Wednesday to increase the quota of oxygen.Addressing a press briefing, Sisodia said only the Centre has the right to decide the quota of oxygen for each state. “There has been a sudden spike in the demand for oxygen in Delhi due to an exponential rise in the number of patients from Delhi as well as from neighbouring states such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan among others,” he added.Pointing out the severe need for more oxygen, the Delhi deputy chief minister requested the Centre to increase the 370 metric tonne (MT) quota to 700 MT.“However, the Centre has not taken any steps in this regard. Since last year, the entire country has together fought against Covid-19. State governments, central government, societies, colonies cannot fight this on their own and everyone has to join hands and fight this together. The Centre has always supported us (Delhi) and I request them to keep up this spirit and increase the quota,” Sisodia said.Also Read| Only 5 hours of oxygen left at Ganga Ram hospital as Covid-19 crisis worsensHe also alleged that the set quota of oxygen is unable to reach Delhi. Sisodia referred to a report which stated some hospitals in Delhi faced scarcity of oxygen during the day because an official from Haryana government stopped the trucks which were coming from a plant in Faridabad to deliver the gas meant for Delhi and other states."Today the Centre intervened and then the oxygen was released from the plant in Faridabad," the Delhi deputy CM said and highlighted another similar incident from Tuesday where a central minister had to intervene to resolve the issue.Addressing an important press conference | Live https://t.co/yDBSUws32oFew hospitals in Delhi have managed to receive basic but insufficient quantities of oxygen to handle the increasing number of cases. The Ganga Ram hospital on Tuesday night got 10,500 cubic metres of oxygen while the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital received 10 tons of the gas. Both hospitals have said these supplies are insufficient.Delhi, one of the worst hit-regions in the country has so far added 905,541cases and 12,638 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Tuesday, the national capital saw the highest ever single spike in its cases and deaths after 28,395 people tested positive and 277 died, according to the health department’s bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-urge-centre-to-increase-quota-of-oxygen-in-delhi-says-manish-sisodia-101619007592421.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wedding event at elite Bathinda club violates Covid curbs||Police on Wednesday raided the elite Civil Lines Club in Bathinda where a pre-wedding function was being organised in violation of the Covid guidelines. A few male members of both families have been detained, the police said. Located at Civil Lines, the club has influential business and political families as its members. Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan is the officiating president of the club. Following infighting among club office-bearers, the district administration took over its management in October 2019. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said according to the state government order, the limit of guests who can attend an indoor event has been fixed at 20 members. “After an input that a group of people is partying at the club, a police team led by DSP Aaswant Dhaliwal rushed to the spot. Legal action is being taken against the violators,” he said. About 35-40 people, including senior citizens, women and children were present in the hall on the first floor. Most of them were not wearing masks. The police team videographed the event. The DC said he would comment after getting details. Dhaliwal said an FIR is being registered at the Civil Lines police station. “The function was a clear disobedience of the DC’s orders and violation of the Disaster Management Act and other legal provisions evoked in view of a pandemic,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wedding-event-at-elite-bathinda-club-violates-covid-curbs-101619005663263.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane cops force markets to shut down by 11 am as lockdown looms||All shops in markets of Maharashtra’s Thane were shut down at 11 am on Wednesday following state government’s decision to restrict the timings of shops including those selling essential goods to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. The decision was taken with the aim to contain the continuous surge in Covid-19 cases in India’s worst-affected state.Police men moved around the markets in Thane, Jambli Naka, Naupada, Ghodbunder, Kalyan, Dombivli and forced the shopkeepers to down shutters at 11 am. However, they said home delivery of goods was allowed between 7am to 8pm.“We are following strict norms... We have asked to close shops by 11 am. However, these shops will be able to send deliveries at home till 8pm in the night. Our teams will be patrolling throughout the day to take action against those flouting rules under the relevant laws,” a senior police officer from Thane said on condition of anonymity.With the addition of 4,599 fresh coronavirus positive cases on Tuesday, the infection count in Thane rose to 425,987, a district official said on Wednesday. As the virus claimed the life of 49 more patients, the death toll in the district went up to 7,031. The mortality rate in the district is 1.65%, the official added.Maharashtra is likely to impose complete lockdown from Wednesday evening as the strict restrictions imposed last week have not yielded desired results. State ministers have demanded a 15-day complete lockdown, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expected to announce his decision on Wednesday evening, said state health minister Rajesh Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-cops-force-markets-to-shut-down-by-11-am-as-state-prepares-for-lockdown-101619005363203.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Killa-é-Hissar... The forgotten stronghold of medieval Pune||If you look at the extent of present Pune city, Sinhagad fort lays almost on its boundary and may soon be part of the city limits. Fort Sinhagad is quintessentially identified as a fort of Pune and during some part of the Maratha rule it served as an administrative centre, too. But, do you know of a fort which is hidden in plain sight right in the heart of Pune? And no, it is not Shaniwarwada, with its fortified walls.To know more, we have to go back in time to medieval Pune of the 15th century. The change of rule in Deccan after Khilji and Tughlaq dynasties had finally led to rise of the Bahamani kingdom, the first independent Muslim power of the Deccan. Junnar Paragana was under the Bahamani kingdom then. The Vazir (prime minister), who also had the title Maliku’t-Tujar (Prince of Merchants), was appointed to look after this important Junnar Pargana, which included Pune. He is credited with building a formidable land fort in Chakan called “Sangramdurg”. Shortly after his death in a battle in the Konkan, Kasam Beig Shafaat Khan an Arab sardar was appointed in his place as Maliku’t-Tujar. Being a senior Sardar from Arabastan, he was popularly known as “Bada Arab”.“Purandare Daftar”, an important archival document recording the important political events of medieval Deccan and Pune, informs us that Bada Arab ruled from Chakan and over Pune till the year 1480. It was around 1460, that he commissioned the fort at Pune on the “gaon-pandhar” (archaeological mound of the then settlement). This reference to “pandhar/pandhari” is interesting, as such mounds are formed due to extended period of occupation by humans. The burning of dung, biomass and soil due to cooking turns into ash and this ash accumulates over centuries to form mounds of whitish soil known as “pandhari” in Marathi. “Pandhari” is relatively white grey in colour as compared to the blackish or brownish soil of the Deccan. Thus, the “pandhari” of Pune which was an elevated mound denotes that the settlement of Pune existed some centuries before the fort was built on the previous ruins.This pandhari of Pune is located on about an acre around present Surya hospital, opposite Shaniwarwada. This is the exact area or epicentre of Pune where signs of previous settlements have been unearthed. The records tell us that name of the fort was “Killa- é –Hissar” (Hissar, too, means fort in Persian). Popularly, it was known as “Pandharicha Kot”. A small garrison was stationed at the fort. However, history is unaware of any significant battles fought where these defences were put to use.The fort was roughly rectangular in size. The details of the fort walls were recorded in the Pune Gazetteer of 1885. They extended from the Mutha river banks near Dhakta Sheikh Salla Dargah, west, upto 118 metres; 268 metres to the south and 186 metres to the east. These walls had openings to fire at the enemy called “janga”. An intact part of the wall can be still seen as one walks on the footpath from Surya Hospital to Kasba Ganpati.The fort had three entrances or gateways. The one near the present day Shaniwarwada is called “Konkan darwaja”. It was customary to name the gateways facing west, where the Konkan lies, to be named as such. Even though the gateway is lost today, the stairs coming down from the fort walls are still seen. Recently, a group working to generate awareness about Pune’s heritage, Varasa Prasarak Mandali, cleaned the stairs, lit lamps and displayed historical information, to generate awareness about this forgotten heritage. The other gateway known as “Nagar darwaja” (city gate) was located to east of the fort, at the present Pawale chowk. Recent road works have erased any signs of the plinth of this gateway. However, one can still witness patches of stone wall with large dressed stones near Mote Mangal Karyalay and around Tambat Ali.The third gateway was to the north, according to historian Pandhurang Balkawade, and opened to the river Mutha. A Bahamani period structure following Dakkhani Indo-Islamic architecture is still buried near the boundaries of the fort wall. The shed near Deshpande Church has a building with wide arches in stone. It was once open on all the sides. The conjectural drawing indicates that it might have been used as a “Sarai” or “Dharmashala” to host travellers, traders and pilgrims. Today, only the top portion of the arch with a keystone can be seen above ground. Massive damage to “Killa-é-Hissar” was caused during Nizam Shahi Sardar, Murar Jogdeo’s campaign and destruction of Pune in the early 17th century. We also know Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was not particularly in favour of raising land forts which would invite enemy attention. So, the Bahamani fort suffered further neglect during his occupation of Pune. Subsequently, the expanse of Pune, under the Marathas and Peshwas, the building of Shaniwarwada, and rearranging of the entire Kasba area, reduced the fort to few patches of walls. Today, buildings have come up even over the fortified plinths at certain places. And yet history is not easily erased. The fort vestiges peep out from centuries of neglect, to tell you that Pune once hosted a fortified stronghold in its heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-killa-hissar-the-forgotten-stronghold-of-medieval-pune-101619003025775.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat harvest done, Punjab farmers head for Delhi border||Despite the Covid-19 curbs, hundreds of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) activists headed for Delhi’s Tikri border via Khanauri on Wednesday after completing the wheat harvest to intensify their struggle against the three laws. Farmer leaders claimed that the Centre was trying to thwart their agitation on the pretext of the pandemic. The protesters were seen without masks and did not observe social distancing. BKU (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the protesters will intensify the agitation at Tikri on April 22. “The BJP government wants to vacate the protest sites in the name of coronavirus. The government can use any tool like day or night curfew, but we will continue the protest.” Also read: Farmers’ protest: Delhi-Haryana border points remain closedManjit Singh Gharachon, a senior vice-president of BKU (Ugrahan), said, “If there is any coronavirus, it will kill a small number of people. But the laws will kill thousands of people with hunger. We choose to die at the battleground instead of hunger.” The farmers from Malwa assembled at the Khanauri border in cars, mini trucks, Canters and tractor-trolleys. Administration looks the other wayWhen contacted, the Patiala district administration denied any information about the gathering of farmers in large numbers. “It was not in my knowledge. I will ask the SDM concerned to look into the matter. We will act accordingly,” Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said. Patran sub- divisional magistrate Palika Arora also denied information about the gathering and said, “There is no action against farmers. Neither the administration sent them nor do they march under our supervision.”Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said that the area where farmers assembled was not in his jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-harvest-done-punjab-farmers-head-for-delhi-border-101619002663127.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospitals receive medical oxygen after CM, deputy CM flag shortage||Hospitals in Delhi, which were facing acute shortage of medical oxygen, putting lives of serious patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at risk, received its supply on Tuesday night hours after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia expressed concern over the issue on their Twitter accounts.The national capital’s Ganga Ram hospital said it received about 4500 cubic metres of oxygen from a private vendor and 6000 cubic metres from Inox Air last night. The total requirement, the hospital said, was 11,000 cubic metres.“Indian Oxygen Limited and Inox have said that they will refill tanks during the day,” officials told news agency ANI on Wednesday.The Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, meanwhile, received 10 tons of oxygen, hospital officials said. The stock is sufficient for the current situation, they further said.There have also been reports of trucks transporting medical oxygen to Delhi from the neighbouring states being forced to take a detour as three key borders of the national capital have been blocked by farmers protesting against the three contentious central agricultural laws since November 26 last year.#WATCH Delhi | Alipur Police Station, Outer North District police facilitated the movement of Oxygen tanker from Singhu Border, which was stuck at Kundli Border today. The tanker was scheduled to arrive at Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini.(Source: Delhi Police) pic.twitter.com/ndKptJ3nUZEarlier on Tuesday, the Delhi high court directed that the Centre’s directions on April 18 suspending supply of oxygen to industrial units, except for those under exempted categories, be implemented “immediately.” Initially, the order was to come into effect from April 22. “Industries can wait, patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said.Also Read | Immediate implementation of order suspending oxygen to industries: Delhi HCAmid reports of shortage of medical oxygen in several states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired several key meetings last week to review its supply. Indian Railways is also running special “Oxygen Express” trains to deliver oxygen to states. Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical conditions which arise due to the Covid-19 disease.Delhi, which, on Wednesday, is observing a second full day of a six-day lockdown, is in the middle of an unprecedented rise in its daily cases of the viral disease. On April 20, the city logged 28,395 fresh infections, its highest-ever single-day rise, taking the infection tally to 905,541 as per a health department bulletin. There were 277 related deaths as well, taking the death toll to 12,638. The positivity rate is at its highest at 32.82%.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 20th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/WIkthNPBX3The lockdown began at 10pm on Monday and will conclude at 5am next Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospitals-receive-medical-oxygen-after-cm-deputy-cm-flag-shortage-101618999166529.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Drug addict son held for killing father for refusing to give him money||Four days after the decapitated body of a 60-year-old man was recovered from his house at Deep Singh Wala village in Faridkot district, the victim’s drug addict son was among three people arrested for the murder. The head was also found buried in the house. Police said Harpal Singh was murdered by his son Pipal with the help of his friend Gursewak Singh and domestic help Jaswinder Singh at Deep Singh Wala village early on Sunday when he refused to give money to his son for drugs. Also read: 22 Covid patients dead after oxygen leak at Nashik hospital; probe orderedSuperintendent of police Bal Krishan Singla said that during a random check, they found the head buried inside the house on Tuesday and also recovered the rope that was used to strangulate him. “After the recovery of the head, we rounded up the family members and domestic help. Pipal and the other accused confessed to committing the crime during interrogation,” he said. “Pipal is a drug addict and was recently admitted to a de-addiction centre. A case is registered against him under the NDPS Act in the Gur Har Sahai police station. Harpal used to stop his son from taking drugs and refused to give him money for it, which led to the murder. Pipal thought if his father dies, all the property will belong to him, and he won’t have to ask him for money. So, along with Jaswinder and Gursewak, he drugged his father with an injection while he was sleeping and strangulated him to death. Later, they hanged the body, using a plastic rope to make it look like a suicide. But the body fell on the floor and with the force of the drop, the head got severed,” he said. Police have recovered the syringe used to drug the victim and the remaining part of the rope used to hang him. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sadiq police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-addict-son-held-for-killing-father-for-refusing-to-give-him-money-101619000982978.html
21-04-2021||Dehradun||Night curfew to begin earlier, markets closed in Uttarakhand as Covid-19 cases surge||Night curfew in Uttarakhand will now begin at 7 pm instead of 9 pm and will continue till 5 am, officials said on Wednesday.The Uttarakhand government has also ordered the closure of markets in urban areas barring shops dealing in essential commodities from 2 pm onwards.The order aimed at checking the spread of Covid-19 comes into effect from Wednesday, Chief Secretary Om Prakash said."The night curfew timing for all 13 districts has been revised from 9 pm-5 am to 7 pm-5 am," it said.The order of closing shops and business establishments also applies to shopping malls, he said.Considering the likelihood of people from Uttarakhand working in Delhi returning home in the wake of a six-day lockdown in the national capital, online registration and a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours has been made mandatory for the returnees.All schools, degree colleges, institutes and coaching centres have been closed.  The revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) also makes it mandatory for all modes of public transport, including buses and auto rickshaws, besides facilities like cinema halls, restaurants, bars and gyms to run at half their seating capacity.According to the new SOPs, not more than 100 people can gather for religious, political and social functions barring the ongoing Kumbh Mela where the restrictions announced earlier will remain effective.It orders complete closure of swimming pools and spas in all districts. Organising religious, political and social functions will be completely prohibited in containment and micro containment zones.  Uttarakhand reported its highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day on Tuesday with 3,012 people testing positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/night-curfew-to-begin-earlier-markets-closed-in-uttarakhand-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101618999040983.html
21-04-2021||Noida||One arrested in Noida for black marketing of Remdesivir amid Covid-19 crisis||The Noida Police on Wednesday said they have arrested a man allegedly involved in black marketing of Remdesivir amid a shortage of the crucial drug in the market due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The police recovered 105 vials of Remdesivir from the accused, Rachit Ghai, who was held by officials of the crime branch team and the Sector 20 police station on Tuesday, a senior officer said.According to the police, Ghai would sell Remdesivir for anything between ₹15,000 to ₹40,000 to people in need of the medicine for Covid-19 treatment.''Rachit Ghai lives in Sector 168 of Noida and was previously living in Peetampura area of Delhi. He was held near DPS School in Sector 29 here,'' Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Abhishek Singh said.''He was staying in Noida since March and was involved in black marketing of Remdesivir. He would procure the medicine from Delhi and Chandigarh. Other details are being gathered,'' Singh saidThe officer said 105 vials of Remdesivir injections and ₹1.54 lakh cash were seized from the accused's possession while his car has been impounded.An FIR has been lodged against him under the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-arrested-in-noida-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-amid-covid-19-crisis-101618998468191.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Manali-Leh highway closed due to fresh snowfall at Rohtang Pass||The Manali-Leh highway was blocked due to fresh snowfall on Wednesday with the road beyond Atal Tunnel beneath the Rohtang Pass closed for traffic. “There is one feet snow on the road beyond Atal Tunnel, so it had to be closed for traffic,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh. Also read: Weatherman predicts 2-day wet spell in J&K, LadakhThe higher reaches of Chamba, Kinnaur, Shimla, Kullu and Lahaul and Spiti experienced mild to moderate snowfall. The tourist resort of Narkanda, 60km from Shimla, also got fresh snowfall. Rain, snow brings down mercury The temperature came down by several degrees after the overnight rain and snow. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, experienced 12cm of snowfall and was the coldest place in the state at -0.3 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Kinnaur’s Kalpa got 11.4cm of snowfall and recorded a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh said the minimum temperatures dropped by 1-2 degrees since Tuesday and were three degrees below normal. Manali, Kasauli and Dharamshala get rain Manali experienced the maximum rainfall of 43mm followed by Kasauli 15mm, Mandi 14.3mm, Bilaspur 14.2mm, Kufri 14mm, Dalhousie 13mm, Dharamshala 12.6mm, Palampur 11.4mm and Kalpa 10.2mm, respectively. The minimum temperature at Dharamshala was 9.6 degrees, while in Palampur it was 10.5 degrees Celsius. State capital Shimla recorded a low of 7.4 degrees and Dalhousie 5.6 degrees Celsius. The meteorological department has forecast wet weather till April 23. A yellow weather warning of thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm accompanied by gusty winds of 30-40 km per hour was issued for the middle and low hills that includes nine of the state’s 12 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manalileh-highway-closed-due-to-fresh-snowfall-at-rohtang-pass-101618999182961.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Have sufficient supply but use Remdesivir, oxygen wisely: Maharashtra health minister Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state has sufficient supply of the drug Remdesivir to fulfil the demand for the day but asked doctors to properly use medical oxygen and the anti-viral drug. Demand for Remdesivir soared manifold across several states as India is facing a second wave of Covid-19 infection. The drug is listed for use to treat serious Covid-19 patients.“We have sufficient (supplies of Remdesivir) as per today’s demand but the only challenge is of distribution. I appeal to doctors to use medical oxygen and Remdesivir properly,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party have also blamed each other over the shortage of Remdesivir. The BJP accused the Maharashtra government over mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic while the state government said that the BJP is trying to create a law-and-order situation over the supply of Remdesivir.Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Thane which are among the worst affected cities faced a crisis of Remdesivir injections which led to widespread fear and concern among people whose friends and families have been infected by Covid-19. They expressed concern over Remdesivir stocks not reaching small hospitals, according to a report by HT.Mumbai Police also warned medicine shops over hoarding of Remdesivir. The city police questioned Bruck Pharma director over the alleged stocking of vials and claimed the consignment of Remdesivir has been moved to a storage in Daman.The health minister said he was hopeful that the state would receive imported medical oxygen to meet its medical oxygen requirement. Along with Remdesivir, medical oxygen demand went up due to the second wave. Tope said that 15% of the active cases in the state would require medical oxygen. Maharashtra currently has 683,856 active cases.“We are anticipating that 15% of current active cases may need oxygen. We have an arrangement for 1,550 metric tonnes of oxygen in Maharashtra. We are also producing 1,259 tonnes of liquid oxygen all of which will be used for medical purposes only. We are expecting oxygen which the Government of India will import,” Tope further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-sufficient-supply-but-use-remdesivir-oxygen-wisely-maharashtra-minister-101618998688753.html
21-04-2021||Lucknow||UP man says ‘hospital called to offer bed for Covid-19 positive father day after he died'||As Sushil Kumar Srivastava's breathlessness worsened, his family bundled the 70-year-old into a car and drove him to a hospital in the capital of India's northern Uttar Pradesh state, where he tested positive for the coronavirus.After the private hospital turned the retired government official away because it didn't have any vacant beds, his son Ashish brought two oxygen cylinders and drove his father on a hunt for a hospital that could admit him.Followed latest updates on Covid-19 here "All the hospitals asked for a referral letter from the chief medical officer's (CMO) office," Ashish said, referring to the top healthcare official of the city of some 3.5 million people.At the office, Ashish said nobody helped him. "I was shooed away by the police," he said, when he tried to meet the CMO.Three days later, Ashish said someone from the government called him offering a bed for his father - a day after Srivastava had passed away at a private clinic.The family's ordeal reflects the worsening Covid-19 crisis in Uttar Pradesh, where people are battling bureaucracy along with the disease.To get a Covid-19 bed in Lucknow, families say they need to show the result of an RT-PCR test, which are already in short supply.Next, patients are required to register with the CMO's office, which then forwards the request to the Integrated Command Control Centre for COVID management that makes the final bed allocation, a government official said.The cumbersome process has come under criticism, including from the state's Human Rights Commission that has asked the government to ditch the referral rule."There are expert doctors in hospitals who can decide if the patient needs to be admitted or not," the commission said on Tuesday. "This referral letter system is not required."Having already become the country currently being hit hardest by the pandemic, India has recorded more than 200,000 new Covid-19 cases daily for the last seven days, marking the world's steepest rise this month, and there is no sign yet that the second wave of infections is going to peak soon.In Uttar Pradesh, home to 200 million people, infections are rising by more than 22,000 cases daily, severely straining its creaky healthcare system.The state government has said it is turning several hospitals into Covid-only facilities and adding more beds. It did not respond to questions from Reuters.BEGGING FOR HELPAt Lucknow's CMO office, adjacent to two large hospitals, dozens of people line up daily, requesting, begging and sometimes crying for a referral letter required for hospital admissions.This week, local TV news channels aired footage of a young man lying on the road to block the CMO's car in his desperation to get a letter for an ailing relative.Patients need to show an RT-PCR test confirming infection before being given a referral letter.But these tests are increasingly hard to access for most patients, with long queues outside hospitals and clinics over-burdened due to the surge in infections."Getting an RT-PCR done in U.P. is next to impossible," said journalist Shreya Jai, whose family members had to wait for a week to get a rapid antigen test.Many Lucknow labs are working with less than half their staff, the rest sickened by the virus, a lab worker said, asking not to be named.The state government has said that nearly 230 private and state-run labs were being used for coronavirus testing.On Monday, the state government led by Yogi Adityanath, who himself is currently down with Covid-19, was pilloried for its handling of the crisis by a regional court."It is a shame that while the government knew of the magnitude of the second wave it never planned things in advance," the state's Allahabad High Court said.In the Srivastava household, in a middle-class neighbourhood in central Lucknow, there is anger and sadness after the cremation of the head of the family."I blame the officers sitting in air conditioned chambers for my father's death," said 39-year-old Ashish, who himself is now COVID-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-man-says-hospital-called-to-offer-bed-for-covid-19-positive-father-day-after-he-died-101618996827234.html
21-04-2021||Other||22 Covid patients at Nashik hospital die following leakage from oxygen cylinder||At least 22 Covid-19 patients lost their lives following leakage from an oxygen tanker at a Nashik hospital.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the incident took place at civic-run Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital where some patients on ventilator support died as the oxygen pressure dropped following the leakage. Tope said malfunctioning valves caused the leakage.District collector Suraj Mandhare said so far 22 deaths have been reported at the hospital. “Twenty-two persons have died due to low pressure of oxygen. We have now restored the oxygen supply,” he said.Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game said, “The incident was reported at around 10am when the socket of the oxygen tank malfunctioned. Hospital authorities shifted some patients though 22 lost their lives as oxygen pressure was reduced. After the incident, relatives and others started entering the ward, leading to chaos. This also led to a delay in restoring the situation. The entire staff is still in a state of shock.”Also Read | Goa healthcare under severe stress amid record Covid-19 numbersHe said the accident occurred when the oxygen cylinder was being refilled by a private agency. “The agency executives noticed leakage of gas. Technicians were immediately called and problem was fixed,” said Game.According to Nashik Municipal authorities, the hospital had 150 Covid patients, including 23 on ventilator support.Following the incident, security was beefed up at the hospital to prevent any untoward incident as angry relatives of the victims were demanding immediate action against those responsible.Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “We have beefed up the bandobast here after some deaths were reported. The relatives [of victims] are very angry.”Angry relatives alleged that the hospital did not inform them about the incident. “It was only after we barged inside that we got to know that our loved ones were dead,” one of them said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-covid-patients-at-nashik-hospital-die-following-leakage-from-oxygen-cylinder-101618998283382.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC chargesheets its Jalandhar college principal, supdt for financial irregularities||JALANDHAR The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s directorate of education has chargesheeted Sahib Singh, the principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Daroli Kalan, in Jalandhar district, and superintendent Jasbir Singh, (both on leave), for financial irregularities. The SGPC had initiated a probe into the withdrawal of ₹10 lakh from the account of a former assistant professor, Sukhjinder Kaur, after the complaint by her husband Harjinder Singh Minhas that the money was withdrawn from his wife’s account using a cheque carrying her forged signature. After the complaint, the college credited the money back into Sukhjinder’s account. According to the chargesheet, Sahib Singh has been asked to explain how the money was credited back into the victim’s account. It said that Sahib Singh allegedly received ₹1.86 lakh out of the money withdrawn from Sukhwinder’s account as per superintendent’s statement. Charge sheet says Sahib was entitled to get ₹5,000 monthly car allowance when he was holding additional charge of principal of Sant Baba Dalip Singh memorial Khalsa college, Dumali, between 2014 to 2016 but he continued to claim car allowance 2016 to 2020 even though he didn’t hold the additional charge. Sahib Singh was further charged of claiming ₹1,000 mobile allowance instead of entitlement amount ₹500. Also, he received ₹19 lakh advance loan in six years without any approval from higher authorities. Jasbir Singh was chargesheeted for financial irregularities in the Sukhwinder Kaur matter. Sahib Singh denied all charges, saying he has submitted his reply to the director education of SGPC and he didn’t commit any financial irregularity. He said he didn’t receive any communication from SGPC regarding this, but was told to retire on April 30. Minhas lodged a complaint with SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on October 4, 2020, saying that his wife Sukhjinder Kaur had taken premature retirement in 2016 due to health problems and moved to Canada for the treatment. “My wife never returned to India since 2016,” he said. As per the complaint, In May 2016, the SGPC’s directorate of public instructions (DPI) colleges transferred nearly ₹10 lakh to Sukhjinder’s account against her arrears. Minhas said when his wife checked her account , ₹10 lakh were found to be withdrawn in 2016 through a cheque carrying her forged signatures. “We approached the bank and accessed the cheque used to withdraw the money and detected the forgery,” Minhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-chargesheets-its-jalandhar-college-principal-supdt-for-financial-irregularities-101618997565249.html
21-04-2021||Patna||Bihar mulls fresh treatment protocol to cope with new Covid variant||Bihar is considering revising the treatment protocol for the dominant double mutant strain of Covid-19 while also ramping up oxygen production and supply, and capacitating three-tier state health infrastructure to cope with the rapidly rising infections, said officials.The revised protocol may advise scanning of lungs and application of emergency drugs earlier than done till now keeping the new variant’s behaviour in mind, a health department official said on condition of anonymity. He added that a fresh set of standard operating procedures (SoPs) for healthcare centres was also expected. District authorities have also been instructed to ensure primary, referral and district hospitals are equipped with necessary equipment, medicines and personnel to ensure effective diagnosis and treatment at the local level, reducing pressure on big centres in major cities.On Tuesday, as many as 10,455 Covid-19 cases, the highest in a single day, were registered in Bihar. Of these 2,186 infections were reported in Patna and 1,081 in Gaya- the two worst hit cities. The state has a total of 56,354 active cases, as per the health department’s data.Chief minister Nitish Kumar earlier asked for drastically cutting down the waiting time for RT-PCR tests and results, identifying it as one of the reasons for late diagnosis, which has proven fatal in several Covid cases.The state government’s crisis management group met on Tuesday and asked the district magistrates (DMs) to ensure oximeters, basic pathology laboratories, medicines and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits were sufficiently stacked at the primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres, sub-divisional and district hospitals for effective medical management of Covid patients at the local level.“Only critically sick persons, who required critical care, shall be allowed admission in the premier hospitals like AIIMS, PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS, etc,” said the CM’s principal secretary. AIIMS - All India Institute of Medical Sciences, PMCH – Patna Medical College Hospital NMCH - Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and IGIMS - Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences are public hospitals in Patna.The CMG also set up a special task force, led by industries director Panka Dixit, to monitor and ramp up production and supply of liquid oxygen from refilling plants in neighbouring states—Bokaro and Jamshedpur plants in Jharkhand and Durgapur plant in West Bengal. Currently, three private plants in Patna are generating oxygen from air to refill up to 50 cylinders per hour. They are operational round the clock. Another oxygen plant in Begusarai has also begun production, and plants attached with premier hospitals have been told to optimise production.In other measures taken on Tuesday, the panchayati raj department has been told to distribute six face masks, free of cost to each household in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-mulls-fresh-treatment-protocol-to-cope-with-new-covid-variant-101618997563769.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Compassion first: Home chefs take to serving Covid patients||With so many families getting afflicted with Covid-19, getting a home-cooked nutritious meal often becomes difficult, even though it’s crucial. Most can’t cook on their own when unwell, and many are unable to get such food home delivered. Pitching in with help are home chefs and some newly turned home cooks, across NCR, who are coming forward to support Covid-19 patients and families, as an alarming number of people get gripped by the virus in the second wave. “A lot of Covid-19 patients complained that eateries have been declining their food orders because of them testing positive and their maids had stopped coming; the patients were themselves too weak to cook. That is what propelled us to step in,” informs Suman Tamang, a chef at Mini’s Home Kitchen, adding, “We prepare the meals in advance, and have shared our menus across Delhi and Gurugram to help as much as we can. We also customise the meals according to individual health requirements. Since the pandemic struck, we’ve served more than 100 families.”Gurugram-based Shachi Jain has been serving Covid-19 patients across Delhi-NCR, since last September. “I used to feed four to five families per day. That number has grown to eight families per day in the second wave,” says Jain, adding, “We’ve to be careful when serving someone who is Covid-19 positive. The nutritional value of the food, allergies, etc needs to be kept in mind. Their taste buds are so terribly disturbed, so one has to make the food look attractive without using much spices.” “Covid-19 itna fael chuka hai ki catering the home quarantining patients is on top priority for me right now. My phone doesn’t stop ringing... We need more people to show humanity and come forward to serve others at such a time,” says home chef Chiranjip Dabra, who, too, has had her hands full. She adds, “Whatever I serve to my own family is what I deliver to the clients. Covid-19 patients have a lot of throat issues, which I keep in mind. Khichdi, pulao, daliya are soothing for the stomach. One thali starts from ₹100 and goes up to ₹145. The delivery is completely contactless, and package is taped.” A Delhi-based primary school teacher, Megha Anubhaw Prasad, who is delivering food as a means to help people, says, “I’m getting a lot of orders from my society and neighbouring societies, too. I served for a month last year, and have started again since there are so many cases now. I’m serving them chapati, rice, dal and one vegetable and salad or egg curry to those who like it. Main jitna kar sakti hoon, utna koshish kar rahi hoon. This is my way to help anyone in need, while I work from my home kitchen.”Noida-based home chef Poonam Arora, who used to run a catering business, has also shifted her focus to help out Covid-19 patients. She says, “It’s more important to be human right now rather than concentrate on minting money! I’ve put out a Facebook post, with my direct contact number, to help cook meals for patients, and people have been contacting me. Whatever they require, I cook and send it.”Another Gurugram-based home chef Sonali Chatterji does about 100 meals per week and endeavours to serve good quality, value-for-money food. “In such deliveries, I don’t make profits. And it’s okay. I’m sending food all the way to Ghaziabad, twice a week. There are people who want dal, roti, sabzi, and some want continental non-spicy food, high on protein... I avoid making it too oily or spicy,” she shares.“I do about 100 meals per week,” says Sonali Chatterji, another Gurugram-based home chef. Talking about how the orders have increased, she says she endeavours to serve good quality, value for money food. “This is a lot of responsibility. In such deliveries, I don’t make profits. And it’s okay. I’m sending food all the way to Ghaziabad, twice a week. There are people who want dal, roti, sabzi, and there are some who want continental non spicy food that’s high on protein. Two of the people who I’m sending food to, requested for fish and chicken, and I prepare all this without it being too oily or spicy.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/compassion-first-home-chefs-take-to-serving-covid-patients-101618997509067.html
21-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt sets up war room to monitor supply of oxygen, Remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment||With complaints pouring in regarding shortage and blackmarketing of oxygen and Remdesivir, the Karnataka government on Wednesday announced setting up a 'War Room'. "In order to ensure timely & sufficient supply of Oxygen and #Remdesivir a 24x7 war room has been established with staff working round the clock in 3 shifts," state Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. Passing an order to this effect, the Drug Controller of Karnataka appointed 26 government employees and officers to manage the war room. The government also set up a new 6 Kilo Litre capacity Medical Oxygen plant at the Chamarajanagar District Hospital. Sharing the information on Twitter, Sudhakar said the oxygen plant will be operational very soon. There had been an acute shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen in the state ever since the surge in Covid cases was noticed. To meet the oxygen shortage, the government asked the private companies to establish oxygen plants and supply medical oxygen as well. Shortage of Remdesivir amid a surge in coronavirus cases has led to illegal storage and blackmarketing of the important drug. Recently a few people were arrested in Karnataka for allegedly selling the drug at exorbitant prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-sets-up-war-room-to-monitor-supply-of-oxygen-remdesivir-for-covid-19-treatment-101618994162543.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Driven to save lives : Sunil Masta||“Jeevan daan sabse bada daan hota hai. If god has given me a second chance at life by healing me from Corona, it is my duty to use this life to save the lives of others who are battling the virus, by donating my plasma.” These words are of a plasma hero who saved lives of critical patients through plasma therapy, by donating his plasma sixteen times over, after conquering Covid, last year. Meet 54 years old Sunil Masta, a Haryana resident who apart from being a plasma donor amid the pandemic, has also been a blood donor from the age of seventeen, saving lives of children suffering from cancer through his donation. Masta first donated plasma, when a youngster from his office called him, requesting for plasma donation for his parents who were admitted in ICU because of Covid. Ever since then, Masta keeps going for regular check ups to donate plasma to save more people’s lives. Project Plasma is a Fever Network initiative to celebrate the super power of Covid recovered plasma donors like Masta, who are stepping forward amid the second wave of Covid, to donate their plasma to save lives of other infected patients. Driven to save lives and in search of a genuine NGO enabling plasma donation, Masta came across the Kamla Arora Blessings Welfare Foundation on social media. Founded by Bhawna Arora to continue her mother’s legacy of charity and service, this foundation has been working rigorously with the government to serve Covid infected patients amid the pandemic. It has enabled over three thousand plus plasma donors to donate their platelets and save the lives of infected patients through plasma therapy.Despite the earnest efforts of such foundations, however, there still remains a dearth of plasma donors. “There’s a dire need of plasma right now, in the second wave of Corona. The demand for plasma is much more than the supply. People should come forward and donate if eligible! My doctors told me that the more you donate, the more antibodies against the virus are built in your body,” says Masta, encouraging Covid recovered persons to come forward, use their power to save lives and become plasma heros.Inspired by an incident when a few strangers showed kindness and saved Masta’s father’s life by taking him to the hospital after the latter met with an accident, Masta feels compelled to save lives,”I understand the value of the life of a family member to their family and so, jab tak hai jaan aur jab tak hai antibodies main toh plasma donate karte rahoonga aur zindigiya bachata rahoonga.” Talking about how plasma donors needn’t be afraid of anything, he says, “There’s no risk in donating plasma. It’s as easy as donating blood. People are afraid of donating plasma because of the fear of catching the infection again. But they need to understand that donating plasma in a blood bank is the safest because blood banks are the most hygienic part of the hospital! Just carry a sanitiser, wear a mask and you’ll be perfectly fine, you already have antibodies against Corona.”Calling on Covid recovered people to show empathy, and donate their plasma to enable plasma therapy for others Masta says, “Put yourself in other people’s shoes who need plasma right now and are hanging by a thread for their lives. If you were in their shoes and you needed plasma, how would’ve you felt if no one came forward to help you? If you’re an eligible donor, use this opportunity to save a life.”You are a superhero if you have recovered from Covid 19 because you have the power to save a life! Call on 8800570768 to donate plasma and save lives.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/driven-to-save-lives-sunil-masta-101618991504010.html
21-04-2021||Bhopal||Oxygen cylinders looted from hospital in MP’s Damoh, probe ordered||Unidentified people on Wednesday stole oxygen cylinders when a truck went to deliver them at Damoh district hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh. “We have been told that as soon as the oxygen truck entered the hospital some people (started) looting cylinders despite the hospital having adequate supply of oxygen,” Damoh district collector Tarun Rathi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The official added attempts are on to identify the people behind the incident and cases were being lodged.Madhya Pradesh is suffering from one of the worst surges of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the state recorded more than 12,000 cases on Tuesday taking its tally to 433,704. The death toll in the city also rose to 4,713 with 77 fresh fatalities. The state imposed restrictions akin to lockdown to check the transmission of the virus.Medical experts highlighted that during the second wave of Covid-19 there is a higher demand for oxygen. Oxygen remains an indispensable tool in treating Covid-19 as the disease leads to respiratory problems. “There has been a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, creating panic among the people to get admitted to hospitals and, therefore, the oxygen requirement suddenly shot up, which is one reason. But this is limited data from hospital settings and more will have to be looked at,” ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday.Reliance Industries Ltd ramped up its production of medical oxygen and it is being supplied free of cost to states which are severely affected by Covid-19, including Madhya Pradesh. The demand for oxygen went up in Maharashtra and Delhi as well. Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the Centre amid reports of a crisis in medical oxygen being reported from the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/miscreants-flee-with-oxygen-cylinders-from-hospital-in-mp-s-damoh-probe-ordered-101618990160966.html
21-04-2021||Lucknow||4 including 3 migrant workers killed in accident while returning home||Three migrant workers returning home from Haryana’s Jind district, died barely two kilometres from their native village in Bulandshahar district, when the van in which they were travelling collided with a truck late Tuesday night. All three died on the spot along with the driver of the van, Danish, said police officials.The workers identified as Jagru, Ganpat and Vijay, were residents of Karanpur Kala village in Bulandshahr district. They had been working in Haryana’s Jind district for some time and decided to return home on Tuesday due to the deteriorating Covid-19 situation, said a police officer placed at the senior superintendent of police (SSP) office, Bulandshahar.Police team from Anoopshahar rushed to the spot and bodies of the deceased were sent for post-mortems, before they were handed over to respective families.The accident was a reminder of unfortunate incidents witnessed last year during the peak of Covid-19-induced lockdown, when several migrants, devoid of regular transport, lost their lives in accidents when returning home from their respective workplaces. The renewal of restrictions in the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 has reignited fears among the migrants, who are again on the move from major business centres, albeit in smaller numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-including-3-migrant-workers-killed-in-accident-while-returning-home-101618989822840.html
21-04-2021||Kolkata||Noted Bengali poet Shankha Ghosh passes away, days after testing Covid-19 positive||Noted Bengali poet Shankha Ghosh passed away on Wednesday morning, days after testing positive for Covid-19. The poet's family has confirmed his death, news agency PTI reported on this day. Ghosh, a flagbearer of Bengali intelligentsia, was often regarded as one of the greatest littérateurs in the post-Jibanananda Das cultural landscape of West Bengal.Shankha Ghosh, at the time of his death, was aged 89. After he tested positive for coronavirus disease on April 14 (Wednesday), the poet was being nursed at his own residence in home isolation on the advice of his doctors, as per health department sources cited by PTI. Ghosh was also suffering from several age-related medical complications, comorbidities which took a turn for the worse after he contracted Covid-19. He was hospitalised a few months ago due to the deterioration of his health condition.Shankha Ghosh was born on February 6, 1932, at Chandpur in present-day Bangladesh. A prolific poet, critic, and academician, he was considered an authority on Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore. Among the poet's noted works include 'Adim Lata - Gulmomay' , 'Murkha Baro Samajik Nay', and other books. Translators have made available Ghosh's work in several other languages, including English and Hindi. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2011 and was conferred the prestigious Jnanpith Award later in 2016. He received the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1977 for his book'Babarer Prarthana'.A stalwart of the Bengali intelligentsia, Shankha Ghosh was also vocal on various social and political issues, ideals he instilled in his students at the Bangabasi College and the City College under the Calcutta University and at the Jadavpur University in Kolkata. He also taught at Delhi University, the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies at Shimla, and at the Visva-Bharati University, and participated in the International Writing Program's Fall Residency at the University of Iowa in the United States in 1967.Shankha Ghosh is survived by his daughters Semanti and Srabanti, and wife Pratima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/noted-bengali-poet-shankha-ghosh-passes-away-days-after-testing-covid-19-positive-101618987091153.html
21-04-2021||Bangalore||Coal and Mines ministry swaps coal linkage of K'taka power body from MCL to WCL||Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday said his ministry is swapping the coal linkage of Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) from Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) to Western Coalfields Limited (WCL)."We are swapping the entire coal linkage of Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd from @mahanadicoal to @TeamWCL. This has been made possible owing to our efforts at the Centre and close coordination with CM @BSYBJP ji. It will help KPCL save upto ₹265 crores," Joshi said in a tweet.He said this swapping will enable KPCL source 26.46 lakh metric tonnes of coal per annum from WCL, which is in close proximity.This will help in generating electricity at a cheaper cost and round-the-clock access to power to the people of Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/coal-and-mines-ministry-swaps-coal-linkage-of-k-taka-power-body-from-mcl-to-wcl-101618984955131.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi under lockdown, migrants rush to home states | In Photos||Delhi is observing a six-day lockdown, which ends on April 26 morning, to arrest the fourth wave of Covid-19 pandemic in the city. While most streets wore a deserted look, bus stops were massively crowded as migrants were seen rushing to their home states fearing the extension of the shutdown.Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the state governments on Tuesday to reach out to migrants and ensure their well-being. While announcing the shutdown on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too had appealed to the migrants to stay back in the national capital as it is only a “short lockdown.” “I appeal to you with folded hands. It's a small lockdown, only for six days. Don't leave Delhi and go. I am very hopeful and that we won't need to further extend the lockdown. The government will take care of you," the chief minister said.On Tuesday, Delhi witnessed a spike of 28,395 coronavirus cases and 277 deaths, according to the data released by the Delhi government's health department.Here’s a look at the Delhi lockdown in photos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-under-lockdown-migrants-rush-to-home-states-in-photos-101618984758164.html
21-04-2021||Lucknow||They laugh and joke at poll rallies as people cry for oxygen: Priyanka criticises Yogi Adityanath, PM Modi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday criticised the Uttar Pradesh government for failing to increase the number of tests to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and not doing enough to boost medical infrastructure to deal with the increasing cases of the infection, news agency ANI reported.“Their (UP government’s) own sero-survey showed that five crore people came in contact with Covid-19. It was recommended to ramp up testing. The government started 70% antigen testing, which means only 30% of those tests were RT-PCR,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said.“What is more important? People’s lives or your numbers or the image of your government? Were the antigen tests done to lower the numbers. There are reports that private labs are being told to stop the testing,” she further added.Priyanka Gandhi’s reaction comes after Uttar Pradesh recorded more than 20,000 cases over the past few days. The state recorded 29,754 fresh cases on Tuesday pushing the state’s tally beyond nine lakh. Uttar Pradesh’s death toll crossed 10,000-mark after the state reported 162 deaths.She also criticised the Prime Minister for holding rallies in poll-bound states. “They are busy campaigning even today. At rallies they are seen laughing from stages while people are reduced to tears seeking oxygen, beds, medicines and you are holding huge rallies and laughing,” the Congress general secretary said.Prime Minister Modi is scheduled to hold rallies in Murshidabad, South Kolkata, Siuri and Malda on April 23. She also said that Modi needs to sit with people and discuss a solution to the prevailing crisis.The Congress leader also criticised the Union health minister for his response to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s letter to Modi where he suggested strategies to deal with the current Covid-19 situation. The former Prime Minister, who is also recovering from Covid-19, in a letter to his successor had said that more people should be vaccinated against Covid-19 and suggested that absolute numbers should not be taken as a standard to evaluate the success of the vaccination programme.“Everyone knows how dignified a person Manmohan Singh is. If he is suggesting measures at a time when our nation is facing pandemic, then suggestions should be taken up with the same dignity with which they were offered,” Priyanka Gandhi said.India on recorded 295,041 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 2,023 deaths in the last 24 hours, both figures being the highest-ever since the beginning of the pandemic, according to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/they-joke-at-rallies-while-people-cry-for-oxygen-priyanka-slams-yogi-pm-modi-101618982269089.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Above 18 happy to get the Covid jab? Well, mostly!||Excitement, nervousness and a few apprehensions — the news that all adults above 18 could get the jab in “a liberalised and accelerated Phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination” from May 1, has brought mixed reactions from the young. ‘We need to have faith in the system’After India reported a new record high of around 2.73 lakh cases in a day, the news of the vaccine becoming available to everyone above 18, came as a sigh of relief to many such as 19-year-old Political Science student Abhir Bhalla. He feels this decision was “much needed”, and adds, “Young people, after all, are the ones who are out and about the most and are carriers and spreaders of the disease. That’s also because people had started to believe that the young are somewhat immune from the virus, which is certainly not the case. If we look at what doctors have been saying, the second wave has witnessed a lot of youngsters with severe cases. Undoubtedly, there are apprehensions because there has been speculations around the efficacy of the vaccines and the whole situation with blood clots and all, but I think we need to have faith in the system.” A 24-year-old Aniketh Sircar, Delhi-based MBA student, shares the sentiment and adds that he will certainly take the shot “irrespective of the side effects and the probability of still contracting the virus”. “If the government had approved of the vaccine, it would’ve been for a reason, and hence I’m looking forward to the availability of the vaccine for the youth as well,” adds Sircar. “I have three main reasons to get the vaccine,” says Ruchir Gupta, a corporate professional, adding, “Firstly it’ll help us achieve herd immunity, secondly it’ll open up options for travelling for both work and leisure and thirdly, psychologically I would be relieved that I’ve taken the jab!” A “small discomfort” shouldn’t have bearing on the decision, feels Akshay Kumar, a 29-year-old business architect, who is glad that the government has announced the vaccination for the youth. “I would rather get vaccinated than get caught by the virus with no way to recover! A small discomfort would be far better than landing in an ICU,” he says. ‘No one can assure there won’t be long term side effects’ And then there are those that have certain apprehensions for taking the jab. “I feel very hesitant in getting vaccinated,” says 22-year-old Jacqueline Joseph, a BEd student in Noida, adding, “Most people who are getting vaccinated are also contracting Covid, which is a very alarming concern since it negates the purpose for which the vaccine was created! Since the beginning of the pandemic last year, I’ve pretty much stayed put at home. Fortunately for the time being I can work remotely. Although that still comes with constraints and worries.”18-year-old Chiquitta Oberoi says she would like to get vaccinated, but wishes to see some results of the vaccine before going ahead. She says, “I’ve seen my family and friends getting bad body aches, head aches, high temperature, cough etc. Since the Covid vaccine is really new in the market, no one can assure that there will be no long term side effects on the body, which also makes me sceptical.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/above-18-happy-to-get-the-covid-jab-well-mostly-101618981843563.html
21-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh directs offices to function with 10% attendance amid Covid surge||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Madhya Pradesh Government on Tuesday directed the central government offices, that are not providing essential services, to run with a capacity of 10% employees.The government has also directed private offices to also run with 10% capacity.The order stated that only 10% of employees will attend office, except in units engaged in essential services like water and electricity supply, fire brigade, police, health, etc, while the remaining employees will work from home.In the private sector, this rule would apply to all establishments, except IT, mobile phone and BPO firms.An order issued by the state government also directed that only two passengers could travel in an autorickshaw, taxi or private vehicle, with masks being mandatory for all occupants.The order completely bans social, political, sports, entertainment, public and religious programmes, and has laid down that vegetable markets operate at a localised level instead of a centralised one.The order said it should be ensured that wholesale grocery agents continue to supply products to retailers.The objective of these directives is to break the chain of the Covid-19 infection, Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Rajesh Rajora said.Furthermore, the government has imposed a curfew till April 30 in Indore in which vegetable, milk and grocery shops will be exempted.People will not be able to buy these essential goods outside their area, action will be taken against them if they do so, said Indore District Collector.Also, under Section 151, he will be arrested and sent to temporary jail.The district collector also informed that only mobile vegetable vendors will be allowed and the vegetable markets will be closed temporarily.Passengers coming to other cities by bus, airport, or railway will be exempted from this curfew.People will also be allowed to go to the nearest vaccination centre.Meanwhile, the state reported 12,727 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 4,33,704.The Covid-19 situation in India continues to deteriorate amid the second wave of coronavirus infections. For the past few days, the country has been reporting in excess of two lakh coronavirus infections and over 1,000 related deaths on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-directs-offices-to-function-with-10-attendance-amid-covid-surge-101618980129150.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Army to run two 500-bed Covid hospitals in Panipat, Hisar||Amid the Covid surge in Haryana and national capital region (NCR), the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is setting up two dedicated Covid hospitals at Panipat and Hisar. In a tweet on Wednesday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that two hospitals of 500 beds each are in the process of being set up. “The (Chandimandir-based) Western Command has been asked to provide doctors and medical staff. Work to start immediately,” Vij said on social media. Also read: No shortage of ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen: Vij The minister said that there was no shortage of ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders in the state. “The state has 45,086 quarantine beds and 11,549 isolation beds, of which 89% are vacant. Oxygen availability is four times more than the consumption,” he said. Presiding over a state-level Covid monitoring committee meeting , the health minister said critical corona care centres will be set up in all government medical colleges of the state. Unlike neighbouring Punjab and Chandigarh, Haryana is not observing any lockdown on the occasion of Ram Navami on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-to-run-two-500-bed-covid-hospitals-in-panipat-hisar-101618979682120.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Gunman in Noida falls from bathroom window while escaping police raid, dies||A criminal died after he allegedly fell from a window of a flat, where he was hiding, while escaping from the multi-storey building during a police raid in Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday.The 31-year-old accused was hiding at the flat in Omnicron 1 sector of Greater Noida when the officials of the local Beta 2 police station raided the house on a tip-off on Monday night, they said.The police had reached the house while searching for Mohammad Imran, who was recently involved in a gunfight with the police, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said."The police found Imran's two brothers-in-law -- Lukman and Chand Mohammad -- at the flat and started questioning them but not Imran. During the questioning, Chand Mohammad went to the bathroom on the pretext of relieving himself," Singh said."But instead he tried to escape through the window of the bathroom. He crossed over to the other side of the wall hanging through the window which came off because of the weight of the accused," he added.The accused fell from the second-floor height and suffered injuries after which he was rushed to the private Yatharth hospital, where he succumbed after some time, the officer said.Chand Mohammad had over a dozen cases including those of loot and murder lodged against him and was a seasoned criminal himself who had been to jail also, the DCP said."He has 14 FIRs and was an accused in the Inspector Akhtar Khan murder case as well," Singh said.Further legal proceedings were being carried out by the Beta 2 police station officials, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gunman-in-noida-falls-from-bathroom-window-while-escaping-police-raid-dies-101618978656639.html
21-04-2021||Pune||As Covid-19 cases surge, Pune ambulance service gets over 9,000 calls a day||With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases surging on a daily basis, the Maharashtra emergency medical services in Pune has been receiving over 9,000 calls per day for ambulances.Control room manager Dr Pravin Sadhale told ANI, "We take 9,000-10,000 calls per day, including Covid emergencies and others. Panic has increased now."The manager added that around 937 ambulances are placed across Maharashtra. The ambulances have all the safety gears including PPE kits for shifting the patients.The earlier call flow was for accident and pregnancy cases now the more cases are for Covid-19 related symptoms. "We do have other calls also but they are relatively less," Sadhale said.Several executives are working in the control room to answer the calls around the clock.Meanwhile, 58,924 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours, according to the state health ministry on Tuesday. As many as 52,412 people recovered in the said period and 351 died. The total case tally reached 38,98,262 while the death toll reached 60,824.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-pune-ambulance-service-gets-over-9-000-calls-a-day-101618977930922.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi enters day 2 of week-long Covid-19 lockdown amid exodus of migrant workers||Delhi has entered the second day of its week-long curfew on Wednesday as the Capital steps up its effort to stop the transmission of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed Delhi Police officials checking vehicles and IDs of people inside cars as they tried to ensure strict implementation of the curfew. The weeklong curfew, which came to effect from 10pm on April 19 will continue till 5am, April 26.The Delhi Police on Tuesday issued fines to several people who stepped out of their homes, though the number was not very high as the curfew in the capital has mostly received a positive response.Police commissioner SN Shrivastava appealed to people to remain inside their homes and assured them that essential items will be available. “I appeal to the citizens of the national capital to stay inside their homes. Lockdown has been announced from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26. Essential commodities will be available,” Shrivastava said. People who were roaming unnecessarily were also issued challans and sensitised about Covid-19 preventative measures.On Tuesday night, the Capital saw an exodus of migrant workers crowding the interstate bus terminals to leave for their native states. Despite assurances from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his speech on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and city police commissioner Shrivastava, workers are unsure about their future in the lockdown down Capital.Delhi which has been reporting more than 25,000 cases for the past few days is also facing a shortage of medical oxygen and is experiencing a tough situation to accommodate patients as hospital beds and medicine shortages continue to affect citizens. Delhi’s test labs are also facing an uphill battle as the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases coupled with large numbers of requests for either RT-PCR or antigen tests forced many private labs to halt the collection of swab samples, news agency ANI reported. Delhi’s positivity rate jumped to 32.82% indicating that every third sample taken in the Capital came out positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-enters-day-2-of-week-long-covid-19-lockdown-amid-exodus-of-migrant-workers-101618976429261.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi-Haryana border points remain closed||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remained fully closed on Wednesday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws despite the current surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed by the Delhi government on Monday night.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year.For commuters coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take Chilla border.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states. Meanwhile, one carriageway of NH-9, or the Meerut Expressway, from Delhi towards Uttar Pradesh was opened by the Delhi Police on Sunday for the movement of ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-haryana-border-points-remain-closed-101618973801821.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi private labs halt Covid-19 test services for 2 days over delay in results||A rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and exceeding requests for either RT-PCR or antigen tests has abruptly forced a majority of private laboratories to stop collecting swab samples even from testing centres for at least two days.As per a government bulletin on Tuesday evening, in the last 24 hours, Delhi conducted 86,526 tests. Despite having sufficient infrastructure and equipped with machines and testing kits, many labs are closing themselves for three to four days citing overburden and shortage in manpower.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As per ICMR guidelines, the data of results have to be uploaded within 24 hours. Centres overburdened with pressure are even failing to provide results even within 48 hours of collecting the swab samples.To keep pace with the Covid-19 surge and to check the delay in providing results, the Delhi government on April 16 issued an order stating, "Keeping in view the above and to ensure that districts (and Government hospitals) have an adequate number of slots available in labs to get their samples processed within a stipulated time frame (preferably 24 hours and latest within 48 hours) through the Gold Standard Test in continuation of order 1 tF.No.253/DGHS/PLIW-IV/COVID-19/ NCDC/2020/ 12205-12274 dated 15/01/202 the linkage of public and private sector lab with each District of NCT of Delhi is amended with immediate effect."However, failing to provide the results within the said time limit of 48 hours, labs are being forced toward closure for at least two days.Dr Gauri Agarwal, Founder-Director of Genestrings Diagnostic Center, Malviya Nagar told ANI, "My team and I have not slept for 72 hours. We are doing a collection of 8,000 to 10,000 samples per day and the only issue we are struck with is manpower. Most of the labs have proper infrastructure, be it machines or testing kits. We are running short of manpower. A lot of our technicians are contracting the virus. However, there is a continuous hiring process and also we have to keep training them.""The home calls have increased by about four to five times. We are trying our best but the home collection is not possible for all. I would request people to come to the centre for swab testing that helps in getting results faster," she said.Shyam Singh Chandel, Patient Relation officer of a private lab said, "The management system of hospitals and laboratories is deteriorating. Cases are increasing and hence the demand for tests is also propelling faster. We used to do 500 tests earlier, now we are not able to meet the demand even at 5000 tests, testing results are being delayed too. The burden has gone to such an extent where we were forced to stop home collection."Delhi is also witnessing a serious shortage in its oxygen capacity.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge the centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen."Delhi recorded 277 deaths in the last 24 hours, the highest since the pandemic began over a year ago, and 28,395 new cases of Covid-19. There are currently 85,575 active cases in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-private-labs-halt-covid-19-test-services-for-2-days-over-delay-in-results-101618973273006.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to see partly cloudy sky, light rain today: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky along with light rain or drizzle on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 33°C. The minimum and maximum temperatures on Tuesday were 19.5°C and 33.8°C respectively. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 159. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 191 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the moderate category on Wednesday and Thursday. Subsequently, it is likely to remain largely in the moderate category over the next five days.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are high and South-Southwesterly. Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated thunderstorms and gusty winds are likely. Increased dust emission for a short time is likely today and AQI is forecasted to slip to the poor category for tomorrow. In case of rainfall, dust washout and partial improvement in AQI is expected. AQI is likely to slip to the moderate to poor category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-see-partly-cloudy-sky-light-rain-todayimd-101618973321472.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes 1-day lockdown. All you need to know||The Chandigarh administration, in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has imposed a one-day lockdown in the city on Wednesday, on the day of Ram Navami.An official familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that the decision was taken by Union Territory administrator VP Singh Badnore after he held a review meeting with senior officials and experts to look into the Covid-19 situation.The administration on Tuesday also extended the duration of the night curfew and weekend lockdown by two hours. The current duration of night curfew in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana is from 10pm to 5am. The Union Territory will take up the proposal on imposing a seven-day lockdown on Friday.Chandigarh reported a surge in cases over the past few days. The city reported 602 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases taking the current tally of infection to 35,148. 421 people have died from the disease in the Union territory so far.During the lockdown, non-essential movement will be strictly prohibited, the UT administration said. Home delivery of essential commodities such as food, groceries, vegetables and medicines will be allowed. Inter-state, as well as intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods, will remain unaffected.UT administrator Badnore who is also the governor of Punjab said that the city police have been asked to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown rules. He said instructions to strictly fine and punish the violators have been issued. Badnore also asked citizens to not panic and said that only critical cases will be admitted to hospitals following medical advice. He asked people to adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures in order to avoid a lockdown as well as not exert pressure on the city’s medical infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imposes-1-day-lockdown-all-you-need-to-know-101618971561424.html
21-04-2021||Kolkata||Son of famous Kolkata restaurant chain owner surrenders before court||The son of Kolkata restaurant chain owner on Tuesday surrendered before a court in the city after the Supreme Court junked his plea seeking bail in a 2019 car crash case that left two Bangladeshi nationals dead.The trial court remanded the accused Raghib Parwez to judicial custody till May 5.On August 17, 2019, a speeding Jaguar jumped a traffic signal and hit a Mercedes, before crashing into three persons standing under a police control booth in Kolkata, killing two Bangladeshis.The accused initially took shelter in his relative's house on the outskirt of Kolkata and from there he fled to Dubai.The Calcutta High Court initially granted interim bail for a period of two months on April 8, 2020 on the basis of medical report issued by the Director of Institute of Psychiatry.The interim bail was later extended on different occasions and the probe agency was directed to take steps to ensure medical examination with regard to the psychological status and the capacity of the petitioner/accused to face trial, to be examined at the National Institute of Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore, which said that Parwez is suffering from 'Bipolar affective disorder in remission'.The high court, while denying bail on April 13 had said, "Having considered the initial conduct of the accused, which reflects that after committing the ghastly incident he fled away to a foreign country, we are of the opinion that the interim bail so granted to the accused should not be extended".An appeal was then filed filed by Akhtar Parwez in the apex court on behalf of his accused son against the high court order denying bail to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/son-of-famous-kolkata-restaurant-chain-owner-surrenders-before-court-101618970772511.html
21-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh sees 12,727 new Covid-19 cases, Bhopal's tally crosses 71,000||The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh increased by 12,727 on Tuesday to reach 4,33,704, while the day also saw 77 patients dying and 8,937 recovering, an official said. The state has so far seen 4,713 deaths and 3,50,720 people getting discharged, leaving it with an active caseload of 78,271, he added.In April so far, the state has recorded 138,193 new cases and 727 fatalities, the official pointed out.Indore's count rose by 1,753 to touch 92,768, and Bhopal's touched 71,967 with the addition of 1,693 cases, he said."During the day, Indore reported eight deaths, taking its toll to 1,062, while that of Bhopal rose by three to touch 682. Indore has 12,324 active cases and Bhopal has 9,037," he added.With 51,385 samples being examined on Tuesday, the number of tests in MP crossed 71.79 lakh.Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 4,33,704, new cases 12,727, death toll 4,713, recovered 3,50,720, active cases 78,271, number of tests so far 71,79,032.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-sees-12-727-new-covid-19-cases-bhopal-s-tally-crosses-71000-101618969318409.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 10,393 new Covid-19 cases, death toll mounts to 11,647||Pune district reported 10,393 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,42,451, a health official said on Tuesday evening. Pune city and the district in Maharashtra are among the worst- affected by the pandemic in the country.The death toll of the district reached 11,647 with 112 Covid-19 patients succumbing to the infection during this period.Of the 10,393 new cases, 5,138 were from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which has recorded 3,76,962 cases so far.As many as 6,802 patients were discharged from city hospitals during the day.As many as 2,563 cases were reported in the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad area.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 62,097 fresh coronavirus disease cases, taking the Covid-19 infection tally to 39,60,359, while 519 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official. The new fatalities pushed the statewide toll to 61,343, he said. Out of the 519 fatalities, 307 occurred in the last 48 hours and 114 last week, while 98 deaths took place in the period before the last week, but were added to the toll now, the official said.With this, Maharashtra's active cases increased to 6,83,856, the official said.Mumbai recorded 7,192 new cases and 34 fatalities, taking the tally to 5,94,059 and the toll to 12,446. Currently, 38,76,998 people are in home quarantine, while 27,690 people are in institutional quarantine in the state, the health department said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 81.14 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.55 per cent, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-10-393-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-11647-101618968826315.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police demarcates corridors for oxygen containers held up in traffic||The Delhi Police created two dedicated corridors on Monday night for smooth passage of two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams on their way from Greater Noida and Faridabad and prevented a crisis at an outer Delhi hospital, where at least 235 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment amid depleting oxygen supply. The city police also arranged 25 cylinders from four hospitals for Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute at Paschim Vihar.“The level of oxygen in our hospital’s liquid oxygen plant was reaching a critical level on Monday night due to a delay in supply through two oxygen containers stuck in traffic jams at Noida and Faridabad borders. As per our protocol, we informed the concerned authorities, which provided green corridors and the containers were immediately escorted to the hospital,” said Sunil Sumbli, the institute’s medical superintendent.Also read: Weekend lockdown in Ghaziabad, NoidaThe two containers were carrying around 19,500 litres of oxygen.The Paschim Vihar East Police Station, under whose jurisdiction the hospital comes, formed two escort teams and dispatched them to Greater Noida and Faridabad in separate emergency response vehicles. The escort teams were directed to contact the drivers of the two containers, find their exact locations, and escort them to the hospital as early as possible. They were asked to keep the sirens and lights of the vehicles on so that motorists could see the emergency and give them clear passage, said a police officer who was part of the operation, requesting not to be named.Additional deputy police commissioner Sudhanshu Dhama said the teams set up dedicated corridors for the containers and escorted them to the hospital.“In the meantime, around 25 oxygen cylinders were also arranged...”The Delhi Police also arranged 20 oxygen cylinders and delivered them to a hospital with 35 Covid-19 patients in outer Delhi’s Nangloi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-demarcates-corridors-for-oxygen-containers-held-up-in-traffic-101618968933367.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Give more beds in central hospitals: HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to immediately allocate more beds in their hospitals in the city for the Covid-19 patients after the Delhi government said that it was not being given enough beds by the Union government despite a massive surge in the cases and fatalities.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli agreed to the submission of senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, that the cases in the current wave were far more than any other phase of the pandemic. Delhi reported 28,395 fresh cases of the infection on Tuesday at a positivity rate of 32.82%. As many as 277 people died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.“We direct the Centre to look into this aspect seriously. Considering the fact that the number of Covid patients, is far greater than the number that had come last year, the Centre should immediately allocate more beds from their hospitals for Covid patients,” the court said in its order.The directions were passed in a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, petitioner-lawyer, who had sought ramping up of tests in the city.The petition, which was disposed of, was again revived by the HC on Monday, noting that the virus has raised its “ugly head” once again and that the “healthcare infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.According to Mehra, the Centre had given only 2,000 beds as compared to 4,000 in November, when the cases were one-third of the current tally now. He said that in the wake of shortage of beds in the city, 8,000 beds be allocated to the Delhi government, even if for a week, to meet the crisis situation.“We are asking it for just for one week. Please ask the central government hospitals to give 8,000 beds. We don’t want it forever; we only need it for some time. The Centre has the capacity of 11,500 in all its hospitals..,” Mehra said.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma told the court that the Centre is taking every possible step to provide assistance to the Delhi government. He said that 250 ICU beds have been operationalised by DRDO and another 250 beds shall be operationalised by Thursday.“lt has been further decided to provide 25 medical officers and 75 paramedics to the centre set up by DRDO from Central armed paramilitary forces,” he said, adding that there are facilities like the Radha Soami Satsang Beas which has given its land in Chhatarpur for a Covid care centre; and the Railways which have also made beds operational in train coaches.Roli Khare, the director of hospitals, ministry of health and family welfare, told the court that the Centre was trying a makeshift arrangement where beds could be increased. But, they can only be increased up to a certain limit as it has to be done keeping in view the demand for trained staff to manage the beds.She said that till now 2,105 beds are currently available to Delhi in central hospitals, including AIIMS, and that by Tuesday, they will be increased 4,091.The bench also said that immediate action needs to be taken by the Centre to ramp up testing by simplifying the process. It said the current practice of mandatory filling a form despite the Aadhaar card of the individual being provided, is a waste of time and should be done away with.It also said that the officers should be sensitised and there should be urgency in completing work and giving clearances for setting up of new lab equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/give-more-beds-in-central-hospitals-hc-101618968573914.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Metro trains every 15 minutes during lockdown||The Delhi Metro on Tuesday reworked its schedule for the week-long lockdown and doubling the frequency of trains during peak hours, after several users complained of long waits, as officials shut access to over 20 stations in a bid to control crowds, despite the service being limited to workers involved in essential services and those with valid e-passes.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) began temporarily disallowing entries into some stations from 6.30am, soon after it kicked off the day’s operations.Several users said they had to wait outside New Delhi, Dwarka Mor, RK Ashram, Rajiv Chowk, and other stations, since entry was stopped for a while in the morning. Officials said the situation normalised by 10am.Despite the lockdown, crowds were reported outside several stations as a result of DMRC’s reworked train schedule, in which trains left every 30 minutes during peak hours (8am to 10 am and 5pm to 7pm).Some of the other stations that were temporarily closed include Chandni chowk, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk, Jhandewalan, Karkardooma, Preet Vihar, Nirman Vihar, Supreme Court, Anand Vihar, ISBT Vaishali, and Shadipur.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said: “Services during the morning (7am to 11am) and evening (4pm to 8pm) peak hours across the network will be available with a frequency of 15 minutes. For the rest of the day, services will be available with a frequency of 30 minutes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-trains-every-15-minutes-during-lockdown-101618967966069.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get 2.7k more Covid-19 beds: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said there has been a three-fold increase in the number of Covid-19 hospital beds in the city since April 3, and added that around 2,700 more will be added over the next six days, even as he expressed concerns about the increase in Covid-19 cases.“The Covid-19 situation in the city is alarming. We are currently recording around 25,000 new cases a day. Going by the rate of increase, it looks like the number of daily cases will soon rise to 28,000 -30,000. In the last four or five days, we have been working round-the-clock on providing hospital beds to Covid-19 patients. We are also increasing the number of Covid-19 beds. On April 3, we had 6,071 beds in the city. As of now, we have 19,101 beds. We have increased beds by three times on a war footing in a short time,” said Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19 management and inter-ministerial coordination..The Capital recorded 28,395 fresh cases on Tuesday.His comments came amid concerns regarding the rate at which hospital beds are getting occupied in the city. As of 7pm on Tuesday, 86% of Delhi’s 19,538 Covid-19 beds were occupied. Worryingly, 99.3% of the 4,585 Covid-19 ICU beds were occupied as well.“The DRDO facility opened on Monday, and all 250 beds got occupied within four hours. In that centre, 250 more beds are to be added. The city’s total Covid-19 bed capacity will increase by around 2,700,” Sisodia said.Also read: Centre targets 25% jump in oxygen supply by weekendHe was referring to the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) Covid-19 hospital in Delhi Cantonment that was reopened on Monday.He named several Delhi government hospitals — Burari hospital, Ambedkar Nagar hospital, DDU hospital, Acharya Bhikshu hospital, Raja Harishchandra Hospital and Lok Nayak hospital — that are likely to get more Covid-19 beds in the coming days.Addressing concerns about the burden on health care infrastructure in the city, Sisodia said, “We appeal to people not to panic. Don’t rush to hospital on being diagnosed Covid-19 positive. If severe symptoms surface, then consult a doctor and consider checking for hospital availability on the app (Delhi Corona) and only then go to hospital. Running from one hospital to another exhausts the patients and also burdens hospitals.”He said the government received some complaints that doctors were not attending to patients, and that these charges were unfounded.“Doctors are doing their best and are completely invested in their work, risking their own lives,” he said.The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order notifying that the Covid Care facility at the Radhasoami Satsang Beas’s Chhatarpur campus will be attached to the Madan Mohan Malviya hospital – which will provide doctors, nurses, paramedics, and at least 10 dedicated ambulances for this centre.The centre is slated to have 5,000 beds for Covid-19 patients at capacity. Of these, 250 were functional as on Tuesday evening, official said. The centre will have facilities such as medical oxygen and testing. It can house patients with mild to moderate symptoms who will be under round-the-clock supervision of medical teams.(With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-2-7k-more-covid-19-beds-sisodia-101618967197948.html
21-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: JSW steel to provide Karnataka with 400 metric tonnes of oxygen||In view of the possible shortage of oxygen in the state, JSW Steel has agreed to supply 400 metric tonnes of liquefied oxygen per day to Karnataka to treat Covid-19 patients.The comes after the meeting between state Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani and the representatives of JSW Steel led by Deputy Managing Director Dr Vinod Nowal, the minister's office said in a statement."Amidst worsening situation in the state, Nirani took the initiative to augment the supply of oxygen to hospitals. He convened a meeting with representatives of several steel companies who produce liquefied oxygen in their plants for their use in steel production," the statement read.The minister stressed the need to produce oxygen in huge quantities to address the public health emergency caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.He urged steel companies to respond to the crisis and produce oxygen on a war-footing and supply them to hospitals on priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-jsw-steel-to-provide-karnataka-with-400-metric-tonnes-of-oxygen-101618964204537.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Around 77,000 migrant workers sent home: Ghaziabad admin||The district administration here on Tuesday said around 77,000 migrant workers were sent home in over 1,500 buses.Though the workers had started returning home after a rise in coronavirus cases, their number swelled after the Delhi government imposed a week-long lockdown on Monday, an official said.According to District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, around 77,000 workers were sent to their destinations in 1,537 buses.Pandey said the buses were operated from the ISBT, Anand Vihar, Kashmir Gate, and the Kaushambi bus stand.Teams of officials from the Health Department and police were deployed for the task, which turned challenging due to the sudden announcement of lockdown in Delhi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/around-77-000-migrant-workers-sent-home-ghaziabad-admin-101618963172572.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||CM isolates after wife tests positive for Covid-19||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday quarantined himself after his wife, Sunita Kejriwal, tested positive for Covid-19, according to a Delhi government spokesperson.“Sunita Kejriwal, wife of CM Arvind Kejriwal is Covid-19 positive. She is being treated under home isolation. The Cm also has quarantined himself and a team of doctors are monitoring the situation with all precautions,” the government spokesperson said.In June last year, Arvind Kejriwal was tested for Covid-19 after he developed a sore throat and fever. He, however, tested negative at the time.Over the past two days, Kejriwal was conducting inspections by visiting various government hospitals and covid care centres to oversee Covid-19 arrangements and management of resources.On Tuesday, however, he remained at home and took all meetings, including one on migrant workers with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-isolates-after-wife-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618962574879.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks reports from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh on Covid surge||Taking note of “alarming situation” due to Covid-19 outbreak in parts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the high court on Tuesday sought reports from both the states and the UT. The high court was seized of a matter pertaining to Haryana, in which amicus curaie, senior advocate Rupinder Khosla had told the court that there was complete chaos due to the situation arising out of the spread of Covid-19. “Government guidelines are not being followed in the region. Beds are not available to those who are seeking admission in hospitals. Supply of oxygen is severely depleted. Situation demands immediate attention of this court,” he had told court further adding that situation to say the least is “alarming”. He had emphasized on the casual attitude of the public even at a stage when spread of Covid-19 is reaching its peak. Public places are crowded and government guidelines are not being followed. The situation is equally grim in all three states, he had told court, urging the bench to implead Chandigarh administration and Punjab too in this case as parties and seek reports on measures being taken. Earlier, Haryana government had told the court that appropriate steps are being taken and submitted an affidavit of secretary, home department, Haryana, Pankaj Yadav, who had told the court that a state-level monitoring committee headed by state health minister has been constituted to look into various issues, particularly timely supply of oxygen to the hospitals. Daily requirement of oxygen as on date is 70/80 metric tonnes while the production in the state is 270 metric tonnes. Khosla, however, had responded to the affidavit from the state stating that all issues raised by the court have not been responded to. The court taking note of the submissions of amicus curaie ordered impleadment of Chandigarh and Punjab as respondents and posted the matter for further hearing on April 22. The issue raised about Covid-19 situation in Haryana on the previous date of April 9 were about areas with more infections have been identified, whether some restrictions need to be imposed in such areas, whether the age limit for vaccination needs to be lowered to contain the crisis situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-reports-from-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-on-covid-surge-101618952146548.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||At Ludhiana civil surgeon’s office, testing and vaccination go arm in arm||The health department does not practice what it preaches as it is conducting vaccination and testing at the same facility ignoring the threat it poses. Residents in large numbers, some symptomatic, were seen standing in close contact with each other to get their Covid tests done at the entrance of blood transfusion centre, while inside the room, people, majority of them elderly, were running into each other to get vaccinated. High drama took place in the afternoon when the Covid testing was suddenly suspended and people were asked to leave. Among those waiting were police officers who had recently come in contact with police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. The residents complained that the timing of samples collection was till 2pm but it was suspended at 1.30pm. “I came here in the morning and saw people jostling with each other. At first I thought the queue was for vaccination but I was told that the crowd had gathered for Covid tests while the vaccination was taking place inside the room. I somehow managed to enter and got myself vaccinated,” said an elderly woman, refusing to be named. Vinay Kumar of Kundanpuri, who visited the civil surgeon’s office for the Covid test, returned home without getting the test done. “The doctor who was collecting the samples suddenly wrapped up the at 1.30pm and told those waiting to come tomorrow. There were nearly 50 of us,” he said. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat did not answer the call, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said he will ask Dr Ramesh Bhagat to look into the matter. The nodal officer of the vaccination drive, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, said she will ask the SMO concerned to set-up the Covid and vaccination counters at separate locations. “The process of vaccination and testing were taking on the same premises. Earlier, very few people were turning up for sampling as well as vaccination but in past few days numbers have increased. So, it is important that sampling and vaccination should be done at separate locations,” Dr Ahluwalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-s-office-testing-and-vaccination-go-arm-in-arm-101618950825101.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Kotkapura police firing: Kunwar Vijay hits out at Punjab AG Nanda, says legal team didn’t defend case in HC strongly||Inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap on Tuesday hit out at Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda, alleging that that the legal team led by him didn’t strongly defend the Kotkapura police firing case in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “The home department had in writing issued instructions to the AG to appear in person in cases related to 2015 Bargari sacrilege. However, when the decisive hearing came up in the HC, the AG went on leave,” Kunwar said in an interview to a web channel. Kunwar’s statement came hours after his premature retirement request was accepted by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. The Punjab-cadre officer had resigned on April 11, two days after the HC quashed a probe by a special investigation headed by him into the Kotkapura firing incident. The court had also asked the state government to reconstitute the SIT without Kunwar. “For this legal team, including some high-profile lawyers from Delhi, the sacrilege case is like kuber ka khazana (a moneyspinner). The fee for one appearance is more than my three-year salary,” alleged Kunwar. “They even used to make me stand outside their office during case discussion as if I was a peon,” he added. “Whenever I met the CM in the matter pertaining to the case, the latter would call the AG,” said Kunwar. He also alleged that in the case in which the HC quashed the SIT findings, he pleaded several times before the legal team to contest the maintainability of the civil petition filed by a sub-inspector. “As a law graduate, I know that the civil petition can’t be filed when trial for the criminal case has started. It is very clearly stated in the law, but the legal team failed to notice this point,” he said. ‘Phoolka wasn’t of much help’The officer also slammed Supreme Court lawyer HS Phoolka for not fighting the case. “I used to consult him as he had openly announced that he would contest the cases related to sacrilege free of cost. I called him several times to appear in the high court but he expressed his inability saying that he doesn’t appear in the courts below the SC,” alleged Kunwar. “When I tried to convince him, he asked a junior lawyer to help me, who, I later found out, was helping the opposition parties,” alleged Kunwar. On his part, Nanda said the Punjab government had assigned the matters (pertaining to the police firing cases) to a specialised legal team headed by a senior advocate from the Supreme Court. “In his scenario, there is no question of my appearance or going on leave. The judgment in the case is awaited. That will clear all the facts,” he added. Earlier, the state home department accepted Kunwar’s voluntary retirement request with effect from April 15 and issued a notification. The department also waived the three-month notice according to VRS rules. Initially, Capt Amarinder Singh refused to accept Kunwar’s resignation and tried to persuade him to take back his plea, but the officer was firm on his stand. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday claimed that the officer was set to join the Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-kotkapura-police-firing-kunwar-vijay-hits-out-at-punjab-ag-nanda-says-legal-team-didn-t-defend-case-in-hc-strongly-101618950759576.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K man, now 40, returns after languishing 18 years in Pak||A 40-year-old man has returned to India through the Attari-Wagah border after languishing for 18 years in Pakistan.Dharam Singh, a resident of Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district, had inadvertently crossed over to the neighboring country’s territory through the Samba border in 2003.Pakistani rangers handed over Dharam Singh to the Border Security Force officials (BSF) on Monday night. He has now been sent to Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev hospital’s quarantine facility where he will stay for the next 14 days.“Dharam was 22-year-old when he had inadvertently crossed the border in 2003. Pakistan police had registered a case against him. He was lodged in Kot Lakhpat jail of Lahore after a court there announced a 14-year jail term to him. Besides completing his sentence, Dharam languished for another 4 years in Pakistan,” said Punjab Police’s protocol officer at Attari border, Arunpal Singh.Dharam was medically checked after his customs and immigration formalities were completed at the border. Naib tehsildar (revenue official) Jagsir Singh from Chogawan block had received Dharam from the BSF.“Dharam will be handed over to his family members once his 14-day quarantine period is over,” said an official of Amritsar district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-man-now-40-returns-after-languishing-18-years-in-pak-101618950400086.html
21-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana restaurants’ body decides to move HC over Capt govt’s fresh curbs||A day after the Punjab government announced fresh curbs, barring restaurants and hotels from operating on Sundays and allowing them to open only for takeaways and home-deliveries on weekdays, the restaurant body on Tuesday decided to move the Punjab and Haryana high court against the decision.The association members stated that their businesses are a “soft-target” for the government, which has allowed factories to continue operations.“How are we supposed to meet our fixed expenses such as rent, electricity bills and salaries of our staff when we have no income due to these restrictions? Home deliveries and take-away account for only 10% of our business,” said Sukhkaran Gill, owner of Bistro 226 in Ghumar Mandi.They also opposed the extension of night curfew timings and said the government must focus on improving the medical facilities instead of imposing more restrictions. “Our business was already down by 70% due to the night curfew as most residents move out with their families only after 8:30pm. This decision to shut dine-in completely will further bring down the business to 8-10%. We have always been a soft target even when we maintain proper hygiene and follow all the norms,” said Vishal Malhotra, the owner of Flamme Bois on Pakhowal road. Amarvir Singh, president of the hotel and restaurant association, said, “There are over 450 restaurants in the city and around 300 are being run on rental properties. We were struggling to bounce back from last year’s losses but now, the government has brought in more restrictions. How are we supposed to pay the fixed charges in such a scenario? The government has taken its decision in a haphazard manner without giving a thought to our problems. We will move the high court against these restrictions.” Rajat Malhotra, the legal advisor for the hotel and restaurant body, said, “The government has announced restrictions only for the hospitality sector while other sectors are carrying on with their work. The government has not even provided the hotels and restaurants any sort of relief against their losses. We will file a civil writ petition in the high court under Article 226, 227 and 14 to challenge the government’s decision.”Closure of bars another blow The owners stated that the closure of bars is yet another blow to their sector. Vice-president of the hotel and restaurant association, Amarjit Singh, said, “Bars were allowed to operate in the month of March when the government had to collect the annual fees. But now, these have also been told to bring shutters down. A large portion of the restaurant business is dependent on bars and the government should reconsider its decision.” Shopkeepers in the same boatWith the state government extending the night curfew timings by another hour and enforcing more curbs for weekends, shop owners across the district are also ruing losses.The shopkeepers in old city markets such as Chaura Bazar and Akalgarh market, which are famous for ‘Sunday markets’, stated that the government should allow the markets to open on weekends when at least 30% of the week’s business is carried out. Manpreet Singh, president of the Akalgarh market garment association, said, “We also want the infection count to go down. But the government is just harassing the traders. The fresh curbs have only made residents more worried. Night curfew should be imposed from 10pm and the Sunday shutdown should be done away with. The government should focus on enforcing Covid norms rather than harassing us.” General Secretary of Chaura Bazar shopkeepers association,Gurcharan Singh Chann said, “More than 30% of the week’s business is done on Sundays in most markets in old city. If these markets are not allowed to open on Sundays, traders will face severe financial crisis and they will be forced to terminate the services of their employees and workers. The government should consider the repercussions of its decisions.” Members of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal stated that they will take up the matter during the meeting of its core committee to chalk out an action plan against the irrational and unplanned decisions being taken by the state government.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “The state has already suffered a loss of over ₹3 lakh crore in the last one year and the government is still pushing its traders towards economic crisis. It is the failure of the government in improving the health care system, but the traders are bearing the brunt for the same.” Some others, however, said the curbs were necessary. Amarjit Singh, president of Model Town market association, said, “Imposition of restrictions is necessary in view of the recent spike in cases. But the government should also take into account the losses being borne by the traders and help them in some way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-restaurants-body-decides-to-move-hc-over-capt-govt-s-fresh-curbs-101618949919885.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Carjacking suspect’s death: SIT seeks time from HC to conclude probe citing pending forensic reports||The special investigation team (SIT) looking into the death of a Hoshiarpur resident, who was killed in police firing in Amritsar in December last year, has sought more time from the Punjab and Haryana High Court to conclude the probe, saying reports of forensic examination of some technical evidence are awaited. Inderjit Singh (40), the victim, was accused of snatching an SUV from a doctor in Haryana’s Ambala district on December 8. A team of the crime investigation agency (CIA) unit of Amritsar commissionerate police that intercepted him had claimed that its members resorted to firing after the 40-year-old tried to run over them at a check-point near the Nijjarpura (or Manawala) toll plaza on the Amritsar-Delhi national highway. The SIT, headed by inspector general of police (border range) SPS Parmar, was constituted after the victim’s family moved the high court in March, terming the encounter as a “murder”. The court had asked the probe team to submit its inquiry report specifying as why no FIR was registered against the accused policemen so far. The HC bench had also directed sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikas Hira to submit a magisterial report into the case on April 20. The SIT told the court that the pending reports of forensic examination are important for concluding the probe. Besides, the court was informed that the carjacking complainant, Dr Sanjay Aggarwal, has not joined the inquiry as he was tested positive for coronavirus and was quarantined.“The mobile phone of a farmer who had shot a video of the incident was sent for forensic examination for retrieval of the recording that was allegedly deleted by the CIA personnel. Besides, the CCTV footage captured in the cameras installed at the toll plaza is also needed. The forensic reports of both are awaited,” the SIT said in its report. It also claimed to have examined 49 witnesses.IG Parmar said, “The concluded report will be filed once we get forensic details.” The court has fixed the next date of hearing on May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carjacking-suspect-s-death-sit-seeks-time-from-hc-to-conclude-probe-citing-pending-forensic-reports-101618949683564.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Financial crisis: Punjabi University seeks immediate disbursal of ₹90-crore grant||Unable to meet its committed expenditure, including payments of salaries and pensions, Punjabi University has approached the state finance department for immediate disbursal of ₹90 crore which was allocated to the varsity in the government’s recent annual budget.The varsity also wants the department to release its monthly grant of ₹12 crore so that the salaries and pensions can be paid immediately. It may be mentioned that despite the change in guard on the top posts, the financial crisis continues to deepen at Punjabi University as several teachers, pensioners and non-teaching unions are presently protesting on the campus over the demands of releasing March’s salary. On March 8, the Punjab government had come to the rescue of cash-strapped Punjabi University with its announcement of a special grant of ₹90 crore in the annual budget presented by state finance minister Manpreet Badal. Varsity registrar Varinder Kumar Kaushik said they have received an official letter from the finance department regarding allocation of ₹90 crore to the varsity.“We have responded to the finance department to immediately release the special funds along with the monthly grant,” he said.The registrar said the employees will be given salaries at the earliest as meetings are on with senior officials at government level.The joint action committee comprising Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA), A-class officers association, non-teaching employees’ union and pensioners staged a protest march on the varsity campus on Tuesday over the ongoing financial crisis. The protesters have sought immediate financial bailout package and disbursement of salaries and pensions on the first date of every month. Rajdeep Singh from JAC said the government should urgently provide financial relief to the university.“The salaries are delayed every month and employees have to protest to get their monthly salaries. The government is not at all considering the demand of varsity administration to provide immediate financial aid. Moreover, no heed is paid to varsity’s demand of increasing annual government grant, which is presently only 12% of total budget,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/financial-crisis-punjabi-university-seeks-immediate-disbursal-of-rs-90-crore-grant-101618949682456.html
21-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana health dept runs out of vaccine stock, cuts supply to pvt hospitals||Having run out of its vaccine stock, the Ludhiana health department has suspended supply to private hospitals in the district till further orders. Sources in the department said they have run out of both Covidshield and Covaxin supplies and around 85 private hospitals in the district are not getting the vaccine as of now. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said private hospitals have been told that a fresh stock will arrive in about three days’ time and until then, they will have to use their reserve stock. “We have informed the government about the development. Until our stock is replenished, we will use our supply only in government-run session sites,” he added. As per sources, the department currently has a total of 15,000 vials (Covishield and Covaxin) in its stock. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said a state-level meeting is being convened on Wednesday to review the situation and the status on availability will be clear after that. On Tuesday, Covishield was administered only at four government-run Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) in the urban area. Dr GS Grewal, former president of the Punjab Medical Council, said, “If the government cannot ensure a smooth supply of vaccines, then why did they involve us. Further, ever since we switched to the Ayushman Bharat portal, from that of the National Health Authority, for payments, we have been facing multiple glitches and the supply has been erratic.” Harjeet Kaur, 62, a beneficiary who had visited a private hospital for the second dose of vaccine, said she was asked to return. “I was told to come again in a few days as the vaccine is not available. It has been over a month since I was administered the first dose. I hope the vaccine is available soon,” said Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-health-dept-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock-cuts-supply-to-pvt-hospitals-101618949681463.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor manufacturing racket busted in Amritsar, 1,450-litre ENA seized||The Amritsar police on Tuesday busted a racket involved in manufacturing of illicit liquor and arrested two persons with 1,450 litre extra-neutral alcohol (ENA) meant for Haryana-based distilleries. A pickup vehicle (PB-02-BL-9352) was also impounded from the accused identified as Samsher Singh, alias Shera of Chatiwind and Shubam Chopra, alias Mota of Sultanwind area in Amritsar city. The police said the modus operandi of the gang was akin to the one adopted by those behind the 2020 hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of more than 140 people in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. Officials said they have identified three more gang members as Raju of Sultanwind, and Jugraj Singh and Satbir Singh of Khaparkheri village. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said the accused were arrested by a team at a naka near Chatiwind. “The accused were smuggling ENA from Haryana’s Karnal and Ambala. We have also identified some dhabas from where the accused used to pilfer the ENA. We will also investigate the role of some distilleries.”“They used to supply ENA to various villages in the district. We are also identifying the people whom they were supplying the material to,” he added.A case under sections of the Excise Act was registered against the accused at the Chatiwind police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-racket-busted-in-amritsar-1-450-litre-ena-seized-101618949680446.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab going slow on Covid vaccination||The Covid-19 vaccination campaign in Punjab has failed to pick up pace as the state health department is nowhere near meeting its daily target of administering 2 lakh doses. The state barely crossed even the 1-lakh mark a day and that too once, even as it has been nearly a week since chief minister Amarinder Singh set the 2-lakh target. A senior health department official said the targets were given according to the population, but districts like Sangrur, Mansa, Moga and Muktsar failed to meet even half of the mark. A government official, who is part of the state-level vaccination planning, said an inadequate supply of the vaccine was the main factor behind Punjab not meeting the set target. “Hesitancy among people in getting vaccinated is the most in rural areas, especially in the south-west Malwa region,” he added. Dr Navjot Dahiya, president of the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said the supply of vaccine to private hospitals was adequate initially but it has been hampered for the past one week. “The district authorities say there are supply- shortage issues. Initially, there was hesitancy among people in the rural pockets but it is not the case at least in the Doaba belt,” said Dr Dahiya. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the department is fully equipped to vaccinate at least 3 lakh people a day but the supply of the vaccine is not sufficient. “As on Tuesday, we were left with a stock for a day only. We have been asking the central government to provide a single batch of at least 10 lakh doses so that we can start our vaccination drive with full strength. But we get only 3-4 lakh doses in a batch as it was the case earlier,” said the minister. “We have to keep doses for the second shot as well so the department has to maintain an adequate stock balance. On the other hand, neighbouring Haryana is getting more vaccine supply than us,” he claimed. Even as only frontline and health workers below 45 can be administered the dose as per the health department guidelines, HT came across instances in Mohali district where several private sector employees aged below 45 were vaccinated at special camps. Vaccine stats People given first dose: 22, 80,439 People given second dose: 2, 27,634 Total doses administered: 25, 08,073 (*Data from Union health ministry website as on April 20 morning)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-going-slow-on-covid-vaccination-101618949679343.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chaos at Amritsar airport as Toronto-bound passengers not allowed to board flight||Sixty Toronto-bound passengers, most of whom were students, were left stranded at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here as the agent who had booked a chartered flight for them allegedly cheated them. To board the flight, passengers, along with their kin, started arriving at the airport on Monday afternoon. There were two chartered flights of SpiceJet, which were to take them to Toronto, Canada. However, they were not allowed to board the flight. Following intervention of Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, their issue was resolved as the airline agreed to ferry many passengers on existing tickets. Taneet Kaur, 25, a resident of Kaithal, said, “When we bought the ticket, we were told that the flight to Toronto from Amritsar would be direct. We also got online confirmation of the ticket. When we reached here at 4am today, we were told that there will be a layover in Dubai for which a visa is needed that we did not have. The person who charged money from us for the ticket has cheated us.” Father of another student said, “The ticket was sold claiming that it was a direct flight, but a visa was issued for Dubai. We bought the ticket for ₹1 lakh. We paid about ₹1.25 lakh for the quarantine period in Toronto. We will lose this money if justice is not done to us.” MP Aujla said, “As per our investigation, the agent sold the tickets stating that the flight will from Amritsar to Toronto. When he sold 300-400 tickets, he hired an aircraft of SpiceJet from Amritsar to Ras Al Khaimah airport in Dubai. When the passengers arrived at the airport, they were told that there will be a layover in Dubai. Some of the passengers were intimated about it two days ago, but not all of them knew. Those who were intimated had applied for a Dubai visa, but many of them could not board the flight because of late issuance of the visa. Those passengers who were not aware of such conditions could not board the flight.”The MP said, “Apart from the late arrival of the visa, the agent sent an email to the airline two hours before the departure asking it to not carry 31 passengers as per the order of the embassy. So, it was a fraud with the passengers who were told that it was a direct flight. Most of the passengers didn’t know the difference between a scheduled flight and a chartered flight. So, they became a soft target for the agent.”Aujla said he has met police and airport officials in this regard and action is being taken against the person(s) responsible. The matter has also been brought to the notice of Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, he added. Assistant commissioner of police (airport) Mohan Singh said, “The matter has been resolved as the airport has agreed to let the passengers travel on existing tickets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chaos-at-amritsar-airport-as-toronto-bound-passengers-not-allowed-to-board-flight-101618949622808.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown fears, panchayat polls drive migrant workers back to home from Jalandhar||For the last two days, Jalandhar has been witnessing migration of labourers who have started journey back to their home states citing lockdown fear and panchayat polls.Most of the returnees are street hawkers, vendors and labourers who were said to be affected by the night curfew. Nand Lal, a street hawker from Uttar Pradesh, said he feared that the Punjab government might also clamp a lockdown just like its Delhi counterpart. Sunil Kumar, a fast food seller, said his customers used to visit him after 8pm, but the night curfew shut his business. Ankit Shukla, who worked at a sweets shop, said the second phase of panchayat polls in UP was round the corner and he, along with his family and close friends, was going to Baraich to cast his vote on April 26.About 15 buses with migrant labourers have left for UP’s Bahraich since Tuesday morning. It also come to the fore that private bus operaters have been charging hefty fares from labourers due to the shortage of public transport. However, industrialists termed it a routine process and said that labourers returned to their homes during this period every year. Narinder Singh Saggu, president of Focal Point Industrial Units Association, said industries production would usually drop to 40% every year as the labourers would leave, but a lot of hype has been created this time. “Labourers already know that they are safer in Punjab that in any other district,” he added. Tejinder Singh Bhasin, who runs an auto parts business and is the president of Gadayipur Udyogh Manufacturers’ Association, said labourers were returning to their villages due to reasons such as marriages and other rituals. “Labourers know that if a lockdown is imposed, then their employers would take care of their work and meals at least here in Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-fears-panchayat-polls-drive-migrant-workers-back-to-home-from-jalandhar-101618949621641.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wedding plans go awry with Punjab government’s latest cap on guests||Punjab government’s decision to limit gathering to 10 people at weddings has left scores of families in a quandary. Hundreds of weddings as well as other celebrations were all set to be organised in the coming days across the state with a limit of 50 people for indoor and 100 for outdoor events. Monday’s announcements have now shelved people’s plans while resort and marriage palace owners are flooded with cancellation requests. With a number of weddings scheduled for the coming weekend, there prevail utter chaos and confusion among the families as the guests had already started arriving. “It was only on April 8 that the state government had relaxed the cap on number of guests at weddings from 20 to 50. Earlier on March 18, when the gatherings were restricted to 20 people, many of our clients had cancelled the bookings and shifted the venues to other states. Now, with a limit of only 10 people, nothing can be organised. We are getting cancellation requests, which would result in losses that could run into lakhs for us,” said Vikas Shrivastav, spokesperson, Ludhiana Marriage Palace and Resort Owner Association. Vice-president of Ludhiana Marriage Palace Welfare Association, Inderjeet Khurana, said, “The decision made by the state government is condemnable. The sudden move has left not only the resort owners, but several families in the lurch too.” Other sectors have been hit as well. Over 200 workers are engaged in a single wedding, including florists, caterers, photographers, and decorators among others. In Jalandhar, Manoj Kumar Chodha of the Cabbana Resort and Spa said 25 to 30 events were scheduled to be held in the coming days at his resort. “I have been calling the families to inform that as per government guidelines, we cannot hold the events for the next 10 days and these stand cancelled. April and May were two months when the resorts could have seen some activity, but all we stare at are losses,” he added. A resident of Patiala said a wedding in their family was planned for April 24 and their guests, who had arrived from abroad, had even completed the 14-day quarantine period. “Invitation cards were distributed and several activities were planned for the big day, but now we are left with no option but to postpone the wedding,” said Deepali Batra, whose daughter’s wedding was scheduled for April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wedding-plans-go-awry-with-punjab-government-s-latest-cap-on-guests-101618949620642.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur, Barnala miss vax target, doctors blame stigma lack of awareness for low turnout||The health departments of Sangrur and Barnala missed their daily target of Covid-19 vaccination drive due to poor response from the people. The vaccination drive is currently covering the population aged above 45 years, along with health workers and frontline workers. Sangrur had a target to inoculate 13,000 people while Barnala aimed to vaccinate 4,500 beneficiaries. As per the data obtained from Sangrur health department, 2,576 people, including health workers, frontline workers and those above 45 years, had got the shots on April 19. In Barnala, 1,808 people were given Covishield and Covaxin jabs. The data showed that a total of 70,288 people have been vaccinated, including 65,179 with first dose and 5,109 with second dose, in Sangrur district. However, 51,671 people got the first dose and 1,712 second dose in the 45-plus group. In Barnala, a total of 33,101 people received shots, 30,657 of whom got their first dose and 2,444 the second. Sources said the fear of vaccine’s side effects and wheat harvest season led to the low response in the vaccination drive. However, health department officials claimed that stigma and lack of awareness became the reasons for their target being missed. “Some countries such as Germany suspended a particular vaccine. There are some reports of fever and body pain after the vaccination. Such news triggered fear among people about vaccines. If people are willing to get the jabs, it is a welcome step. But, nobody can force them,” said Manjit Singh Gharachon, senior vice-president of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan).Swaranjit Singh, an activist who has retired from the health department, said, “It is the duty of the government to educate people about the side effects of the vaccine and its positive aspects. However, people from all walks of life are in dilemma. The government is spending a lot of money on vaccination drives, but it should also invest on health infrastructure. I am also willing to get inoculated.” Sangrur assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh admitted that the drive was not achieving its daily target. He said, “There is a stigma surrounding vaccines in our society. The Indian government is even sending the same vaccines to other countries. The vaccine is safe, and people should come forward to receive it.” Barnala civil surgeon Dr Harinderjit Singh Garg, said “Teams of health department are approaching people and we are also organising camps for vaccination. Lack of awareness is the major cause due to which people are not showing interest. However, the numbers are increasing daily as our teams are educating and motivating people for vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-barnala-miss-vax-target-doctors-blame-stigma-lack-of-awareness-for-low-turnout-101618949619375.html
21-04-2021||Other||With no oxygen, 1.5K Thane beds lying unused||At least 1,500 oxygen beds in two of Thane’s civic-run hospitals have gone unused for the past 10 days because the city has not received its regular supply of oxygen, leading to the deterioration of the health of Covid-19 patients as well as a backlog in admission of severe patients. Two of the three Dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) run by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) – Parking Plaza and Voltas Company hospitals -- have not used the oxygen beds (in the former case, since April 10), as the amount of oxygen supplied to the civic body by the state has reduced drastically. The city receives 34 tonnes of oxygen, from both private vendors and the state. However, this is insufficient to meet the demands of the oxygen beds run by the TMC. Sakharam Gore (43) had to wait for more than 24 hours to get oxygen support at Parking Plaza, where he was admitted on April 17 after experiencing breathing difficulties. Gore was admitted on a regular bed, and as his lung infection worsened, he required medical grade oxygen. The hospital however did not have oxygen beds ready for use and had a limited supply of cylinders. “After trying for two days I got a bed at parking plaza on April 17. By evening I experienced difficulty in breathing. My oxygen had dropped to 85, but as there was a shortage, I got oxygen support only from April 19. The situation was very bad. They had only two cylinders for nine patients. They used the oxygen on rotational basis for few hours till a vendor arrived and provided cylinders,” Gore, a resident of Patlipada who works as supervisor at a private housekeeping company, said. Gore has still not recovered completely and even to use the washroom makes use of a wheelchair so that the oxygen cylinder need not be removed for a longer period. “If I had received the oxygen support earlier, my condition would not have deteriorated so much,” he said. The TMC runs three DCH (the third being Global Covid Hospital), and four Dedicated Covid Health centres (DCHC). While Global Covid has 929 oxygen beds, the four DCHC have 720 oxygen beds. Only 48 of the former, and 53 of the latter were available as of Tuesday evening. Put together these beds require 46 tonnes of oxygen daily. However, currently only 23 tonnes are available daily. “We have three Covid hospitals where regular oxygen supply is required, from among these, the oxygen facility at Parking Plaza has been shut on April 10 and patients were shifted to Global Covid hospital. Moreover the one at Vartak Nagar (Voltas Company hospital) is not operational yet. The city is currently receiving only 23 tonnes of oxygen. Since Global Covid hospital has the capacity for patients requiring oxygen, all such patients are currently in Global Covid hospital,” a senior official from TMC said. “We are in the midst of signing a contract with a private company on Wednesday and an hour after it is signed we shall have oxygen supply in 350 beds in Parking Plaza hospital. This will ensure regular supply of oxygen within the city. As the number of cases has increased, there is added pressure on the administration personnel, so we shall increase their numbers as well. We have increased 150 oxygen beds at Global Covid facility and work is in progress to increase 25 beds within the ICU,” Dr Vipin Sharma, Commissioner, TMC, said. “Three new plants for oxygen are being built; two of these will have a capacity of 175 metric tonnes. We shall also increase the number of oxygen beds to accommodate the 300 cylinders, such that Parking plaza will have [a total increased capacity of] 800 oxygen beds. Moreover, another plant will be set up, the cost of which will be borne by MMRDA. Once the oxygen supply is restored and functions properly, we shall focus on increasing the beds as well,” added Sharma. Two oxygen plants will be operational by April 30 in Parking Plaza and Global Covid hospital. “When the plant is operational, the city will get 50 tonnes of oxygen daily. We can use 47 tonnes for our patients while three tonnes can be provided to private hospitals. As the supply from vendors as well as the state had gone down it affected the oxygen availability in the city. We used the available oxygen for Global Covid, while private hospitals received oxygen supply from FDA. The 1500 oxygen beds remained vacant at Parking plaza and Voltas at Vartak Nagar as there was no supply of oxygen. General beds were available for the patients,” a senior official from TMC said. Since April 1, 30,985 cases and 183 deaths have been reported in Thane. “TMC has made preparations for the second wave but the number of positive patients is increasing,” said mayor Naresh Mhaske.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-no-oxygen-1-5k-thane-beds-lying-unused-101618948900067.html
21-04-2021||Other||With 5, 029 active cases, Ludhiana’s Covid battle gets tougher||With 778 fresh Covid-19 infections, Ludhiana’s active cases’ count crossed the 5,000 mark to settle at 5, 029 on Tuesday, even as the contagion claimed five more lives in the district. At least 65 new cases were reported from Urban Estate Phase 1 and 2 in Dugri, which were declared containment zones on Sunday. Ludhiana has added as many as 10, 189 cases to its tally in the last 20 days. It has also recorded 120 deaths in this period. In March, the district had recorded 7, 294 cases and 115 deaths.On Tuesday, the number of patients on ventilator support rose to 23, from 17 on Monday. The five persons who lost the battle to the virus are a 75-year-old male from Aluna Miana, a 65-year-old female from Payal, a 62-year-old male from Civil Lines, a 53-year-old male from Shimlapuri and a 40-year-old male from Ram Nagar.1, 103 samples collected from Dugri, 65 positiveAs many as 65 people tested positive on the second day of the testing drive being carried out by the health department in Dugri. Till Sunday evening, the area had 70 positive cases while on Monday, 16 more had been found infected. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Avinash Jindal, the nodal officer for the two containments, confirmed that out of the 1, 103 tests conducted on Tuesday, 65 reports came back positive.The SMO said all residents in the two containments will be tested to curtail the spread of the virus. Over 50,000 people reside in these two containment zones. As many as 15 teams have been formed to conduct door-to-door testing in the area.Two-month-old tests positive, youngest ever in district so farA two-month-old child has been admitted at the civil hospital after testing positive for Covid-19. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said that this infant is the youngest Covid patient in the district so far.The child’s parents are labourers and reside near Giaspura area. Their samples have also been collected, the civil surgeon added. The child had been brought to the civil hospital with Covid-like symptoms, following which tests were carried out. The infant is said to be in a stable condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-5-029-active-cases-ludhiana-s-covid-battle-gets-tougher-101618948899504.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 61 virus deaths, 4,673 new cases||The coronavirus fatality count in Punjab rose to 8,045 with 61 deaths reported on Tuesday as 4,673 fresh cases took the state’s infection tally to 3,09,316, according to a medical bulletin. The maximum seven deaths were reported from Patiala, followed by six in Amritsar and five each in Ludhiana, Mohali and SBS Nagar, it said. Ludhiana reported 778 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 698 in Mohali, 556 in Bathinda, 454 in Jalandhar and 434 in Patiala. Currently, the number of active cases stands at 36,709. A total of 3,198 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,64,562, the bulletin said. There are 48 patients on ventilator while 480 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 66,90,798 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Corona patient dies by suicide at Ludhiana civil hospital Ludhiana A 35-year-old labourers Coronavirus patient ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan in the Stroke Room of the emergency ward of Ludhiana Civil Hospital on Tuesday evening. He was the only patient in the room that has two beds. Division 2 police have initiated investigations. He was a resident of Shimlapuri. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central) Waryam Singh said seven patients were admitted to the emergency ward on Tuesday and the victim was shifted to the Stroke Room. In the evening, a nurse had administered him an injection and after some time when she came back, she found the door bolted from inside. The hospital staff forced open the door and saw him hanging from the ceiling fan. The victim is survived by wife and two daughters aged 10 and 7. Kaptan Singh, one of the relatives of the victim, said the financial condition of the victim was poor and over ₹1 lakh was the estimated expenditure on his surgery. He had arranged the money by borrowing from relatives and friends. He was under mental stress ever since he contracted Covid-19, he said. Bathinda admn asks 21 hospitals to create isolation wards Bathinda: After a surge in Covid-19 cases in Bathinda, the district administration has directed 21 hospitals to set up isolation facilities with immediate effect. On Tuesday, Bathinda reported 556 Covid-19 cases, the largest single-day spike since the pandemic outbreak last year. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said 396 beds are being equipped for level-2 patients while facility to treat 110 patients with level-3 care is also being created. “All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is also in the loop as Covid facility. The district has been geared up to handle any emergency situation. People have been advised to strictly follow Covid guidelines,” he said. The DC said the police administration has been directed to initiate strict action against the violators. AIIMS suspends OPDs, surgeries The Bathinda facility of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has announced to suspend all physical outdoor patient department (OPD) services till further order. Additional medical superintendent Prof Satish K Gupta said the institute is offering teleconsultation services for the convenience of the patients. The landline number of clinical OPDs and mobile phone numbers of faculty members of clinical specialties will soon be displayed so that it reaches all the needy patients and care can be taken round-the-clock. Gupta said surgeries also stand withheld and only malignancy cases will be taken on a case-to-case basis. Patiala villagers commit to Covid-appropriate behaviour Patiala As many as 398 village panchayats and councillors of 70 wards have passed resolutions to join hands with the district administration in their fight against Covid on Tuesday. Senior superintendent of police Vikramjeet Duggal said the resolutions particularly mentioned adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “Patiala Police have started involving local community, youth, village elders and civil society organisations to reach out to the masses, seeking their support to fight against Covid,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-61-virus-deaths-4-673-new-cases-101618948483588.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HP logs 1,564 new infections, 16 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 1,564 fresh infections, taking the state’s caseload to 79,634 on Tuesday while the death toll mounted to 1,206 after 16 patients succumbed.Of the new cases, 292 were recorded in Kangra, 265 in Solan, 173 in Una, 164 in Shimla, 155 in Sirmaur, 138 in Hamirpur, 107 in Mandi, 104 in Bilaspur 78 in Lahaul-Spiti, 36 in Kullu, 35 in Kinnaur and 17 in Chamba.Meanwhile, active cases in the state have crossed 10,000-mark. Of the 10,251 active cases in the state, 2,024 are in Kangra followed by 1,948 in Solan and 1,010 in Shimla.Recoveries have reached 68,150 after 1,078 people recuperated. The recovery rate is down to 85%.Kangra remains the worst hit district with 13,000 cases, followed by Shimla where 12,615 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 12,055 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 10,195 while Una has 5,641 cases, Sirmaur 5,177, Kullu 5,176, Hamirpur 4,812, Bilaspur 4,175 , Chamba, 3,579, Lahaul-Spiti 1,634 and Kinnaur 1574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-logs-1-564-new-infections-16-deaths-101618948423974.html
21-04-2021||Other||IELTS and coaching institutes in Ludhiana stare at losses||The owners of the IELTS and coaching centres in the district are a worried lot as the district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday ordered their closure till April 30. They stated that last year too due to the Covid pandemic the coaching centres had been hit hard and there was a dip in enrolment. The institutes were allowed to resume offline classes in October last year when the schools were reopened for Classes 9 to 12. The owners said that to ensure social distancing during the offline classes they had increased the number of batches and teachers last year and had to pay their salaries, GST, electricity bills, and the monthly rent. They added that now again with the closure of the institutes, they will face a financial crisis.There are around 750 IELTS and other coaching institutes in the district and a majority of them are located in Feroze Gandhi market, near the ISBT, Model Town, Sector 32, Khanna, Doraha, Samrala, and Macchiwara. Priyanshu, the owner of Shepherd Institute, Model Town, who offers IELTS and spoken English coaching, said, “We will wait till May 1 as the government has closed the institutions till April 30. If the authorities extend the closure, then we will start with online classes. But the students taking IELTS coaching prefer offline classes. Last year, due to the lockdown imposed by the government, only a few students had turned up for these courses.” Munish Dewan, director, IMS, said, “We have already suspended offline classes and will be starting with the online ones from Thursday. We provide coaching for the Common Admission Test (CAT), Common Law Admission Test (CLAT), and graduate record examination. In 2019, 500 students had got enrolled with us while last year, only 200 students did. Students are not satisfied with the online classes.” Students prefer physical classes For IELTS, the institutes prepare the students in four spheres reading, writing, speaking, and listening. Most of these students are from rural backgrounds and they prefer to attend physical classes where they can get a chance to speak in English with their fellow students, instead of attending an online class. Supriya Kumari, a resident of Model Town, said, “I was attending six-hour coaching classes from the last three months and was preparing for the IELTS exam scheduled to be held next month. But the institute authorities sent a message regarding the suspension of offline class. I have paid a fee of ₹31,000 and have appeared in the mock tests and will not be attending the online classes as the face-to-face interaction is missing in these classes. The government must allow the institutes to continue the physical classes with only 10 to 15 students in one batch.” Another student, Gaganpreet Singh, who is taking JEE Advanced coaching from a centre based in Dugri, said, “Since November, I have been attending offline classes and was able to get my doubts cleared. The closure of the institute again will affect our eyesight and concentration as we’ll have to switch to the online mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ielts-and-coaching-institutes-in-ludhiana-stare-at-losses-101618948359214.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gatherings capped at 50 as Covid cases spike in HP||With the surge in coronavirus cases continuing across Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday ordered stricter restrictions such as capping gatherings in marriages and social events, staggered attendance in offices and 50% occupancy in public transport. Thakur, after a high-level meeting held at state capital Shimla, said only 50 people will be allowed in marriages, funerals and social functions, be it indoor or outdoor.Employees’ working week has been reduced to five days with Saturday and Sunday off. In government offices, attendance of employees will be staggered so that half of the staff will attend office on two consecutive days and others will work from home. However, those working from home must not leave the station and remain available for any exigency.Pregnant employees or those with disabilities have been exempted from attending office.The CM said public transport vehicles will also ply at 50% occupancy. “We are making all efforts to ensure that migrant labourers do not leave the state. Industries and contractors, with whom they are employed, have been asked to provide them with all necessary help,” said Thakur. Political rallies have been banned. The CM said there is no restriction on movement of people as of now. However, people coming from high-caseload states are expected to self-quarantine.Offices closed for public dealing in Kangra Meanwhile, the Kangra district administration has imposed restriction on movement at night. The restrictions will remain effective from 8pm to 6am from Tuesday night. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said only some essential categories have been exempted. The movement on Saturday and Sundays will be restricted during the day as well while markets will remain closed. “The district has recorded around 3,000 cases and 51 deaths in the month of April alone. The positivity rate in the month of April was well above 13%, which is alarming,” he said. The DC said situation is somewhat under control and of 238 Covid beds available 189 are occupied. “We have also started a Covid Care Centre with 40-bed capacity, which could be expanded to 500 beds within 24 hours,” he said, adding that the administration was in touch with private hospitals and 75 oxygenated beds can be arranged, should the need arise. Shop timings fixed in Una Una deputy commissioner Raghav Sharma said under the Disaster Management Act, markets in the district will remain closed on Sunday, except for essential goods’ shops. On week days also shops will open at fixed times. “All shops except essential goods shops will remain closed on Sunday. On week days, these shops will remain open from 9am to 6pm,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gatherings-capped-at-50-as-covid-cases-spike-in-hp-101618948123048.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Impending oxygen shortage in Punjab sets alarm bells ringing||Rising trajectory of Covid-19 cases in Punjab has started fuelling concerns over the oxygen supply in hospitals across the state. The state government, which has seen a sudden spike in oxygen demand for patients in hospitals in several districts, is scrambling to meet its daily requirement of 75-80 metric tonnes (MTs) of medical-grade oxygen. The demand varied from 15 to 20 MTs a day on an average before the coronavirus pandemic outbreak last year. There are 14 air separator units (ASUs) in the state with an installed production capacity of 80 MTs and an equal number of repackaging or bottling plants with a capacity of 41 MTs which have depend upon the availability of liquid oxygen, particularly from manufacturing plants in Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The supply of liquid oxygen has been irregular and set alarm bells ringing for the state authorities over an impending medical oxygen shortage in the state. RS Sachdeva, managing director of Hi-tech Industries, the largest supplier of medical oxygen to government hospitals, besides industry grade oxygen, in the state, said there is a problem in the supply of liquid oxygen. “There is an alarming increase in coronavirus cases in some states such as Delhi, and our supply has been diverted there. We did not receive any supply from Uttarakhand in the past three days and the plant in Panipat (Haryana) has also reduced our supply. We (his company) got supply of 800 MTs in March, but not received even half of that this month so far,” he said. The state government has pressed into service the industries department to coordinate with suppliers. “As hospitals in the state are facing shortage of medical grade oxygen due to Covid-19, you are requested to coordinate with the health authorities and help the district administration, director-cum-secretary, Sibin C wrote to general managers, district industries centres, on Monday. The future demand for oxygen is likely to increase in view of the surge in new infections in recent weeks. The state’s coronavirus case count has gone up by 48% in the past one month, going from 2,05,418 on March 19 to 3,04,660 on Monday. There has been an increase of a staggering 145% in active cases, which stood at 35,311 on April 19, during this period. If this trend continues or the pandemic situation aggravates further, it could lead to a serious shortage of the crucial resource. Tanu Kashyap, managing director, Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC) said the Centre has allocated quota of 126 MTs liquid oxygen to Punjab daily, but plans to reduce it to 82 MT from next week. “We have requested them to review the decision and give our full supply. In view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, we are expecting the requirement to increase to 120 MT daily by next week,” she said. Dr KK Talwar, head of the state’s Covid expert task force, said the Covid situation seems to be under control at present. “The only worry is a situation like Delhi where the cases have shot up sharply. The situation was more or less stabilised in Punjab for three weeks but there has been some increase in new infections in past two-three days. The state can hit the peak by the end of this month or first week of May, but these calculations depend on adherence to precautions and protocols,” he said. Oxygen is critical for patients of Covid-19, a respiratory disease that reaches the respiratory tract, mainly the lungs, leading to breathing problems, from mild to critical, as well as reducing oxygen in blood to dangerously low levels. (With inputs from Mandeep Kaur Narula)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/impending-oxygen-shortage-in-punjab-sets-alarm-bells-ringing-101618948121771.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra SSC exams cancelled, HSC stays postponed||In a relief for more than 1.7 million students in Maharashtra and to ensure equivalence across education boards, the state government on Tuesday cancelled the SSC (Class 10) examinations, owing to the rising Covid-19 infections in the state. Class 12 or HSC exams will remain postponed as per the government’s earlier decision; revised dates will be announced later.The decision was made in the cabinet meeting held on Tuesday. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad released a statement shortly after the decision was announced by health minister Rajesh Tope. “We had earlier announced a postponement of both SSC and HSC exams. However, with rising infections in the state and the country and after national and international boards declared a cancellation of Class 10 exams, we have decided to cancel them. Students will be marked on the basis of internal assessments. Details on the same will be announced soon,” said Varsha Gaikwad. Gaikwad said the education department will also work on possible options for students who are unhappy with their scores derived from internal assessments. On April 15, CBSE board cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams across the country this year. Class 10 students will be marked based on an objective criterion to be developed by the board. The criteria for marking students are yet to be declared. On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June, following which the state had written to CBSE and ICSE officials, requesting postponement in their board exams. However following CBSE’s decision and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards, which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. Over 1.7 million students write the SSC exams in the state every year, while around 1.5 million appear for HSC exams. Parents said they are happy with the decision. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association said, “The move is in the interest and safety of students. Students are relieved and now can start planning for the next academic year.” Prasad Tulaskar, a city-based parent said, “While we welcome the decision it should have come earlier. Students were under tremendous stress of writing an offline exam under the current circumstances,” he added. Schools are now awaiting guidelines on internal assessments and hope the process of calculating scores is well thought. “Throughout the year, we have not conducted a single exam or assessment. So, we don’t know what scores will be calculated instead of exam scores. The performance of a student over the last 2-3 years can be seen because last year has been tough and many have not been able to do well due to the pandemic,” said a teacher of a school in the eastern suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ssc-exams-cancelled-hsc-stays-postponed-101618947998731.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set for full lockdown||Maharashtra is set to go under a complete lockdown from Wednesday evening as the strict restrictions imposed last week have not seen “desired results”. State ministers have demanded a 15-day complete lockdown, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expected to announce the lockdown on Wednesday. Ministers said guidelines for the lockdown are being chalked out, which are likely to include stricter enforcement of Covid-19 rules, sealing of inter-district borders and more curbs on public transport.Last week, Maharashtra had announced strict restrictions, including imposition of a curfew under Section 144 of the CrPC, allowing only essential services to function and allowing movement of the workforce in essential services. But the restrictions did not help contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Even though Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, said a “lockdown should be the last resort for states”, the Maharashtra government seems to have decided to go ahead with the lockdown. In the past seven days, since the state-imposed curfew and strict restrictions, Maharashtra added 323,199 infections and 2,539 deaths. The state health department has projected that there would be a shortage of beds in nearly all districts by May 2. The shortage of beds coupled with its surging demand and a shortage of oxygen has prompted the state to move towards a complete lockdown.Maharashtra ministers, in a state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, had demanded a strict lockdown to break the chain of transmission. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no other alternative, but to impose a lockdown as the ballooning tally of active cases has been putting a severe strain on health infrastructure, including a shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug Remdesivir.“There is no alternative, but to go for a strict lockdown. We have requested the CM to announce a complete lockdown from today at 8pm. The cabinet has taken a decision about the complete lockdown. CM will make a final announcement,” said Tope.Tope, who was speaking after the cabinet meeting in Mumbai, further added that so far the state hadn’t used the term “lockdown” in its restriction, but now they want to break the chain of transmission through a strict lockdown. “We have not used ‘lockdown’, but now we want to truly break the chain of transmission through a strict lockdown.”Senior government officials said the guidelines are being drafted, but restrictions in timing of shops selling essential items, which was issued on Tuesday, will continue. Besides that, they are also planning to shut district borders to curb the movement between districts. Currently, there is no restriction on interdistrict travel. Similarly, they are also planning to reduce attendance of staffers in government offices.Another possible restriction that is being deliberated, include restriction on public transport. Officials said there were suggestions, regarding shutting down public transport for general public from some ministers, but it may not be feasible as many people step out for medical emergencies and even vaccination and rely on the use of public transport.“Among the restrictions being considered include sealing of district borders. Unless there is any medical emergency, inter-district wouldn’t be permitted. There were demands of shutting public transport by the ministers, but public transport could remain operational, but only for medical emergency, healthcare workers and for vaccination. So far, no final decision has been made,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Tope added that the state will study what restrictions can be put for use of public transport in the state during the lockdown. “The issue of mass transport modes is such that if we shut it then the workforce in the essential services will be inconvenienced. We will study it minutely and will take a decision by tomorrow,” he said. Unlike the period of strict restrictions that commenced last Wednesday, the complete lockdown will see stricter enforcement of rules. “The police were not asked to crack down on people’s movement. Many people flouted by claiming to have stepped out for groceries and medicines. In the lockdown, the enforcement will be much stricter,” the official added.Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said despite imposing strict restrictions, the number of cases did not go down. “There is shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, therefore after much deliberation, Maharashtra will go under full lockdown,” said Shaikh. He added, “We went on increasing the curbs on people, from night curfew to weekend curfew to the existing curfew, but people are moving about. The cases are increased, there will be more shortage of oxygen in the coming days.”Elaborating on the kind of restrictions expected on use of public transport, Shaikh said, “Last time when the lockdown was announced [by the Centre], it was done haphazardly. Since then, whatever restrictions have been put by Maharashtra government is done after careful deliberation. [So far] we have not shut the buses or trains, in the coming days, too, it will continue to run so that people are not inconvenienced.”State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said Thackeray is expected to announce the lockdown, which will come into force from Wednesday evening. “The situation is getting worrisome in the state. We requested the chief minister to put in severe lockdown to break the chain of transmission. Chief minister will announce it,” he said.Earlier in the day, the state government issued a new order, restricting the timings of essential shops such as grocery, vegetable and fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and all type of food shops with others to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. However, the government has allowed home delivery from these shops between 7am to 8pm.The decision was prompted as ministers and authorities felt that people were not following the restrictions on movement thoroughly. The order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said, “All groceries, vegetable shops, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries, confectionaries, all type of food shops (including chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs), shops related to agricultural implements and farm produce, pet food shops, shops related to materials for impending rainy season for individuals as well as for organisations to be open only between 7am to 11am.” The restriction on timings for the shop was criticised by retailer’s association in Mumbai. Viren Shah, president of the federation of retail trader’s welfare association, said, “This decision will create more chaos and will get crowded during morning hours. It will be difficult to control crowd for local authorities. Now another hurdle is how will the grocery shops provide home delivery after 11am when the shops will be closed? This means that local authorities will have to cooperate with the kirana stores to keep shops close for customer, but allow shops to provide home delivery from the stores.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-for-full-lockdown-101618947818734.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 2,030 cases, J&K clocks highest ever daily surge||With 2,030 fresh cases, Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported the highest ever novel coronavirus infections since the outbreak, which took the Union territory’s case tally to 1,50,238.With eight Covid-induced fatalities — three in Kashmir and five in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,071, health officials said.Of the new cases, 1,086 cases are from Kashmir while 944 are from Jammu, including 352 travellers. So far, 77 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the last eight days, the UT has been recording over 1,000 cases. J&K had recorded an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 647 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 501 in Jammu district, 143 in Reasi ( including 124 travellers) , 136 in Baramulla and 119 in Budgam. Kupwara is the only district, which reported cases in single digits. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily, reached 13,470, officials said. As many as 716 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including 539 from Kashmir and 177 from Jammu.As many as 1,34,697 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 89.65% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.83 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.Lockdown ruled out in KashmirThe divisional administration on Tuesday ruled out the possibility of imposing a lockdown in Kashmir despite a surge in coronavirus cases, saying the situation does not warrant such measures. Amid rising cases, medical experts say there has been no change in the strain or mutation in the virus in the Valley. Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said, “Keeping in mind the state of our economy, the administration does not think that lockdown is needed in the current situation. Maybe in future, if the situation worsens.” Pole was flanked by director health Mushtaq Ahmad Rather and Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences director AG Ahangar among other officials and health experts.Amarnath Yatra to go ahead as planned Observing that 30-40% of Kashmir’s economy is dependent on tourism, hospitality and allied sectors, the divisional commissioner said a tentative road map was being prepared for managing tourist inflow amid a surge in virus cases and also for the upcoming Amaranth Yatra. SKIMS director says shortage of Remdesivir, Div Com refutes claim Ahangar said they had been facing shortage of Remdesivir for the past couple of days, a claim which was refuted by Pole. “The only difficulty that we have been facing for the last two days is the non availability of one of the vital drugs Remdesivir,” Ahangar said. Pole retorted, “On Remdesivir, the situation is definitely not as serious as told by ‘director sahab’. Hardly 10% patients kept in Covid care are given Remdesivir after their ECGs are done. A critical patient needs five doses. The medicine is available in sufficient quantity in Kashmir, including Srinagar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2-030-cases-j-k-clocks-highest-ever-daily-surge-101618947760524.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Mansar Lake to get new lease of life as rejuvenation work begins||At long last rejuvenation of Udhampur’s Mansar Lake, which despite being rich in aquatic life has been neglected for years, has begun. Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh had on Monday kick-started VIP parking upgrading and also inspected the floating jetty, which are both sub components of the comprehensive Mansar Lake rejuvenation plan, which is being implemented along the lines of the Ganga rejuvenation plan. Dr Singh said, “This project is a breakthrough for developing tourism in the region.” He observed that Udhampur is possibly the only district in the country, which has a project on the lines of Namami Ganga and Ganga cleaning project. The objective is to attract 20 lakh tourists to the region annually. Devika Lake will also be rejuvenated and developed and both will cost the exchequer ₹200 crore.  Once completed, the project is expected to generate a revenue of ₹800 crore per annum and generate employment. The picturesque freshwater lake, situated around 37km from Jammu, is surrounded by forest-covered hills. It has rich biodiversity and is especially famous for its huge turtles. The lake houses 15 species of waterfowl, 207 species of algae and seven fish varieties. Mansar and Surinsar are the most sought after tourist destinations visited by tourists throughout the year. Mansar is also close to Katra, which famous for the Vaishno Devi Temple, which is visited by over one crore pilgrims from all parts of the country and abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mansar-lake-to-get-new-lease-of-life-as-rejuvenation-work-begins-101618947520128.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weatherman predicts 2-day wet spell in J&K, Ladakh||The meteorological department predicted a two-day wet spell in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Tuesday.In April, Kashmir has already witnessed back-to-back wet spells accompanied by light snowfall in upper reaches of the valley. India meteorological department (IMD) director Sonum Lotus said the weather in Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh will remain cloudy with chances of showers in isolated places.“Widespread rain, thunderstorm and snowfall could take place in higher reaches such as Zojilla, Gulmarg and higher reaches of the Leh-Manali highway on April 21 and 22,” he said, adding that thereafter the weather will remain largely dry till the end of the month.After a relatively hot February, March had mostly remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir. Although the month of February had witnessed a number of snow spells, the month also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. On February 22, Srinagar had recorded 18.6°C temperature while Kupwara had recorded a high of 20.5°C.The night temperature in Srinagar was 7.2°C. while the tourist resort of Gulmarg remained the coldest place at 1°C.Traffic on J&K highway suspended due to landslide in Ramban
21-04-2021||Other||Mumbai’s BEST saw 1.6 million passengers on Monday||Despite curbs on travel for non-essential purposes, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has witnessed an increase in its passengers. As per data available with BEST, 1.6 million people travelled on its buses in the city on Monday, a rise from the 1.3 million passengers travelled on April 17.On the first day of restrictions on April 15, 1.4 million people had travelled by BEST buses. “There has been an increase in the number of passengers travelling by BEST buses. We are not allowing standee passengers,” said a BEST official. The Maharashtra government, under the ‘Break The Chain’ initiative, did not suspend the city’s public transport, but implemented restrictions. Autorickshaws in the city are allowed to ferry only two passengers, while taxis are allowed to operate with 50% capacity. The general public has been prohibited travel on local trains. People working in essential care services, travelling for medical purposes and vaccinations across the city are, however, allowed to commute by the local trains. The passengers count on local trains has reduced, as railway authorities restricted the entry and exit points of stations on April 15 and started checking identity cards and documents of passengers at the stations’ entrance.On an average, 1.8 million passengers travel by locals on the Central Railway and 1.1 million take trains on the Western line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-best-saw-1-6-million-passengers-on-monday-101618946618675.html
21-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC rejects appeal against use of trademark Covishield||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to interfere with the district court order, allowing Serum Institute of India (SII) to use the name ‘Covishield’ for the vaccine manufactured by it. Cutis Biotech had sought injunction on the name’s use, as it too had a similar name for a drug. But as the district court had refused to grant the injunction, Cutis approached HC. A division bench of HC justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang, however, held that as SII’s vaccine was already well-known and neither company owned the trademark, it was not inclined to grant the prayer of Cutis. The bench, while hearing an appeal filed by Cutis Biotech, was informed by advocates Dr Abhinav Chandrachud and Aditya Soni that the company had applied for the trademark Covishield under the Trademark Act, 1999, last year on April 29. The advocates submitted that on January 4, Cutis had initiated a trademark suit against SII at the Pune commercial court, and hence, till the outcome of the suit was decided, they had filed an interim application seeking an injunction against SII from using the name. However, the district court had refused to grant the injunction as SII had started using manufacturing the vaccines by the Covisheld, following which Cutis approached HC.Senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf for SII submitted that the company on June 6, 2020, had applied for the registration of trademark ‘Covishield’ under application no 4522244 for vaccine under Class-5. It had also applied for other variants. The company had sought permission to carry out tests for the coronavirus drug from various authorities, and on December 10, 2020, the Union health ministry published the Covid-19 vaccine procedure, which referred to the trademark of SII as ‘Covishield’. After perusing the proceedings of the interim application heard by the district court, the HC bench noted that neither Cutis Biotech nor SII had a registration for the trademark ‘Covishield’. Thus, the grievance of Cutis Biotech would be termed as an allegation of passing off by SII.The district court further noted that as the products of both the companies were different, there was no chance of confusion in the minds of the public. “The court noted the situation brought about by the pandemic and the importance of the vaccine for the general public. The district court, by the impugned order dated 30 January 2021, rejected the interim application,” the HC bench, while dwelling on the implications of the injunction, observed.In light of this, HC observed, “That ‘Covishield’ is a vaccine to counter coronavirus is now widely known. A temporary injunction directing SII to discontinue the use of mark ‘Covishield’ for its vaccine will cause confusion and disruption in the vaccine administration programme of the state. In this case, thus, the grant of an injunction would have large-scale ramifications traversing beyond the parties to the suit.” While dismissing the appeal, the bench noted, “The discretion used by the learned district judge in refusing to grant an injunction is not arbitrary or perverse. Even if the evidence was to be looked at in the first instance, no case is made out for grant of any relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-rejects-appeal-against-use-of-trademark-covishield-101618946558556.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 7,192 Covid-19 cases, 34 deaths||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 7,192 Covid-19 cases and 34 deaths, taking the tally to 594,059 and the death toll to 12,446. There are 82,671 Covid-19 cases in the city at present. The overall case fatality rate in the city has now dropped to 2%. On Monday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted 45,350 tests with a daily positivity rate of 15.8%, down from the daily positivity rate of around 18% to 20% until last week. So far, the BMC has conducted a total of 5,027,882 Covid-19 tests. Meanwhile, the civic body has now decided to free up oxygen and intensive care units (ICU) beds by shifting non-critical patients to ordinary beds in its Covid facilities. Indicating that the situation in Mumbai is stabilising, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “Today we have around 7,000 cases and around 45,000 tests, with a continuous decline in cases in the past five days. There are 87% asymptomatic patients today. As of 2.30pm on Tuesday, we have 3,685 Covid-19 beds vacant.”Chahal added that Mumbai has seen 947 deaths in the last 70 days, since the second wave of the pandemic started, with approximately 2.66 lakh cases during this period.This puts the case fatality rate (CFR) during this period at 0.3%. Quoting a media bulletin from New Delhi’s public health department, Chahal pointed that in contrast, Delhi city reported 240 deaths in a single day on April 19.On April 19, Mumbai reported 7,381 Covid-19 cases, on April 18, it reported 8,468 cases, April 17 it reported 8,811 cases, and on April 16, it reported 8,803 Covid-19 cases. The highest number of cases reported during this second wave of the pandemic was 11,206 cases on April 4.3,622 beds vacant As of Tuesday morning, Mumbai had a total of 21,093 Covid beds in hospitals and jumbo facilities, of which 17,471 are occupied and 3,622 are vacant. Of the 10,511 oxygen beds, 9,845 are occupied, and 666 are vacant; of the 2,798 ICU beds, 2,748 are occupied, and 50 are vacant; of the 1,426 ventilator beds, 1,405 are occupied and 21 are vacant.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, on Monday said BMC’s step-down policy is helping the civic body with bed management. He said, “When a critical or serious patient has recovered from Covid-19 infection, such that he does not need round the clock medical assistance and does not need to occupy an ICU bed, a ventilator bed or an oxygen bed previously allotted to him, such patients will be shifted to quarantine facilities, which are equipped with doctors and medical staff. Some patients opt to be home quarantined during such a period if they have that option. This makes the bed available for another needy serious or critical patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-7-192-covid-19-cases-34-deaths-101618946498609.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bhandup mall to be razed or repaired? Audit to tell||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered the administrator of Dreams Mall in Bhandup to carry out a structural audit to determine whether the mall needs to be demolished or only needs repairs. A level four fire was reported at the mall that housed Sunrise Hospital on March 25, killing nine Covid patients. The mall is being managed by Rahul Sahasrabuddhe, who was appointed as the independent administrator by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to manage the affairs of the mall, after non-payment of taxes by Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL, which owned Dreams Mall). Vibhas Achrekar, assistant municipal commissioner, S ward that covers Bhandup, said, “We have issued a notice to the administrator to carry out a structural audit of the mall. The audit will decide whether the mall will have to be reconstructed completely or will require major repair works…This exercise is being done considering the top floor of the mall was completely damaged and the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) wanted us to seal the mall. However, we do not have any powers to seal the premises without valid reason. Hence, the structural audit will be conducted.” Shopkeepers want permission to open their undamaged shops. A shopkeeper said, “Last year, there was a lockdown, and this year we had a fire followed by another lockdown. Forget about allowing us to open our shops, but we are not even allowed to go inside the shops and check if our belongings are safe.” The BMC said the fire was major and there is a possibility that the structure might be damaged. Meanwhile, the BMC’s disaster management cell is expected to conclude its report on the cause of the fire by this week. The report will also decide whether there was any negligence by any government authority in giving permissions to the mall and the hospital. On the other hand, the Mumbai Police had booked several people last month after the fire that included directors of HDIL Rakeshkumar Wadhawan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan, Sarang Wadhawan, Deepak Shirke and directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited (which owns Sunrise Hospital) Amitsingh Trehan, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain, among others, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Sahasrabuddhe said, “The mall does not need redevelopment. Repairs are needed before restarting. I have submitted the preliminary comments of the structural auditor. I have written and submitted a letter to BMC to allow me to let people remove their belongings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibhandup-mall-to-be-razed-or-repaired-audit-to-tell-101618946438576.html
21-04-2021||Other||Relief for Lucknow, Kashi: Oxygen Express gets set to bring air of hope||The railways’ newly-launched Oxygen Express would bring the much- needed relief to districts like Lucknow and Varanasi, which are in dire need of oxygen, by ensuring the supply of the medical gas there soon.The initiative is the outcome of the state government seeking help from the railways to bring oxygen from Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. Additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “We are in dire need of oxygen, which we need to bring in from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha. And putting in the traditional oxygen tankers would take nearly five to six days to complete the entire process. Hence, to expedite the whole process and to bring in Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) as early as possible, we approached the railways, which has come forward to help us and run their Oxygen Express.”Setting the tone for one such life-sustaining endeavour, the city on Tuesday witnessed the movement of the Oxygen Express train that originated from Kandla, Gujarat and will reach Jharkhand via Lucknow. The Oxygen Express passed through Lucknow around 11.45pm. On the return journey from Jharkhand, the train would release half of the consignment in Lucknow and the rest in Varanasi, officials said.The ACS said it was found that transporting LMO by train was two times faster than transporting it through road tankers.“The entire process will take another 48 hours,” he said to HT.It is somewhat similar to an effort in Maharashtra, where the first Oxygen Express left from near Mumbai for Visakhapatnam earlier this week.Officials with the railways said the Oxygen Express would be a boon in transporting LMO, which is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions during Covid-19 infection in state.The railways has plans to transport oxygen through Roll On Roll Off (RoRo) services through road tankers with built-in oxygen chambers are placed on flat wagons.“The road tankers placed on the flat wagons are of a specific height and 3330mm was found feasible to transport oxygen through flat wagons without affecting the overhead equipment (OHE) lines,” a railway official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relief-for-lucknow-kashi-oxygen-express-gets-set-to-bring-air-of-hope-101618946379606.html
21-04-2021||Other||Respond to allegation of mismanagement of second Covid-19 wave, HC asks Centre, state, BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Union of India, state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to respond to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an advocate which has alleged mismanagement of resources and inability of the state to provide adequate beds, oxygen and Remdesivir drug to Covid-19 affected patients, while private trusts were providing the same easily. The court also observed that rather than canvassing public interest the petition was more politically inclined and asked the advocate to justify the same and posted the hearing of the PIL for Thursday. A division bench of chief justice Dipanakar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate Arshil Shah that lack of facilities during the pandemic has resulted in the violation of fundamental rights of the citizens of the state including their right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Shah submitted that even though the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was underway the authorities failed to streamline the medical facilities as a result of which people had to run from pillar to post seeking redressal. He further submitted that the number of patients outnumbered beds and there was a shortage of oxygen and Covid-19 drugs. He added that coupled with that there was poor management of disposal of dead bodies as crematoriums were running out of wood and the electric crematoriums were over-heating and melting hence all these issues needed to be addressed urgently. Shah referred to the recent order of the Nagpur bench of the HC, wherein after its directions, the Nagpur region got nearly 10,000 Remdesivir vials in a day, hence sought similar interventions from the court. The PIL has sought to monitor the supply chain of Remdesivir injections from the pharmaceutical companies to its procurements in hospital, to curb black-marketing and profiteering that create a panic situation due to unavailability and overpricing of the medicines. Marjadi has also sought a status report on the availability of Covid-beds, lab testing facilities and procurement of Remdesivir and oxygen. While referring to social media posts of the politicians annexed to the PIL, the bench questioned Shah, “When you file a PIL, why would you include political comments? Are you interested in the benefit of the underprivileged, poor and needy or you want to highlight political issues…We are not influenced by any political comments. You should be careful.” Shah responded that it was added to show the influence of politicians in decision making but would delete the same. After the state government lawyer sought time to take instructions from the official, the bench asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to appear on behalf of the state government and address the issues raised in the petition before it. The court also asked the Centre and BMC lawyers to take ‘complete instructions’ and respond to the PIL during the next hearing on Thursday, April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/respond-to-allegation-of-mismanagement-of-second-covid-19-wave-hc-asks-centre-state-bmc-101618946379025.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 852 cases filed for hate speech, spreading rumours on social media||A day after Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale announced colour codes for vehicles plying within Mumbai, a rumour about police instructing petrol pumps to give fuel to only those who have essential service stickers, spread like fire. After the police helpline and Twitter handles were bombarded with queries, the police officially clarified that no such orders were issued to petrol pumps.Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the number of fake news, rumours and doctored stories and videos doing rounds on social media has increased. The Maharashtra Police have been continuously battling the menace of misinformation being spread through social media and internet platforms. As a result, a total of 852 offences have been registered during the pandemic.“All these agencies coordinated with each other and pulled down thousands of objectionable content and registered 852 offences in almost one year. Of these, 786 offences were cognisable in nature, while the rest were non-cognisable. Around 455 cases were of hate speeches,” said a senior police officer. In these cases, 308 cases were related to misinformation on WhatsApp, 338 cases with Facebook, 28 cases linked Tiktok, 25 related to Twitter, and 27 linked to Instagram.During the investigation of these cases, 342 accused were arrested and 680 are identified. Around 152 were served notice under section 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Preventive action has been taken as per section 107 of CrPC on 145 accused.The content pulled down by police from social media also includes Covid-related videos from other countries with false messages, manipulated videos and photos of hospitals, crematoriums, videos of doctors, nurses and patients with false narratives, and forged and edited copies of government orders related to Covid.Since Covid outbreak in March 2020, the state cyber police, special branch and cyber police station of Mumbai police are keeping a close watch on the spread of Covid and government orders related to rumours, hate message, communally sensitive content on social media platforms. All the district police in the state have also intensified vigilance on social media to prevent the spread of rumours to maintain law and order in their districts. “There has also been an increase in Covid-related hate speeches, communally sensitive and inciting messages over social media in last one week,” said a senior police officer.Sanjay Shintre, superintendent of police, state cyber police said, “As there was a buzz over Kumbh Mela gathering on social media recently and also ongoing Ramzan month, there is an obvious rise in hate speeches and increase in penetration of communally sensitive information on the internet, but we are keeping an effective check on such contents online and pulling them down before they make it to masses.” A big chunk of misinformation is related to political issues. Even the hate speeches are mostly politics related. Some politicians express their opinions by crossing the limits and this triggers mudslinging. But we keep on the filter the content on social media platforms, Shintre added.Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said, “Fake news has been thriving only because people have been believing in them and this is well proved by the fact that users forward such messages even without cross-checking the facts. The drop in fewer citizens getting vaccinated can be attributed to the fake news that has been doing rounds. Police and civic body both have been cautioning people about such misinformation, however, their reach is only limited to those users who are on social media.” “Police and BMC should counter the fake news by right facts on the very same platform where these messages are spreading - WhatsApp being the most popular one. Many people, especially senior citizens, are neither on Twitter nor on Instagram nor Facebook. But they get loads of such fake news on WhatsApp. So, the government needs to first broadcast factual messages on WhatsApp and then other mediums. People are thrilled about forwarding misinformation but when they realise or are corrected, they feel embarrassed to forward the facts,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra852-cases-filed-for-hate-speech-spreading-rumours-on-social-media-101618946378556.html
21-04-2021||Other||Bombay HC asks state, NGO to suggest measures to curb spread of Covid-19 in prisons||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the state whether an accused person can be subjected to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and a vaccination shot 24 hours prior to being admitted to the prison and if they can be produced before the court through video-conferencing.The court further directed the petitioner in a previous public interest litigation (PIL) regarding the condition of inmates during the Covid-19 outbreak last year to go through the state affidavit and come up with suggestions to bring down the spread of the virus among prisoners and staff. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu (on its own) PIL initiated last week, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that as per the vacation bench’s directions, an affidavit on the status of inmates across all prisons in the state was filed. The affidavit stated that as on April 18, there were 35,124 prisoners in 60 jails, while the capacity was only for 24,032. Kumbhakoni further submitted that as on Monday, there were 188 Covid-19 cases among inmates and staff, and proper care was being taken to curb the spread of the infection in the jails. The PIL was prompted following a report in Hindustan Times on April 16, which stated that the number of Covid-19 cases had gone up from 47 to 200 within a month of the second wave striking the state. The vacation bench of justice Nitin Jamdar had observed that it was a serious concern and hence sought a response from the state on the measures it was taking to curb the spread of the virus in jails. Kumbhakoni further stated that due to the increase in Covid-19 cases among inmates, vaccination of those aged above 45 was already on. While conceding that the state prison authorities had relaxed after being able to control the situation last year, steps were being taken to strengthen the precautionary measures as per the high-power committee (HPC) recommendation of May 2020. He added that those eligible for emergency bail, parole or furlough were being granted the same. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, who had represented a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in the PIL, seeking directions to alleviate the condition of inmates in light of the pandemic last year, had submitted that there were many options before the state and prison authorities to address the problem and he wanted to enumerate the same. He added that as the HPC had met on May 2, 2020, the court should ask it to meet again and consider the current situation and modify the guidelines issued by it to decongest jails. The court, however, asked him to go through the state affidavit and give suggestions thereafter. While seeking to know whether accused persons could be given an RT-PCR test and vaccination before they were admitted to the jails, the court also asked if the suggestion by a coordinate bench to transfer inmates from congested jails to open prisons could be considered and what further measures could be taken to resolve the problem of over-crowding posted hearing of the PIL on Thursday.The petition is placed for hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-asks-state-ngo-to-suggest-measures-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-in-prisons-101618946318577.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Using weather forecasts, scientists develop model to water on commercial farms||Scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) and the US-based University of Maryland have, in collaboration with grape farmers from Nashik, developed an irrigation management model that saved between 10% to 30% water on commercial farms. Notably, the experimental solution uses short and medium-range weather forecasts to help farmers plan their irrigation schedules.“The use of operational and medium-range weather forecasts in irrigation management across India has been limited because they typically cover a much larger geographic area. This does not help farmers who own small plots of land. Factors like varying rainfall within an area and heterogeneity of soil, among other minute differences in agro-climactic conditions, also make it hard to effectively use the weather forecast,” said Subimal Ghosh, professor at the department of civil engineering, IIT-B, and corresponding author of the study.To address these lacunae in farm-scale water management, the researchers tied up with grape farmers at Sahyadri commercial farms in Nashik, who have been using sensors to gather soil moisture data going back at least five years. They first developed a water balance model to compute daily evapotranspiration, runoff and leakage for two test plots. This is also called an eco-hydrological model since the purpose of it is to avoid water stress to crops.“Because farmers don’t have high-resolution weather forecasts, it may result in non-judicious use of water. For example, during the monsoon season, the forecast may say that it will rain for the next three days, but a farmer will still water his crops on the off chance that it does not rain at all. So the net effect is that more water than necessary is being used,” said professor Raghu Murtugudde of the University of Maryland, and co-author of the study, published in the Water Resources Research journal of the American Geophysical Union.“Previously, the farmers whom we worked with on this study were using a tank hydrology model, where the rootzone areas of the crops are thought of as a holding tank for water. When the level falls below a certain level, they irrigate more. This has maintained yield very well,” said Ghosh. However, this method does not account for changes in the soil moisture that may occur due to the weather, which is the gap that researchers have attempted to bridge.“We have used a different algorithm to analyse the weather forecast information concerning the empirical soil moisture data, and past rainfall distribution in the area, to develop a set of probable scenarios that may occur during the forecast period. This helps farmers to plan how much water to release and when,” said Ghosh. “We found that using the proposed framework, irrigation water use can be reduced by 10-30% as compared to that resulting from the conventional strategies used by the farmers, without significant loss in crop yields, by almost always maintaining the soil moisture at or above the prescribed threshold,” the authors have noted in their study,The researchers are currently planning to expand the study to other farms in Maharashtra. The challenge in scaling up this intervention, according to the experts, would be in establishing a large network of devices to monitor soil moisture across farms in an area. “You also need to work with the farmers to get them to trust your data. This is why we have co-produced this study with farmers, to demonstrate usability and credibility,” said Murtugudde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiusing-weather-forecasts-scientists-develop-model-to-water-on-commercial-farms-101618946258610.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Capital gasps for oxygen amid 28k new Covid-19 infections||Delhi on Tuesday sounded the alarm over exacerbating shortage of oxygen, a crucial tool in the fight against the worsening Covid-19 crisis, as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said some hospitals were left with only a few hours of life-saving supplies, and appealed to the Centre to urgently boost deliveries to prevent the health care system from being overrun.The national capital, which is under a lockdown to control the alarming transmission of the infectious disease, has reported precariously low levels of oxygen, crucial drugs and critical care beds. On Sunday, Kejriwal said the oxygen shortage in Delhi had turned into an “emergency”.“Serious oxygen crisis persists in Delhi. I again urge the Centre to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi. Some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen,” Kejriwal tweeted shortly after holding a review meeting with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior government officials.Medical oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases, and the pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organization.Sisodia said there will be chaos in the city if the stocks are not replenished by Wednesday morning. He posted a note on Twitter mentioning the status of oxygen stocks in various hospitals. According to the note, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Burari Hospital, Ambedkar Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, BL Kapoor Hospital and Max Hospital in Patparganj were among those that had only “eight to 12 hours of oxygen left”.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said its oxygen stock was to last till 1am. The hospital has 485 Covid-19 beds, of which 475 are occupied. “6,000 cubic metres of it is left, which at the rate of current consumption will last till 1am. Need urgent replenishment,” its chairman DS Rana said.With Delhi logging more than 100,000 Covid-19 cases over the past four days, the strain on the Capital’s oxygen supply continued to grow, with several hospitals having to discharge Covid-19 patients, restrict new admissions, and cancel routine surgeries.Daily cases of Covid-19 continued to soar as the city recorded its biggest single day spike of 28,395 new infections, pushing the total number of confirmed cases past 900,000. This was the fifth time in the past week that the city has set a new single-day case record. The seven-day average of daily cases in Delhi is now 22,198. This number, which denotes a region’s case curve, was just 9,299 a week ago – a growth of nearly 140% in just one week. If this rate of growth continues for one more week, then Delhi appears set to breach the 50,000 mark for daily cases.Average testing positivity rate – the proportion of tests that return positive for Covid-19, which serves as a good barometer for an expanding outbreak – has touched 24.2%. This means that one out of every four samples tested in the past week has come back positive. At a daily level, the positivity rate is soaring even higher – it has nearly sextupled in just two weeks. On Tuesday, 32.8% samples tested came back positive, against 4.9% of all samples on April 6. In early February, this number had to dropped a low of 0.2%.Underlining the efforts by his government to tackle the crisis, the Delhi CM tweeted: “We are working on a war footing to ensure oxygen supply in Delhi, and are also talking to the central government. An increase in the number of oxygen beds is happening on a large scale.”The chief minister said the government was purchasing medical oxygen from Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to meet the shortage. He also directed officials to increase the number of beds with oxygen facilities for Covid-19 patients across hospitals.Deputy CM Sisodia tweeted: “All hospitals are sending SOS calls regarding oxygen supply. Suppliers are being stopped in different states. The Centre has to stay sensitive and active to ensure that there is no jungle raj among states regarding oxygen supply.”“Most hospitals in Delhi have only 8-12 hours of oxygen left. We have been urging the Centre for the past one week that to increase the quote of oxygen supply. If adequate supplies are not given to the hospitals by tomorrow morning, it would be chaos,” he added.In an address to the nation on Tuesday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi noted that the surge in Covid-19 cases led to sharp increase in the demand for oxygen in different parts of the country. He said the work to increase oxygen production was taking place at several levels. “The Centre, state governments, private sector are trying to make oxygen available to all those who are in need of it. Many steps are being taken in this direction,” he said.Also read: Delhi sees highest ever single-day spike in cases, deaths; tally over 900,000On Sunday, the Delhi chief minister wrote to the Prime Minister, seeking his help in improving the supply of medical oxygen in Delhi. In a separate letter to Union minister of commerce and industries Piyush Goyal, he highlighted that the central government sending oxygen to other states by engaging a company which happens to be a “major supplier” in Delhi was at the root of the problem.Goyal later said: “Demand-side management is as important as supply-side management. Containing Covid-19 spread is the responsibility of state governments and they should fulfil this responsibility.”A statement issued by the Delhi government after Tuesday’s review meeting by the CM said: “Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday raised serious concerns over acute oxygen shortage across various Covid-19 facilities in Delhi. He urged the central government to urgently provide oxygen to Delhi since some hospitals are left with just a few hours of oxygen. CM Arvind Kejriwal convened a review meeting today, wherein he directed the officials to increase oxygen beds across several facilities in Delhi… Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that there should be no jungle raj between the states on the supply of oxygen, for this, the central government will have to be very sensitive and alert.”A senior home ministry official, who did not wish to be identified, said: “The central government is working on ensuring smoother supply of medical oxygen for Delhi as requested by the Delhi government.”A senior official in the central government who did not wish to be identified said that 241MT of oxygen was supplied to Delhi on Monday and 355.33 MT on Tuesday (till 3pm) by five manufacturers, and the total stock of oxygen in the city’s hospitals was 508 MT.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet: “Media people are asking about oxygen supplied to Delhi. 240 Mt and 365 Mt oxygen supplied to Delhi on Mon & Tue against requirement of 700 mt per day. Stock position in most of the hospitals is not more than 10 to 12 hours. Every day we require 700 mt oxygen.”The Delhi high court said on Tuesday sufficient oxygen was not being supplied to Covid-19 patients in the national capital and asked the Centre if supply could be diverted from industries.“Industries can wait. Patients cannot. Human lives are at stake,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told the central government, while monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Delhi through a plea on testing.The bench said it heard that doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital were being forced to reduce oxygen being given to Covid-19 patients.One of Delhi’s biggest government hospitals, Safdarjung Hospital, was running low on oxygen. All elective or planned surgeries were cancelled on Monday morning after its oxygen supply ran low. “No elective surgeries to be performed due to deficiency of oxygen supply in the hospital till further orders. This is an urgent request,” a notice from the hospital’s anaesthesia department said.A senior doctor at the hospital said on condition of anonymity: “The demand for oxygen has increased manifold due to the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients who need high flow oxygen. There was a delay in supply and stocks are sufficient only for a few hours more.” The hospital, however, received more oxygen supplies by the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-gasps-for-oxygen-amid-28k-new-covid-19-infections-101618945964888.html
21-04-2021||Other||Child marriages still prevalent in Panipat, Karnal||Eight years after her marriage, 21-year-old Seema (name changed) went to Karnal women police station with her six-year-old daughter to file a complaint of domestic violence against her husband.She alleged that she was forced to marry a truck mechanic from Kaithal at the age of 13. In return, her sister-in-law got married to Seema’s maternal uncle in ‘Atta-Saata’ (exchange of girl for bride).At the age of 15, Seema became mother of a girl and three years later, when she attained the marriageable age (18), she gave birth to her second child.Now, Seema is caught in a peculiar situation. She wants divorce from her husband but her mother is against this because Seema’s husband took along his sister after Seema returned to her parents.Women protection officer Rajni Gupta says Seema’s is one of the hundreds of cases that come to the office of district women and child protection officers every month.“Child marriages are still prevalent. I have stopped around 300 child marriages in Panipat and Karnal since joining in 2008,” she said.Maximum cases of child marriages come from backward communities and economically weaker families. Besides skewed sex ratio and concerns of safety of the girls, ‘Aata-Saata’, where a family gives away a daughter in exchange for a bride, is a major cause of child marriages.As per official figures, around 420 complaints of child marriage were reported in state in 2020, and 32 FIRs were registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.Under this law, all such persons, who perform, conduct, direct or abet child marriage can be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment up to two years and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh.However, officials monitoring implementation of the Child Marriage Act said that they do not get information about child marriages as people hesitate to report such cases.“In over 75% marriages stopped by timely intervention of officials, the victims themselves inform the police or protection officer about their marriage. In rest of the cases, neighbors inform the police,” officials said.As per the State Crime Records Bureau data, 22 people, including four female, were arrested for violation of the Child Marriage Act in 2019.Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, officiating chairperson of Haryana Women Commission, says, “There is strict law against child marriages and people are aware of it, but they still flout it.”“We have already discussed the issue and a special campaign will be launched in May to sensitise people about bad effects of child marriages,” she added.FIGHTING THE EVIL SINCE 2008Since her joining in 2008 as protection-cum-prohibition officer of Panipat district, Rajni Gupta helped around 400 minors by stopping their marriages. According to Rajni, she has stopped marriages of 256 minors in Panipat and 95% of them were girls.In 210 cases reported from Panipat, Rajni says she got information before marriage and managed to stop the marriage on the wedding day, but in 46 cases, they came know about the marriage afterwards and later filed a police complaint.“People call us celebration-spoilers as we reach the venue to stop the wedding of minors. Sometimes we even face the anger of parents and relatives of the minors. They pressurise us not to spoil the wedding but this is a violation of the law,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/child-marriages-still-prevalent-in-panipat-karnal-101618946200049.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC relief for woman booked on mother’s complaint under Domestic Violence Act||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday quashed the criminal proceedings initiated by a city resident against her daughter under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act, 2005, on the grounds that the allegations made were inherently improbable and were being made by the mother as she was unhappy that the daughter was with her estranged husband, the main accused in the case.The daughter, a 23-year-old had approached HC seeking quashing of the domestic violence case against her as the allegations were arbitrary and she wanted to pursue further education in Australia. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the writ petition filed by the daughter, was informed by advocate Kenny Thakkar that her client was unnecessarily arraigned in the domestic violence case filed by the mother against her father. It was further argued that the mother’s complaint under the DV Act had mostly highlighted the alleged atrocities by the father and there was only one instance of violence against the daughter, which showed that the daughter was being dragged into the acrimony and matrimonial discord between the wife and husband unnecessarily, and out of spite as she was staying with the father. Thakkar further submitted that her client had completed her engineering course and wanted to go to Australia to pursue further education, but due to the pending criminal case she was unable to get a visa and hence the proceedings against the daughter should be quashed and set aside.However, advocate E Moses for the mother submitted that the daughter was seeking quashing on the pretext of wanting to go to Australia to escape prosecution during trial and also place a photograph of the daughter pouring hot water on the mother’s feet as proof of the violence perpetrated by the daughter.After hearing the submissions, justice Pitale in the order observed, “The Petitioner is a young lady, who has just graduated and her future depends upon how she can improve her educational qualifications and develop her personality. It is only in the interest of justice, that this aspect of the matter is also taken into consideration. Surprisingly, her mother is hell-bent upon creating obstructions in her progress.”Justice Pitale further noted that the DV Act was for the protection of a woman against atrocities from her husband or any male member and hence the daughter could not come under the purview of the Act. The bench also noted that as the photograph was not placed before the magistrate the same could not be relied upon. In light of these observations and conclusions, the bench quashed the proceedings against the daughter in the DV case and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaihc-relief-for-woman-booked-on-mother-s-complaint-under-domestic-violence-act-101618946198599.html
21-04-2021||Other||Hospitals in Dombivli and Kalyan face oxygen shortage||With more private hospitals turning into Covid hospitals, there is acute shortage of oxygen in these centres in the Kalyan-Dombivli region.The civic centres and hospitals have enough oxygen supply, claimed the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).“Although we don’t have excess stock of oxygen cylinders for the civic centres and hospitals, we have need-based supply of oxygen on a day-to-day basis, which is adequate. However, the private hospitals are facing trouble, especially those who have just started treating the Covid patients. They don’t have enough oxygen available,” said Sudhakar Jagtap, deputy commissioner, KDMC.The civic Covid care centres, dedicated Covid health centres and dedicated Covid hospitals require around 20 tons of oxygen. In KDMC, there are around 80 private hospitals that treat Covid patients.“The private hospitals require around 30 tons of oxygen daily. However, they are facing shortage. Those hospitals that are treating Covid patients since last year have their own vendors who supply them oxygen while those that have recently started treating the Covid patients are struggling to get the oxygen cylinders on a regular basis,” said Jagtap.Owner of A and G Private Hospital in Kalyan, Ganesh Pawar, said, “We get the oxygen supply privately and presently we have adequate stock for the existing patients. However, we cannot admit new patients as there is no oxygen for them. Presently, we are treating 40 patients.”Meanwhile, Kalyan and Dombivli have run out of stock of Remdesivir on Monday. “On Tuesday, we have received stock of about 250 injections and they will be adequate for now. We have, however, placed a request to supply the injections on a regular basis so that there is no shortage,” said Dr Ashwini Patil, medical health officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospitals-in-dombivli-and-kalyan-face-oxygen-shortage-101618946139332.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare case: Statement of Sachin Vaze’s driver recorded||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the Antilia security scare case and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, on Tuesday received the statement of the driver of suspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze, recorded before a metropolitan magistrate. Vaze, who was arrested in the case, is a prime suspect in both cases.The said driver is a police constable and attached to the crime intelligence unit (CIU) which was headed by Vaze at the relevant time. Police sources said that the police driver was in the know of most of Vaze’s activities and his statement holds value in the case to prove Vaze’s involvement in the crimes.The driver’s statement was recorded before a metropolitan magistrate at the Esplanade court under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).NIA has not revealed any information on the development. Calls and messages to the senior NIA officers remained unanswered.So far NIA has arrested four people in the case, including Vaze, and his colleague suspended API Riyazuddin Kazi, and presently all are in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-case-statement-of-sachin-vaze-s-driver-recorded-101618946138618.html
21-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt and BJP trade fresh barbs over Remdesivir||Faisal MalikMumbai The clash between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the supply of Remdesivir to Maharashtra again intensified after state minority affairs minister and chief spokesperson of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Nawab Malik on Tuesday alleged that Shirsh Chaudhari, a BJP leader from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra, bought thousands of vials of the drug from Daman-based Bruck Pharma, and sold and distributed it in Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts. Malik also released pictures and videos that allegedly showed the distribution of Remdesivir. While BJP leaders claimed that they want to procure 50,000 vials for Maharashtra, Chaudhari bought a stock of 20,000 vials in the first week of April and kept at his Nandurbar hotel, from where the vials are being black-marketed in Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Dhule, Malik told reporters, adding that the BJP leader himself claimed to have distributed 700-800 vials. “We want to know if Chaudhari has obtained any licence from Maharashtra or Diu and Daman FDA,” the minister asked.Maharashtra FDA has now written a letter to Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud, asking him to take action against the people concerned. Anil Bhaidas Patil, a legislator from Amalner, Jalgaon, too, has demanded action against those illegally selling Bruck Pharma’s Remdesivir. He had written a letter to state FDA minister Rajendra Shingne in this regard on April 14, Malik said.Shingne also clarified that the drug can be procured only by the state government.“I have been reading news reports in which BJP leaders have been found to have claimed that they were trying to procure Remdesivir for Maharashtra. I would like to clear as FDA minister that no individual, party or organisation has the right to buy or donate the stock of Remdesivir. As of now it can be procured only by the state government,” the FDA minister said in a video message.According to Malik, BJP was trying to create a perception that the MVA government is a failure and could not even make available Remdesivir, an antiviral drug used for Covid-19 treatment, to patients. He alleged that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of Diu and Daman did not allow Bruck Pharma to supply vials manufactured for exports to Maharashtra.“After Maharashtra FDA permitted Bruck Pharma to sell Remdesivir, Diu and Daman FDA told the firm that they cannot supply the stock to Maharashtra. Diu and Daman is a Union Territory. When I raised the issue on Saturday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan dialled chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and assured full cooperation, but the situation is yet to be changed,” Malik said.Later, when Mumbai Police called the firm’s director for questioning on the illegal sale of the stock out of the country despite a ban on its export, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis visited the police station and advocated on his behalf, Malik alleged.“It is clear that some BJP leaders are active to defame MVA government. We want action against those involved in the illegal sale and black marketing of Remdesivir,” the NCP spokesperson said, pointing out that the company’s officials were arrested in Valsad for their alleged involvement in black marketing of the drug. Fadnavis had said BJP was trying to procure the antiviral drug for the people of Maharashtra, when it was targeted over his visit to the police station. “...Even this time, we were trying to ensure that the stock of Remdesivir is procured for the people of Maharashtra. It was not meant for the BJP, but for the patients in the state,” said former CM.Meanwhile, Malik also questioned how BJP are leaders getting stock of the antiviral drug, pointing out to an alleged incident last week where BJP’s Surat office (in Gujarat) was also found distributing Remdesivir vials to the people. He further said that both Chaudhari and the firm are involved in the illegal sale and black marketing of the drug, and thus the offence which attracts action.Congress, too, has demanded that Chaudhari and the firm be booked for their “involvement in black marketing” of Remdesivir. “When the Maharashtra government was not getting adequate supply of these injections, how come Chaudhari got so much stock to sell it illegally and privately? It is clear that BJP leaders and Bruck Pharma were colluded in black marketing of Remdesivir and therefore, immediate action should be taken against them,” said Sachin Sawant, general secretary and spokesperson, state Congress.BJP hit back saying Chaudhari is a distributor of the export firm and was trying to save lives of the people by providing them the drug. Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the legislative Council alleged that MVA government is targeting Chaudhari to hide its own failure. He also alleged that NCP legislator and grandnephew of party chief Sharad Pawar Rohit Pawar as well as NCP Welfare Trust, too, have received the stock of Remdesivir vials.“If someone has done something illegal, then there is no reason to support him. But to my knowledge, Chaudhari is a distributor of the export firm and he procured the stock before the ban was imposed by the central government. He was trying to help people and is being targeted by MVA to hide their own failures. If Chaudhari is guilty then how come Rohit Pawar and NCP Welfare Trust have got Remdesivir vials stock?” Darekar said.Maharashtra FDA has permitted three firms — Bruck, BDR Pharmaceuticals and Nixi Labs to sell Remdesivir in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-and-bjp-trade-fresh-barbs-over-remdesivir-101618946079114.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases travellers opt to postpone domestic trips: Experts||Amid the second Covid-19 wave and surge in the number of cases, domestic air travel has once again begun to face a slow down with a significant number of travellers opting to postpone their trips. Travel portals said they have witnessed a drop in bookings for the summer season. However, international bookings continue to remain unaffected for countries that have opened doors to Indians and those who are vaccinated.EaseMyTrip said the entire industry is witnessing a 30-40% booking reduction in April (as compared to March) and around 15-20% of tickets being cancelled or rescheduled, in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave. “Most of these cancellations or reschedules are voluntary, as air transport is functional, unlike the first wave of Covid in 2020,” said Nishant Pitti, co-founder and chief executive officer, EaseMyTrip.According to Yatra.com, the beginning of 2021 witnessed an optimistic rise in demand for travel where domestic destinations started seeing more footfall with travellers planning their leisure trips to make up for missed travel and pent up demand in 2020. However, there has been a slight increase in flight cancellations as consumers are cognisant about rising numbers in Covid-19 cases.“Customers are now looking to book closer to the travel date and are also prioritising health and safety measures while exploring accommodation options at the destinations. Destinations at drivable distances as well as off-beat travel destinations are still a preferred choice among the travel trends which provide necessary respite from the monotony of city life,” said Sabina Chopra, co-founder and chief operating officer, corporate travel and head for industry, Yatra.comTravel companies are, however, allowing passengers to reschedule their travel plans with no extra charges and are also offering services to ensure risk-free travel.SOTC Travel is offering a free doctor on-call 24x7 service in partnership with Apollo Clinics to provide expert guidance and assistance for safe holiday planning. However, free cancellation with exclusive deals such as full holidays at half price and companion holidays free are also being offered.“With many states imposing curbs, we have received a few requests from customers to reschedule their holiday plans. Travellers now look to maximise their experiences while minimising risk,” said Daniel D’souza, president and country head for leisure, SOTC Travel.According to Thomas Cook, having missed out on their vacation time for over a year, most Indians are preferring to defer their travel plans rather than cancel despite the current scenario and restrictions being placed by state authorities“With the increased rollout of the vaccine drive, reopening of borders/travel bubbles with countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, Seychelles and positive announcements by international destinations welcoming vaccinated tourists, the consumer sentiment is one of cautious optimism,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head – holidays, MICE, visa for Thomas Cook (India) Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-travellers-opt-to-postpone-domestic-trips-experts-101618946078574.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays strictures against IAS officer Khemka||A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Tuesday stayed strictures passed by a single judge bench against IAS officer Ashok Khemka in a case related to appointment of international shooter Vishwajeet Singh as an Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer.“The HC bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Rajesh Bhardwaj passed the order staying portion of a single judge bench judgment as the state government sought more time to file its response,” said Khemka’s lawyer Shreenath K Khemka.The state’s response has been sought by August 3 while giving “interim relief” to Khemka as per the HC website. In January, a HC judge had decried his role for causing delay in appointment of Vishwajeet Singh as an HCS officer. Vishwajeet is son of former IAS officer Jagdeep Singh. His appointment got delayed on complaint of Khemka in December 2019.The appointment has now been made after HC intervention in January in which court made remarks against Khemka.In his plea filed on March 31, Khemka had demanded that strictures passed against him be expunged as he was not associated with the proceedings before court in any manner.“It is submitted with the greatest respect and in all humility that the impugned strictures are not only absolutely unfounded and perverse but have been passed by the learned single judge in manifest violation of the principles of natural justice and are thus ex facie illegal and liable to be expunged,” he had submitted.The single judge bench had recorded in its order that the shooter’s appointment got delayed due to an “ill informed perspective which complainant Dr Ashok Khemka entertained regarding the sport of shooting”.“Even the questions raised by Khemka in his complaint, reflected his utter ignorance about the sports activity and regarding award of medals in shooting,” the court had recorded.“This was the height of the unfounded self-righteousness. This totally takes away the pretence of acting in public interest and shows that Dr Khemka might have used all these tactics to bring the officers under pressure and to bring the junior officials of the department under fear psychosis, which forced them to continue the tirade against the petitioner in one form or the other,” another remark the judge had made on Khemka’s role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-strictures-against-ias-officer-khemka-101618946019828.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Safety measures up at institutes housing hostels||A staff member of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), on Sunday succumbed to Covid-19 and became the fifth casualty on the campus. Over the past two weeks, the institute campus in Powai has been recording 60 cases a week on average.On Monday, IIT Roorkee asked students to vacate hostels by Wednesday, given the rising cases on campus. “A supporting letter from the dean of students’ welfare is being provided to the students to facilitate their travel to their homes,” said the institute’s administration. On Sunday, IIT Delhi also advised students to return home amid a spike in Covid-19 cases as the city ran out of space in its quarantine centres. The Kharagpur campus too has put on hold its plan to bring students on campus as residential campuses across the country are turning into hotbeds for the spread of the virus.Restriction of movementIIT-B, which had started allowing students back on campus for research work, has now cancelled all approvals for incoming students.“We had been allowing research scholars, who needed access to labs, to apply for entry to the campus. The applications were approved after considering the need to come to campus. However, given the severity of the situation now, we have cancelled all prior approvals,” said S Sudarshan, deputy director, IIT-B.Restricting movement within campuses as well as out of the campus is the key, said institutes. The contact tracing team at IIT-B was quick to point out that most cases were arising among those coming to the campus from outside such as post-doctoral fellows living outside and staff members commuting from various parts of the city. “We were able to identify that more cases were among those commuting from various places in the city. So, we asked all post-doctoral and staff members, who are day scholars, to work remotely,” said Sudarshan. There are around 3,000 students and 2,000 staff members residing on campus in IIT-B. At the Institute of Chemical Technology in Matunga (ICT), around 300 Masters and PhD students are now on campus, apart from 60 families of faculty members. Currently, there are no active cases among students but there are a dozen cases among faculty members. Students on campus aren’t allowed out of the campus and outsiders aren’t allowed in. However, what has worked better for the institute is rigorous testing, said RR Deshmukh, the institute’s registrar. “We have been holding testing camps for our students over the last four-five months. We bring in doctors to the camp. Everybody on campus is tested. Rapid antigen tests are done and if there are symptoms and if the doctors decide, RT-PCR tests are also done,” said Deshmukh. Institutes amp up their prepwas to install exhaust fans and do away with the use of air-conditioners across the campus. Canteens and mess facilities have been moved outdoors. ICT has housed all its students on campus in single rooms. Here, too, canteen timings are staggered to restrict the number of students coming together. Although the number of cases has stabilised, all institutes have amped up their quarantine facilities. “Those in the quarantine facility are provided food from the canteens through no contact delivery. Staff members deputed for this work have been provided with personal protective equipment,” said Sudarshan. Some students panicDespite these measures in place, panic persists among students. “Over the last two weeks, cases have been on the rise. Resident students are worried and have stopped socialising on campus,” said a research scholar from IIT-B on the condition of anonymity.“When compared to other IITs, Bombay is doing a decent job of containing the virus. So, we don’t feel an urgent need to leave the campus,” said another student.Student representatives had written to the director of IIT-B, Subhasis Chaudhuri, requesting vaccination for students residing on campus. Chaudhuri, in turn, had written to the Ministry of Education (MoE). A note from the MoE to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare requesting vaccine for students of all central government institutes was struck down last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/safety-measures-up-at-institutes-housing-hostels-101618946020263.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation may worsen soon’||While the surge in daily cases has burdened the existing health infrastructure, the situation could worsen in the coming days, according to the government’s internal assessment, which states that Maharashtra is likely to have 1,094,996 active cases by May 2, overwhelming the existing health infrastructure. Most of the districts will not be left with any beds – for isolation, oxygen or ICU beds and ventilators. Instead, many would require substantial additional infrastructure, according to the report which was presented before the state cabinet in its meeting held on Tuesday. This is the reason most of cabinet members were in favour of a complete lockdown. A decision is likely to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by Wednesday evening, said state health minister Rajesh Tope after the meeting. Meanwhile, the rise in daily Covid-19 cases continued on Tuesday as it recorded 62,097 new cases. It also reported 519 deaths, the highest single-day toll since the outbreak started in March last year. The earlier highest was 186 days ago on September 15, 2020, when the toll touched 515. The toll has jumped to 61,343. The surge has led to a sharp rise in active cases to 683,856 and going by the current transmission rate, the state health department has predicted that by May 2, additional 411,140 cases could be added to the tally, which will be a record 60% growth in 12 days. Currently, the state has 782,953 isolation beds, 72,869 oxygen beds, 24,986 ICU beds, 10,629 ventilators. In terms of district-wise health facilities, Thane, Pune, Raigad, Ahmednagar, Jalna, Beed, Latur, Parbhani, Hingoli, Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur are districts that will be left with nothing for any new patient by May 2. On the contrary, everyone will require additional isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators, according to the projection. In Mumbai, active cases will rise to 146,065 by May 2, from the current 82,671 cases. By then, the city will be left with only 3,837 isolation beds and will require additional 6,433 oxygen beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilators, as estimated by the state health department. Ten districts have the highest number of active cases as they comprise 491,076 cases, which comes to 72.58% of the total cases. Pune is at the top in terms of the highest number of active cases at 125,096. Mumbai comes at second position with 82,761 cases, Thane 80,440 cases, Nagpur 78,484 cases and Nashik 44,279. Currently, the average positivity rate of cases in the state is 25.55% and there are 14 districts where the positivity rate is much higher than the average of the state. The highest is in Osmanabad (39.25%), followed by Parbhani, Hingoli, Nagpur and Gadchiroli at 36.78%, 36.70%, 35.02%, 34.30%, respectively. “Going by the circumstances, most of the ministers were of the view that complete lockdown is the need of the hour. They even want local trains to be shut down. However, some of them opined that shutting down will be trouble for employees engaged with essential services thus only trains, vegetables and milk and medical services should be allowed,” said a minister, requesting anonymity. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde called the surge worrisome and grave. “The Covid-19 cases are increasing and this is a grave situation. There is a shortage of oxygen and people are dying,” said Shinde. He said that lockdown was inevitable in the current situation. Dr Harish Chafle, consultant intensivist and chest physician, Global Hospital at Parel, attributed high mortality rate to the severity of the second wave. “We are witnessing a higher number of deaths as this mutant is more severe than the previous one,” said Chafle. Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said, “We have allowed for production of oxygen in 50-60 places at Marathwada. In addition, many of the factories have promised us supply.”The state has tested 265,925 citizens in the past 24 hours. There are currently 683,856 active cases in the state, in which Pune leads with 117,521 cases, followed by Mumbai with 82,671 cases. Similarly, of the 61,343 deaths, Mumbai leads with 12,446 deaths, followed by Pune with 8,855.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-situation-may-worsen-soon-101618946018635.html
21-04-2021||Other||Karnal admn: Take action against black-marketing of oxygen, remdesivir||The district administration has issued strict instructions for immediate action if anybody is found involved in black-marketing and hoarding of oxygen and remdesivir vaccine.Following reports of black-marketing in district, official of the district food and drug administration department on Tuesday conducted raids at multiple locations in district.But the officials said Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has issued strict instruction for action if anybody is found involved in black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir.Officials added that there is no shortage of required drugs and oxygen in district and urged people to complain if anybody sells medicines above the fixed prices.Instructions were issued to chemists and they have been asked to take ID proof of customers who buy medicines for fever and cough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-admn-take-action-against-black-marketing-of-oxygen-remdesivir-101618945959223.html
21-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid patient attacks nurse, escapes hospital; nabbed||A panicked Covid-19 patient recently attacked a nurse of a private hospital in the Malabar Hill area with the butt of a kitchen knife and escaped from the hospital. After a few hours, the police nabbed the patient roaming on the streets and admitted him to a civic Covid facility.The patient has been booked by the police and would be arrested once he recovers. Rajesh Shivshankar Gupta, 45, a resident of Lower Parel, was admitted to the Malabar Hill-based private hospital on April 13.At the time of admission, Gupta was suffering from cough, fever, breathing issues, headache, motions and hyperacidity. His Covid report was yet to come, but based on his CT scan report, he was admitted to the hospital. “Gupta was rude with the staff and the doctors since day one. He complained of breathlessness and asked on-duty nurse, Dipika Vasave, the complainant in the case, to shift him to the ICU (intensive care unit). The nurse checked his oxygen level which she found to be normal, hence he was not shifted to ICU,” said a police officer. On April 16, Gupta yelled at Vasave over a petty issue and alleged that he is got infected because of them (the hospital) and attacked her with the butt of a kitchen knife, the police said.A doctor and a ward boy helped her and caught hold of Gupta. Gupta, however, overpowered them and escaped from the hospital. The hospital informed the police control room, and after few hours Gupta was caught in the area. “As he didn’t want to be treated at the said private hospital, he was shifted to a Covid care facility at the Worli NSCI. His family has been informed,” said sub-inspector Gopal Shinde of Malabar Hill police station.He has been booked under sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Once he is recovered completely he would face legal action, said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-patient-attacks-nurse-escapes-hospital-nabbed-101618945910561.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Active patient count rises to all-time high of 49,772 in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday logged 7,811 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths. According to the health bulletin, the number of active patients rose to an all-time high of 49,772.The number of Covid critical patients also rose to 1,116 with 143 patients being on ventilator support. The positivity rate on Tuesday further increased to 5.38% and the recovery rate came down to 85.67%.Total 49,772 samples were taken across state in the past 24 hours during which, 3,367 patients recovered from the infection, pushing the tally of recovered patients to 3,18,369.With 2,344 cases Gurugram continued to record the highest number of fresh cases in state, followed by Faridabad with 1,245 cases, Sonepat 607, Karnal 547, Hisar 479, Panipat 311, Panchkula 299, Kurukshetra 281, Ambala 228, Jind 208, Yamunanagar 180, Sirsa 171, Bhiwani 163, Fatehabad 158, Jhajjar 145, Rewari 123, Rohtak 104, Nuh 62, Mahendergarh 52, Charkhi Dadri 50, Kaithal 34, and Palwal 20.Among the 35 fatalities are five each in Jind and Hisar, and four each in Gurugram, Karnal and Fatehabad.The death toll due to the contagion has climbed to 3,483. Total 72,103 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, increasing the number of people inoculated so far to 33.47 lakh.‘NO LOCKDOWN ON RAM NAVAMI’Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij has said that the state government will not impose any lockdown on Ram Navami on Wednesday.Vij was responding to the plea of the Chandigarh administration for a Ram Navami lockdown in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali to contain the spread of coronavirus.While Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh endorsed the views of the UT administration by ordering a lockdown in Mohali on Wednesday, the Haryana government rejected the plea.“We will not close down any religious place. Instead, we will strictly enforce restrictions on gatherings in indoor and outdoor spaces. A maximum of 50% of the hall capacity has been allowed with a ceiling of 50 people for indoors and gatherings will be allowed with the ceiling of 200 persons outdoors,” Vij said.‘LOCKDOWN NOT NEEDED IN HARYANA’Ruling out imposition of lockdown in Haryana, financial commissioner (revenue and disaster management) Sanjeev Kaushal on Tuesday said that Covid-19 is under control. Kaushal asked Faridabad officials to ensure availability of 30% beds in private and government hospitals for the pandemic.He said a call centre or mobile app should be developed for convenience of Covid patients in district. He said 100 beds should be arranged in medical colleges for critical patients. Powers should be given to CMOs to assign doctors and paramedical staff in case of shortage for looking after Covid patients. He said sampling and contact tracing should be stepped up.‘70% ACTIVE PATIENTS IN HOME ISOLATION’Vij said that out 42,000 active Covid cases in state, around 30,000 are in home isolation and 12,000 are undergoing treatment in hospitals. He said the health and AYUSH department are taking care of patients in home isolation and monitoring their progress.He added Covid kits with pulse oximeters and coronavirus prevention literature are being provided to patients. Teams of medics are visiting door-to-door once in two days to examine the infected ones.MATA MANSA, SHEETLA DEVI TEMPLE TO REMAIN OPENAfter ordering to shutdown Mata Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula and Mata Sheetla Devi Temple in Gurugram due to surge in Covid cases, the Haryana government has now decided to keep both the temples open for devotees.An official spokesperson said that devotees should follow the standard operating procedures (SoP) and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour while visiting both the temples.DCs TO CONVINCE FARM LEADERS FOR COVID TESTING, VACCINATION OF PROTESTING FARMERSVij called Sonepat and Jhajjar DCs on Tuesday to talk to farmer unions for blanket Covid testing and vaccination of pprotesting farmers. He said it is his responsibility to take care of health of whoever is in Haryana.“After a meeting of the monitoring committee in Chandigarh, I’ve told the DCs to speak to farm leaders in this regard. Health teams are ready for the drive,” he said. Vij said there are ample vaccine doses and every farmer will get the jab even if they are from Punjab or other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/active-patient-count-rises-to-all-time-high-of-49-772-in-haryana-101618945910123.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Coaching centre owner dies in Chandigarh accident||A 39-year-old man who ran a coaching centre in Phase 8, Mohali, died in a road accident in Sector 35 here, police said on Tuesday.The accident took place on the night of April 17 when the victim, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Sector 32, Chandigarh, was returning home. He was hit by an SUV whose driver, Guruparshad, 32, of EWS Flats, Maloya, has been arrested.Police said that after closing his coaching centre for the day, Kuldeep left for home on his two-wheeler around 9.45pm. As he reached South End Chowk in Sector 35 around 10.15pm, an overspeeding white SUV, bearing a Chandigarh number, hit him from behind. Kuldeep was severely injured in the collision while the SUV too overturned.Kuldeep was then rushed to PGIMER where he was declared brought dead.Police said the SUV driver, who was drunk at the time, sustained minor injuries. He was arrested under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC, but later released on bail. Guruparshad works as a taxi driver.Panchkula cyclist killed in hit-and-runA 45-year-old man was killed after his bicycle was hit by a speeding truck in Chandimandir here, police said on Tuesday.The unidentified truck driver has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence. The victim has been identified as Om Parkash of Chandikotla, Panchkula. He used to work as a gardener in Chandimandir.The victim’s relative, Pardeep Yadav, told police that on Tuesday morning, Om was on his way back home from Chandimandir when the accident took place. Police said that Om succumbed to his injuries at the Sector 6 civil hospital.A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the truck driver at Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coaching-centre-owner-dies-in-chandigarh-accident-101618945479575.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Help pours in for Covid patients in Chandigarh tricity area||With Covid cases soaring, good samaritans from various walks of life have come forward to extend a helping hand to those affected by the pandemic.From oxygen cylinders to packed homemade food, many individuals and organisations are providing necessary assistance free of cost. Numerous posts are also doing rounds on social media, offering help to those in need. Many of them have started receiving a large number of requests from Chandigarh and surrounding areas seeking help.Guru Ka Langar Eye Hospital in Sector 18, Chandigarh, is providing 24-hour assistance to Covid-19 patients under home quarantine. They are supplying oxygen cylinders, pulse metres and oxygen concentration machines.HS Sabharwal, secretary of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society which runs the hospital, said, “We have been providing langar since last year, and now, we have started this initiative. So far, we have provided 65 oxygen cylinders in the tricity and around 250 oximeters to Covid patients.”Sanstha, a non-government organisation, has been providing homemade food to Covid patients in Chandigarh and Panchkula for the last few days.“So far, we have provided homemade food to around 16 patients in Chandigarh and Panchkula. We are planning to extend our service to Mohali as well,” said Harshita Sodhi, vice-president of the organisation.Hotel Altius in collaboration with Shri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society started free delivery of food to families who cannot cook at home on Monday. MPS Chawla, the owner of the hotel said, “We received hundreds of calls on the first day and we catered to around 200 patients in Chandigarh.” “We are also checking the Covid test reports so that the service is not misused,” he added.The 3B Foundation Group started delivery of packed food to Covid patients in Chandigarh on Monday. Bhushan Sharma, managing trustee of the group, said more than 43 deliveries were made on Day 1.Harvesting Farmer Network, a Chandigarh-based start-up, has also extended help for delivery of grocery, vegetables, milk and medicine at discounted rates to Covid patients’ homes in tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/help-pours-in-for-covid-patients-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101618945419631.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala pvt schools want physical classes to resume||Members of two private schools’ bodies from Ambala met Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal in Chandigarh on Tuesday and demanded that physical classes be allowed to resume with Covid norms in place.Representatives from Integrated Private School Welfare Society (IPSS) and Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) also suggested a plan for reopening of schools in the state. Saurabh Kapoor, president of IPSS, said that if the number of Covid cases in an area is low, schools should be allowed to open at full strength. If cases are moderate, 50% students should be allowed to attend classes and if the cases are high, 33% of the total strength should be allowed to attend on optional basis.“This decision should be dynamic and reviewed every week. The government should also constitute a monitoring committee, comprising education and health department officials and private school owners, who should be allowed to decide if schools will reopen,” Kapoor said. Pal told Hindustan Times that the demands will be forwarded to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and a decision will be taken soon.Private school owners also protested at various districts in the state last week after the government directed educational institutes to remain closed till April 30. However, Kanwar Pal criticised the protesters and said that conditions don’t allow for the schools to remain open. The Ambala school owners also opposed the decision of the district education officer (DEO) to not take annual charges from students while giving school leaving certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-pvt-schools-want-physical-classes-to-resume-101618945179251.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Containment zones: Chandigarh admn beefs up perimeter control||A day after Hindustan Times reported the extreme laxity in imposition of stipulated restrictions at containment zones across the city, the UT administration on Tuesday took remedial steps.The administration has enforced stricter perimeter control in the containment zones by erecting barricades to restrict movement. Only essential movement will be allowed now. UT personnel were also deputed outside the containment zones to check for any violations.HT, in its report, had highlighted how perimeter control was not being maintained at some micro-containment zones in the city. Also, when the HT correspondent visited the containment zones, no UT personnel were found posted to check for violations.On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar notified 28 more micro-containment zones, taking the total number to around 230 in the city.Amid an unprecedented growth in Covid-19 cases, the Centre has been insisting on creation of localised containment zones, to restrict the spread of infection.According to the central guidelines, the local district, police and municipal authorities are responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed. There has to be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and to maintain supply of essential goods and services.Ensure strict enforcement of Covid norms, curbs: CentreEven the Centre on Tuesday directed the Chandigarh administration to ensure enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour with stricter implementation of movement restrictions. It also asked the administration to create more containment zones. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla along with health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting to review and discuss the Covid status, its management and response strategy with the UT. The meeting, held through video conference, was also attended by Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, and Dr Balram Bhargava of the ICMR. Among various measures, the Centre directed prohibition of large gatherings and regulated timings for markets along with ramping up of testing and hospital infrastructure. The Union home secretary urged constant vigilance while Dr Paul pointed out the importance of next three weeks for Covid response measures.Chandigarh Police efforts to implement Covid protocol and weekend curfew also came under the scanner. Officials stressed that more should have been done to ensure better compliance of the weekend lockdown restrictions.The Centre has also asked the administration to report regularly on the number of challans being issued against the violators. UT adviser Manoj Parida said that the police department has been instructed to be more diligent to ensure stricter implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour. “From Wednesday, cops will be stricter in regulating people’s movement,” he said, adding that the Centre was happy with Chandigarh’s testing rate and improved vaccination rate. “We have been asked to create more containment zones. We have already created more than 200 such zones in the city since March,” said Parida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/containment-zones-chandigarh-admn-beefs-up-perimeter-control-101618945059513.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Gurdwara body polls postponed over surge||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections have been postponed in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and the week-long lockdown imposed in the national capital to check the spread of the virus.“Gurdwara elections in Delhi, to be held on 25 April, have been postponed due to corona and ongoing curfew. Hon’ble CM sends the proposal to Hon’ble LG,” Sisodia tweeted, along with an image of the proposal which chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sent to lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday.A senior official at the L-G’s office said even though the file was not received till this report was filed, the L-G is going to approve the proposal and the elections will be postponed.The proposal said it will not be prudent to hold the elections during the lockdown, and added that polling booths may become “hot spots”.Referring to a high court case, the proposal said the Delhi government has stated in the court that the election process will be completed by April 29. The court has directed it to adhere to the schedule with a permissible variation of two weeks, it said.Therefore, the elections should be postponed as it can be conducted by May 13 as per the court order, the government proposal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-polls-postponed-101618944999037.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||In meeting with L-G Baijal, BJP says migrants need urgent attention||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, in a meeting with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Tuesday, flagged the problem of migrant workers in the Capital, and stressed that there was an urgent need to set up temporary shelters and ration camps to prevent them from leaving in city en masse, as they had when the national lockdown was announced in March last year.The party also accused the Delhi government of “not involving” the Opposition in the fight against Covid-19.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.In a video conference meeting with the L-G, BJP leaders said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government should allow the three municipal corporations, which are governed by the BJP, to set up dedicated Covid-19 sections in their hospitals as well as open up quarantine centres in community halls and schools.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said: “The three municipal corporations in Delhi [North, East and South] have significant staff strength and infrastructure, which can be used to ramp up facilities for Covid-19 patients. But the Kejriwal government is not ready to involve the opposition.”He added, “The municipal corporations played a prominent role in helping people during the Covid lockdown last year. But the Delhi government is not involving them this year. The corporations request to allow them to form Covid sections in their hospitals is not being approved. They are also not being allowed to set up quarantine centres.”Also read: Delhi govt steps up efforts to boost jabsGupta said, “Past experience tells us that if these migrant workers leave the city, it will take months to reorganise the economy. It is important that ration and temporary camps be provided for them.”The meeting with the L-G on Tuesday was attended by BJP members of Parliament Ramesh Bidhuri (South Delhi), Meenakshi Lekhi (New Delhi), Parvesh Verma (West Delhi), Gautam Gambhir (East Delhi) and Manoj Tiwari (North East Delhi), as well BJP MLAs Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and Vijender Gupta.Referring to the present Covid-19 situation in the city, BJP MP Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “We have demanded that the government ensure medical counselling for patients in home isolation and a centralised facility to provide them medicines at home.”The L-G’s office did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-meeting-with-l-g-bjp-says-migrant-workers-need-urgent-attention-101618944940517.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt offers financial aid, free shelter and food to prevent exodus||On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the wake of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases across the country, and said states should see lockdown as a “last resort” and must do everything to ensure the well-being of migrants, the Delhi government said it will once again start providing a financial assistance of ₹5,000 to 171, 861 workers registered with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (DBOCWW).In view of the week-long lockdown imposed to curb the spiralling spread of Covid-19 in the national capital, the government also said it will also provide free shelter, food and medicines at 205 night shelters across the city.Based on ground reports and media visuals of thousands of migrant workers congregating at the Delhi-UP border and around the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal throughout Monday, hours after the Delhi government announced the week-long curfew, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal called for an “emergency meeting” with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at 11am on Tuesday. Chief secretary Vijay Dev was also present at the meeting where these decisions for the welfare of migrant workers were finalised.A senior government official clarified that the DBOCWW does not have only construction workers registered with it. “The Board has a variety of other daily wagers, including electricians, plumbers, carpenters and so on. Most of them are migrant workers, and, as on date, we have 171,861 workers registered with DBOCWW and the registration will be open throughout the lockdown so that more workers can avail of the government’s financial assistance. The amount of ₹5,000 will be directly sent to the bank accounts of all registered workers as a means of sustenance during this ongoing lockdown,” said a senior official of the labour department, asking not to be named.Also read: New B.1.618 variants now among most sequencedDuring the nationwide lockdown last year, the Delhi government had provided ₹5,000 to each registered worker twice (amounting to a total of ₹10,000 per worker). At least 47,247 workers availed of the benefit back then.Baijal on Tuesday also appealed to all migrant workers to stay put and not leave the capital. He assured them that the government has made adequate arrangements to sustain them through the week comfortably.“I appeal to all migrant workers to not leave Delhi in panic. I assure you that the government will take care of all your needs during this surge in Covid-19 cases. All necessary arrangements are being made for you. You run Delhi with your tireless hard work and this city is yours,” Baijal tweeted in Hindi.Modi also made a similar appeal on Tuesday evening in his nationwide address. “We assure migrants that they will soon be vaccinated in the city where they are residing and their livelihood will also not be affected,” he said in the televised address.After the meeting with the L-G and the CM, chief secretary Dev issued two orders on behalf of the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) on Tuesday evening.In the first order, the DDMA constituted a committees comprising six members with principal secretary (home) BS Bhalla as chairperson, and tasked it with ensuring basic amenities such as food, water, sanitation, shelters and medicines for daily wagers and migrant labourers, including those at construction sites. It also tied up with midday meal contractors for preparing enough meals for thousands of workers and their families who are likely to avail of the welfare measures in the coming days.In the second order, the DDMA appointed Bhalla as the “state nodal officer for Delhi” for coordinating and supervising all matters pertaining to welfare and movement of migrant workers. To ensure proper coordination with the Delhi Police for the same, Rajesh Khurana, special commissioner of police (central range) has been appointed the “nodal officer of Delhi Police’’.The DDMA also asked all district magistrates and DCPs to enquire after migrants worker welfare in their districts. They have been also directed to continuously make announcements to calm the fears of migrant workers.“At least 205 night shelters are being opened for migrant workers and their families. Everything they need, will be provided for. Respective DMs and DCPs will ensure arrangements in their zones,” said Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-migrants-5-000-aid-to-171-861-registered-workers-free-food-and-medicines-at-205-shelters-101618944941090.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt steps up efforts to boost jabs||District administrations have stepped up efforts to mobilise people, especially in lower-income groups, for Covid-19 vaccinations and ensure that there is no significant drop in inoculation numbers due to the six-day-long curfew.While there was a slight drop in the number of walk-ins at vaccination centres in some districts on Tuesday, the first day of the week-long curfew, officials said the drop was negligible.District officials said the government’s decision to do away with e-passes for vaccination, which was mandatory for travel, even to the vaccination centre, during the earlier weekend curfew, has helped in mobilising people — especially from the lower income group — to get vaccinated.As per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order, “persons who are going for Covid-19 testing or vaccination, can do so on production of valid identity card.”“There are nearly 80,000-100,000 people getting vaccinated daily. It is not possible to issue so many e-passes. As most vaccination centres are located near residential areas, people can just walk down to the centres,” said a senior revenue department official, asking not to be named.Also read: Spike renders tracing near-impossibleOn the first day of the curfew, administrations provided vehicles to take residents to vaccination centres and teams of ASHA (accredited social health activists), ANMs (auxillary nurse midwives) and civil defence volunteers were deployed to get people to the centres.A senior New Delhi district official said, “There is no major change in vaccination coverage due to the curfew. We are providing vehicles to bring beneficiaries to the vaccination centre and field staff (ASHA, ANM) are working in their areas to get people to the centres.”A senior north-west district official said, “Close to 50% of the people coming to the centre are walk-ins. Today, there is a slight drop in the number of walk-ins. But that could be due to the festival period (last day of Navratras and the ongoing Ramzan fasting).”In the Central district, the administration is running registrations camps near densely populated lower income group areas where people can register before being taken to vaccination centres.In the private sector, too, hospitals such as BLK hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and Max Healthcare said there was no major impact on vaccination due to the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/districts-mobilising-people-for-vaccination-curfew-fails-to-affect-numbers-101618944939239.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools shut for summer, city guest teachers left without work||The Delhi government has discontinued the services of nearly 20,000 guest teachers in its schools, according to an order by the Directorate of Education (DoE).The Delhi government has advanced summer vacations this year by 15 days in view of Covid-19 cases and fatalities spiralling out of control. The government has also suspended online and semi-online activities for students up to Class 9 till the last day of summer break on June 9.This leaves guest teaches with no work, and there is little chance of them getting any during the summer break.In a circular, issued on Monday, DoE said, “All the heads of schools are hereby directed to discontinue the services of all the guest teachers engaged in their school w.e.f. 20.04.2021...all the guest teachers shall be paid up to April 19, 2021, and in summer vacations only if they are called for the duties.”Shoeb Rana, secretary of All India Guest Teachers’ Association, said around 20,000 guest teachers engaged in 1,030 Delhi government schools are paid on a daily basis. “In normal circumstances, Delhi government schools organised summer camps for students where the majority of the guest teachers were deployed. However, since last year, there have been no summer camps due to Covid-19. The guest teachers survived without any income for over three months last year. The situation is the same this year,” he said. “The government should have planned something for us as well, taking a cue from last year. Where do we go now?”Also read | Centre’s vaccine policy hollow: Mamata to PMHT reported last May that several guest teachers resorted to alternative livelihoods, including selling vegetables, repairing bicycles, and working in fields, after schools remained closed amid the pandemic.Wazir Singh, 34, an English teacher, who sold vegetables last year to make ends meet for around four months, said, “My school used to call me for Mission Buniyaad classes and entrepreneurship classes during the 201 summer break. Things have completely changed. There is a lockdown in the city, otherwise I would have found some home tuitions. What will I do for the next 2-3 months?”A senior official of the Delhi government’s education department said the government has authorised schools to call guest teachers as per requirement during the summer break. “Every year, the guest teachers are paid on a need basis during summer break. They may be called for admission and examination related work. But the government cannot guarantee it. Under the prevailing situation it is difficult to accommodate so many teachers,” the official said.Several principals said they will not need guest teachers during the summer break this year due to Covid curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-delhi-govt-schools-close-for-summer-holidays-guest-teachers-left-without-work-101618944938551.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Questions raised as Panjab University forms inspection panels ahead of senate polls||With Panjab University senate polls set to begin from April 26, many candidates who are contesting the election have raised concerns as the varsity has constituted various inspection committees ahead of the polls.Many former members of PU senate and syndicate have said that the constitution of such committees is against the decision taken by the syndicate last year. However, PU authorities say that they have followed the rules and regulations and past practice of the university.The said committees are meant for conducting physical inspection of colleges for the grant of affiliation every year. However, the syndicate in its meeting in May last year had resolved that since physical inspections were not possible during the pandemic, information from the colleges would be sought online. A few members have also refused to be part of these committees saying that these were constituted in violation of the syndicate’s decision.Former syndicate member HS Dua, who has refused to be part of the inspections, said, “The physical inspections were not conducted last year as decided by the syndicate, then why now when there is no syndicate? This is a political move rather than an academic one.”Over 100 candidates are in the fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. Some poll candidates are claiming that the constitution of these committees at this time is an agenda to influence the upcoming senate elections.Move in violation of PU Act: Ex-senatorTerming it a violation of PU Act, former senator Ashok Goyal said, “As per sections 27 and 28 of the PU Act, it is only syndicate which is empowered to consider any application submitted for affiliation or extension of affiliation and there is no provision of delegation to the vice-chancellor for ordering any inspection which is to be considered by the syndicate and then senate.”Section 28 of the PU Act states that for the extension of affiliation procedure prescribed in Section 27 may be followed. Sub-section 2 of Section 27 states that on receipt of a letter of application, the syndicate shall direct a local inquiry to be made by a competent person authorised by the syndicate on this behalf, to make such further inquiry as may appear to them to be necessary; and report to the senate on the question whether the application should be granted or refused.Former president of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) Akshaya Kumar, who is also contesting the senate polls, said, “This is a misuse of office for electoral purposes.”However, college development council dean Sanjay Kaushik said, “We have followed the rules and regulations of the university and the past practice as well. We have the highest regard for the university calendar, syndicate and senate.”Contrary to this, former syndicate and senate member, Navdeep Goyal, who also refused to be part of the inspections said, “A decision taken by the syndicate remains in effect till it is not reversed by the syndicate itself. Only the syndicate has the power to change its decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/questions-raised-as-panjab-university-forms-inspection-panels-ahead-of-senate-polls-101618944769359.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Scrap dealer falls to death during police raid||Greater Noida: A 27-year-old scrap dealer died after allegedly falling from his third-floor flat in Sector Omicron after a police team conducted a raid in search of a wanted criminal on Monday. The deceased was identified as Chand Quraishi. Police said that the team had visited Quraishi’s flat in search of his brother-in-law, Imran, who is wanted in a case of vehicle theft and firing at a police party. Police said that Quraishi was also involved in 14 criminal cases. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Imran had escaped during an encounter on April 7 this year. According to police, Imran and his accomplice Bandi had been spotted in a car on April 7 and asked to stop by a police team. Then the duo opened fire at the police team and sped up, but the team chased down the suspects and forced them to stop, police officials said. Police arrested Bandi while Imran managed to escape. The DCP said that the police team received information that Imran sometimes visits his in-laws’ place in Sector Omicron. “A police team on Monday conducted a search at Imran’s in-laws’ third floor rented accommodation, but found him missing. During the raid, his brothers-in-law Chand Quraishi and Lukman were in the flat. Quraishi got scared and he locked himself in the washroom and tried to climb down through a window. The window could not bear his weight and it broke and he fell to the ground,” the DCP said. Quraishi was admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida where he died, police said. However, Quraishi’s younger brother Lukman alleged that police caught him and his brother and thrashed them. “We were beaten up badly as we failed to tell Imran’s whereabouts to police. The police team then pushed my brother from the third floor,” he alleged. However, the police officials have denied the allegations. The DCP said Quraishi was also a co-accused in the murder of sub-inspector Athar Khan in 2017. Khan was killed in a shootout when he had gone to arrest another criminal, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/scrap-dealer-falls-to-death-during-police-raid-101618944760655.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||AAP says MCDs not collecting waste from homes of patients in isolation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) were failing in the collection and disposal of medical waste from the residences of home-isolated Covid-19 patients.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and accused the AAP of engaging in “blame game” during a crisis.“The BJP is failing in Covid-19 management in every aspect. The BJP-led MCDs are failing to ensure that waste is collected and disposed of from residences of home isolated Covid-19 patients. More than 37,000 people are in home isolation in Delhi. There is a massive risk of the disease spreading if the waste is not taken care of at the earliest. Only the BJP will be responsible if things go south,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines for the management of Covid-19 biomedical waste says refuse from patients’ houses must be collected daily, in colour-coded and sealed bags, to prevent any spread of infection. Household biomedical waste has to be put in yellow bags. And, in every locality, it has to be done separately. In Delhi, the MCDs are in charge of the waste collection and disposal.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. The AAP is engaging in a blame game to hide their own failure in Covid-19 management. All three MCDs have been properly collecting and disposing of waste from the residences of home isolated patients since the beginning of the pandemic, and as per guidelines. The MCDs have also started a helpline for waste collection, the number of which is shared with patients in home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-mcds-of-not-disposing-of-biomedical-waste-properly-not-true-says-bjp-101618944760101.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid patient rush, PGIMER told to ramp up infra||The Chandigarh administration has directed Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to convert Infosys Sarai into a Covid-19 hospital and provide spare technical staff to the other UT hospitals to deal with the pandemic situation in the city.In a press release issued on Tuesday, the UT administration stated that during a high-level meeting, Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore directed all medical institutions to enhance their bed capacity and store adequate quantities of medicines and equipment to handle the increasing number of patients.“The administrator directed PGIMER authorities to convert Infosys Sarai into a temporary hospital, where at least moderate patients could be kept and treated. He also suggested that spare technical health staff be deputed from PGIMER to GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, where staff shortage is being faced. He directed for better coordination among all three medical institutions for optimal utilisation of staff,” the official release by the administration stated.Admn seeks increase in bed capacity The UT administration has also written to the central government seeking directions for PGIMER to increase the bed capacity to 500 against the current 283 beds.“For increasing the capacity of ventilator beds to at least 100 by sparing it from other areas to PGIMER, we have written to the central government. There are presently 50 ventilator beds and similarly, around 40 ventilator beds have been arranged at GMCH-32. PGIMER has the capacity to increase the number of beds for Covid patients, besides the general oxygenated beds,” a senior UT official requesting anonymity said.The administrator has also appealed to the retired doctors, medical staff and members of the Indian Medical Association to come forward and coordinate with the health authorities in various capacities. Badnore directed the principal health secretary to engage such persons on contractual basis, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-patient-rush-pgimer-told-to-ramp-up-infra-101618944759619.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||Migrants continue to trickle out of Capital on 1st day of lockdown||The exodus of migrants from the Capital to their home towns in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand via buses from the Anand Vihar bus terminal, and across the border from Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi terminus, continued on Tuesday, the first day of the lockdown in Delhi.The crowd at the two stations, however, was much less than on Monday, when nearly tens of thousands left the Capital in buses, officials said.The scenes on Monday were reminiscent of the migrant exodus last March, after the nationwide lockdown was declared. The foot-overbridges connecting Kaushambi and Anand Vihar ISBTs, and the railway station and the Metro station, were packed through Monday and in the early hours of Tuesday.Covid-19 protocols fell by the wayside as people stood in close proximity, and many did not wear masks properly.Officials attributed the drop in Tuesday’s numbers at the transit hubs to the enforcement of the curfew in Delhi and “confidence-building” measures they have undertaken to ensure migrants do not leave.Also read| Delhi to get 2.7k more Covid-19 beds: SisodiaThese, officials said, included the announcement by the Delhi government on Tuesday that shelters will be opened for migrant workers, and they will be given free meals and medical aid.The state government is also going to start providing financial aid of ₹5,000 to at least 170,000 workers registered with the Delhi workers welfare board.Puneet Sethi, state manager of ISBT Anand Vihar, said more than 25,000 people caught buses out of the city on Monday itself. There was a sharp decline in passengers since Tuesday morning and not more than 200 passengers were seen at any given time at the bus terminal.“The crowd on Monday was mostly migrants who panicked after the curfew announcement. We arranged 400 extra buses to manage the situation. A majority of passengers had left by early Tuesday,” Sethi said.Officials at the Kaushambi terminal said more than 60,000 passengers left in over 1,200 buses on Monday. The numbers came down to fewer than 10,000 passengers by Tuesday evening.“The gatherings swelled on Monday. Nearly 90% of them left by 3.30am on Tuesday. The situation is normal now,” said Narendra Kumar, assistant regional manager, Kaushambi terminal.To manage the crowd and to ensure they followed Covid protocol, nearly 400 police and civil defence volunteers were deployed in and around the bus terminals, said additional deputy commissioner of police (east) Sanjay Sehrawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crowds-thinner-at-isbts-but-many-still-make-a-beeline-for-buses-out-of-city-101618944758463.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Uniform speed limits announced for Chandigarh roads||After the traffic police’s recommendation to make speed limits uniform across Chandigarh roads, the transport department issued a notification on Tuesday, making the new limits official.As the number of overspeeding challans increased exponentially, many motorists pointed out that it was hard to make sense of the UT’s original speed notification which was put in place in 2013. The speed limit of the roads leading to Mohali was also different to the others in the city which caused some confusion. Many people were also not familiar with the V1, V2 terminology used in it.As per the notification, the roads have been divided into three broad categories: dual carriageway (roads with dividers, which were earlier termed V1 and V2), single carriageway (roads without dividers; earlier V3 and V4) and sector roads (previously V5 and V6).The class of motor vehicles have been divided based on the number of seats in the vehicle. For instance, light motor vehicles have been denoted as motor vehicles used for carriage of passengers comprising not more than eight seats in addition to the driver’s seat to make it clearer.The project was taken up by UT senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary. Speaking about this she said, “The public had a demand to simplify speed limits and to make them easy to understand and follow. We had recommended this based on the feedback received and we hope that the public will be now able to follow the speed limit better. It will also be easier for us to ensure better awareness and enforcement.”The traffic police have also requested the UT engineering department to install new speed limit sign boards in place of old ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uniform-speed-limits-announced-for-chandigarh-roads-101618944642519.html
21-04-2021||Other||Cong slams govt for asking guv to call Covid meet||Bengaluru The all-party meeting called by Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala on the Covid-19 situation began on a contentious note on Tuesday, with Congress leader Siddaramaiah saying the head of the state, not of the government, calling the meet goes against the Constitution. “The first thing I want to say about this meeting is that the governor calling it is against the Constitution,” Siddaramaiah said at the beginning of the all-party meeting. He said the governor has no right or role in administration. “The governor cannot take decisions based on this meeting. It is for the council of ministers to take decisions regarding Covid-19,” Siddaramaiah said. The Congress has maintained that the governor calling a meeting indicated that the elected state government had failed. “What does it mean when the governor calls an all-party meeting? Is there no elected government in the state? Is this the government’s inability or part of the agenda for #BSYmuktaBJP campaign? Does the government have no face to face the opposition? Or no ability to face the situation? Such a masked government cannot save people’s lives,” the state unit of the Congress said in a Twitter post on Tuesday. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru, is also accused of not heeding to the advice of experts, who had indicated that the second wave is likely to be worse than the first one last year. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), which comprises noted medical practitioners, has said their advice for imposing strict restrictions and other proposals were not considered by the government. Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister, dismissed the criticism by the Congress. “The Prime Minister has spoken to all governors and asked them to hold talks with the state governments and opposition parties to ensure coordination to put up a united fight against Covid-19 in such extraordinary circumstances. Governors of all other states are also holding meetings,” Bommai said. He said that the governor of Rajasthan had also held a meeting with the chief minister of that state. “There is a Congress government in Rajasthan. If the governor holds a meeting there, does it mean that there is governor’s rule in Rajasthan,” Bommai said. He said governors have also held meetings in other states like Maharashtra, where the Congress is in power through an alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-slams-govt-for-asking-guv-to-call-covid-meet-101618944638442.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Noida AOA cancels self-imposed lockdown after opposition from residents||NOIDA: In what could have been a glimpse of last year’s lockdown for the residents of Mahagun Moderne in Sector 78, its apartment owners associations (AOA) had on Monday announced a self-imposed lockdown in the housing complex. However, it was called off on Monday after strong opposition from a group of residents.The ”lockdown” was supposed to be from April 21 to April 26, during which domestic helps, car washers, and other handymen would not be allowed inside the residential complex. Non-essential guests were also banned from entering the premises. Only delivery of essential services was to be allowed. According to the AOA, Mahagun Moderne — which has over 2,500 flats — currently has 180 plus active Covid-19 cases.“Since April 1, Covid-19 cases here increased from just four to 180, on April 20. On Tuesday, a woman resident succumbed to her infection. In such a situation, as the AOA, we had to take strict measures to control the spread of the virus. There are hundreds of domestic helps, handymen, and car washers who frequent many houses in a day..., and also use common lifts and parks. Some residents also call non-essential guests, adding to the spread of the virus... The movement of people, who have to go to work, is allowed,” said Sandeep Chauhan, president, Mahagun Moderne AOA.As per Chauhan, the AOA had informed the administration about the decision, and had also carried out a polling by the residents. However, the opposition in the housing complex increased by Tuesday evening, following which the AOA decided to call off the decision. The residential complex has 35 towers, 96 lifts, 2,633 flats, and accommodates nearly 10,000 people.While some welcomed the decision, others opposed it. “It is an autocratic decision, and the residents are not bound by any rules to follow it. If the state government is not imposing a lockdown, how can the AOA do it?” asked Urvashi Chandiramani, a resident of Mahagun Moderne.“As a result of the absence of complete administrative guidelines, restrictions can be imposed in residential complexes, with a consensus of the residents. However, achieving consensus in large housing complexes is in itself a big challenge for the AOAs. Such decisions sometimes are needed to strike a balance between health and convenience of the residents,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association (NOFAA).Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, did not comment on this.On Monday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had asked its respective AOAs to appoint a “Corona vigilance officer” who would keep a track and report about Covid-19 cases in the district. “Every RWA and housing complex will appoint a Corona vigilance officer for each building/ tower. The vigilance officers will report about the positive cases, with lab reports, and any violation made by Covid-positive patients to presidents/ secretaries of RWAs and residential complexes,” according to the SOP.Meanwhile, SG Homes apartment in Ghaziabad Sector 3, Vasundhara, is also contemplating a similar decision. “There are some residents, who are not disclosing that they are Covid-positive and continue to call their domestic helps. These domestic helps then go to other flats and spread the virus. We have proposed a decision to bar all domestic helps to control this. However, the decision has not been executed yet,” said Alok Kumar, president, SG Homes AOA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-aoa-cancels-self-imposed-lockdown-after-opposition-from-residents-101618944579104.html
21-04-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew to continue in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has imposed a one-time lockdown in the city on Wednesday and also decided to continue with the weekend curfew. Meanwhile, the night curfew timings have been extended by two hours. It will now begin at 8pm, instead of 10pm, and stay in force till 5am. The decisions were taken during the Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday, at a time when Chandigarh has recorded 600+ cases for third consecutive day. The Wednesday lockdown decision came a day after Punjab agreed and Haryana refused to the Chandigarh administration’s proposal of imposing pan-tricity lockdown on Ram Navami. While Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday announced a one-day lockdown in Mohali for Wednesday, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had stated that the state government will not take any such step. “After a detailed discussion, we decided it was time to impose a lockdown as cases have been rising sharply. Even Union home secretary in a meeting on Tuesday asked for stricter imposition of restrictions,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. Restrictions and exemptionsOn Wednesday, all non-essential movement has been prohibited, as was done during the curfew imposed last weekend.The lockdown will start from 10pm on Tuesday and stay in force till 5am on Thursday. All essential commodity shops and restaurants will be allowed to remain open. However, only home delivery will be allowed. These include shops and vendors dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetable, dairy, meat, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment.For the home delivery staff, their identity card will suffice for movement. As seen during the weekend curfew, even domestic helps are expected to face no issue in going for work.All private offices will remain closed, and only industries manufacturing essential products, such as masks, sanitisers and medicines, can operate. All marriage functions for which the permission has been taken from the subdivisional magistrate are allowed, subject to the cap of 50 people. The marriage organisers or other people seeking movement pass may contact on 0172-2700076 and 0172-2700341 or apply online on www.admser.chd.nic/dpc. All passes related to the Punjab and Haryana high court and district court will be issued by the registrar general of the court. All vaccination centres, testing centres, dispensaries and medical facilities will remain open and people going there will be allowed to move. All interstate travellers will also be allowed to move, though there will be screening at the airport, railway station and bus stands.Those tasked with law and order, Covid-19 duties and emergency and municipal services besides accredited media persons are also exempted on production of identity card.Weekend curbs from 8pm on FridayMeanwhile, the weekend lockdown will be enforced from 8pm on Friday to 5am on Monday, with the same of set of restrictions and exemptions. The administration will also be taking up a proposal for a weeklong lockdown during the Covid-19 review meeting on Friday. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the police to be extremely strict in enforcing the lockdown and night curfew. If necessary, the vehicles should be seized and heavy fine should be imposed on those indulging in non-essential travel or violating the Covid-19 safety protocol, he said. Last weekend, 23 people were arrested for curfew violation and 182 were fined for not adhering to Covid guidelines amid high compliance.Badnore directed the municipal commissioner to ensure that the protocol is strictly followed at all markets, including apni mandis, and all public places are regularly sanitised. He also appealed to public representatives, resident welfare associations and market associations to persuade all eligible residents to get vaccinated.Meanwhile, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has denounced the Wednesday lockdown as a step taken in hurry and without taking into confidence the stakeholders, predominantly the traders. Charanjiv Singh, president, Beopar Mandal, said: “We will hold a meeting on Thursday to decide ways of protest and stop further lockdowns.” HS Lucky, Congress chief spokesperson, said, “The Chandigarh administration’s decision to impose lockdown on Ram Navami is completely wrong. This is not a solution to the pandemic, but affects the livelihood of all people.”Chandigarh temples closed for devotees today
21-04-2021||Other||Weekend curfew, extended night curbs as cases surge in K’taka||BengaluruAfter weeks of deliberations and discussions, the Karnataka government on Tuesday announced extended hours of restrictions during the night and a weekend curfew across the state to mitigate the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 surge in the state and its capital Bengaluru.“The guidelines shall continue to remain in force from 9 pm of 21st April 2021 upto 6am of 4th May 2021,” the guidelines issued by the state government on Tuesday said. The guidelines will be applicable to all parts of the state.The document, named ‘Guidelines to contain COVID l9 transmission in the state’ does not mention lockdown, even though most of the provisions indicate closure of most commercial establishments including cinema halls, malls, restaurants and other activities. Take away services have been allowed to function.The decision comes after days of indecisiveness by the BS Yediyurappa-led government that has been trying to find a middle ground between announcing a lockdown and keeping economic activities functioning in the cash-starved state.“This is not a full lockdown and is kind of a middle ground,” P Ravi Kumar, Karnataka’s chief secretary said on Tuesday night.The guidelines were issued barely an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address, in which he said that lockdown must be the last resort by states, leaving the decision to go in for a lockdown or not with the concerned state governments.The Karnataka government has said that movement of people will remain strictly prohibited during the weekend curfew, except for essential activities.On weekends, grocery shops and other produce selling stores will remain open from 6 am to 10 am.“All industries/companies which require operations at night shall be permitted to operate. Movement of employees of such organisations shall be allowed on producing valid ID card/authorisation issued by their respective organisation/institution,” according to the order.The government said that movement of vehicles for essential supplies will not be prohibited and food and other delivery will be allowed. People will be allowed to move in public and public transport to railway stations, bus stations and airports by producing valid tickets.The restrictions come almost a month after the surge across the state and its capital, Bengaluru, which remains firmly in the tightening grip of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which continues to wreak havoc on the southern state and other parts of the country.Karnataka and Benglauru reported their highest ever single-day spike on Tuesday as they reported 21,794 and 13,782 infections respectively, taking the combined active cases to 159,158.The state also reported 149 fatalities, including 92 in Bengaluru, indicating the severity of the spread and its impact.R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister, on Tuesday directed district officials in the state to allot land on the outskirts of cities for cremation of bodies citing overload at crematoriums.The guidelines further state that schools, colleges, educational institutions will remain closed. Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, yoga centres and sports complexes have been listed under the prohibited activities.The order also states that all religious places will remain closed even though people working in these establishments can continue their work.“The situation in the state has aggravated. Therefore, some extraordinary measures are necessary,” Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister, said hours before the guidelines were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekend-curfew-extended-night-curbs-as-cases-surge-in-ktaka-101618944458373.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Economic crisis to hit Noida as migrant labourers leave city amid lockdown||NOIDA: Realtors, factory owners, and other businessmen stare at the worst economic crisis as factory labourers and construction workers started leaving for their respective hometowns following the announcement of a week-long lockdown in Delhi, and weekend lockdown in Uttar Pradesh.According to the Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSME), Gautam Budh Nagar, at least 20% of its workers have left for their hometowns last week, affecting the work. Even more are planning to leave the city to keep themselves safe from Covid-19 infection. Similarly, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) and the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) said that their businesses are shut once again amid the abrupt rise in the coronavirus cases in Noida and Greater Noida.“The surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Noida, and other big cities has left the businesses gasping already, as the workers are leaving for their hometowns. Thirty out of 60 workers stopped reporting to work after Delhi chief minister announced the lockdown. Six others refused to come to work as they wanted to stay safe at their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh. The worst is going to happen soon as the remaining workers have also planned to leave the city... This time, unlike last year, workers are planning to leave the city via buses and other vehicles as they fear the wave will continue for a longer period of time this year” said Surendra Nahta, president, MSME, Gautam Budh Nagar chapter.The district has at least 600 ongoing realty projects, and the builders stare at the “worst crisis” as they have hardly seen sales for a month, as Covid-19 cases started increasing.“It took us almost a year to revive the real estate sector... since March 2020. We had started to witness normalcy in the market, but now, we stare at a bigger economic crisis once again, with Covid-19 cases increasing rapidly because of the poor health infrastructure. With most of our staff handling sales are Covid-positive, and the cases are on the rise in all the big cities, we have been seeing zero sales for the past one month. We fear that this time the impact on the business sector will be the worst,” said Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president, western Uttar Pradesh wing, CREDAI.Though the developers did not close their sales offices yet, around 50% of staff has not been reporting to work. “We can’t run the business without our staff, construction workers, and customers. Since all the three sections are struggling with Covid-19 infection, the ramification on the business is beyond imagination. The real estate sector now stares at the worst crisis ahead if the situation prevails,” said RK Arora, president, NAREDCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/economic-crisis-to-hit-noida-as-migrant-labourers-leave-city-amid-lockdown-101618944459005.html
21-04-2021||Noida||No bed, 62-year-old man dies on road in Vaishali||Ghaziabad: A 62-year-old man from Delhi, suffering from a health complication, died on a road in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali on Monday evening, while his 37-year-old son was struggling to get him admitted to a hospital in Delhi or Ghaziabad. The victim’s family said that the man had tested negative for Covid-19, but his CT scan reports indicated a severe infection in his lungs, with almost Covid-like symptoms.The victim, identified as Surjan Singh, was a native of Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, and had retired as a lab assistant of the Delhi education department. His son, Yashvir Singh, said that he tried to admit his father to two government hospitals in Delhi, before successfully admitting him at a private hospital in East Delhi, where the doctors performed his CT scan.“I went to two government hospitals in Delhi on April 18, but they did not admit him due to the unavailability of beds. My father had tested Covid-negative. The CT scan reports indicated that he had an infection in his lungs, and the doctors at the East Delhi hospital asked me to admit my father to a Covid facility... He also suffered from blood pressure complications and diabetes,” said Singh, adding that he took his father to hospitals in Ghaziabad, Kaushambi, and Vaishali on Monday, but couldn’t admit his father to a hospital.“One of the hospitals was helpful enough to provide him oxygen support for some time as the oxygen level in his body was constantly decreasing. We both were on a bike, and I had been monitoring his oxygen level every hour... The Vaishali hospital told us that no beds were available there, but I could see ambulances arriving at the premises with patients. While driving, I felt that my father suffered two shocks when we were at the internal main road in Vaishali, and I stopped the bike... My father died on the road,” he said.”With the help of some passersby, we took him under a tree. Then I called up my family members, and also a private ambulance. The local councillor of Vaishali, too, came for help. Finally, we reached Delhi with his body in the evening,” he added. Yashvir had lost his job at a pharma company in Sahibabad in 2020, and opened a photocopy shop in East Delhi, which is now closed amid the week-long lockdown in Delhi.Meanwhile, Manoj Goel, councillor from Vaishali, said that the family was running helplessly, and found no beds, and the patient died in unfortunate circumstances. “His father’s body was lying on the road, and people looked at it and passed by. Finally, an ambulance arrived, and the body was taken to Delhi,” Goel said.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad chapter, termed the incident as “unfortunate”, and said that the lack of bed availability is a major issue across Delhi-NCR. “Most of the hospitals are overburdened, and the lack of bed availability is a major issue. There are instances where asymptomatic patients get beds. Beds are also booked beforehand, through sources. And, when needy patients arrive, they struggle to get beds for treatment,” Agarwal said.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), said that there’s a shortage of ICU beds in hospitals. “The family, on some account, could not reach our control room or our health department. Otherwise, we could have arranged for a bed for the patient,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-bed-62-year-old-man-dies-on-road-in-vaishali-101618944338473.html
21-04-2021||Noida||UPSRTC sends 110 buses carrying migrants from Noida||Noida: As the Delhi government announced a six-day lockdown on Monday, a number of migrant workers gathered at the Noida Depot to go to their home towns in different parts of UP. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said they arranged 110 buses on Monday to send migrant workers to their home towns. R K Tripathi, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC Noida, said that a number of people had gathered at the Noida depot to go to different parts of the state on Monday. “We sent thousands of people in 110 buses,” he said. Some migrant workers were looking for public transport on Tuesday as well. 22-year-old Suraj Kumar was seen at the bus depot waiting for his bus for Kanpur on Tuesday afternoon near the City Centre. “I had come to Noida at my maternal uncle’s place on a vacation last month. The situation was better when I came here. Now, there is a sense of fear due to Covid,” Kumar said. Shyam Lal Gola, president of All India Luxury Bus Union, said that around 2,500 private buses were dispatched to different cities and states on Monday. “A number of migrant workers had gathered at the depot at Anand Vihar, Kashmiri Gate, Mori Gate, etc on Monday and Tuesday. These people had apprehensions that the lockdown will extend and they will be trapped again,” Gola said. Gola said that the bus operators are also facing problems in operation. “The police and transport department officials stop the buses at different places for checking and claim there is no social distancing and issue challans. The luxury buses consume a lot of fuel and it is viable to offer this service only when all seats are full. But they want us to ply with half capacity. If we double the ticket charges, the people will not be able to pay. We request the government to facilitate people reaching home hassle-free,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/upsrtc-sends-110-buses-carrying-migrants-from-noida-101618944219200.html
21-04-2021||Noida||GB Nagar records 8 Covid deaths, highest single-day toll so far||Noida: With eight Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded the highest number of deaths in a day on Tuesday, taking the toll to 114. On Tuesday, the district recorded 640 fresh cases with the overall tally at 31,597. Also, with 3,765 active cases, GB Nagar ranked eighth among Uttar Pradesh districts having the maximum number of infections.The district administration and development authority have been taking measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus, said the officials. Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer and Greater Noida authority CEO, said that the administration is adding beds in the hospitals, and making arrangements for oxygen colliders. “We have an integrated helpline number: 18004192211, which guides people about home isolation, availability of beds in hospitals, ambulance facilities, Covid-19 tests, police related enquiries, etc. The number of cases has increased in Gautam Budh Nagar, and other districts in Uttar Pradesh. But people should not be afraid. They should call the helpline number, which will guide them about the treatment and medical care systematically,” Bhooshan said.He also said that 150 beds were added in the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), and 320 beds in Sharda Hospital. Now, there are 400 beds in GIMS, and 720 in Sharda Hospital. Bhooshan said that people must maintain social distance and wear masks, which are two strong tools to break the Covid-19 chain.Meanwhile, the residents are troubled over the rise in Covid-19 cases with their housing complexes. We, here at Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77, are organising a five-day ‘mahamrityunjaya jaap’ as four persons died due to Covid-19 in the past two days, and several others are infected, said the residents.Nitesh Ranjan, general secretary, Apartment Owners Association (AOA), Prateek Wisteria, said that there are about 7,000 people in our housing complex. “The coronavirus wave has badly affected our society. There are 167 people suffering from Covid-19, and 100 of them are in home quarantine. Four residents succumbed to their infection on Saturday and Sunday,” he said, adding that one of the patients died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, an elderly woman in home isolation, and two others in a Gurugram hospital and a Noida hospital.He said that the association has decided to organise ’mahamrityunjaya jaap’ at the society’s amphitheatre for half an hour from Tuesday. “The prayers are played digitally through the loudspeakers. No gatherings are allowed at the spot,” Ranjan added.Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, did not comment on this on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-records-8-covid-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-so-far-101618944158436.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Migration continues from ISBT in Kaushambi||Ghaziabad: Migrant workers continued to pour into the Interstate Bus Terminal at Kaushambi for the second day on Tuesday. However, the number of passengers heading to their hometowns was less on Tuesday. Officials of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) said that on Monday they despatched 1,187 buses with full occupancy while they despatched 797 another buses till evening on Tuesday. The officials estimated that they ferried about 60,000 passengers on Monday.The migrants have started to arrive at ISBT, Kaushambi, in large numbers after the six-day curfew was announced on Monday by the Delhi government. On Tuesday, they continued coming in groups throughout the day. “I work at a bakery in Paschim Vihar in Delhi and its owner asked us to leave as the shop was closed down due to restrictions. Remembering the ordeal we faced last year during the lockdown, we are heading home in Uttarakhand,” said Bhawani Dutt, a native of Champawat in Uttarakhand. Like him, Mithun Kumar Sah, who works at a computer shop in Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar, was also going to his hometown in Begusarai district of Bihar. “I could not leave Delhi on Monday as I was arranging for money from my employer. Now, I am going to Bihar. The lockdown is announced for six days, but people are not assured that it will not get extended,” he added. Last year when the large-scale migration of workers started in March, the UPSRTC had to close down the ISBT at Kaushambi and shifted operations to Lal Kuan due to overcrowding. This time, the workers said that bus operation was regular, and buses were available. The officials of UPSRTC said that the occupancy in their 52-seater buses was over 100% on Monday and it was about 85-90% on Tuesday. “The crowd was less in comparison to Monday and we despatched a total of 701 buses from Kaushambi, 67 from Anand Vihar and 29 from Kashmere Gate on Tuesday. On Monday, 974 were despatched from Kaushambi, 181 from Anand Vihar and 32 from Kashmere Gate. We still have about 250-300 buses to cater to them. The priority is to ferry them safely to their destinations,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Not only from Delhi, but migrants also left Ghaziabad for their hometowns in UP. “We engage in work of plastering of ceiling and earn ₹600 per day. Ever since the weekend curfew was announced in UP, our work also stopped. Last year I had to borrow money by pledging a part of my land at home. My colleagues left yesterday and now four of us leaving today due to uncertainty over the lockdown,” said Mohit Kumar, a native of Basti district in UP who stays with his colleagues at a rented room in Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/migration-continues-from-isbt-in-kaushambi-101618944159080.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Noida: District hospital runs out of testing kits||Noida: The district hospital at Sector 30 on Tuesday ran out of Covid-19 testing kits and the sample collection was stopped at 10 am while usually it goes on till around 1pm. Several people at the hospital said that they had been coming to the government facility for the past three days only to get an RT-PCR or a rapid antigen test done. A visit by an HT team to the district hospital found that sees a huge footfall of the Covid-19 symptomatic patients found the ground situation quite grim. The patients, many symptomatic and with children, said that they were also asked to get a photocopy of a local address proof if their Aadhaar cards did not carry a local address. “This is the third time that we have come to the hospital just to get the testing done. Day before yesterday, they told us to come on Monday, yesterday they told us that we will have to bring a local address proof since Aadhaar card had an address of Nainital. Today, we brought a photocopy of cooking gas connection but the guard asked us to come tomorrow. We are helpless,” said Diksha Negi, a 35-year old woman, accompanied by her two children, who visited the hospital for third day from her home in Sector 26. Vineeta Kundru, who lives in Gaur City, had come to the hospital with her ailing mother-in-law and faced the same issue. “We had been told to bring a local address proof. We came around 10.30 am but were informed that the testing had been stopped. My mother-in-law is having difficulty in breathing,” said Kundru. “I had the soft copy of my house rent agreement in my cellphone. But by the time we came back with its photocopy, the testing was stopped. A health worker here said that they have run out of kits. It feels like they are simply trying to suppress the sampling. I would go to a private hospital now,” said Kartik Sharma, a Noida-based engineer. Meanwhile, a health officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that they are unable to take samples for Covid tests as the hospital has run out of testing kits. “The truth is that we have run out of the testing kits. We have to face the patients and sometimes angry crowds,” said a health officer at the Covid testing centre of the hospital. Dr Renu Agarwal, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, could not be reached despite several calls and text messages. Meanwhile, GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri denied that there is any dearth of testing kits. “There are enough kits and there is no shortage at all. We are also not asking for any local address proof from any patients approaching a government facility to get their Covid tests done,” said Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-district-hospital-runs-out-of-testing-kits-101618944038392.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Weekend lockdown in Ghaziabad, Noida||Ghaziabad and Noida will observe a weekend lockdown, from 8pm on Friday till 7am on Monday, starting this week, till further orders, state officials said on Tuesday.“During this period, there will be sanitisation and cleaning in different areas. Industrial units and essential supplies will continue and those travelling for examinations and for government work will be allowed upon the production of ID cards,” said Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information).On April 16, the state government issued directions for a shutdown from 8pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday.Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “We will implement the directions and night curfew will also be in place as directed,” he said.Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls seeking comment. Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city), said, “The closure will help control spread of infection and will also help us bolster our resources in the mean time. We are ensuring that supply of oxygen and other facilities to patients on time.”Experts welcomed the move. “This will help curb the spread of the infection. However, enforcement is equally important. Poor enforcement on the ground will mean the impact of the weekend closure will be lost, and the spread of infection will continue. It was a must for places like Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, where cases are on the rise,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/weekend-curfew-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-101618943978350.html
21-04-2021||Noida||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, GB Nagar gasps for oxygen, Remdesivir||NOIDA: Amid an alarming surge in the Covid-19 cases, the hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar district are facing an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. While the present requirement of oxygen in the district is 60 metric tonnes (MT) a day, the supply is less than 10 MT, officials said. Besides, the district is also facing a shortage of Remdesivir injections, which is used to treat Covid patients with moderate symptoms, the officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY admitted that as the demand of oxygen has gone up in the recent past, the hospitals are facing a severe crisis. “We are leaving no stone unturned to meet the rising demand of oxygen cylinders in our Covid-dedicated facilities. Though the factory of company -- Inox Air Products Limited -- that supplies oxygen to entire Delhi-NCR and western Uttar Pradesh is located in GB Nagar itself, it is unable to cater to the demand of oxygen in the district,” he said. “The state government has already ordered the factory to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to GB Nagar and other districts on top priority. The manufacturer has been asked to allow two working shifts in the unit, so that around 1,200 cylinders daily could be filled up, instead of present 700 cylinders in a single shift,” the DM said.Dr Shweta (who uses single name), in-charge of oxygen and medicines availability cell in the integrated Covid-19 control room in Sector 59, also said that the district has around 7 MT oxygen left against the present need of 60 MT.On Tuesday, GB Nagar recorded eight deaths due to Covid-19, which is the highest number of fatalities in a single day, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. With 640 new cases detected on Tuesday, the district now has 3,765 active cases.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that with the present stock of oxygen and Remdesivir injections, it will be really hard to deal with the rising number of positive cases. “On Tuesday, as per the official records, there was not even a single dose of Remdesivir in our stock. Also, around 20% of positive patients require help with breathing. The demand for oxygen has gone up at least five times after the second wave. We have informed the drug department about this paucity,” he said.When contacted, Vaibhav Babbar, the district drug inspector, said that the scarcity of oxygen is mainly due to widening gap between supply and demand. “The demand for oxygen has risen exponentially. We have asked the oxygen manufacturer to stop the supply of industrial oxygen to the factories in the district. The overall production capacity of this factory is 34 tonnes per day, of which around 30 tonnes per day is being produced at present. The manufacturer has been told to make supply of medical oxygen to the hospitals in the state. We are also arranging supply of oxygen from Modinagar,” he said.Babbar further said that Remdesivir injections are also being supplied to the hospitals. “But the supply is very low. We are trying to procure more injections,” he said.Doctors at different Covid-dedicated hospitals said that the paucity of oxygen is badly affecting the treatment of patients. A doctor of Sharda hospital, preferring anonymity, said that the average daily demand of oxygen, which was 10,800 cubic metres from January to March 2021, has gone up to 19,000 cubic metres in April. If the situation persists, it will really be tough time for us,” he said. When contacted, the head of medical supply at Inox Air Products Limited, Akash Kumar, refused to divulge the details of oxygen supply to GB Nagar district. “We are very much busy in ensuring critical supply of oxygen to our clients,” he said.Meanwhile, distress calls from Covid patients looking for Remdesivir and Oxygen continue across GB Nagar. On Sunday, a sector 52 resident admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida succumbed to the infection after his family could not find a dose of Remdesivir.“We had been posting on social media and calling up everyone we knew to get the patient Remdesivir which was prescribed by the doctors. However, there was no stock available anywhere. By evening, he passed away,” said Sachin Goyal, a relative of the patient and a resident of Sector 76.Residents are pulling all strings to arrange oxygen as well. Ashish Kapoor, a resident of Sector 30, was looking for an oxygen concentrator for his mother on Monday. “My mother is under home isolation, but on Sunday evening, her oxygen levels started dropping to about 85. After looking for it in Noida all Sunday, I ultimately had to go to Gurgaon to get the cylinder on Monday which was arranged by some contacts,” he said.Doctors say that there are no substitutes to Oxygen or Remdesivir for a Covid patient. “Remdesivir is only meant for moderate to severe hospitalised patients. On the other hand, if the patient has not been on oxygen ever in life (pre-Covid) and if they need oxygen for Covid management, they need to be admitted in hospital in appropriate level of care,” said Dr Mrinal Sircar, director (pulmonology & critical care), Fortis Hospital, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-gb-nagar-gasps-for-oxygen-remdesivir-101618943979086.html
21-04-2021||Lucknow||UP records 163 more deaths, 29,754 fresh cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded 163 more deaths and 29,754 fresh Covid-19 infection cases across the state in the last 24 hours, according to official data released on Tuesday.The total count of coronavirus infection cases in the state now stands at 9,09,405 and the death toll has touched 10,159 since March last year.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad on Tuesday said there were 2,23,544 active Covid cases in the state at present. He also said while 1,76,760 patients were in home isolation, 4,455 were admitted in private hospitals and the remaining 42,329 patients were admitted in the level one, two and three facilities run by the state government.Within 24 hours, 14,391 Covid-19 patients had recovered, taking the recovery tally to 6,75,702 since the start of the Covid pandemic in March last year. On Monday, 2,00,137 samples were tested in the state, of which 90,000 were RT-PCR tests, he said.The health department teams have surveyed 3.27 crore households and 15.84 crore people across the state. The chief medical officers have been directed to increase beds in the Covid hospitals in the respective districts. As a result, there will be an increase of 15,000 beds in the government hospitals. In Lucknow, the KGMU and Balrampur hospitals have been directed to increase the beds, he said.Lucknow reported 5014 fresh cases, Prayagraj 2175, Kanpur 1740, Varanasi 1637, Ghaziabad 633, Gautam Buddha Nagar 640, Gorakhpur 747, Meerut 1,287, Bareilly 913, Jhansi 550, Moradabad 864, Agra 605, Ballia 334 and Mathura 301.Lucknow recorded 19 deaths, Prayagraj 13, Kanpur 28, Varanasi 7, Gautam Buddha Nagar 8, Jhansi 7, Moradabad, Rae Bareli and Amethi four each. Ballia, Sonbhadra and Basti witnessed three deaths each. There was one death each in Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Ghazipur, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Gonda, Unnao, Maharajganj, Mirzapur, Farrukhabad, Jalaun, Siddharth Nagar, Kannauj and Sant Kabir Nagar 2 case each, Ghaziabad, Jaunpur, Mathura, Deoria, Amroha, Fatehpur, Mainpuri, Balrampur, Kanpur Dehat, Ambedkar Nagar and Shravasti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-records-163-more-deaths-29-754-fresh-cases-101618942418211.html
21-04-2021||Pune||35K Covishield doses arrive in Pune, but shortages affect vaccination drive||PUNE The city has been facing an irregular supply of vaccines, even as it continues to remain one of the worst- affected areas in the country. On Tuesday the vaccination drive in Pune took a hit as the city did not have any Covishield doses. Only Covaxin doses, reserved for second doses, and those Covishield doses already with hospitals, were administered on Tuesday. A fresh stock of 35,000 doses of Covishield arrived on Tuesday evening. As of Monday night, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had no Covishield stock and fresh stock arrived only late on Tuesday and has been distributed to centres for Wednesday’s vaccination drive. At its Narayan peth vaccine store the PMC had only 9,000 doses of Covaxin on Monday, all reserved for second doses. On Tuesday noon, Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer at PMC’s health department said, “We had no stock of Covishield available as of Tuesday afternoon, but there are about 8,000-9,000 doses of Covishield in the pipeline, which is already distributed at various centres. All will be used for first and second doses on Wednesday. Also, there are about 9,000-10,000 doses of Covaxin, all of which are currently reserved for second doses.”On an average, 49,642 people have got the vaccine in Pune in the past six days. Dr Devkar Suryakant, PMC’s officer in charge of the vaccination, said, “We got 35,000 doses of Covishield which will be enough for two days for both government and private hospitals. On Saturday and Sunday, we opened only 50% of the centres to give a day’s leave to the staff who have been working without a single day’s leave. We were expecting the stock to come last night (Monday) itself, but got it on Tuesday and it has already been distributed to the centres. Vaccination will carry on smoothly on Wednesday.” On Tuesday, many centres saw beneficiaries returning due to the restricted number of vaccines available. Aditya Gaikwad, a resident of Dhankawadi, said, “Many citizens were eager to get the vaccine, but due to restricted numbers, they had to return without getting the jab. Today, 125 people are to get the second dose of Covaxin at the Dhankawadi centre, of which 25 people came through registration and the others have tokens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35k-covishield-doses-arrive-in-city-but-shortages-affect-vaccination-drive-101618933537845.html
21-04-2021||Pune||PMC order confirms shops selling essential commodities to run from 7am to 11am||PUNE After the Maharashtra cabinet, on Tuesday, urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a complete lockdown in the state for the next 15 days, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reduced the timings of essential commodity shops from 7am to 11 am. However, the PMC has allowed home delivery services of essential items till 6pm. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the circular and allowed grocery, vegetable, fruits, dairy, bakery and chicken vendors to operate between 7am and 11 AM from Wednesday, April 21. Earlier, the shops were open till 6 pm on weekdays and till 11am on weekends. The decision from the PMC came as citizens were found roaming the streets, purchasing essential items. The Maharashtra government has also enforced strict restrictions allowing essential services from 7am to 11am only.Kumar, in his order, said, “The shops would remain open from 7am to 11am, but they can do home delivery till 6pm. On Saturday and Sunday there is a strict lockdown and only allowed dairy and medical shops are allowed till 11am.”The PMC, as per an earlier order of April 14, allowed industrial units and construction sites with the facility of in- house labour camps to operate in the city. In a separate order, PMC also banned all religious gatherings for Wednesday’s Ram Navami; Mahavir Jayanti on April 25; and Hanuman Jayanti on April 27. The order issued by Vikram Kumar said there will be no processions, and instead, all programes can be online. As per the order, services like maids, drivers, e-commerce, medical assistants for senior citizens and messes would remain operational as per previous directions. Open till 11am Restrictions till May 1 - Grocery, vegetables, fruit, dairy, bakery, mutton, chicken and egg vendors-Agricultural related shops selling seeds, fertilizers- Pet shops- Shops providing materials for pre-monsoon works||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-order-confirms-shops-selling-essential-commodities-to-run-from-7am-to-11am-101618932997820.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Pune heros: Covid warriors back in the saddle ensuring service to those most in need||Many Covid warriors lost their lives during the first wave in 2020. Now, a harsher second wave has stuck in 2021, and Covid warriors are once again standing up bravely, and in numbers, to help the needy. People in Khadki still recall the work of Munir Ramdurg, a vice-president of the Ammunition Factory workers’ union, who died of Covid-19 in September 2020. He actively helped Covid patients find beds in hospitals and also helped cremate those who passed away. Same was the case with a 42-year-old traffic policeman from the Samarth Police Station, Rasta peth, who was known for his jolly nature and died in hospital in May 2020. He was on duty, before he tested positive for Covid. His name is being withheld to protect his family.Now, HT has come across people from different fields who, once again, are sparing the time, energy, effort and money, to ensure society survives the second Covid-19 wave.Food for thought When Aakanksha Sadekar saw a tweet of a person not getting food for dinner, as online food delivery is only allowed till 8pm. Sadekar decided to provide a free tiffin service for those in need.The initiative, which began on April 7 has seen Sadekar deliver 1,000 tiffins in Pune. Her tweet on April 5 reads: “If you are in and around Pune and a healthcare worker, doctor or a medical student living alone, happy to cook extra food and drop it off so that you can go about saving lives and not have to survive on crass thing like Maggie”. “My whole aim behind the initiative was to help people and one does not need to be a celebrity to do a good work. Any common person can do it and I hope more people come serve the society,” said Sadekar, a resident of Deccan Gymkhana. “I am connecting more people so If I am not able to reach the concerned person then other people can deliver the food,” said Sadekar. Free rickshaw ride for Covid patients If you are a resident of Kothrud, Bavdhan, Warje, or Karvenagar and don’t have transport to go to a hospital, call Jahangir Pathan on 888883298/8888343766.He will drop you at the hospital in his autorickshaw without charging a fare.The resident of Shastri nagar, Kothrud, has taken 41 Covid patients to hospital in this second wave. However, after he took a senior lady to Hinjewadi from Uttam nagar, doctors advised him home quarantine for eight days. “My reports came negative and the doctor told me to get home isolated because I came in direct contact with the lady. The lady is also doing good right now,” said Pathan, who is now getting support from corporators Shraddha Prabhune and Alpana Warpe, who provided him with PPE kits. “I have seen people running from such patients. Even their relatives do not come forward. I am doing it to serve the humanity as many people are struggling to get transport. My society people are very co-operative, as they don’t have any problem with my work,” added Pathan. Delivery of oxygen concentrators Sabir Shaikh is providing a free service delivering oxygen concentrators to people who are not getting beds in hospitals. The oxygen concentrator runs on electricity and is used to increase oxygen levels. he level of oxygen should not be below 85. “If the oxygen level is below 85 then the person needs hospitalisation. The machine is coming handy as many people are not getting beds. We provide machines for three days, so it gives support to the patient before s/he gets a bed in the hospital,” said Shaikh, who has brought 10 such machines and provided service to 50 people. “With people not getting beds, 135 more people are waiting for the machine,” said Shaikh. Free cab service for vaccination Senior citizens in Pune and Mumbai don’t have to bother about their transportation as Mahindra Logistics has started a free cab service to vaccination centres. Any citizen from Katraj, Kothrud, Bhosari, Pimple Saudgar or Kharadi needs to book the cab three hours in advance. Once the cab is booked the rest is taken care of by the company. “Last year we gave free rides to non-Covid patients who wanted to go for dialysis and pregnant women. We want people to remain stress-free during the crisis situation and we are trying to help all who are calling us,” said Dnyaneshwar Shirsht, control tower executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-warriors-back-in-the-saddle-ensuring-service-to-those-most-in-need-101618928977778.html
21-04-2021||Other||Chennai reintroduces Covid control measures||Volunteers carrying thermal scanners and noting temperature as part of door-to-door surveillance, young men on motorbikes running errands for Covid-19 patients under home isolation are back in Chennai as part of efforts to tackle the second Covid-19 wave.Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is re-implementing these measures that worked in containing the pandemic spread during the first wave last year as hospitals are running out of beds in the city, which has the highest caseload in Tamil Nadu. Last year, the measures were also implemented in other hotspots districts such as Madurai and Trichy.Workers have been roped in for door-to-door enumeration and for Home Quarantine and Isolation Monitoring System (HQIMS). They worked for a fee of ₹500 daily from June to January. “As cases were low, GCC stopped our work but contacted us again in April with a surge in cases,” said L Sivalingadurai, a volunteer.Also Read | 19 Odisha women rescued from TN garment factorySivalingadurai’s three friends have re-joined HQIMS, and he is thinking about following suit.Over 12,000 volunteers visit households every day across the city to check for symptoms like fever, cough, loss of smell, etc. If they find symptomatic individuals, they are referred to fever clinics, where doctors ascertain if they have an influenza-like illness and collect samples. If they test positive, they are sent to screening centres. Twelve such screening centres were opened last week, where medical teams decide whether to keep patients under home quarantine, shift them to Covid care centres or to hospitals depending on their symptoms.Since patients and their immediate family members under home quarantine cannot step out, FOCUS (Friend of Covid Person Under Surveillance) volunteers help them by buying groceries, medicines, and other essentials. “Besides helping them, this ensures that they also remain in quarantine,” said GCC’s deputy commissioner (health) Alby John. “We are repeating measures taken last year and the vaccination [drive] is [also] a shot in the arm for us as Chennai has vaccinated over 54% of the population above 45.”The civic body also restarted tele-counselling facilities with 100 lines last week for patients under home quarantine.Micro-containment of streets has also been reintroduced as 408 streets have six or more cases. “We have slightly changed the containment strategy wherein we are barricading a street if there are more than three cases..,” said John.Chennai has no shortage of hospital beds, but they are fast filling up. At GCC-run Covid care centres for people with mild symptoms, there were 11,645 beds available. Only 1,487 of them were occupied. In Covid-19 hospitals, 3,002 out of 4,368 beds were occupied, according to government data.Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, the National Institute of Epidemiology (Chennai), said the second wave is much more rapid as compared to the first in terms of the number of cases and the pace at which they are increasing. “[It] can overwhelm the health system and put pressure on healthcare workers. We need to add more beds and manpower and the public has to take this very seriously and go out for only essential work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-reintroduces-covid-control-measures-101618922318162.html
21-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 3 migrants returning home killed in accident||At least three people in their 20s were killed and five injured after an overcrowded bus returning from Delhi with over 100 migrant labourers and students overturned in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior on Tuesday, a police officer said.Gwalior police superintendent Amit Sanghi said the 67-seater bus was overcrowded. “The migrant labourers were returning from Delhi after the lockdown [announcement]. The passengers said they were afraid of returning by foot, so they decided to return on the overcrowded bus.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the six-day lockdown until April 26 citing a surge in Covid-19 infections. The Covid-19 cases have risen by close to 600% in the last two weeks and inundated hospitals and triggered a shortage in critical medical supplies in Delhi. He requested migrant workers to stay put as this was a small lockdown and promised to take care of them as part of efforts to avoid their mass exodus like during the nationwide lockdown last year.Also Read | Bikers killed after crashing into electric pole in PuneMigrant workers began pouring into interstate bus terminals and private bus depots around Anand Vihar and Ghazipur in Delhi and Kaushambi in Ghaziabad after Kejriwal made the announcement.Scores of migrant workers died in road accidents during the lockdown last year as tens of thousands of them walked and cycled home from big cities after losing their jobs until special buses and trains were arranged for them.Sanghi said the driver of the bus was allegedly intoxicated when the vehicle met with the accident at Jaurasi Ghati.“Police have registered a case and were making arrangement to send the passengers to their homes,” he added.The three passengers, who died in the accident, were identified as Mukesh Dhimar, 26, Matadin Ahirwar, 33, and Jitendra Ahirwar, 22. They are all residents of Tikamgarh district.Parasram Chander, 23, an injured passenger, said, “We did not want to spend days empty stomach without work so we boarded the bus by paying double the fare.”(With inputs from Mahesh Shivhare from Gwalior)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/three-migrants-labourers-returning-from-delhi-killed-in-accident-in-mp-s-gwalior-101618919138042.html
21-04-2021||Delhi||2020 rerun? Migrant exodus begins, again||Soon after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day curfew in Delhi beginning 10pm on Monday, migrants began pouring into interstate bus terminals and private bus depots around Anand Vihar and Ghazipur in Delhi and Kaushambi in Ghaziabad, in scenes reminiscent of the mass exodus of people from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who gathered in thousands at Anand Vihar after the Union government announced a lockdown in March 2020.However, there was no extra crowding at railway stations, and other interstate bus terminals such as Kashmere Gate, from where buses towards Punjab, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh ply. Anand Vihar is the interstate bus terminal for most destinations in UP.While announcing the restrictions on Monday to arrest an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases and fatalities that has overwhelmed health facilities in the Capital, Kejriwal said the decision to impose a lockdown was not an easy one for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government as it hurts the poor and daily wage workers the most.“I appeal to people not to leave Delhi during the lockdown. We will take care of you. I am there to ensure it,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayWithin hours of the announcement, however, crowds swelled at Anand Vihar, and across the road at Kaushambi. Crowds were also seen on the main road towards Ghazipur, from where several private buses head to UP and Bihar. There were snarls on both carriageways between Anand Vihar and the Ghazipur roundabout.“Our factories will shut due to this new lockdown. As Covid-19 cases are increasing rapidly in Delhi, and there is uncertainty about the number of days this curfew will continue for, it’s better for us to return to our family, rather than suffer here. I had returned to Delhi in September after last year’s lockdown,” said Mohammad Rashid from Lucknow, who works in a jeans-stitching factory in Seelampur.The foot-overbridge connecting Kaushambi and Anand Vihar bus terminal, railway and Metro stations, remained packed beyond capacity. Another foot-overbridge, near East Delhi Mall, was also packed.“There are nearly 8,000 migrants around Anand Vihar bus terminal who are waiting for buses to their home towns. The number is increasing. Our maximum deployment is in these areas to maintain law and order and facilitate migrants in every way possible. We are in touch with the transport department officials to arrange extra buses for these migrants,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (east) Sanjay Sehrawat.While a majority of the passengers reached the terminals in auto-rickshaws, men carrying luggage on their heads and shoulders, and women holding their babies in one arm and bags in the other, were seen walking on the pavements towards the bus terminals.The crowd was bigger at Kaushambi than at Anand Vihar. “We are witnessing an increase in passengers at our bus terminals for the last two-three days. The numbers started increasing from Monday morning. Some of them were migrants who were returning because of their experience last year,” said Punit Sethi, state manager of ISBT, Anand Vihar.Ajit Mishra, an agent working for multiple bus services between Delhi and Bihar, said the announcement was followed by a surge in demand for tickets.“There is a 20%-30% increase in demands already. Unlike earlier, when we would receive requests for one or two tickets at once, I am now getting requests for booking 10-15 seats at one go,” said Mishra.Sachidanand Sinha, a professor with the Centre for the Study of Regional Development at Jawaharlal Nehru’s School of Social Sciences, said the migrants were leaving again because of their “bitter experience” in 2020.“First, they were scared of the rising Covid-19 cases, and now because of the lockdown... It’s a grim situation because the migrants who are returning are potential carriers of Covid-19. They will infect others, and in this way, Delhi’s test positivity ratio of one positive case out of three samples may be witnessed across India,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-fears-trigger-mass-exodus-as-migrants-pour-into-anand-vihar-isbt-101618858352426.html
