22-04-2021||Other||Admission rules amended for Covid-19 patients in UP||The state government on Thursday revised an order for the admission of Covid-19 patients in government and private hospitals as well as government-run and private medical colleges.Accordingly, private hospitals can now admit Covid-19 patients without a referral letter from the Covid command centre. But they will have to share the information immediately with the command centre and display the availability of beds publicly, the state government announced.In an order issued here, additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “The amendment in admission process shall continue till June 30. The private hospitals will keep 10% of the total Covid beds for admission via Covid command centres.” In other words, 90% of the beds in private hospitals have been reserved for direct admission.Private hospitals will share the information immediately after admission with the command centre and update the same at 8am and 4pm, apart from displaying the same outside the hospital for common people to know. Patients can reach private hospitals by their own arrangement but, if needed, the command centre shall make an ambulance available. Private hospitals will charge only the prescribed fee from the patients.At the government hospitals, medical colleges and private medical colleges, 70% of admission in Covid wards will be done via the command centre and 30% of the admission can be done on the basis of an emergency situation by the institutions. These hospitals and medical colleges will also display the status of admission outside the campus/building.All patients requesting free treatment will be admitted via the command centre, said the order. Inspections will be carried out to check if the Covid-19 treatment protocol is being followed.With a surge in Covid-19 cases, the patients were facing hardship in getting beds in hospitals due to the bed allotment order under which the patient had to get registered at ICCC and obtain the referral letter from the chief medical officer (CMO) for admission in the government and private hospitals. The Opposition parties had slammed the state government over the issue. Even BJP MPs and MLAs had demanded revision of the bed allotment order. On Wednesday, the UP Human Rights Commission had directed the state government to revise the bed allotment order as people were being harassed. Lucknow district magistrate Roshan Jacob had also sent a letter to ACS (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad, demanding revision of the order.The district administration will set up counters to receive application for free admission in the government hospitals and medical colleges, he said. The details of the beds in various categories of the private hospitals and rates will be published in the dailies.Hospitals asked to furnish oxygen consumption detailsHospitals in the state have been asked to furnish details of oxygen consumed by them. According to an order by the director general (medical health), hospitals need to give details of oxygen they receive and use per day. This is being done to make an assessment of oxygen consumption and ensure the supply remains in accordance with the demand or need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admission-rules-amended-for-covid-19-patients-in-up-101619115830964.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida Metro changes timings of Aqua Line||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Thursday said that it is making changes in the Aqua Line metro timings to restrict the movement of public in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “On working days, the trains will run from 7am to 8pm and will be available at an interval of 15 minutes during peak hours i.e. 8am to 11 am and 5pm to 8pm. Rest of the time, the interval will be of 30 minutes. On curfew days, the trains will run from 8am to 12pm and 4pm to 8pm only,” said Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC. The revised time table will be implemented from Saturday. The Noida Metro services are usually available from 6am to 10.45pm on normal days. The 29.7-km Aqua Line, which connects Noida to Greater Noida, has 21 stations, of which 15 are in Noida and six in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-metro-changes-timings-of-aqua-line-101619115771999.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Fresh Covid-19 restrictions come into force in Maharashtra||Fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions announced by the Maharashtra government to check the Covid-19 spread came into force on Thursday night.Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases, is already under severe restrictions since April 14 and the fresh "lockdown-like" curbs were announced on Wednesday to break the chain of viral transmission in the state.Prohibitory orders, banning assembly of five or more people at once place, are in force till 7 am on May 1, while non-essential activities are not being allowed.Essential services, including grocery stores, are permitted to operate only between between 7 and 11 am.The new restrictions under the government's `Break- the-Chain' programme came into force at 8 pm on Thursday and will remain effective till 7 am on May 1.In the cabinet meeting this week, several ministers demanded a total lockdown for 15 days to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the pandemic in the country.But Chief MinisterUddhav Thackeray decided against imposing a total shutdown, apparently after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation where he said a lockdown should be the "last resort".Now, with the new curbs the government has decided to reduce presence of people on the streets and in public transport.According to an order issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, government offices - central, state and local authorities - will work with 15 per cent attendance except those in emergency services directly connected to management of the pandemic.Other offices, allowed to operate as per the existing rules, will function with 15 per cent strength or five people, whichever is more, stated the order.Only government personnel and those in emergency services would be allowed to use suburban trains, metro and mono services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, it said.All those engaged in medical services - doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab technicians and clinical staff - will be issued travel passes on basis of identity cards.However, patients needing medical treatment and specially-abled persons can travel in trains, the order said.Municipal and state transport buses will operate at 50 per cent capacity with no standing passengers.Marriage ceremonies have to be conducted as a single event in a single hall not extending beyond two hours with maximum of 25 person in attendance, the order said, adding violation will attract a fine of ₹50,000.For inter-city and inter-district travel bylong- distance trains and buses, the local Railways/state transport authorities will ensure screening of passengers, the order said.Passengers of private buses (who are allowed to travel) will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days after they reach their destination. Bus operators will have to stamp the passengers' hands to indicate they are supposed to stay at home for 14 days.On Thursday, police vans made rounds of the main streets in Mumbai asking people on the loudspeaker to stay home and avoid crowding.Police have put up barricades at the entry and exit gates of suburban railway stations to prevent unauthorised people from travelling in local trains.Police personnel manned the streets to check motorists and cars for the yellow, green and red stickers which are to be used for specific purpose while moving around during the period of restrictions.On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 67,013 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 40,94,840, while 568 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-covid-19-restrictions-come-into-force-in-maharashtra-101619115481093.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad’s home chefs, Good Samaritans come to the rescue of Covid patients in home isolation||Noida/Ghaziabad: With Covid-19 cases being reported from almost every locality, home cooks and Good Samaritans are stepping up and delivering meals to patients in home isolation. Sector 50 resident Parul Sachdeva, 50, has been getting over 30 to 40 calls ever since she started delivering food for Covid patients two weeks ago.“I get calls from Covid patients who want customised meals. Some want to have something light, while others just want soups. I serve them for ₹100 per meal. For senior citizens, the service is free,” said Sachdeva. She is listed on online delivery platforms to make deliveries across Noida and Greater Noida.Sector 29 resident Ashutosh Bhardwaj also started delivering home cooked food to Covid patients in home isolation last week on Friday. Bhardwaj was working in the hospitality sector in Rajasthan but due to coronavirus-induced curbs last year, he returned to Noida.“Since two weeks, there has been an explosion of Covid cases in the country. Being a hotel management professional, I thought doing something for the patients as I was just idle at home. I circulated a message on our local WhatsApp groups that I can deliver home cooked meals at residences of Covid patients in Noida. Soon, I was bombarded with calls,” said Bhardwaj. The 39-year-old has been making around 10 food deliveries per day since last week. “After a lockdown was imposed in Delhi, two of my helpers left for their home town and I was left with just one. Moreover, due to the night curfew in the district, I am only able to deliver lunch,” he said.Vishal Srivastava, a resident of Sector 137, was delivering home cooked food to his office colleague and his wife who got infected in the first week of April. “Now I am making around five deliveries around my apartment per day for ₹100 per thali which includes lentils, rice, roti and a mix vegetable with curd,” he said.Srivastava is one of the volunteers who signed up for an initiative started by Anupriya Singh, a home cook from Panchsheel Enclave, Delhi. “I decided to compile a list of all home cooks across Delhi-NCR who could volunteer to deliver meals for Covid patients. The list was circulated on social media last Friday and people across Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Delhi got connected,” said Singh who runs a platform for home cook called House of Kitchen.Indirapuram resident Farha Khadija also got connected through the initiative. “After my contact was circulated, I have been delivering 20 thalis per day to home isolation patients in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara area. I have had to refuse to about 30 other queries as I do not have food in such a large quantity,” she said.Then there are those who do not cook thalis or light food but deliver snacks and supplements.Rajeev Malik, a resident of Sector 29, delivers snacks and Vitamin C supplements for free on Sundays.“I do not have resources to cook food but I wanted to do my bit for those affected by coronavirus. Hence, I decided to put together a small snacks packet with biscuits, some namkeen, glucose packet and vitamin C supplement tablets. However, soon after my number was circulated through WhatsApp groups, I started getting 75-80 calls a day,” said the 42-year-old who delivers the packets personally across Noida.Meanwhile, Kavi Nagar resident Mayank Chaudhary who runs a volunteer organisation Youth Network, delivers free food in Ghaziabad.“We spread the word about the initiative through social media on Sunday and since then we have been getting over 200 calls a day. We always ask callers to share their medical reports as we had some cases where people call just for the free food,” he said. The deliveries are contactless as the food packets are placed outside the house of the patients. He has been making deliveries in Kavi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Raj Nagar, Raj Nagar extension and Crossing Republik. Their volunteers also try to deliver medicines and other essentials to home isolation patients, which are chargeable. “We have tied up with a wholesale pharmaceutical manufacturer and try to deliver medicines prescribed to Covid patients in home isolation that are available. If the Covid patient also needs essentials, we deliver that as well. However, only the deliveries are free for this service and the cost of medicines and essentials has to be borne by the patients,” said Mayank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-s-home-chefs-good-samaritans-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-patients-in-home-isolation-101619115651507.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Pregnant Covid positive women left with limited options in Noida||It took two days for Noida Sector 31 resident Utsav Kumar to find a bed for his pregnant and Covid positive wife Aditi Mittal and that too in Delhi.“She had a fever and her oxygen level was down to 93. She was earlier admitted at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida but we had to remove her from there as the staff was overworked and there was no one to look after her. We also tried to get admission at Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) hospital but no beds were available there as well,” said Kumar.In Gautam Budh Nagar, currently three hospitals -- GIMS, Sharda hospital and Fortis hospital -- are admitting Covid-19 pregnant women.Due to changes in their bodies and immune systems, pregnant women can be badly affected by some respiratory infections, according to the World Health Organization. Dr Nimmi Chutani, head of gynaecology department in Sharda Hospital admitted that the staff were under pressure. “We are getting at least four to five pregnant Covid patients at the hospital everyday and have conducted deliveries of three such women this month as well,” she said.At GIMS, officials say that there is a shortage of beds for all Covid patients. “The hospital currently has only 215 beds but there are 280 patients that we have to attend to. This includes four pregnant women,” said Prof. (Brig) Rakesh Gupta. He added that last year, pregnant women who tested positive for Covid were mostly asymptomatic. “This time, most pregnant women who test positive are showing symptoms. The situation is severe this time around,” he said.Dr Neha Mishra, associate professor at the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, GIMS, said that the hospital helped deliver three babies to Covid patients in the past three weeks who were also found to be Covid positive. She, however, could not confirm whether the virus was passed on from the mother. “We are getting four to five pregnant Covid positive patients per day but not all of them need to be admitted. Since the surge in Covid cases, we have helped eight such patients deliver,” said Dr Mishra.Officials at Fortis Hospital Noida also said that they are getting at least four to five Covid positive pregnant patients every day. “Since the hospital staff is overworked, we advise most of the mild and asymptomatic patients to take phone/video call consultations from our doctors so that they stay safe and can prevent spread of the virus further,” said Dr Aradhna Singh, senior consultant at department of gynaecology, Fortis Hospital Noida. The hospital has 100 beds in its Covid ward and there are two isolation beds in the labour room for Covid positive pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/pregnant-covid-positive-women-left-with-limited-options-in-noida-101619115650949.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Oxygen supply exhausted in 6 hospitals, 7 others have under 5 hrs left: Manish Sisodia tells Harsh Vardhan||Six hospitals in the national capital have exhausted their oxygen supply while seven others have less than five hours of oxygen left, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday.In a letter to the Union health minister, Sisodia pointed out that six hospitals — Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, Shanti Mukund, Tirath Ram Shah Hospital, UK Nursing Home, Rathi Hospital and Santom Hospital, have exhausted their oxygen supply.The hospitals that have less than five hours of oxygen supply include — Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, BLK Hospital, Holy Family Hospital, Okhla, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, Max Superspeciality Hospital, Patparganj, Venketeshwara Hospital and Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute, Sisodia pointed out."Police and senior officials of the administration in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are stalling the tankers carrying oxygen, delaying the tankers from reaching Delhi hospitals on time," Sisodia said in the letter."I urge you to ensure that the oxygen allocated for Delhi by the Centre reaches there without any delay to save lives of the patients," he added.Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish oxygen supply for coronavirus patients on Thursday morning, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight.The Centre on Thursday directed states to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders and said the district magistrate and superintendent of police of the district concerned will be held responsible if there is any violation of its order.The directive under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 was issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid the sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it.With several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes on Wednesday.Sisodia, however, said the increased quota has either not reached Delhi or there have been considerable delay.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) appointed two senior bureaucrats as nodal officers to ensure smooth movement of tankers and facilitate oxygen supply to city hospitals, and directed the Delhi Police to provide security logistics from manufacturers' sites to various health facilities here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-supply-exhausted-in-6-hospitals-7-others-have-under-5-hrs-left-delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-tells-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101619115184083.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||3 IAS officers to ensure oxygen supply to Delhi hospitals, police to provide security to tankers||As Delhi hospitals faced a severe oxygen crisis for the third consecutive day, the DDMA roped in three senior bureaucrats on Thursday to ensure a smooth movement of tankers and facilitate oxygen supply to the needy establishments, and directed the police to provide the security logistics from the manufacturers' sites to various health facilities in the city.The move came hours after Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the police in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana were blocking oxygen transportation to Delhi and urged the Centre to ensure normal supply even if that meant taking the help of paramilitary forces.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also set up a round-the-clock control room to redress grievances and complaints from the city hospitals within 30 minutes.All the hospitals will have to appoint an audit committee for supervising and rationalising the use of medical oxygen.Several small hospitals in the city struggled to replenish their oxygen supplies for coronavirus patients throughout the day.Sisodia wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in the evening, saying six hospitals in the national capital have exhausted their oxygen supply while seven have less than five hours of oxygen remaining.In his order, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the chairman of the DDMA executive committee, said the Delhi Police would keep a record of the entry and exit of all oxygen tankers through various checkposts to monitor their movement.The police will immediately share the record of entry and exit of the tankers at the checkposts with the control room, the order said.The liquid medical oxygen will be distributed among all hospitals run by the Centre, the Delhi government as well as private players under the overall supervision and control of Officer on Special Duty (Delhi health department) Ashish Verma.He will be assisted by two other senior IAS officers -- Vijay Bidhuri and Udit Prakash Rai. Rai will be responsible for ensuring a smooth and seamless movement of the tankers till the borders of Delhi and sorting out all the issues pertaining to the suppliers, the states and the Centre, Dev said in the order.Bidhuri will be responsible for controlling, coordinating and facilitating the supply of oxygen to the hospitals.According to the DDMA order, Delhi Police's Special Commissioner (operations) Muktesh Chander will function as the nodal officer, supervising the green corridor provided to the tankers.He will provide all help, support and security logistics as regards the movement of the tankers from the manufacturers' sites to the hospitals.The DDMA said there will be a help desk at the control room, which will be manned by an SDM-level officer and eight other officials for redressing the grievances and complaints from the hospitals."If the grievances are not redressed within half an hour, Bidhuri will look into it," it added.The hospitals will also appoint nodal officers, who will be available round the clock to redress grievances related to oxygen supply, the order said.Amid a shortage of medical oxygen being faced by the hospitals, the Centre increased Delhi's quota from 378 MT to 480 MT per day on Wednesday.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said all the suppliers of medical oxygen, who provide Delhi its quota, are based in other states. The government is also trying to airlift medical oxygen from Odisha.A sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and a high positivity rate have led to a large number of hospital admissions.Many of the patients are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care and this has led to a quantum jump in the medical oxygen requirement of the hospitals, the DDMA said.In many cases, the existing contractual arrangements have either been disturbed or a hospital's oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, causing a "widespread disruption" in the supply chain that has led to a "precarious situation", the DDMA order said."Local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day-to-day delivery of oxygen to Deihi," it added.Allocation and supply of oxygen to all health establishments will be strictly regulated in accordance with the allocation orders issued by the government from time to time, the DDMA said.The order will specify the daily allocation in respect of all health establishments as well as the inter-se distribution amongst different suppliers, it added.Delhi logged 24,638 fresh Covid-19 cases and 249 deaths due to the viral disease on Wednesday, while the positivity rate stood at 31.28 per cent, meaning almost every third sample tested positive, amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city.On Tuesday, the city had recorded 28,395 cases and 277 fatalities, both highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. The positivity rate was 32.82 per cent, also the highest so far.The city has reported over 1,350 deaths due to the deadly virus in the last seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-ias-officers-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-delhi-hospitals-police-to-provide-security-to-tankers-101619114917281.html
22-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka government allots ₹400 crore for procuring 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, says CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that the state government has set aside ₹400 crore for the procurement of 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses. The chief minister also urged people above 18 years of age in the state to register for the inoculation, which is set to begin from May 1.“Karnataka will procure 1 Crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine as we begin to inoculate citizens between 18 to 44 years from May 1. ₹400 Crores has been earmarked for this in the 1st phase. I urge all those above 18 to register themselves for the vaccine starting from April 28,” the chief minister said in a tweet.Karnataka will procure 1 Crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine as we begin to inoculate citizens between 18 to 44 years from May 1. ₹400 Crores has been earmarked for this in the 1st phase. I urge all those above 18 to register themselves for the vaccine starting from April 28.The announcement, however, did not mention the vaccine planned to be purchased. Two vaccines, Covishield by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, are currently being administered to eligible beneficiaries across the country.CM Yediyurappa’s announcement comes as India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is set to enter its next phase beginning May 1 in which all the people above the age of 18 would be eligible to receive the shot, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on April 19. The announcement followed a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the same day.Also read | Serum Institute announces Covishield price: ₹600 for pvt, ₹400 for govt hospitalsIn the same meeting, the vaccine manufacturers were allowed to supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the state governments and in the open market.The first phase of the country’s vaccination program, which began on January 16, focussed on the essential workers (healthcare workers and frontline workers) alone and was expanded into phase 2 on March 1 to include people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 years with specific co-morbid conditions. On April 1, the central government announced that all people above 45 years of age would be eligible to take the jab.On Thursday, Karnataka reported its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 25,795 new infections as the cases tally in the state reached 1,247,997. Also, 123 people succumbed to the disease which pushed the death toll to 13,885, a health department bulletin showed. The state has 196,236 active cases and is one among the top five contributors to the national tally of active caseload, according to the Union health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-government-allots-rs-400-crore-for-procuring-10-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-says-cm-yediyurappa-101619114011629.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 9,907 Covid positive cases, 8 deaths in 24 hrs||Pune: Pune district reported a spike with 9,907 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Eight deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, with four deaths in Pune rural, three in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 397,376 Covid cases and 5,086 deaths till Thursday; PCMC has reported 188,561 cases so far and a total of 1,455 deaths due to the virus.Pune rural has reported 180,646 total cases so far and 2,357 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 766,583 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 640,293 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,953 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 117,337 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 62,298 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 3,330,747 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 81.34%.Across Maharashtra, 67,013 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 568 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.53%.The state health department stated that of 24,895,986 laboratory samples, 4,094,840 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 16.45% patients till Thursday. Currently 3,971,917 people are in home quarantine and 29,014 people are in institutional quarantine. Vaccination on ThursdayOn Thursday, 50,030 beneficiaries were inoculated at 470 centres in Pune district. In PMC, 19,126 beneficiaries were inoculated at 178 centres; in PCMC, 9,256 beneficiaries were inoculated at 86 centres. At around 206 centres in Pune rural, 21,648 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday. Of the 470 centres, 416 were that of Covishield and 54 were administering Covaxin on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-9-907-covid-positive-cases-8-deaths-in-24-hrs-101619113730839.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||25MLD sewage plant in the works for Manesar||To increase sewage treatment capacity in Manesar, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start constructing a sewage treatment plant (STP) having a capacity of 25 million litres per day (MLD) from July, said officials. “This new STP will focus on sewage treatment of all villages falling on the stretch from Manesar till Naharpur Kasan village. This will be in addition to the 50 MLD STP already functional for Industrial Model Township area of Manesar,” said a senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity. The authority has invited tenders for the project and given time till May 11 for companies to submit proposals. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and lack of labour force, the official cited above said that on-ground work is likely to get delayed, and start by July, with a target to finish the project by December 2022. The official cited above said that they have decided to undertake the work on behalf of the health department, following a request in this regard. “The public health department is supposed to provide sewerage facilities in villages of Manesar region under Mahagram Yojana, but they did not have land available with them. So, GMDA is providing the land while the public health department will bear the cost, which is estimated to be around ₹31.76 crore,” the official said. Meanwhile, the authority is also working on a project for using treated water from the Common Effluent Treatment Plant in Manesar IMT for horticulture work in green belts and industrial purposes. A proposal in this regard was prepared by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and tabled during the 8th authority meeting that was held on April 9. Around 45-48 MLD of treated wastewater will be made available by GMDA for this region, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25mld-sewage-plant-in-the-works-for-manesar-101619113013231.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Civil Hospital suspends OPD, non-emergency surgeries||To divert the maximum resources towards managing Covid-19 cases, all non-emergency surgeries and out-patient department (OPD) services for non-emergency cases at the Civil Hospital will be suspended from Friday, doctors familiar with the developments said on Thursday.“Due to increasing Covid-19 cases, we have been asked by our higher authorities to temporarily stop OPD services for dermatology, dental, general surgery. Routine surgeries will not take place in the hospital as we are completely focusing on managing Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, which is the only major government hospital in the city.Senior doctors said that the move will allow them to increase bed capacity for treating Covid-19 positive and suspected patients. According to health department data, Gurugram’s active caseload stands at over 18,000 cases. The rate of recovery in Gurugram is at 79.96%, while the fatality rate is at 0.43%.“This week, we were able to augment the beds in the hospital for treating Covid-19 patients. We now have separate wards for positive patients and suspected patients. Earlier, we were only treating suspected patients. We have 21 beds for positive patients, which will be increased to 30 by next week, while 20 more beds will be added for suspected cases. By stopping the non-emergency surgeries, we are able to divert those resources also for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said a senior doctor, requesting anonymity.Doctors said that on average, 20 surgeries take place every week, but these will now be delayed.Dr Sanjay Narula, consultant, general surgery, Civil Hospital, said, “All routine surgeries have been cancelled but emergency cases like caesarean deliveries will be conducted. The surgeries for issues such as hernia, which were scheduled, have been put on a wait list for now. With both general and orthopaedic surgeries, around 20 surgeries per week (estimated) will get affected and patients put on a wait list.”He said that patients have also stopped visiting the OPD due to fear of rising cases. “Inflow of patients in OPD has reduced to almost one-third of the usual. I would usually see around 100-125 patients daily in OPD, but now, it has reduced to around 40. People are scared to visit hospitals,” said Narula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/civil-hospital-suspends-opd-non-emergency-surgeries-101619113012665.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Markets, shops selling non-essentials to shut from 6pm||All markets and shops selling non-essential items will shut from 6pm starting Friday, state home minister Anil Vij said in an interaction with media persons on Thursday, adding that the order will be implemented in concurrence with the ongoing night curfew.With Covid-19 cases rising unabated — the district recording 3,553 new infections and 10 deaths on Thursday — permissions have to be taken for functions and social gatherings from subdistrict magistrates concerned, Vij said. “To curb the spread of Covid-19, we can either impose a lockdown or enforce safety protocols strictly. As we have reiterated that a lockdown would not be imposed, we decided that all shops should shut at 6pm,” said Vij, who is also the health minister for the state. Even as detailed orders from the state government are awaited, the Gurugram police confirmed that directions in this regard were issued in a meeting chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, held with officials of district administrations and police on Thursday. “We will ensure the compliance of the directions issued by the government in this matter,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police.In the interaction with the media, Vij said that the Covid-19 safeguards must be implemented strictly to ensure that economic activities are not affected. “I have asked the home department, urban local bodies department, industries and other departments to enforce mask discipline and social distancing strictly,” Vij said. Stating that more than half of the cases in the state were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat, Vij said that 800 Covid-19 beds will be added to facilities in Gurugram and a nodal officer would be appointed to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen and other equipment. The health minister also refuted allegations that Haryana was denying oxygen supply to any state. “We are following the allocation made by the Central government, by which 140 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen will be supplied to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 50 MT to Punjab,” said Vij.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/markets-shops-selling-non-essentials-to-shut-from-6pm-101619113011855.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Crematorium staff raise health concerns over violations by hospitals||Staff at the Sector 32 and Madanpuri crematoriums alleged that a few private hospitals were sending bodies of Covid-19 victims wrapped in bedsheets, instead of body bags, as mandated to prevent the spread of the virus. They said that rules were violated in at least three instances over the last two days.Sharing footage of one such incident on Thursday, staff at the Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32 raised health concerns, to themselves as well as the public, due to the violations. They said that ambulance drivers were also not wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) and taking the help of family members to carry the bodies.In the footage, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, the driver of an ambulance is seen entering the crematorium in an ambulance and placing a body on one of the platforms without following any precautions.Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “In one instance, family members (of a Covid-19 victim) who had come in private cabs did not take any precautionary measures despite a Covid death in the family. They are at risk of getting infected as they were standing close to the body before handing it over to us.”As per the protocols, a body is kept in a crematorium near the platform for 30 minutes for people to pay their respects from a distance.Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they will issue a notice to the hospitals concerned to ensure such violations are not repeated. “We have already passed directions to not send any corpse without body bags. A body cover with a transparent face area should be used. The driver is instructed to wear PPE kits and no family members are allowed to touch the body. Strict action will be taken against people violating the protocols,” he said.Singla said the hospitals have procured these body bags but small nursing homes are still not fully equipped to handle the bodies of Covid-19 patients. There is no shortage across the market and each hospital should keep at least five bags in case of emergency, he said.Vinod Kumar, a staffer at the Madanpuri cremation ground, said that every day, there is at least one such violation. “All day, we are handling and cremating bodies, but we do not want to risk our lives. The hospitals should be held responsible for such negligent and careless approach,” he said.Sharma said that in one instance, the body of a Covid-19 victim was placed in a public area in the vicinity of the crematorium, following which they complained to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the hospital that sent the ambulance.Family members of Covid-19 victims said they were unaware of the protocol, but admitted that they were not allowed to travel to the crematorium along with the bodies. “We learned after coming here that there is such a protocol and we are not supposed to handle the body or touch it. We performed the last rites standing at a distance,” said a resident of New Palam Vihar, who was performing the last rites of his elder brother at the Sector 32 facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/crematorium-staff-raise-health-concerns-over-violations-by-hospitals-101619113011237.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals fall short of oxygen, supply from Bhiwadi resumes||Hospitals in the city reported a shortage of oxygen on Thursday and sought help from the state, due to an increase in consumption owing to the sharp spike in serious Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks and the supplier in Bhiwadi of Rajasthan halting shipments due to a ban by the state government.“1 hour oxygen left in Fortis Gurugram. Tanker from Bhiwadi not allowed to come to Haryana. We cater to Pt from all India they cannot pay price for a political war,” Dr Rahul Bhargava, director, bone marrow transplant programme, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, tweeted at 4.11pm on Thursday.Officials of the administration said that the supplier in Bhiwadi resumed operations on Thursday after discussions with the Rajasthan government. “There was a delay on the part of the hospital to inform us about the situation. The hospital had a tie-up with the Bhiwadi plant. To tackle the situation, the deputy commissioner coordinated with the supplier and arranged the oxygen required by the hospital,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department.The management of the Fortis Memorial Research Institute later confirmed that they received the supply. “Tanker from Bhiwadi has reached averting a serious crisis,” a statement from the hospital read.However, other hospitals in the city said that a crisis is looming.An official from Artemis Hospitals said, “Yes, there is an acute shortage. We are living one day at a time with 24-hour oxygen (supply) at any given time. Refilling with liquid oxygen is a challenge for continuous supply; even oxygen cylinders are not available. It is leading to huge stress on the medical staff. They are getting demoralised as patient care is adversely affected.”Anil khatana, head of operations, W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that the administration has asked them to increase the number of beds, but they are unable to fulfil the demand of patients already undergoing treatment. “There has been increase in the demand and if we add more beds, we will not be able to meet fill the requirement. Upgrading infrastructure with the current situation is not possible. We used to get 90 cylinders refilled twice a week but now, we need the same twice a day due to the number of patients,” he said. Dr Vikram Singh, director of Aarvy hospital in Civil Lines and Sector 90, said that they are reeling under an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders. “We need at least 90 oxygen cylinders for our Covid-19 patients but are getting a supply of hardly 10 a day. Two suppliers have stopped supply due to the increased demand. If the situation remains the same for the next few days, the number of causalities will increase. We are somehow making do at present, as we have an oxygen generation plant,” he said.The short supply comes at a time when neighbouring Delhi is dealing with an unprecedented crisis, with hospitals approaching courts and pleading for replenishment of their oxygen stocks. A few Delhi hospitals on Thursday had to discharge their patients, as their oxygen stock ran out.At present, the district has 18,120 active cases of Covid-19, of whom 1,055 are currently hospitalised.Arora said that currently, the oxygen demand of Gurugram is almost 28-30 metric tonnes a day, which the state is trying to fulfil from oxygen plants in Panipat, Bhiwadi and Himachal Pradesh.“Panipat-based plant has a capacity to produce 240MT oxygen. As discussed in a meeting with the Central government on Thursday, over 140 MT has been allocated to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 20MT to Punjab to ensure there is an uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals. Haryana has also been getting 20MT of oxygen from Bhiwadi, Rajasthan and 20 MT from Himachal Pradesh. Overall, the Central government has allocated over 162 MT oxygen supply for Haryana,” he said.The oxygen plant in Bhiwadi was the main source of medical oxygen for Gurugram hospitals, as over 20 metric tonnes were supplied every day. The supply resumed on Thursday after the state government and district administration spoke with the Rajasthan government, said officials.Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that the situation improved on Thursday as supply has been resumed from Bhiwadi and the situation should normalise by Thursday night. “If we get regular supply from Panipat and Bhiwadi, we will have enough for all of our hospitals,” he said.“We sent Fortis an oxygen tanker and 100 oxygen cylinders to ensure there is enough supply for the patients,” he added.Meanwhile, staff of smaller hospitals in the district are dependent on oxygen cylinders from a Manesar facility and said they have to queue up for hours to get their quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-fall-short-of-oxygen-supply-from-bhiwadi-resumes-101619113010666.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospital beds for Covid-19 patients increased as cases shoot past 3,500||The district on Thursday reported 3,553 new Covid-19 cases, the first time the single-day spike has crossed 3,000, and 10 deaths, following which the district administration issued a slew of directions to increase the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients.“It has been decided to reserve more oxygen and ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in both private and government hospitals. Of the total, 60% of general beds and 75% of ICU beds will be reserved for Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.The district administration also appointed officials to ensure that seriously ill patients are given priority for hospitalisation, and directed private hospitals to record the number of patients admitted on the administration’s recommendation. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also conducted a review meeting to assess the emerging situation caused by the surge in cases of Covid-19 across the state.Increasing bed capacity is expected to alleviate the stress of home isolation for moderate to serious patients, many of whom took to the social media platforms to complain about the difficulty in getting hospital admissions and medicines for treatment.As per details shared by the health department, the highest single-day spike of cases on Thursday took the total to 92,419 cases and the active cases to 18,120, with 17,968 in home isolation. On Thursday, 1,450 patients recovered from Covid-19.Officials said that the number of daily cases hit a record high on consecutive days, with the district recording 2,988 cases on Wednesday. The fatality rate is currently at 0.4%.Yadav said that the health department will expand testing, vaccination and also focus more on isolating the micro-containment zones in the city. “We have also recommended that micro-containment zones should be increased in the city and directions in this regard have been issued by the authorities,” he said.“People should wear masks, avoid gatherings and those in isolation should monitor their vitals regularly to avoid complications,” said Yadav.On the testing front, the health department collected 12,067 samples and reported that the results of 7,679 patients were awaited.Meanwhile, in the review meeting held by the chief minister, Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram stated that 40-50% of beds in general wards were reserved for Covid-19 patients. He also said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district and an HCS (Haryana Civil Services) official has been deputed for allocation of oxygen for hospitals.Garg also said that the positivity rate of Covid-19 patients in the district stood at 22-23% and that 200 to 300 patients of the 2,500 to 3,000 cases every day require hospitalisation.The nodal officer will ensure proper allotment of beds to patients and hospitals have been asked to inform how many patients were admitted on the recommendations of district administration, an order issued by the deputy commissioner stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients-increased-as-cases-shoot-past-3500-101619112950658.html
22-04-2021||Other||Oxygen Express to reach Lucknow on Saturday||The Oxygen Express – the oxygen-loaded train— is expected to reach the state capital on Saturday, carrying around 60,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Officials with Northern Railways (NR) said, they are expecting more such trains in the near future that will mitigate the ‘oxygen crisis’ that has emerged following the sudden spike in demand of LMO. The initiative is part of the UP government’s move under which it had approached the Railways to help them out in bringing LMO from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha in order to meet the increased demand of LMO in state, especially in Lucknow, Varanasi and Faizabad. Sanjay Tripathi, divisional railway manager (DRM), NR Lucknow, who is tracking the train’s movement, said that the train is expected to leave Bokaro, Jharkhand, tomorrow. “Since it’s around 805km run from Bokaro to Lucknow, the train with an average speed of 63km per hour—that is double the speed of a truck—will take around 16 hours to cover. Hence, the train loaded with LMO is expected to reach Lucknow by Saturday,” said Tripathi. The Oxygen Express left Lucknow on Wednesday night and will reach Bokaro and get the oxygen chambers filled, on Thursday night. As soon as this process is completed, the train will commence its return journey, the DRM added. Initially, there were plans to send around seven empty oxygen chambers to Bokaro. However, despite several trials and following technical glitches, only three oxygen chambers could be sent. Officials said that roughly one chamber has a capacity of around 20,000 litres. “Currently, only three oxygen chambers could be sent. However, in later phases more such trains could be run to Bokaro and other plants to fetch oxygen,” he added. The entire exercise is being carried out under strict supervision of additional chief secretary (ACS) home, transport department and the food safety and drug administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-to-reach-lucknow-on-saturday-101619111450672.html
22-04-2021||Other||As acute Oxygen shortage hits Lucknow, citizens travel to other cities in search||Due to the rising number of deaths of Covid-19 patients caused by oxygen shortage in the state capital, people have started arranging for cylinders from other places.People from Lucknow are travelling to Barabanki, Sitapur, Rae Bareli, Lakhimpur, Hardoi, Shahajahnpur, Bareilly, Moradabad and as far as Uttarakhand to get oxygen cylinders. The places continue to become farther everyday as authorities in Lucknow fail to make arrangements for oxygen.On Wednesday, Sukhdev Singh a resident of Alambagh drove over 300 kilometres to Moradabad to buy an oxygen cylinder for his elder brother suffering from complications caused by Covid-19. “I decided to go to Moradabad when I failed to arrange an oxygen cylinder in Lucknow. It is also very hard to get him admitted to a hospital and his oxygen level was going down,” Singh said.Like Singh, 22 other people from Lucknow bought oxygen cylinders from the same firm: Basant Gas Company in Moradabad in the last two days. Dileep Singh, owner of Basant Gases Company, said, “In the last three-four days, more than 20 people from Lucknow have purchased oxygen cylinders from us. We have received more than a 100 inquiries from Lucknow for the availability of oxygen cylinders. We have kept some stock for our local customers and have started to decline requests from other cities.”Similarly, in Bareilly, some 240 kilometres from the state capital, traders of oxygen cylinders are receiving desperate inquiries from people in Lucknow. “More than 80% of our sales in the last week have been made to people from Lucknow. Now, even our stocks have ended and we are declining orders of people from Lucknow,” said Mahendra Pal of Ashoka Gas Company in Bareilly.Gas traders in Bareilly have exhausted their stocks and have written to the district administration to make arrangements for the liquid with which they make oxygen, so that they can continue the supply of oxygen. “Earlier, we use to get the supply of the liquid twice every week. But now this liquid is being diverted to other cities. We have asked the authorities to restart our supply so that we can meet the demands of our customers,” said Rajendra Gupta, owner of Medical Gas Company in Bareilly.The stocks of gas traders in Barabanki, Lakhimpur, Sitapur, Hardoi, Rai Bareli have also been exhausted in the last few days due to the rise in demand from Lucknow.Not just oxygen, people from Lucknow are also travelling long distances to get Remdesivir. In Lucknow, the drug has vanished even from the black market where it was being sold at exorbitant rates. “I managed to get four vials of Remdesivir from Lalitpur district near Madhya Pradesh for my mother. The drug is not available anywhere in Lucknow,” said Somesh Kumar Rai, a resident of Telibagh area here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-acute-oxygen-shortage-hits-lucknow-citizens-travel-to-other-cities-in-search-101619111330597.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 26,169 new Covid-19 cases as tally tops 950,000, positivity rate at record 36%||The national capital on Thursday added 26,169 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 306 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 956,348 and 13,193 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. A total of 851,537 people have recovered so far while the active cases are over 91,100, the bulletin showed.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi is currently at a record 36 per cent. More than 72,200 tests were conducted on Thursday of which 23,862 are rapid antigen while the remaining 48,346 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNaat tests, the bulletin added. The containment zones in Delhi have reached 22,000 while 46,585 patients continue to remain under home isolation.As several hospitals in national capital have been reported a severe shortage of oxygen supplies from the past few days, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday it will become difficult to save lives. Addressing a press conference, Sisodia pointed out that some hospitals have already run out of oxygen to treat the infected patients.Also Read| Kejriwal speaks to Khattar on oxygen supply, assured of full supportHe held Haryana and Uttar Pradesh responsible for the shortage of oxygen supplies in Delhi.“Major reason behind Delhi’s oxygen crisis is ‘jungle raj’ for oxygen by Haryana-UP. Their governments, officers and police aren’t letting supply from their oxygen plants come to Delhi. Our officers spoke to them, I tried to speak to GoI but things aren’t changing on ground,” the deputy CM said.Later, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar regarding this issue. Taking it to Twitter, Kejriwal said Khattar has assured him of full support to facilitate the transport of oxygen tanks from Haryana to Delhi.Meanwhile, 53,673 beneficiaries were administered vaccine doses on Thursday and the cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far has climbed to 2,776,631. The Delhi government is all set to inoculate residents above the age of 18 under the next phase of the nationwide vaccination drive which will begin from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-26-169-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-record-36-101619110870999.html
22-04-2021||Other||Palamu: SI killed, 4 constables injured in road accident||A sub-inspector (SI) was killed and four constables were injured in a road mishap in Palamu district in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, officials said, adding that the personnel were a part of a patrolling party from Nilambar-Pitamberpur police station in the district. Police said the patrolling party was on highway duty on Daltonganj-Panki road when the jeep fell into a road ditch near Bairiya More while trying to avoid colliding into a parked truck. “The mishap occurred after the driver of the patrolling jeep failed to sight the parked truck in the high beam from a truck coming from the opposite direction. The jeep fell into a ditch after hitting the parked truck, resulting in the tragic death of a young police officer,” Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said.The deceased SI was identified as Sunil Kumar Yadav, a resident of Koderma district. Locals and police rushed the injured to a community health centre (CHC) at Lesliganj for treatment, where Yadav was declared brought dead. The injured constables were referred to Medini Rai Medical College and Hospital (MMCH) for better treatment.The SP said, “The injured personnel were doing well.”In a separate development, a home guard jawan succumbed to injuries after he was crushed under debris of a gate that caved in at Medini Rai Medical College and Hospital at Pokhraha in Daltonganj on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Subhansh Kumar Singh, a resident of Tarhasi police station of Palamu district. An officer at Sadar police station said, “Singh, who was on duty at the medical college, was badly injured when the gate fell on him. He died while being taken to hospital for treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palamu-si-killed-4-constables-injured-in-road-accident-101619110250626.html
22-04-2021||Ranchi||Day 1 of lockdown: People throng vegetable markets, roads nearly empty in Ranchi||Barring grocery, vegetable and fruit markets, all major markets wore a deserted look on Thursday, while light movement was witnessed on roads on the first day of the week-long lockdown called Swasthya Suraksha Saptah (SSS).Chief minister Hemant Soren, while addressing citizens of the state on Thursday, said, “Swasthya Surakasha Saptah is aimed at saving lives of people from the pandemic. I understand some people might be facing problems due to the lockdown, but it has become necessary to break the chain of Covid-19. I will request people to not come out of their houses unless absolutely necessary and cooperate in the initiative, that I believe will help reduce the cases.”The spread of the virus can be assumed from the fact that the state recorded 53,065 cases in past three weeks (April 1 to 21), while 496 people lost their lives due the disease during the period. The state registered its highest 5,041 cases and 62 deaths on Wednesday this week.The situation was worse in capital city Ranchi which recorded 18,732 cases in just 21 days of the current month, while 137 people died due to the disease during the same period. Police were deployed at every strategic point in Ranchi on Thursday, while they tried to explain people about the importance of the week amid rising cases of coronavirus disease. Despite that, huge gathering of people was witnessed at the city’s Daily Market for purchase of vegetable and fruits. The police personnel deployed there urged people to stand at a distance in a bid to maintain Covid-19 protocol.Grocery, vegetable, fruit and liquor shops are exempted from the lockdown restrictions.Officer in-charge of Daily Market Police Station, Rajesh Kumar, said, “We tried to convince people on the very first day. If they do not follow Covid-19 protocol, we will take legal action.”Meanwhile, movement of vehicles was light on Thursday compared to normal days in Ranchi, even though transportation has not been restricted under the week-long lockdown. A large number of daily wage earners, mostly engaged in construction work, gathered at Lalpur Chowk as usual on Thursday morning.“I knew lockdown has begun. But, I need work to feed my three children. My husband has died. Who will feed my children if I do not work?,” said Kalawati Devi, a daily wager.However, police vacated the place, as they termed gathering of a lot of workers at one place as violation of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/day-1-of-lockdown-people-throng-vegetable-markets-roads-nearly-empty-in-ranchi-101619110190653.html
22-04-2021||Other||59 dead in 24 hours||PATNABihar reported 11,489 new Covid cases and 59 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of active cases to 69,868. The recovery rate, which stood at 81.47% on Tuesday, came down to 80.36% on Wednesday.Capital district Patna reported maximum number (2,643) of cases, followed by Gaya (945). The number of active cases in Patna stood at 16,547.Barring five districts of Banka, Kaimur, Kishanganj, Sitamarhi and Sheohar, the rest 33 districts have reported more than 100 positive cases on Wednesday, the reports of which were released on Thursday. Meanwhile, facing flak over shortage of Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients, the union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 24,500 vials of the anti-viral drug to Bihar as an interim allocation for the period from April 21 to April 30.“Nineteen states have been given this allotment by the government of India and six out of the eight domestic manufacturers will be supplying this to Bihar,” said Bihar’s principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit on Thursday. Of the 24,500 vials that the state would be getting during the period, 14,000 vials are being supplied by Zydus Cadila, 6500 from Hetro Pharma, 1000 from Mylan, 2000 vials from Cipla and 1000 from jubilant Pharma, he said. With regard to supply of oxygen, the principal secretary said that as per the government of India formula, the state government has placed the demand for 300 MTs of Oxygen. The state government, which has given a call to migrants to return at the earliest, has issued letters to all district magistrates to get ready with quarantine centres at every subdivision. “Every returnee, including migrants, will be tested and will be put in isolation wards if tested positive. The state government will meet their requirements, including food,” Amrit said. He said Bihar Medical Services Infrastructure Ltd have been authorized to procure 100 True Nat machines to ramp up the RTPCR testing and temporary structures will be set up in every district with oxygenated beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/59-dead-in-24-hours-101619110131119.html
22-04-2021||Other||500 medicos at two Patna hospitals test +ve, association write to govt||PATNAAmid the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, more than 500 doctors and medical staff have contracted the virus in two major government hospitals in Patna alone, prompting Bihar Health Service Association (BHSA) to write to the state government seeking a dedicated Covid care centre for health care workers. In a letter to principal secretary (health) Pratay Amrit on Wednesday, BHSA said it had received information from members that “no government official is taking any cognisance of doctors having contracted the virus on duty or of medical professionals whose families had also got affected”. Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors and nurses, have been infected during the second wave so far, its medical superintendent C M Singh told PTI. Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) superintendent Dr Indu Sekhar Thakur said more than 125 of its employees had tested positive so far. He said the list includes 70 doctors and over 55 nurses and other health workers. BHSA has demanded that the state government immediately constitute a cell to extend all support to medical and health workers affected by Covid, set up dedicated Covid care facilities by converting hotels as hospitals exclusively for treatment and isolation of families of medical professionals and also provide a group insurance of ₹1 crore to all medical professionals. “This a pitiable state of affairs. We are front line workers helping patients to fight Covid. But when we and our families are contracting the virus and falling ill, there is nobody to look after us. A large number of doctors in the state have contracted the infection and subsequently transmitted it to their families.But they are fending for themselves,” said Dr Dipak Kumar Singh, senior vice-president of BHSA and its spokesperson. He said government should use funds to provide group insurance instead of giving one month extra salary to medical professionals as announced. “I and my teenaged son are Covid positive. My wife is also not well.There is nobody to even buy medicines or other home essentials for us as we are all in home isolation. My gardener is now my only help as my driver is also positive. Nobody from the hospital or civil surgeon’s office has even bothered to call us to extend help,” said a senior doctor and member of BHSA, posted at a government hospital in Patna. He did not want his name to be disclosed. Another government hospital doctor in Patna , preferring anonymity, narrated how he had been running fever for the last 10 days, besides suffering from throat irritation, anxiety and loss of taste due to the infection. “Nobody is caring for us. I am isolated in my room and now only concerned about my family,” he said.Some of the doctors shared how they had to get their RT-PCR tests done at private labs after developing symptoms as the queue in getting tests at government facilities was long. “RT-PCR test results are coming after four to five days and till that time, doctors are getting more exposed. That is a risky affair and raising complications,” said another doctor, demanding that testing for medical professionals be scaled up. Principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit, reacting to the letter from BHSA, said all government hospitals had been instructed to keep dedicated beds for doctors and health care staff affected by Covid. On the demand for group insurance for medical professionals, he said the Bihar was the only state that had made provision to give additional one month’s salary to all medical professionals. “Besides, there is provision that family of those doctors dying due to Covid on duty would be entitled for full salary till retirement, apart from other benefits,” he said. Amrit said 95% of the doctors and medical care staff had received first dose of Covid vaccine while 74 doctors/ medical professionals had got the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/500-medicos-at-two-patna-hospitals-test-ve-association-write-to-govt-101619110130493.html
22-04-2021||Other||Remdesivir of no use for Covid patients: NMCH chief||PATNASuperintendent of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital in Patna, Dr Binod Kumar, has struck a strong note of caution against the indiscriminate use of Remdesivir, an anti-viral drug that has largely disappeared from Bihar and other parts of the country amid scramble by kin of patients, some of whom are paying exorbitant amounts for the drug in the black market. “Remdesivir is not suggested for patients admitted in hospitals with Covid-19 complications regardless of how severally ill they are, because there is currently no evidence that it improves chances of survival or reduces need for ventilation,” a note issued by Kumar late on Wednesday reads. The NMCH chief also directed his doctors not to prescribe Remdesivir.There has been rampant black-marketing of the drug in several parts of the state, including capital Patna, as the ground report suggests. An official familiar with the matter, who didn’t wish to be identified, said pharma companies supply the prescription drug to distributor/stockists, who sell it to medical stores, which, in turn, sell it to middlemen or medical representatives who finally offer it to patients at exorbitant prices. A medical practitioner said the maximum retail price (MRP) per vial (100 mg) for various brands of Remdesivir manufactured by pharma companies are ₹5,400 for Hetero, ₹4,700 for Mylan, ₹4,700 for Jubliant, ₹5,400 for Dr Reddy’s, ₹4,000 for Cipla, ₹2,450 for Syngene’s and ₹899 for Zydus and Cadila. But touts are offering Remdesivir, purportedly manufactured by Zydus, for ₹25,000 a vial, almost 25 times its MRP. “My father is critically ill. Almost all medical stores in Patna are out of Remdesivir. I had no choice but to pay ₹1.06 lakh to a middleman for four bottles of Remdesivir,” a patient’s son said, requesting anonymity. “We needed the injection for my uncle who was being treated for Covid-19. If you do not have money to pay for Remdesivir being sold in the black market, you have no option but to give up on the life of your loved one,” said Rajkumar, a native of Maner. “The pandemic has affected people financially. The government should provide this drug free or cap the price at ₹500 to ₹1,000 per vial. Like vaccines, it should be stocked everywhere in all centres,” said Sudhir Mahto of Khagaul. “We have ordered 50,000 units of Remdesivir injections for Bihar and we are expected to receive the consignment shortly,” said Manoj Kumar, special secretary, Bihar State Health Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-of-no-use-for-covid-patients-nmch-chief-101619110070596.html
22-04-2021||Lucknow||Hospitals continue to grapple with oxygen crisis in Lucknow||Oxygen crisis troubled patients for the second consecutive day here on Thursday as two patients allegedly lost their lives to poor supply of the medical gas at a private hospital in the city.An elderly man and a middle-aged woman succumbed to illness during treatment at the private hospital in Indira Nagar. The hospital administration denied that the deaths happened due to lack of oxygen, but admitted they were unable to provide the required level of the medical gas.“No death happened due to lack of oxygen. Both the patients were being given oxygen from the concentrators we have for the patients and were under treatment for the past few days. Yes, we needed more oxygen for increasing the flow of the medical gas and, for that, our 12 jumbo cylinders are awaiting refill at the oxygen plant since yesterday, but the agency is not giving us the gas,” said Richa Mishra of the hospital.Lucknow reported a total 19 deaths and 5,239 fresh Covid-19 cases during the day.The situation in other Covid and non-Covid hospitals wasn’t comfortable either as attendants were regularly called to shift their patients elsewhere while new admissions were stopped at many hospitals for lack of adequate oxygen.“Oxygen crisis has restricted admissions as admitting more patients will require more oxygen. Hence, primarily we are trying to manage patients who are already admitted and getting oxygen from all the sources from where we can,” said Dr Salman Khalid of the Fehmina Hospital, Trauma Centre and Blood Bank.“Arrange beds in another hospital or arrange oxygen for your patient yourself” — such messages from hospitals troubled attendants for the second day on Thursday as private Covid and non-Covid hospitals hardly admitted any patients for want of oxygen.“The hospital called up, saying there is only oxygen back-up for two hours and if it is not refilled, the patient will have to be shifted. You may please arrange bed at other hospital. As soon as I got the call, I rang every friend and all my contacts to get the oxygen cylinders filled so that I could give it to the hospital but nowhere could I find the medical gas,” said an attendant who had a relative admitted to a hospital in Gomti Nagar.Two private Covid hospitals have already put up a notice for attendants, informing them about poor oxygen supply while serious patients in hospitals across the state capital continue to get oxygen at the threshold of the stock.“I have 12 beds for Covid-19 patients but at present I have admitted only four. This is because I am able to manage oxygen only for these many patients. An ambulance with empty oxygen cylinders is standing at filling station since morning,” said Nishant Singh of Make Well Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hospitals-continue-to-grapple-with-oxygen-crisis-in-lucknow-101619109350558.html
22-04-2021||Pune||After Nashik tragedy, hospitals begin audit of oxygen tanks in Pune||PUNE: A day after 24 Covid patients died as oxygen supply was disrupted due to leakage, the Pune Municipal Corporation started audit of medical oxygen supply systems installed at various hospitals in the city. HT in its Thursday edition has reported PMC instructing civic-run and private hospitals to inspect oxygen tanks and supply network and fix if there are any leakages. Additional Municipal Commissioner, PMC, Rubal Agrawal also issued the written circular on Thursday to all hospitals. The circular mentioned, “All the private hospitals need to carry out safety audits of the storage tanks and pipelines with the help of third parties. After doing the audit, the hospital authorities need to submit the written reply to the Municipal Corporation.” Following the order, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Standing Committee chairman Hemant Rasne and Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar held a review meeting for oxygen supply and the safety of storage tanks. A team of PMC health department officials also visited Dr Naidu hospital to conduct audit of oxygen storage tank and supply system. Twenty-four Covid patients died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik as a fault in the tank’s valves caused the prescribed oxygen pressure to reduce, leading to oxygen deprivation. The hospital, a civic-run entity, was treating 157 Covid patients, of which 131 were on oxygen support and 15 were on ventilators. With sudden increase in the demand of oxygen, many hospitals in Pune have installed jumbo oxygen storage tanks and pipelines to connect it to ICU and from there to oxygen beds in the hospital. The city’s oxygen demand, according to PMC authorities, has went up to 300 metric tonnes per day. The Pune Municipal Corporation run hospitals require 42 metric tonne oxygen per day and rest is to other private hospitals. Pune city has around 190 small and big hospitals treating Covid patients with allocated bed capacity of 10,991. The entire district has 475 Covid hospitals with 27,542 allocated beds. After the Covid-19 surge, the local bodies like PMC and district administration have started erecting new Covid hospitals and the oxygen facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-nashik-tragedy-hospitals-begin-audit-of-oxygen-tanks-in-pune-101619108930371.html
22-04-2021||West||Mamata Banerjee cancels all her meetings as Election Commission revokes permission for rallies due to Covid-19||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday cancelled all her pre-scheduled election meetings and public rallies following an order from the Election Commission of India (ECI). The poll body put a ban on all rallies in the state due to a surge in number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases."In the wake of upsurge in #COVID19 cases across the country and the ECI Order dated 22nd April, 2021, I am cancelling all my prescheduled meetings and we will reach out to the people virtually. We will be sharing the updated schedule of the virtual meetings shortly," Mamata Banerjee tweeted.In the wake of upsurge in #COVID19 cases across the country and the ECI Order dated 22nd April, 2021, I am cancelling all my prescheduled meetings and we will reach out to the people virtually.We will be sharing the updated schedule of the virtual meetings shortly.A few hours earlier, the ECI ordered that no roadshows or rallies will be allowed for the West Bengal assembly elections from 7pm on April 22 (Thursday) and permissions granted previously for such rallies and roadshow stands cancelled.However, public meetings with a strength of less than 500 people are permitted, but with all the strict Covid-19 safety and social distancing norms.Also read | PM Modi cancels visit to Bengal on Friday, to hold review meetings on Covid-19The poll body cited the surge in Covid-19 cases and the failure of political parties to adhere to such Covid-19 norms as the reason for the order. "...the Commission has noted with anguish that many political parties/candidates are still not adhering to the prescribed safety norms during the public gatherings and this is making it difficult for the State/District election machineries to enforce the aforesaid directions fully;...," the ECI noted in its order.Almost a week ago, on April 16, the ECI had issued new orders increasing the silence period for campaigning in the state to 72 hours from the 48 hours existing then. The commission also prohibited any campaigning between 7pm and 10am on all campaign days due to increasing Covid-19 cases."In view of unprecedented public health situation and the imperative of ongoing elections, the commission today (Friday) extended the silence period up to 72 hours (instead of 48 hours) and restricted the period of campaign up to 7pm (instead of 10pm). These orders have come into effect immediately," the commission's April 16 order said.Further, it also directed the organisers of rallies and campaigns to provide facemasks and hand sanitisers to the attendees of such rallies and also asked them to ensure the proper usage of these measures.Watch | Vaccine pricing row: Mamata Banerjee & Sonia Gandhi lash out at PM ModiAmidst the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country, campaigning for the assembly elections became a key point of contention between the political parties in the fray.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is currently under isolation after testing positive on April 20, announced on April 18 that he is suspending all his political rallies in the state following the rise in number of cases. "In view of the Covid situation, I am suspending all my public rallies in West Bengal. I would advise all political leaders to think deeply about the consequences of holding large public rallies under the current circumstances," Gandhi tweeted, appealing to other political leaders to follow suit.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday evening, announced that he has cancelled his visit to the state on Friday and would instead hold a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the country. He is also scheduled to interact with the chief ministers of states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases at 10am and with leading oxygen manufacturers in the country at 12.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/west-bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-cancels-all-her-meetings-as-election-commission-of-india-revokes-permission-for-rallies-due-to-covid-19-101619107450749.html
22-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 12,384 new Covid-19 cases take state's tally across 450,000-mark||Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 12,384 fresh coronavirus cases, which took its overall count to 4,59,195, the state health department said.On Wednesday, the state had reported its highest one- day spike of 13,107 cases.As 75 patients succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, the death toll reached 4,863.A total of 4,863 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, pushing the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 3,69,375, the department said.With 1,781 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 96,330, while that of Bhopal rose to 75,405 with the addition of 1,729 cases.Indore reported 10 deaths, taking the toll in the district to 1,079, while the fatality count in Bhopal rose by five to 692, the officials said.Indore is now left with 12,738 active cases, while Bhopal has 9,773 such cases.There are 84,957 active Covid-19 cases in the state.With 50,974 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the number of samples tested so far in the state rose to 72.84 lakh.The coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 4,59,195, new cases 12,384, death toll 4,863, recoveries 3,69,375, active cases 84,957, number of tests so far 72,84,554.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-12-384-new-covid-19-cases-take-state-s-tally-across-450000mark-101619104894291.html
22-04-2021||Pune||O2 production restriction, migrant workers returning homes impact small industries in Pune||Pune: The restrictions on industrial use of oxygen and lockdown norms seeing a rise in migrant workers returning home have badly hit the industries in Pune district. Though fewer migrants are leaving the district as compared to last year, small industries admit that their businesses have suffered after the implementation of fresh restrictions. “There are 5,000-6,000 small and big industries in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area employing over two lakh migrant workers. Around 25-30% labourers have returned to their hometowns anticipating a full-lockdown like last year. Small scale industries are facing shortage of skilled labour. Operators and staff in many industries have been infected by Covid-19. So, production units are facing losses,” said Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, Maharashtra. The government’s directive to reserve 100% oxygen production for medical use because of the deteriorating Covid situation has impacted the ancillary units in auto sector that depend on industrial oxygen. According to Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan industry, in the automobile sector, maximum parts are made through welding where oxygen is necessary. “So, there is an impact on these industries in the absence of oxygen supply,” said Batwal. On migrants returning to hometowns, Batwal said that 20-25% workers have returned and even workload has reduced. “There is no acute scarcity of labour, but it may arise in future. We are trying to convince them to stay,” said Batwal. The labour commissionerate, however, countered the claim saying that reverse migration of workers during this time of the year is a routine process. He said that the daily work of automobile industry is affected by lack of oxygen supply. “Since the past six days, we have started a ‘Help Centre’ at Pune railway station and review workers who are returning to homes. We have observed that in some cases the return journey was pre-planned due to personal works such as family functions. It is a routine development that the workers from UP and Bihar go back in this season and resume work after Dussehra,” an official said. While the state government has imposed restrictions in Maharashtra, industrial units have been exempted from these curbs. Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) director-general Prashant Girbane said on the possible economic impact, “There could be a reduction up to 1.5% in Maharashtra GSDP (FY 21-22) as against what was presented in Budget 2021. While the aggregate numbers help a great deal, they also conceal - for example the disproportionate impact on informal workforce and those in contact based services.” Not only industrialists but those in related services are concerned about the reverse migration of workers. “In the current situation, there is extreme fear of unemployment and health risk among the workers. They have started migrating to their towns and it’s impacting the production process. If the scenario remains the same, it will lead to a massive shortage of manpower in industry,” said Shankar Salunkhe, founder-president, Vibrant HR Professionals Association, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/o2-production-restriction-migrant-workers-returning-homes-impact-small-industries-in-pune-101619104970146.html
22-04-2021||Other||22 persons have died on railway tracks in 2021||In the last four years, a total of 437 persons have lost their lives on railway tracks in Pune, under the Pune government railway police (GRP) station. This year, till April 20, 22 persons died on the tracks, even amid Covid restrictions. On April 18, a 57-year-old Army officer of the rank of Brigadier, posted at the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) in Pune, succumbed to injuries from being crushed under a moving train at the Pune railway station. The police during a preliminary probe suspect it to be death by suicide. As per the statistics shared by the railway police, “A total of 207 people died in 2018; 194 in 2019; 124 in 2020; and 22 in 2021 (till April 20). Before lockdown, 250 trains used to ply in the Pune railway division daily. However, from March 25, 2020, till May 2020, railway traffic was closed. Since June 1, 2020, trains started plying again and now about 100 trains are running daily.” Mishaps have occurred on railway tracks between Pune and Lonavala; Hadapsar and Baramati; and in Pune. According to senior police inspector Suresh Singh Gaud, the jurisdiction of Pune railway police extends from Lonavla station to Daund station Section 144 of the Railways act states that trespassing on the railway tracks is a punishable offence with imprisonment upto six months, and, or fine upto ₹1000. Last year while Railways was busy trying to prevent migrant labourers from walking on the tracks in the wake of the Aurangabad incident, 124 died on tracks under Pune railway police jurisdiction. In May 2020, 16 migrants, who were walking to Bhusawal from Jalna and had fallen asleep on the tracks and were run over by a goods train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-persons-have-died-on-railway-tracks-in-2021-101619104670187.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 67,013 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai continues downward trend and adds 7,367 cases to its tally||Maharashtra on Thursday registered 67,013 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the caseload to over 4.09 million, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 568 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday. This is the second consecutive day the daily death figures were at 568. Maharashtra’s total cases now include 62,479 deaths, 3,330,747 recoveries and nearly 700,000 active cases, the bulletin showed.The capital city Mumbai, however, continued to report a downward trend in its daily Covid-19 disease cases at 7,367 which pushed the city’s caseload to 609,080. Seventy-five people died on Thursday and total deaths across Mumbai climbed to 12,583.As the cases and deaths in Maharashtra have been spiraling, it was expected the state will be going into complete lockdown mode as the same was earlier hinted by health minister Rajesh Tope and several other ministers in the cabinet.However, the Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government on Wednesday night came up with new stringent regulations to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease in Maharashtra. These include restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance and marriages.Issuing an order, the government said inter-city and inter-district travel is only permitted for essential services, medical emergencies and funerals. Only 25 people are allowed to attend marriages and the function cannot extend beyond two hours.Offices run by central, states and local governments can function with 15 per cent attendance but those providing emergency services for Covid-19 management are exempted. All other government and private offices have to function with 15 per cent attendance or five people- whichever is more, the order said.As Maharashtra is suffering from an acute shortage of oxygen supplies, hospital beds and essential drugs such as Remdesivir, the Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the state government to file their replies by May 4 on the management of all these resources to fight the pandemic.A bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni told the Maharashtra government that not a single person should be denied a Covid-19 test on account of the lack of a valid doctor’s prescription for the same, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-67-013-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-continues-downward-trend-101619102871448.html
22-04-2021||Other||25-year-old daily wage labourer murdered in Katraj||PUNE A 25-year-old man was murdered in Pune in the late hours of Wednesday, by a group of at least four accused. The police suspect some of the group members to be minors. The deceased has been identified as Saurabh Lekawale (25), a resident of Katraj, who was a daily-wage worker, according to police.The incident happened in an open area in Ambegaon Pathar area of Katraj.The police suspect the men got into a fight with Lekawale.“The deceased has a criminal history. Around seven months ago he was in a fight with boys from his neighbourhood. The complainant suspects that it was because of that fight that he was attacked,” said police inspector (crime) Sangita Yadav, of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s relatives.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25yearold-daily-wage-labourer-murdered-in-katraj-101619102750138.html
22-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka logs biggest single day spike of 25,795 Covid-19 cases, 123 deaths||Karnataka registered another biggest single day spike of 25,795 new cases of Covid-19, and 123 related fatalities on Thursday, taking the total number of infections to 12,47,997 and the death toll to 13,885, the Health department said.The state had previously reported its biggest single day spike of 23,558 cases on Wednesday.A total of over 2,41,79,169 samples have been tested so far, of which 1,62,534 were tested today. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 15,244 new infections.The day also saw 5,624 patients getting discharged after recovery.As of April 22 evening, cumulatively 12,47,997 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 13,885 deaths and 10,37,857 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin.According to the bulletin, out of 1,96,236 active cases,1,95,993 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 243 are in ICU.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 15.87 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.47 per cent.Bengaluru Urban reported 68 deaths, Kalaburagi (11), Ballari, Dharwad and Tumakuru (5), Bengaluru Rural, Hassan and Mandya (4), followed by others.Tumakuru accounted for 1,231 new cases, Ballari 940, Mysuru 818, Hassan 689, Kalaburagi 659, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 5,98,919, followed by Mysuru 64,811 and Ballari 44,477.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,55,655, followed by Mysuru 58,687 and Ballari 39,974.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-logs-biggest-single-day-spike-of-25-795-covid-19-cases-123-deaths-101619101746509.html
22-04-2021||Other||Pharmacist arrested for selling Remdesivir on black market at Rs10K a vial||PUNE A pharmacist has been arrested for selling Remdesivir at exorbitant rates on the black market has been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday.Remdesivir is a drug used to treat Covid-19 patients,The arrested man has been identified as Ankit Vinod Solanki (26), a resident of Sukhwani Complex in Dapodi.The police had received information about a man of Solanki’s description selling Remdesivir on the black market in Kondhwa.The police sent a decoy customer and contacted Solanki who called him near a restaurant in Kausarbagh, Kondhwa, according to a statement issued by the Pune police.“He took the customer to a lane besides the restaurant and showed him two injections. For one injection he asked for ₹10,000. He demanded ₹10,000 cash and ₹10,000 through an online transfer,” read the police statement.Solanki, a pharmacist by profession, stole another person’s prescription and wrongfully used it to buy the drug from Sanjeevani Medical store at Sassoon General Hospital.He allegedly confessed to have illegally sold injections procured from Sanjeevani Medical, according to the statement.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, Drugs Prices Control Order, Essential Commodities Act, and Drugs and Cosmetics Act has been registered at Kondhwa police station against Solanki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pharmacist-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-on-black-market-at-rs10k-a-vial-101619101550061.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Nashik tragedy: Oxygen supply at hospital restored, FIR against unidentified person||Pune: A day after 24 Covid-19 patients died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik in north Maharashtra, the city police chief on Thursday appointed assistant commissioner of police-level officer to probe the incident while registering a first information report (FIR). The FIR was registered at Bhadrakali police station under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code over allegations of gross negligence following oxygen supply disruption that led to the deaths at the civic-run Zakir Hussain hospital, said police commissioner Deepak Pandey. “We have lodged an FIR for negligence against unidentified persons and probe is on,” said Pandey. The leak in Nashik incident was on account of a fault in the tank’s valves that caused the prescribed oxygen pressure to reduce, leading to oxygen deprivation. The hospital was treating 157 Covid patients, of which 131 were on oxygen support and 15 on ventilators. “We have been able to restore the oxygen supply at the hospital,” said Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare. He met a delegation of private doctors and members affiliated to Indian Medical Association, Nashik, to discuss the acute shortage of supply of oxygen to private hospitals. Earlier on Wednesday evening, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope after visiting the hospital in Nashik, said, a seven-member high-powered committee will probe the incident. “Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game will chair the committee which will have deputy director from state health department Dr PN Gandal, city-based intensivist Pramod Gunjal, professor Dyandev Nathe, Nashik municipal corporation additional engineer Sandeep Nalawade, FDA joint director Madhuri Pawar and Harshal Patil, an expert involved in installing oxygen plants,” said Tope. The tank from which liquid oxygen leaked became operational just 21 days before the incident, an official said. “The oxygen tank, having a storage capacity of 13 KL, was started on March 31,” said a senior police official. He said the police also got to know that the oxygen tank belonged to (Vadodara-based) Inoxcva company and was taken on rent for 10 years from Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (a Japanese company which supplies industrial gases like oxygen and nitrogen to industries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-tragedy-oxygen-supply-at-hospital-restored-fir-against-unidentified-person-101619101490018.html
22-04-2021||Other||Facebook contact dupes 60-year-old of ₹4 crore in “gift-stuck-at-airport” scam||PUNE A 60-year-old woman from Pune has been duped of ₹4 crore through an online gift fraud, initiated by someone she became friends with on Facebook.The complainant holds a senior position in a major private company, the names of which the police refused to reveal.The woman received a friend request in the first week of April 2020 from an account that had an English national’s credentials, including photo, according to her complaint.The account holder then asked for her WhatsApp number and started chatting with her on it. The two were corresponding through social media for five-six months. The unnamed accused then told the victim he was sending her an iPhone for her birthday.However, the accused later told her that her gift was stuck at customs at Delhi airport.“It started with an iPhone and he kept adding to it - jewellery, foreign currency, and other valuables. They also put the fear of the customs department coming after her if she does not retrieve the gift from them,” said police inspector Ankush Chintaman of the cyber police station, who is investigating the case.The woman made 207 transactions within six months to 67 different bank accounts in various states of India, according to police. A total of ₹3,98,75,500 was transferred from two of the victim’s bank accounts.“All the transactions are cash transfers. They had spent months in gaining her trust. When the numbers involved started coming off and unresponsive, she realised that she had been duped,” said PI Chintaman.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), and 385 (extortion, puts any person in fear of injury) and Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at the cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facebook-contact-dupes-60-year-old-of-rs-4-crore-in-gift-stuck-at-airport-scam-101619101252806.html
22-04-2021||Other||Nigerian held with cocaine worth Rs4 lakh in Kondhwa||PUNE A Nigerian national has been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday, in possession of cocaine worth ₹4 lakh, in Kondhwa.The man, identified as Shamsuddin Omotola Hasan (48), is a resident of Sankla Exclusive Vista Society in Pisoli. The man is a native of Lagos in Nigeria, according to police. The man intended to sell the drugs, a statement by the police claimed. The drugs in his possession were found be worth ₹4,16,000. Along with the drugs, the police found five mobile phones worth ₹15,000; one Yamaha motorcycle worth ₹50,000; cash of ₹20,000; and a weighing scale worth ₹1,000. The total seizure was estimated to be worth ₹5,02,000.The 48-year-old was found at the gate of Brookefield Society when the officials of the crime branch were patrolling the Kondhwa area at 2:50am on Wednesday.The crime branch officials who made the arrest were from Anti-Narcotics Cell-1 of Pune police crime branch, led by Senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad.A case under Sections 8(c), 22(b) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 has been registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nigerian-held-with-cocaine-worth-rs4-lakh-in-kondhwa-101619100829897.html
22-04-2021||Other||State edu minister plans vaccination drive on varsity campuses for students aged above 18||PUNE From May 1, all above the age of 18 years will be eligible to get the Covid vaccine. Considering this, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant has appealed to all 13 universities in the state to vaccinate students. With the help of the state government, Samant is planning a separate vaccination drive at for universities so there will not be a crowd at the regular vaccination centres. There are approximately 3.7 million students in the 13 state universities across Maharashtra. “Looking at the current situation, vaccination needs to be done aggressively. From May 1, people above the age of 18 will get the jabs, so I had a discussion with the state chief minister to make arrangements for a student vaccination drive. Accordingly, a large number of students will be vaccinated and we can start the next academic year, 2021-22, in a safe environment,” said Samant. “It is a good option to make separate arrangements for students either on the university premises or elsewhere, to get the jabs,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of student organisation, Students Helping Hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-edu-minister-plans-vaccination-drive-on-varsity-campuses-for-students-aged-above-18-101619100349949.html
22-04-2021||Other||Wedding in two hours: couples, families frustrated; virtual celebrations catching on||PUNE For Shailesh Kshirsagar, new guidelines issued by the state government yesterday about strict restrictions on wedding ceremonies, are a matter of concern. “Our wedding is scheduled for April 28 and as per the earlier guidelines, we were going to invite only 25 persons from both the sides. Now, it is stated that only two hours will be given for rituals. It is not possible to conduct an entire wedding in two hours. The government should rethink this decision,” said Kshirsagar. As per the latest Covid norms declared on Wednesday by the state government, the wedding must end in two hours.Manmeet Kaur’s daughter’s wedding is scheduled for next week. “We have invited only 20 persons from both the families and the wedding is going to happen in a private hall near our house in Kondhwa. It was to be a day-long event where all the safety precautions were to be taken. Limiting the time to two hours is not correct, as weddings cannot happen in a couple of hours.”Meanwhile, a new trend of inviting guests online is emerging. Families send a YouTube link on social media to their friends and relatives, and on the day of the wedding the link is activated and people can attend the wedding ceremony virtually. One such wedding, of Swagata Kadgaonkar, is scheduled on April 24 in Pune. Sucheta Kadgaonkar, Swagata’s sister, said, “As we cannot invite more than 25 people for the wedding, we decided to make it a virtually a grand event. An online video and streaming team have been contracted and they have already created a link on YoTube for the wedding day. We sent it to all our relatives, friends and guests and all of them are excited to attend the wedding virtually. From morning till evening, all the rituals will be streamed ‘live’ and people can watch it on YouTube.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wedding-in-two-hours-couples-families-frustrated-virtual-celebrations-catching-on-101619099869896.html
22-04-2021||Lucknow||'Governance failure in UP': Congress' Priyanka Gandhi slams state government's response to Covid-19 second wave||Alleging a governance failure in Uttar Pradesh in the face of the Covid-19 second wave, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the Yogi Adityanath dispensation long ceased to act as a protector and support system for the people in the state and has increasingly assumed the role of an "aggressor".In an interview with PTI, the Congress general secretary in-charge for Uttar Pradesh also said the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was simply another reflection of the UP government's "arrogant, autocratic and inhuman attitude" towards the people of the state.Her remarks came amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday reported a record single-day spike of 34,379 Covid-19 cases and 195 fatalities. This has pushed Uttar Pradesh's infection tally to 9,76,765 and the death toll to 10,541.Asked about the grim Covid-19 situation in the state, the Congress leader said the fundamental issue is that the government in UP has long ceased to act as a protector, facilitator and support system for the public."It (the state government) has increasingly assumed the role of an aggressor. The handling of the Covid pandemic is simply another reflection of its arrogant, autocratic and inhuman attitude towards the people of UP," she said.The biggest failure has been in governance as there has been no planning, no preparation and no foresight whatsoever, the Congress leader alleged."Countries all over the world faced a second wave -- what did we learn from them? How did we use the gap between the first and second wave to prepare UP for what was inevitably going to come?" she asked.The UP government's own serosurvey results showed 5 crore people were exposed to the virus which was indicative of a second wave coming, she said."The government was advised to exponentially ramp-up testing. What happened? They reduced overall testing, switched to up to 70 per cent antigen testing and ignored their own serosurvey reports," she said, hitting out at the state government.Rather than putting every single resource into saving lives and combatting the pandemic, the UP government is still wasting time and resources on "covering up" the truth, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged."The government has let people down. Their incompetence and lack of clarity is exacting an unprecedented human cost that no one should ever have had to pay," she said.On the alleged lack of preparation to deal with the second wave, she said, "How else can the Chief Minister and his government explain that despite having months of time between one wave and the other, no effort was made to increase UP's capacity for hospital beds, for oxygen or for the availability of Covid medication.""How else can they justify the number of hurdles they have placed before the public as it suffers through the horrors of the pandemic?" she asked.She also asked where else in the world does one need approval from the district medical officer or the district magistrate to get admission to a hospital in the middle of a devastating pandemic."It is unheard of. How can the government justify that only 30 per cent of the testing being done in UP is RT-PCR and 70 per cent is antigen testing? Reports from across the state are coming in that private labs are being verbally instructed not to test. What kind of governance is this?" she said.The UP government has been rejecting criticism by opposition parties on its handling of the Covid-19 situation.The Congress leader had earlier accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding coronavirus figures and said had they been cautious from day one, people would not have witnessed such times.Earlier this week, she had slammed the "red-tapism" in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that lives were lost because Covid-19 patients needed permission from the district chief medical officers to get admission in hospitals.In a letter to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, the Congress general secretary had urged the creation of a database of available hospitals and beds so that people can seek admission directly.She had also flagged the issue of oxygen availability, saying she had been told that people need permission from the district magistrate for the hospital admission. She had called for the removal of all such rules causing difficulties for families of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/governance-failure-in-up-congress-priyanka-gandhi-slams-state-government-s-response-to-covid-19-second-wave-101619098584106.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal makes vaccination of 18-44 age bracket free||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, in a meeting on Thursday, decided to vaccinate people in the 18 to 44 age bracket free of cost in the wake of spurt in coronavirus cases in the hill state. The Cabinet, which was headed by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, also directed all government officials employed at hospitals or health institutions to vaccinate themselves. Mobile teams will be formed at the block level to provide better treatment to the patients under home isolation and a vehicle will be exclusively assigned for shifting critical patients to hospitals, the Cabinet decided. Each medical college will have a dedicated team to supervise Covid cases. It decided to provide incentives to outsourced employees engaged in tackling the Covid pandemic. Each employee will be paid an additional ₹200 per shift. Patients under home isolation will get a nutrition kit, the Cabinet decided. Services to be regularisedThe body also decided to regularise the services of daily and contingent workers who have completed five years of continuous service as on March 31, 2021 or will complete service on September 30, 2021 against the available vacant posts in different departments; contractual employees who have completed three years of services as on March 31, 2021 or will complete three years on September 31, 2021 in different departments of the state government. Part-time workers completing eight years of continuous services in government departments will be made daily wagers. Nineteen posts of technical and ministerial staff at the state Seri Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Centre at Balichowki in Mandi district will be advertised. The Cabinet accorded consent to fill two posts of block development officers in the rural development department through direct recruitment. It also gave its nod to open a Government Industrial Training Institute at Baroti and creating of 26 posts in different categories. The CM and his cabinet colleagues contributed one month’s salary to the chief minister’s Covid fund. Thakur handed over the cheques to chief secretary Anil Khachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-makes-vaccination-of-18-44-age-bracket-free-101619099150437.html
22-04-2021||Other||Seniors at retirement homes have “lonely” new routine due to Covid crisis||Retirement homes across the city have a different current routine due to the Covid crisis. Visitors are not allowed and donations have dropped.“Not only donations, but weekend visitors - relatives or school/college students – are not allowed to visit. Senior citizens used to enjoy the presence of students as they used to celebrate birthdays - playing games and sharing fruits and cakes. All activities have stopped now,” says Ramesh Devkule, manager of the Matoshree home in Karve nagar.Even though most of the homes are run by trusts, donations play a big role in the upkeep.“Earlier, people used to come forward and donate. Now due to a financial crunch, they have stopped. And we cannot ask because of the Covid crisis,” said Devkule.Fewer visitors have left the senior citizens restless.“But for a few months, this year we have not played any games with students. With colleges and schools shut, many are not visiting the homes,” says an inmate at Matoshree, requesting anonymity.“We have a capacity of 100 people, but now we only have 74 inmates. Management has restricted new entries currently. We make sure all 74 live a healthy and safe life,” said Devkule.Video chat for relativesManagement does organise video chat sessions for relatives.“We have strictly moved to video meetings. Earlier, it was hard for senior citizens, but now they are getting used to technology. Still, most enjoy physical meetings and we will resume once the situation becomes normal,” said Ravindra Marathe, trustee of Niwara home in Sadashiv peth.Vaccination drivesThe homes have made sure that all the seniors get their vaccinations, since most are above the age of 60.“Currently, we have only 15 senior citizens and all have got their vaccination done. We had informed their relatives and completed the procedure. None of the seniors have faced any health problem due to Covid-19 as of now,” said Arvind Maklur, manager of Anand Dham on Apte road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seniors-at-retirement-homes-have-lonely-new-routine-due-to-covid-crisis-101619098489818.html
22-04-2021||Jaipur||‘Ensure good coordination with Centre on medicines, oxygen, Covid-19 vaccine’: Rajasthan CM’s appeal to state MPs||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday appealed to the Members of Parliament (MPs) from the state to ensure coordination with the Centre regarding the issue of oxygen, medicine and vaccine supplies for Covid-19.“I appeal to all the honourable MPs of the state to please take up Rajasthan’s case seriously in Delhi regarding oxygen and medicines. The honourable members should also come forward to ensure good coordination between the centre and the state on matters of medicines, oxygen and vaccines,” Gehlot tweeted in Hindi.In his appeal he also sought the attention of the MPs to the state’s issue until April 30. “In the opinion of experts, the time till April 30 will be extremely difficult and so all the honourable MPs should pay special attention to this until then,” he said in a subsequent tweet.Also read | At review meet, PM Modi gives suggestions to boost oxygen availability amid Covid-19 spikeThe chief minister’s appeal came after the state reported a fresh spike of 14,622 new Covid-19 cases and 62 fatalities on Wednesday, according to a bulletin from the state health department. Over 450,000 people have tested positive and 3,330 patients have succumbed to the disease so far in the state, according to government data.Earlier on Wednesday, state health minister Raghu Sharma spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and urged him to allocate 325 MT of liquid medical oxygen to the state by the end of April which is an increase from the 250 MT allocated to Rajasthan currently, news agency PTI reported citing an official statement. Sharma also asked for an additional allocation of 120 tonnes of Oxygen to tackle the ongoing Covid-19 emergency in the state, the report said.In a letter to the Union health minister, Sharma also pointed out that the state’s active caseload stood at over 85,000 on Wednesday (96,366 active cases according to latest data) and hence the increase in the demand for medical oxygen. He also asked the Union government to ensure a steady supply of the Remdesivir drug.Watch | ‘Not a comfortable situation’: Satyendar Jain on Delhi’s oxygen & ICU bedsMeanwhile, many other states, including the national capital of Delhi, have also complained of shortages in medical Oxygen supply as the country is gripped by a rapid increase in daily new cases in the second wave of the pandemic. More than 300,000 cases were reported across the country on the day, its highest single-day spike in infections.Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high level meeting to review the oxygen supply across states and also discussed the ways to increase the availability, a statement from his office said. Modi stressed on the need for faster transportation of medical grade oxygen to various states, the statement also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ensure-good-coordination-with-centre-on-medicines-oxygen-covid-19-vaccine-rajasthan-cm-s-appeal-to-state-mps-101619093199008.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps authorities for apathy in tackling shortage of oxygen, medicines||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench pulled up the authorities for reducing the oxygen supply to Nagpur to 60 metric tonnes and directed restoration of 110 metric tonnes immediately as it held a rare hearing across three sessions that lasted till around 11.00pm on Wednesday. It pulled up the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and pharmaceutical companies for failing to rise to the occasion to help Covid-19 patients as it directed raids against hoarders, black-marketers and supply of at least 100 antiviral remdesivir vials to the government-run Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur.The court hit out at the “callous and negligent conduct” of the authorities in complying with its directions to supply remdesivir to Nagpur. It refused to adjourn the hearing unless its April 19 order directing the supply of 10,000 vials of remdesivir injection was complied with.A division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and S M Modak expressed displeasure over affidavits of FDA and district administration “virtually washing their hands” and “passing the buck” to pharmaceutical companies. It found the affidavits to be contradictory. “You are violating fundamental rights of the people,” the bench said and asked whose business was it to procure remdesivir.Also Read | Support Maharashtra instead of doing politics: Congress to Devendra FadnavisThe court blamed the authorities for shirking responsibilities and lamented the plight of Covid-19 patients in the state. “If you do not feel ashamed of yourself, then we feel ashamed of being a part of this nasty and evil society. We cannot do anything for the unfortunate patients of Maharashtra. This is how we are shirking our responsibilities. You are neglecting and ignoring our patients. We give you [a] solution, you don’t follow it. You do not give us [a] solution. What absolute nonsense is going on here?” Lawyer MG Bhangde, who appeared for the state, told the court about the difficulties in compiling information and collating the facts.The court directed the Drug Controller of India to remain present virtually or personally on Friday in the court at 2.30 pm and directed him to explain steps taken to ensure equitable and fair distribution of remdesivir in Maharashtra and other states. The court pointed out that the drug controller had powers under Drug Control Act and several other statutes to direct pharmaceutical companies to increase production, ensure proper supply, and also take stringent action in case of non-supply or deliberate undersupply. The court noted that Maharashtra accounted for 40% of Covid-19 patients and added that the Union health ministry instead of increasing its oxygen quota reduced it. It held the second hearing in the matter in the high court auditorium and directed an immediate meeting of Nagpur’s Covid-19 Task Committee and also distributors, and stockists of life-saving drugs. The court also sought action against black marketers. Within two hours, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, district collector Ravindra Thakare and the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B obtained assurances from the seven drug manufacturing companies about the supply of 6,752 additional vials of remdesivir by Thursday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-authorities-for-apathy-in-tackling-shortage-of-oxygen-medicines-101619092430104.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||'Distance makes the heart grow fonder': Mumbai man wanting to meet girlfriend during curfew gets witty reply from police||Mumbai is grappling with a huge surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The administration has put in place strict curbs to check the movement of the people and stop the spread of the disease. But that isn't stopping people of the city from making requests to go out.One such request came from Ashwin Vinod, who asked the Mumbai Police what colour-coded sticker should he use to go out and meet his girlfriend. The police's reply was prompt, and courteous."We understand it’s essential for you sir but unfortunately it doesn’t fall under our essentials or emergency categories! Distance makes the heart grow fonder & currently, you healthier. P.S. We wish you lifetime together. This is just a phase," the police replied to Ashwin Vinod's tweet.We understand it’s essential for you sir but unfortunately it doesn’t fall under our essentials or emergency categories!Distance makes the heart grow fonder & currently, you healthier P.S. We wish you lifetime together. This is just a phase. #StayHomeStaySafe https://t.co/5221kRAmHpThey also used the hashtag #StayHomeStaySafe to give the message that it's safe to be at home during Covid-19.At present, Section 144 of the CrPC - that prohibits assembly of five or more people at one place - is in force in Mumbai and other parts of the state due to rising Covid-19 cases. The city police has made it mandatory for the vehicles in emergency/essential services to put up colour-coded stickers in a bid to limit the vehicular movement.The circular 6-inch stickers come in three colours: red, green and yellow.The vehicles used by doctors, medical staff (including ambulances) sport a red sticker. Those involved in transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries and dairy products will have stickers in green. If a person in travelling to the airport or ATM, he has to paste a yellow sticker on his vehicle.Police are implementing the prohibitory orders in a strict manner and action is being taken against the vehicles, which are out on the streets without any valid reason.Meanwhile, the reply by the police was well received and widely appreciated by the users on the micro-blogging site."Very thoughtful reply in these trying times. Each person has their own essentials. Please keep us engaged with witty responses and we are forever grateful for your service! You take care of Mumbai like no one else does! All of you stay safe and healthy!" Twitter user Satyan Israni said.Mumbai police's Twitter handle has more than 50 lakh followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-wanting-to-meet-girlfriend-during-curfew-gets-witty-reply-from-police-101619091569544.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three trains cancelled due to low occupancy amid Covid surge||Owing to low occupancy amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Northern Railways has decided to cancel three trains, including the New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, from Saturday till further orders. In an official communication on Thursday, the railways said that “poorly patronised special trains” such as train number 04517/18 (Kalka-Shimla-Kalka), 04053/54 (New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi) and 04525/26 (Ambala-Sri Ganganagar-Ambala) will remain cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-trains-cancelled-due-to-low-occupancy-amid-covid-surge-101619091470069.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in Haryana: Shops to close at 6 pm from Friday, ban on non-essential gatherings||In view of increasing coronavirus cases in the state, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Thursday announced that all shops will remain closed from 6 pm onward in Haryana from Friday.In a tweet, Anil Vij said, "All shops will remain closed from 6 pm onward in Haryana from tomorrow (Friday), all non-essential gatherings are banned, anybody holding any function within the prescribed limit will have to seek permission from concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM)."Haryana government on April 12 imposed a night curfew in the state amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases.There are as many as 33,817 active cases in Haryana so far, said the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-in-haryana-shops-to-close-at-6-pm-from-friday-ban-on-non-essential-gatherings-101619090465471.html
22-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan police bust Remdesivir black marketing racket||The Jaipur police on Wednesday arrested three persons and detained another three for alleged black marketing of antiviral drug Remdesivir, also used for treating severe Covid-19 symptoms. The initial investigations show that the black marketing chain unearthed in Jaipur could extend to Gurugram in Haryana, said police.Police claim the accused were caught selling the drug at 15 times higher the original price. The drug has been in short supply in several states amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. Its supply is currently regulated and the Rajasthan government barred chemists from selling it directly earlier this week. Several people have been booked in the past few days across the country for either hoarding or selling the medicine in the black.“The second wave of Covid is at (its) peak and so is the demand for Remdesivir injection. City police received information about the black marketing. Hence, a decoy operation was put in place under the supervision of additional commissioner of police (additional CP) Ajay Pal Lamba, deputy commission of police (DCP) crime Dignat Anand and the city police commissioner’s special team (CST) team,” said Anand Srivastava, commissioner of police (CP), Jaipur city.CST members posed as customers looking to buy Remdesivir medical shops in the city.“One of the medical shops located in Murlipur police station area was ready to deliver Remdesivir injections ...three persons identified as Jaiprakash Verma, Dalveer Singh and Vikas Mittal were arrested, and four (Remdesivir) injections were recovered from their possession,” said Jaipur CP.A case against the trio was lodged under Section 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Essential Commodities Act and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Medical and health department has been informed about the arrests.“During the investigation it was found that Verma is the owner of the medical store and was selling the (Remdesivir) at ₹15,000 per injection. He (Verma) told police that he purchased these injections from Singh. When Singh was quizzed, he confessed that he bought these injections from Mittal, who further told police that he brought these injections from one Basant Jangid,” said Lamba, additional CP. The price of the drug, manufactured by different labels, ranges between ₹900 and ₹3,000 in Rajasthan.Jangid, when detained, told police he purchased 725 doses of the injection from two men in Gurugram, identified as Vikram Gurjar and Shankar Mali.“Mali, Gurjar, and Jangid are been quizzed. We are trying to unearth the entire chain,” said Lamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-bust-remdesivir-black-marketing-racket-101619090690085.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla hospitals struggle to cope with Covid rush||Hospitals in Shimla district are struggling to cope with the rising number of Covid-19 patients. The main Covid-designated hospitals, Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla, Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, and Dharamshala Zonal Hospital in Kangra district are packed to capacity or are seeing a heavy footfall these days. Also read: Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movementIGMC senior medical superintendent Janakraj Pakhretia said: “We have 150 beds, and they are all occupied. More beds are being placed to meet the growing demand. Right now, we have adequate stock of oxygen and medicines.” Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla that has been designated as a Covid hospital has a total bed capacity of 90 beds of which 55 are occupied at present. Its medical superintendent Rajendra Mokta confirmed adequate stock of medicines. The rush is more at IGMC because it is a tertiary hospital where Covid cases from districts such as Kullu, Bilaspur and Kinnaur are being referred besides the influx from Shimla district. In view of the increasing caseload, the IGMC authorities changed the OPD timings two days ago. Most patients prefer home isolation Himachal Pradesh has total capacity of 2,302 beds and so far, 35% of the beds are occupied across the state. A total of 802 beds are occupied. A majority of the patients suffering from Covid-19 prefer home isolation. Takes 48 hours to get test reports Due to the rush, people in Shimla have to wait for nearly 48 hours to get their Covid test reports. Shimla has only one laboratory at IGMC to check for Covid, while the other nearby facility is the Central Research Institute in Kasauli, which caters to samples collected in Solan and Sirmour districts. Kangra, Solan and Shimla face the brunt As on April 21, there were 10,793 active cases in the state. Kangra had the maximum of 2,382 active cases followed by 2,103 in Solan and 1,179 in Shimla. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the two Covid treatment facilities, RPGMC, Tanda, and Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, have a total of 238 Covid beds. “There are 108 beds at Tanda of which 97 are occupied and 110 of 130 beds at Dharamshala are occupied,” Prajapati said. He said the district administration has also talked to private hospitals and 75 beds have been put on standby in these institutions. The Covid care centre with 40 beds has been reopened at Dadh near Dharamshala. “The number of beds at this facility can be increased to 500 within 24 hours, if required,” he said. “So far, we have adequate supply of oxygen at our major hospitals and the number of ventilators is sufficient,” he said. 12.5 lakh in 45+ age group vaccinated so far Himachal Pradesh has vaccinated more than 12.5 lakh people in the age group of above 45 years so far. “We don’t have any guidelines for vaccinating the population above 18 years yet,” National Rural Health Mission Dr Nipun Jindal said, adding that the state has adequate stock of oxygen and injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-hospitals-struggle-to-cope-with-covid-rush-101619089970280.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal speaks to ML Khattar on oxygen supply, assured of full support||As hospitals in Delhi grapple with shortage of oxygen to treat critical Covid-19 patients, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to his Haryana counterpart. The two chief ministers spoke about the oxygen supply, with Kejriwal saying he has been assured of full support."I spoke to Hon’ble CM of Haryana Sh Manohar Lal Khattar ji. Sought his support in facilitating the transport of oxygen trucks from Haryana to Delhi. He has assured full support," Kejriwal tweeted.I spoke to Hon’ble CM of Haryana Sh Manohar Lal Khattar ji. Sought his support in facilitating transport of oxygen trucks from Haryana to Delhi. He has assured full support.Khattar said that one of the plants producing oxygen in Panipat has a capacity of 260 metric tonnes (MT). "140 MT oxygen allotted to Delhi. Arvind Kejriwal rang me up today and the matter has been resolved," the Haryana chief minister said.Earlier, Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the main reason behind the oxygen shortage crisis in Delhi is the 'jungle raj' by the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments. At a press conference, Sisodia alleged that despite the Centre's increased oxygen allocation to the national capital, government officials and police of the two states were not allowing the oxygen supply to leave for Delhi.He had made a similar charge on Wednesday too, which was rejected by the Haryana government."No supply has been stopped to Delhi, this is not true," Haryana's Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan told news agency PTI. Faridabad deputy commissioner Dr Garima Mittal denied allegations that oxygen supply to Delhi had been stopped from a plant in Faridabad.The Centre, meanwhile, stepped in to ensure that uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along inter-state borders. A directive was issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla under the stringent Disaster Management Act 2005 in the wake of reports that some states blocked supply of medical oxygen to other states amid sudden spike in coronavirus cases and demand for it.The order said there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free inter-state movement of oxygen carrying vehicles.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting on the issue where he asked top officials to work rapidly on increasing the production of oxygen, boost the speed of its distribution and use innovative ways to provide oxygen support to healthcare facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-speaks-to-khattar-on-oxygen-supply-assured-of-full-support-101619089472447.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||‘Patients will die’: Top Delhi doctor breaks down over oxygen crisis in city hospitals||As several hospitals in Delhi report shortage of medical oxygen, Sunil Saggar, CEO of Shanti Mukand Hospital, broke down in an interview with news agency ANI, saying that only two hours of oxygen was left in his hospital due to which “patients may die”.Also Read | Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM Kejriwal“We’re hardly left with any oxygen. We have requested the doctors to discharge the patients who can be discharged. Whatever cylinders are there we’re trying to put them on ICU beds,” Saggar said. “Whatever volume of oxygen we have we’ve tried to tweak it so that it can last a little more. If at all something is there, it may be for two hours or something,” he further said.Also Read | Ensure no restriction in supply of oxygen for Covid-19 patients: MHA to statesOn the question of patients who require oxygen, Saggar said there were 110 such patients, of which 85 who need more than five litre oxygen supply per minute. There are 12 patients on ventilator, the senior doctor also said.“There are cancer patients, cardiac patients. It’ll will be very deplorable, unfortunate condition. We as doctors we’re supposed to give life, if we can’t give them oxygen, patients will die,” Saggar said, breaking down into tears.#WATCH | Sunil Saggar, CEO, Shanti Mukand Hospital, Delhi breaks down as he speaks about Oxygen crisis at hospital. Says "...We're hardly left with any oxygen. We've requested doctors to discharge patients, whoever can be discharged...It (Oxygen) may last for 2 hrs or something." pic.twitter.com/U7IDvW4tMGAs daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reach unprecedented high in the national capital, several top hospitals have reported shortage of medical oxygen. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia have both flagged the issue to the Centre, and have even accused the neighbouring state of Haryana of blocking Delhi’s oxygen supply. On Wednesday evening, Kejriwal tweeted that the Centre has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen.Central govt has increased Delhi’s quota of oxygen. We r very grateful to centre for this.Also Read | 'Will be tough to save lives after some time': Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia's SOS over oxygen supplySeveral hospitals had to move the Delhi High Court seeking directions over restoration of oxygen supply. However, on Thursday, the Supreme Court took suo moto cognisance of the present Covid-19 situation in the country, including oxygen and essential drugs supply, asking the Centre to present a national plan covering various Covid-19 related issues. The matter will again be heard on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/patients-will-die-top-delhi-doctor-breaks-down-over-oxygen-crisis-in-city-hospitals-101619087848630.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Support Maharashtra instead of doing politics: Congress to Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday asked Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to set aside political differences and support the state in its efforts to tackle the "alarming" Covid-19 situation.The need of the hour is to see how lives of citizens can be saved by providing them (Covid-19 patients) Remdesivir and oxygen, Patole, whose party shares power in the state with the Shiv Sena and NCP, said in a statement."Instead of co-ordinating with the central government to ensure the state gets adequate medical aid, Fadnavis and other BJP leaders in the state only want to work to put the state government into trouble," he alleged.Patole said instead of "behaving irresponsibly", Fadnavis and other state BJP leaders should be the "voice of Maharashtra" at the Centre.He asked Fadnavis to set aside political differences and show his commitment towards the state.The Congress leader said Covid-19 is a "national calamity" and still Maharashtra had to struggle to procure medicines and medical equipment from the Centre.Maharashtra needs 50,000 Remdesivir injections daily and the Centre has allocated only 26,000 vials per day. "Such bias is not good," Patole said."Fadnavis should become the voice of Marathi people in Delhi. If Fadnavis and other BJP leaders can show haste in getting a Remdesivir black-marketeer released from police station, they should show similar urgencyin saving people's lives," the Congress leader said.Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves.The Mumbai police on Saturday questioned an executive of a pharmaceutical company following information that a large number of Remdesivir vials were going to be flown abroad by air cargo, despite a ban on the export of the drug.On learning that the pharma firm official was being quizzed, Fadnavis and another state BJP leader Pravin Darekar had rushed to the police station on Saturday night."Amid the pandemic, the Centre was exporting Remdesivir and oxygen to other countries. Instead of paying attention to constructive suggestions of Congress leaders, the BJP mocked them," Patole alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/support-maharashtra-instead-of-doing-politics-congress-to-devendra-fadnavis-101619086719885.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir threatens protest over delayed payment to farmers||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday threatened to launch an agitation if the Punjab government does not streamline the wheat procurement system by the weekend. Badal, who visited grain markets at Goniana and Maulka, said farmers are being harassed due to delayed purchase. Lamenting the Punjab government’s failure to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, he demanded an investigation into the claim that the state has spent ₹1,000 crore to strengthen health infrastructure to fight the spread of the infection. In view of the pandemic, the state government has banned all social and political gatherings. Gatherings of more than 20 people, including weddings and cremations, have also been banned across the state. However, Sukhbir visited the two purchase centres with a large group of his party workers and public relations team. As he was blaming the state for the rising number of Covid-19 cases, several of his team members at Goniana and Maluka were seen violating Covid-appropriate behaviour. On Wednesday, the district police arrested eight people after registering an FIR for hosting a celebratory function in which more than 20 people were present at the Civil Lines Club. Sukhbir himself did not adhere to social distancing and several among his team were without masks. No appeal was made to farmers, mediapersons or his SAD activists to follow the guidelines. He said farmers have been waiting at the mandi for over 12 days and the agencies have not bought grains. “More than 40% of farmers await payment and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has not intervened. In the interest of farmers, the SAD will wait for the government’s action to redress farmers’ problems in the next three days,” he said. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said he would seek a detailed report from the district mandi officer. “Social distancing should be followed as this is a crucial time of medical emergency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-threatens-protest-over-delayed-payment-to-farmers-101619086130065.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||'Ensure compliance with MHA order on oxygen supply': Delhi high court tells Centre||More hospitals in Delhi moved the high court on Thursday, pleading the replenishment of oxygen so that they can continue providing care to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. The fresh one to approach the high court is Saroj Super Specialty in Rohini.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli heard a fresh matter by Saroj after a plea from Max Healthcare on Wednesday. It once again asked the Centre what steps have been taken to ensure proper oxygen supply to hospitals.Also Watch: ‘Not a comfortable situation’, Delhi minister Satyendar Jain on oxygen crisisThe Delhi govt told the court that oxygen plants in Durgapur, Rourkela and Kalinganagar (in Odisha) have been asked to deliver oxygen to hospitals in Delhi. "The intention is there, but the plants are at far off places making it difficult for them to bring oxygen. It will take two days," said senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government.The judges then suggested getting the oxygen from nearby plants, saying the some states are not letting the supply of the allocated amount of oxygen. "That is something you have to handle," said the court."What is the use of allocation if it is not going and reaching from where it is required?" said the judges.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre, assured that the requirement for oxygen will be met, and said this is not the time for A government versus B government.The high court directed the Centre to ensure strict compliance of the allocation order issued by the Union home ministry on Thursday, and its own order on April 21."We also direct all the authorities to ensure the strict compliance of the order. We want to make it clear that this order is implemented immediately and action would be taken against the non-compliance," said the bench."We direct that all the oxygen as per the allocating order, to ensure that adequate security is provided to the lorries transporting oxygen and there is no obstruction is created. Special corridor may be created," it further said.The high court's direction came after a home ministry official joined the hearing. The official informed the court that the MHA is continuously in touch with nodal officer of Delhi for smooth supply of oxygen to hospitals.The home ministry on Thursday sent an order to all the states saying that there shall be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen and stressed that the supply cannot be limited to any particular state.Meanwhile, the Saroj Hospital received oxygen supply after running on backup cylinders for 4.5 hours. The hospital had to discharge patients and stop new admissions.In its petition, the hospital sought direction to the Centre, Delhi government and Inox, which supplies oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, to immediately supply 3000 cubic metres of oxygen and continue the same on a daily basis during the current Covid-19 wave.While haring Max's plea on Wednesday, the high court directed the Centre to beg, borrow or steal or do whatever to supply medical oxygen to hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-a-time-for-a-vs-b-centre-says-in-hc-on-oxygen-supply-101619085131599.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||BJP workers face farmers’ wrath in Patiala||Farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws disrupted a meeting of BJP workers in Patiala on Thursday a short while before party vice-president Harjit Singh Grewal’s arrival. The BJP workers, including party executive member Gurtej Singh Dhillon, 43, were meeting to introduce Patiala constitutency’s newly appointed in-charge Subhash Verma at Bandela Mandir. Also read: ‘Will be tough to save lives after some time’: Sisodia’s SOS over oxygen supplyThe farmers gathered and started raising slogans against Grewal, who was yet to arrive. The protesters were at loggerheads with the BJP workers, but the timely intervention of the police helped avert a clash. Patiala BJP president Harinder Singh Kohli said: “We were safely evacuated.” Satnam Singh, a farm activist, said they will continue protesting against BJP leaders. “We held a peaceful protest outside the venue and didn’t allow them to hold any meeting,” he said. DSP Yogesh Sharma said the protesters were dispersed to avoid crowding. “We are identifying those who violated Covid norms. Suitable action will be taken,” he said. Later, the protestors blocked the main road near the bus stand, but the police cleared the stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-workers-face-farmers-wrath-in-patiala-101619084870141.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||'Will be tough to save lives after some time': Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia's SOS over oxygen supply||The issue of oxygen shortage is serious in Delhi and it will be tough to save lives after some time, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He also said that some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely.“We’ve been making internal arrangements for now, but it will become tough to save lives after some time,” Sisodia said at a press conference and added he has been receiving emails and messages regarding the shortage.“Some Delhi hospitals have run out of oxygen completely. They have no options left,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also accused the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh of blocking Delhi’s oxygen supply.“Major reason behind Delhi’s oxygen crisis is ‘jungle raj’ for oxygen by Haryana-UP. Their governments, officers and police aren’t letting supply from their oxygen plants come to Delhi. Our officers spoke to them, I tried to speak to GoI but things aren’t changing on ground,” Sisodia said.Speaking about the Centre’s decision on Wednesday to increase the supply of oxygen in Delhi and some other states, Sisodia questioned why neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were behaving as if they had some dispute with Delhi and added all have to be united against the pandemic.He also urged the Centre to take the assistance of paramilitary forces if required and ensure the supply of oxygen - critical for serious Covid-19 patients - to Delhi.Delhi and Haryana have been engaged in squabble over the oxygen crisis. The Delhi government has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Haryana of stopping supplies into the national capital.However, the Haryana government termed this allegation as baseless and said the supply was interrupted due to technical reasons. “No supply has been stopped to Delhi. This is not true,” state health minister Anil Vij told news agency PTI on Wednesday and claimed that one of the oxygen tankers going to Delhi from Faridabad was looted by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-be-tough-to-save-lives-after-some-time-sisodia-s-sos-over-oxygen-supply-101619083412378.html
22-04-2021||Dehradun||Covid-19: Registration on Smart City portal, negative RT-PCR test mandatory to enter Dehradun||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country, tourists, devotees and others coming from outside Uttarakhand will only be allowed into Dehradun after registering on the Smart City Portal.Additionally, a negative RT-PCR test not older than 72 hours will be mandatory, Dehradun District Magistrate informed.People returning to the state will have to undergo a mandatory 7-day quarantine.The state is currently observing a night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in light of the rising coronavirus cases.As many as 4,807 new cases, 894 recoveries and 34 fatalities were reported in the state in the last 24 hours. The case tally stands at 1,34,012, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid19-registration-on-smart-city-portal-negative-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-to-enter-dehradun-101619082640081.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Hailstorm in Shimla brings down mercury||Shimla and its surrounding areas donned a white mantle after a hailstorm on Thursday. More than an inch of hail got accumulated on the streets of Shimla even as reports of damage were received from apple orchards in Matiana and Narkanda. “There were twin western disturbances in the region that resulted in thunder and hailstorm. The weather will normalise in a day,” Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said. Also read: Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM KejriwalThe high-altitude areas of Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti districts got fresh snowfall. Roads beyond Atal Tunnel remained closed for traffic for the second day on Thursday due to the snowfall. The night temperature in Shimla dipped to 4 degrees Celsius as it received 82.6mm of rainfall. Dharamshala got 22mm and Manali 4.4mm of rainfall. 87 passengers rescued from Baralacha Pass Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Himachal Pradesh Police and the district administration rescued 87 passengers, including two women and four children, from the 16,000-foot Baralacha Pass. “They were stranded following heavy snowfall and skidding of vehicles since April 20. Though rescue began the same day, it got delayed due to poor visibility and blizzards,” a BRO spokesman said, adding it took nearly 30 hours in sub-zero temperatures to bring everyone back to safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hailstorm-in-shimla-brings-down-mercury-101619082650222.html
22-04-2021||Patna||Bihar relying on MGNREGS to employ migrants returning from big cities||Bihar government has directed that all migrant workers returning to the state amid the second wave of Covid-19 infections are given job passes and work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) among other central schemes, said officials.C P Khanduja, director and commissioner, MGNREGA, said the rural development department has already received approval for creating 20 crore man-days of work under the scheme for the new fiscal year and plan to raise it to 30 crore man-days anticipating higher work demand due to the influx of migrants. Respective district magistrates (DMs) have been given the responsibility to gainfully employ the returnees, said the official.MGNREGA guarantees a minimum 100 days of unskilled work to rural households at wages fixed by the Centre. The central scheme was extensively used last year to provide temporary jobs to many of the roughly 2.5 million migrants who returned home during the Covid-induced lockdown last year. Bihar, home to one of the largest migrant workforce, is again relying on the scheme to engage migrants returning from industrialised states such as Delhi, Maharashtra and Haryana during the ongoing second wave of the virus.Khanduja said funds were not a problem now since the Central government was expected to release ₹1,000 crore as wage instalment for 5 crore man-days in the first quarter. A MGNREGA man-day refers to a day of work provided to a beneficiary under the scheme.In generating man-days, Bihar was much behind fellow states like Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan with huge migrant populations.In the last fiscal Bihar created 22 crore man-days; whereas UP created 39 crore, Bengal 41 crore and Rajasthan 45 crore.“We performed as per our target,” Khanduja said, adding there were issues regarding delayed fund flows from the Centre in January and February this year. “The state’s government initially targeted 18 crore man-days in the last fiscal, which was revised to 20 crore man-days. In February, it was revised to 22 crore,” he said.Khanduja said Bihar created 7 crore man-days in May and June last year, which was a record of sorts. “It shows there was high job creation when migrants were returning home after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed,” he said.The opposition however pointed out that a very few migrant workers got 100 man-days of work under the scheme even last year. State Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president and former minister Jagdanand Singh said the scheme failed to meet the job demand of the migrants due to “flawed implementation” and alleged “discrepancies” at the block and panchayat levels.“...The government is not able to provide 100 days of work to even 10% of job card holders as against the number of those registered because there are a lot of gaps in the system of work demand by labourers. There is no transparency,” he said.The MGNREGA commissioner said low wages under the scheme in comparison to the wages offered by the state government was a big reason for lesser job demand. As against ₹198 per man-day under the scheme, unskilled labourers were paid ₹304/day by the state, as per the revision effective from April 1, 2021.Singh doesn’t agree fully, he says a lot needs to be fixed in the implementation of the scheme before raising the wage question.“Government should first tell whether the panchayat bhawans maintain registers detailing how many people sought jobs? ... Besides, why does the government not publicise the projects to be undertaken at the local level to attract workers? Has the state taken up the issue of low wage rate under MGNREGS with the Central government despite Bihar’s rate being much lower than many other states?,” Singh questioned.Education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, when asked about the state’s lower rating in terms of man-days, said, “There has been a quantum jump in job card holders and work has been given as per demand.”Professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary, noted economist and former principal of Patna College, said the man-days generated by Bihar last fiscal shows the government has lagged behind in giving jobs under the MGNREGS.“Bihar is largely a migrant state and creating only 22 crore man-days of work was a poor show in the face of huge inflow of migrants,” he said. He also pointed out that dependence on MGNREGS is flawed since the job guarantee scheme was meant for unskilled workers, whereas many returning migrants were skilled and semi-skilled workers.‘Government had carried a skill mapping but no white paper was issued on how many jobs have been created and employment provided to semi-skilled and skilled workers in the last one year. The migrant problem is persisting because semi-skilled and skilled workers are not getting matching jobs and the MGNREGS is unable to fully absorb the unskilled workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-relying-on-mgnregs-to-employ-migrants-returning-from-big-cities-101619080189775.html
22-04-2021||Kolkata||Most single-screen theatres in Kolkata to shut amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Most of the single-screen theatres in Kolkata will shut down for an indefinite period as the city grapples with the second wave of the coronavirus, an industry official said on Thursday.The alarming rise of Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks forced most of the single-screens to take the extreme step for public safety, an office-bearer of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association said.Single-screens such as Navina, Menoka, Jaya, Ajanta and Orient are among the theatres downing their shutters from Friday, he said.Screenings will not be started before the situation turns conducive for the public to enjoy a film at a theatre without the fear of infection, he added."We have no alternative. We were chugging on despite poor footfall since October last year when the cinema halls reopened after lockdown. The surge in Covid-19 cases is another blow. We cannot afford to be oblivious to the emerging situation," said Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta Cinema and a multiplex chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/most-single-screen-theatres-in-kolkata-to-shut-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101619079772123.html
22-04-2021||Other||Odisha varsity V-C booked for abetment to suicide||The Odisha police have booked three people, including the vice-chancellor (V-C) of a university in the Sambalpur district, for allegedly abetting the suicide of a contractual employee on Tuesday. The employee allegedly doused himself with petrol before setting himself afire inside the V-C’s chamber. He was referred to Cuttack for treatment but succumbed to his 90% burn injuries on the way.The employee had been working as a technical assistant at the university since 1993, but his service was not regularised despite several requests.Sambalpur police superintendent B Gangadhar said the V-C and the two others would be interrogated.Also Read | Odisha cancels Class 10 boards, no decision on Class 12 exams yetThe V-C allegedly humiliated the employee for apparently leaking the information of the felling of trees in front of the university’s administrative building.The employee earlier wrote a letter to the registrar of the university accusing the V-C of abusing him over felling of trees and leaking the news to the local media. “He used filthy words against me. He threatened to throw me out from the hostel and accused me of stealing some furniture. When I asked him for proof, he threw me out of his room,” the employee wrote in the letter. He added as an underpaid employee, he was being unfairly targeted by the V-C. “I am going to commit suicide today if the vice-chancellor does not apologise in front of all employees as he has accused me without any fault of mine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-varsity-v-c-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-101619079829804.html
22-04-2021||Kolkata||Fix one price for Covid vaccine, irrespective of who pays: Mamata to Centre||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that the Centre must fix one price irrespective of who pays – Centre or state.“One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can’t have one price for vaccine. Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays— Centre or the States,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday announced it will sell its anti-Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covishield, for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹600 to private hospitals in the country.Also watch | Vaccine pricing row: Mamata Banerjee & Sonia Gandhi lash out at PM Modi﻿﻿The firm made the announcement after the Centre on Monday allowed Covid-19 vaccine makers to sell their vaccine in the open market in India at a pre-decided rate.Also Read | ‘Not a different price’: What Adar Poonawalla says on Covishield price rowWhile addressing mediapersons on Wednesday, Banerjee had said that she would write to the Prime Minister over the differentiation in pricing of vaccines and urged the Centre to intervene.“Vaccines, which were sold to the Centre for ₹150, will now be sold to states for ₹400 and to private hospitals for ₹600. There should not be any discrimination. In times of an emergency do you help people or do business?” Banerjee had said on Wednesday, while speaking the media.The West Bengal government has set aside ₹100 crore for universal vaccination scheduled to take off on May 5, soon after election results are declared, the chief minister has already announced.“The private manufacturers fix the pricing taking into account the production cost, scientific input and market demand. In an open market the manufacturers have the right to fix it. She should say on what ground the centre can interfere in fixing the price of a medicine. Why is she not negotiating with the company directly?” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, state vice-president of BJP.Globally, American vaccines in the open market currently cost about ₹1,500 per dose, Russian and Chinese vaccines cost around ₹750 per dose.The chief minister had in February written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over allowing the state to purchase vaccines so that free vaccination could be started.“Now that the number of cases in the second wave is spiraling, the Centre has chosen to tactically indulge in empty rhetoric and shy away from its responsibility for making vaccines available to the people,” she said in a letter to Modi on Tuesday after the Union government opened Covid-19 vaccination for everyone above the age of 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fix-one-price-for-covid-vaccine-irrespective-of-who-pays-mamata-banerjee-to-centre-101619079109775.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi asks for more oxygen amid acute shortage. CM says supply quota not enough||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday reiterated that the national capital is facing an oxygen crisis over the past few days and said that the increased quota fixed by Centre a day ago is still not enough to meet the spiralling demands amid a more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Kejriwal appealed to the Centre for more oxygen, pointing out that Delhi does not produce oxygen on its own and hence has to depend on other states for supply.Also Read: Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM KejriwalWith several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre on Wednesday had raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes. Drawing attention to these numbers, the Delhi chief minister on Thursday said that the union territory needs 700 tonnes per day, so the increased quota of 480 tonnes/day is still not enough.दिल्ली में ऑक्सीजन की कमी ना हो, इसके लिए हम पूरी मेहनत कर रहे हैं। मुझे यक़ीन है कि अगर हम सब एक साथ ‘भारतीय’ बनकर लड़ेंगे, तो हम कोरोना को हरा देंगे | Press Conference LIVE https://t.co/v1pizxm3ZD"Delhi is facing an oxygen crisis for the past few days. Centre fixes oxygen quota for all states. As per the Delhi government's estimate, the union territory needs 700 tonnes/day, the central government had fixed it to 378 tonnes earlier and increased it to 480 tons yesterday. We need more but we're thankful to them for this," news agency ANI quoted Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as saying.The Delhi chief minister further said that in addition to fixing the oxygen quota for several states, the central government also allots companies that will supply oxygen to a particular state. "Delhi doesn't produce oxygen, supply here is done by other states. Some of the governments, in whose states these companies are, had stopped the supply that was to come to Delhi from these companies," he said.Kejriwal's statements come a day after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia alleged that an official of the Haryana government had stopped oxygen supply to Delhi from a plant in Faridabad. A similar incident took place in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. This led to a crisis in some hospitals, Sisodia had said, adding the oxygen supply was later restored.Also Read: Covid-19: Urge Centre to increase quota of oxygen in Delhi, says Manish Sisodia as Capital continues to see shortageSpeaking in a similar vein, Delhi CM Kejriwal on this day said, "Governments said that they'll use the oxygen in their states first, use Delhi's quota too and that they'll not let trucks come to Delhi. But I would like to thank the Centre and the Delhi high court for their help. Due to this, oxygen has once again started reaching Delhi." He said that under the increased quota, oxygen is scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha as well, albeit with some delay. "We are making an effort to see if we can bring oxygen from there by the air route," the chief minister said.Hospitals in Delhi have been warning that their supplies of medical oxygen given to severely ill Covid-19 patients are running low. Earlier this day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the current stock of medical oxygen may run out in six to 10 hours, depending on the situation in each hospital.Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28% -- meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive -- amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 18 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 11 pm, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-asks-for-more-oxygen-amid-acute-shortage-cm-says-supply-quota-not-enough-101619074424363.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Another inquiry ordered against former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government has ordered another inquiry against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh two months after inspector Anup Dange wrote to the state home department and the chief minister’s office accusing the former of corruption, top officers said on condition of anonymity.Dange said his complaint has been transferred for inquiry by the director-general of police, Sanjay Pandey, while refusing to comment further. In his complaint, a copy of which HT has seen, Dange has alleged Singh suspended and ordered a departmental inquiry against him in 2020 to shield a Mumbai pub owner in a criminal case.Dange said earlier in 2019 when had gone to shut the pub for operating beyond the stipulated deadline, the owner allegedly boasted about his close ties with Singh. The pub owner later allegedly helped some accused involved in assaulting a police constable escape.Dange has claimed he got calls from senior police officers asking him not to name the pub owner and a film financier’s grandson involved in assault in the First Information Report. He added when he booked all the accused including the pub owner, they threatened him with consequences.Also Read | CBI quizzes Anil Deshmukh for 11 hours in corruption caseAfter Singh became the commissioner in 2020, he allegedly transferred Dange and suspended him pending a departmental inquiry. Dange has alleged a relative of Singh contacted him on his behalf and demanded ₹2 crore to reinstate him. He said the demand was later reduced to ₹1 crore.Dange claimed to have evidence to back his claims and demanded an inquiry.Singh is facing another preliminary inquiry by Pandey on the basis of the report submitted by Mumbai police chief Hemant Nagrale. Pandey is expected to submit the inquiry report in the next few weeks.Singh last month accused former home minister Anil Deshmukh of allegedly instructing former police officer Sachin Vaze and others to extort monthly ₹100 crore from the bars, pubs, hookah parlours, and other establishments in Mumbai.Nagrale, in the report submitted to the government, has said Vaze, who is the prime accused in the bomb scare case outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house, was reporting directly to Singh. The report added Vaze’s was posted with the crime intelligence unit on Singh’s insistence.Singh did not respond to HT’s requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-inquiry-ordered-against-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101619075809560.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab VB raids senior excise official’s house in Jalandhar||A raid by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau is underway at the palatial residence of deputy excise and taxation commissioner VK Virdi, the prime accused in the multi-crore tax evasion racket, in Jalandhar. Acting on a tip-off about Virdi’s presence, VB sources said teams raided his Gobind Nagar house, where his family members are also present. Also read: When should a Covid-19 patient seek hospital admission? Take 6-minute walk test, says doctorAssistant inspector general (AIG), vigilance, Ashish Kapoor said details will be shared after the raid. Virdi has been absconding since he was booked last year. Six people, including four excise officials, have been arrested so far. In September 2020, the VB registered a case against seven excise officials, including the divisional excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) and four assistant excise and taxation commissioners (AETC). They are BK Virdi, DETC, posted as joint director, investigation, Jalandhar; HS Bajwa, AETC, excise wing, Amritsar; Manjit Singh, AETC, mobile wing, Amritsar; Harmeet Singh, AETC, audit, Bathinda; Harjinder Singh Sandhu, AETC, Ferozepur; Tarlok Singh posted as ETO, mobile wing, Amritsar; Pushpdeep Singh, superintendent, central GST, Amritsar, and two private persons, including Kailash, a transporter from Jalandhar. According to the VB sources, the excise officials were taking monthly bribes from businessmen and transporters to ferry goods in and out of the state without paying the goods and services tax (GST). The Enforcement Directorate had launched a parallel probe into the GST evasion in view of its inter-state links. The ED had sought probe details from the VB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-vb-raids-senior-excise-official-s-house-in-jalandhar-101619075389383.html
22-04-2021||Other||Thane resumes vaccination process in 12 centres today||A day after Thane Municipal Corporation shut the vaccination process completely due to shortage of vaccines, the civic body resumed it in 12 centres on Thursday after receiving 3,500 vials. Eight of these centres have Covishield while four have Covaxin. However, the problem is going to persist as 44 centres are still not open. “We received around 3,500 vials on Wednesday evening and we took a decision to keep a few centres open, but we are awaiting more dosages on Thursday, which will help us continue with the vaccination process,” said Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske. Also Read | 1,710 doses of Covid vaccine stolen from Jind Civil HospitalOn Wednesday, only one centre at Majiwada was opened with 300 vials of Covaxin for booster doses. However, they lasted only for two hours.Thane Municipal Corporation has the capacity to vaccinate more than 10,000 beneficiaries in a day if all 56 centres are open. However, the shortage of vaccine compels the civic body to only open a few centres, based on the availability of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-resumes-vaccination-process-in-12-centres-today-101619074609544.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Situation with medical oxygen in Delhi not comfortable, Satyendar Jain warns||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday pointed out the stark deficit of medical oxygen at hospitals in the national capital and said that the current stock of medical oxygen may run out in six to 10 hours, depending on the situation in each hospital.The minister's statements come amid reports of nationwide shortage in oxygen supply, with hospitals in Delhi warning that their supplies of medical oxygen given to severely ill Covid-19 patients are running low.With several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Centre on Wednesday raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes.A day later, the minister has pointed out that a clear-cut crisis over medical oxygen in the national capital has been there for the last three days. When asked by reporters about the situation of oxygen in hospitals, Jain said, "The situation is different in different hospitals. It's six hours in some, eight in others, and 10 in some others. We cannot call this a comfortable situation."Situation is different in different hospitals; 6 hours in some, 8 in others 10 in some others. We can't call this a comfortable situation: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain when asked about situation of Oxygen in Delhi hospitals & how long will Oxygen last in each of them pic.twitter.com/T85WWL8gDIAmid a shortage of medical oxygen in the national capital, the Delhi health minister pointed out that there is a crisis in ICU beds as well. "There is a crisis of ICU beds. We have made a request to the Centre; I think they will give us 700-800 more ICU beds soon. We have demanded 7,000 beds in the central government-run hospitals, they have given us around 2,000," said Jain.He said that Delhi's oxygen quota was "less than requirement", following which the Centre increased it on Wednesday. If the crisis is resolved in a day or two, the number of beds will be increased, the minister said.The Delhi high court had on Wednesday night ordered the Centre to "forthwith" provide oxygen by whatever means to hospitals here facing a shortage of the gas in treating serious Covid-19 patients, observing it “seems human life is not important for the state”.Several small hospitals in the city were seen on Thursday morning struggling to replenish oxygen supply, even as some big healthcare facilities received fresh stock overnight amid spiralling Covid-19 cases. However, several private hospitals complained that no help has reached them.Delhi logged 24,638 coronavirus cases and 249 deaths on Wednesday, as the positivity rate stood at 31.28% -- meaning almost every third sample turned out to be positive -- amid a growing clamour for oxygen and hospital beds in the city. Only 18 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were available in hospitals across Delhi at 11 pm, according to a government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/situation-with-medical-oxygen-in-delhi-not-comfortable-satyendar-jain-warns-101619071928023.html
22-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka asks hospitals with over 30 beds to designate 80% for Covid patients||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said that all hospitals in the state that have a capacity of more than 30 beds will have to designate 80% of them and ICU facilities for Covid-19 patients. He further said that all hospital beds except those for dialysis patients, mother and childcare and life-threatening diseases will be dedicated for Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru. The minister also highlighted that nursing homes, which have at least 30 beds, have to mandatorily treat non-Covid-19 patients.“Hospitals in the state having a bed capacity of more than 30 beds will now have to dedicate 80% of the beds and ICU facilities for Covid-19. All nursing homes and hospitals with up to 30 beds should mandatorily treat non-Covid-19 patients,” Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“All hospital beds except those for dialysis patients, mother and childcare and life-threatening diseases to be dedicated for Covid-19 patients in Bengaluru,” he further added.Sudhakar on Wednesday asked people not to get anxious and avoid hospitalisation as soon as they test positive for coronavirus disease. He highlighted that 95% of the positive cases do not require hospitalisation and treatment through home isolation can help recovery.“Our doctors are visiting the patients in home-quarantine, and rendering the consultation. Information regarding dos and don'ts will be circulated,” Sudhakar said.Karnataka reported its largest single-day spike of 23,558 new cases taking the total number of cases over 12.22 lakh. The death toll also rose to 13,762 with 116 fresh fatalities. Bengaluru Urban reported 13,640 of the total number of cases and 70 deaths. Bengaluru crematoriums were working overtime as ambulances with bodies of the dead lined up outside crematoriums dedicated for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-asks-hospitals-with-over-30-beds-to-designate-80-for-covid-patients-101619072803106.html
22-04-2021||Patna||500 doctors, health workers at top Patna hospitals infected in second Covid wave||More than 500 doctors and health workers of the two leading hospitals in Patna -- AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) -- have been infected with coronavirus during the ongoing second wave, sources said.Altogether, 384 employees of AIIMS Patna, including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, have been infected during the second wave so far, its Medical Superintendent CM Singh told PTI. PMCH Superintendent Dr Indu Sekhar Thakur said more than 125 of its employees have tested positive so far.He said the list includes 70 doctors and over 55 nurses and other health workers.AIIMS and PMCH along with another state-run medical establishment, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, are catering to a large number of Covid patients in the state capital. The PMCH superintendent said that the hospital authorities have arranged separate isolation spaces for its infected employees.PMCH, the century-old premier hospital of Bihar, has a facility of around 105 beds for Covid patients barring its staff and all are occupied at present, Thakur said.AIIMS Patna has expanded its bed capacity to 250 and all the beds are occupied. The PMCH superintendent said that due to the infection of many staffers, the hospital is facing a manpower shortage."But since leave of all the staff has been cancelled, we are managing the functioning of the Covid wards," he said.Meanwhile, the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has published a list of 40 doctors across the state with their phone numbers for assistance to the needy. "Our doctors are providing treatment over the phone to patients who are primarily in home isolation," its state president Dr Shahjanand Singh said.Singh, a surgeon, is himself on the list of doctors helping the needy during the crisis. The IMA Bihar chief said these doctors are available over the phone from 10 am-12 noon and 4-6 pm.Bihar is witnessing a second surge of coronavirus like the rest of the country. As per the health bulletin issued on Wednesday, a total of 12,222 more people tested positive, while 56 lost their lives due to the deadly disease. The state has a total of 3,54,281 Covid cases while the death toll stands at 1,897 Bihar has 63,745 active cases of coronavirus at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/500-doctors-health-workers-at-top-patna-hospitals-infected-in-second-covid-wave-101619070608984.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi today; AQI remains in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a mainly clear sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department forecast.The minimum temperature is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 18.7°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 33.4°C -- five degrees below normal.Also Read | Covid-19 surge: Capital on the brinkMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 10am stood at 121. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 134, which is in the lower end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-today-aqi-remains-in-moderate-category-101619070349165.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature settles below normal in Delhi||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 18.7 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season's average, on Thursday morning, the India Meteorological Department said.According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature will settled around 35 degrees Celsius.The relative humidity was recorded at 60 per cent.The weather office has predicted mainly clear sky during the day.The air quality in the national capital was recorded in the moderate category. The air quality index (AQI) was 121 at 9 am, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-settles-below-normal-in-delhi-101619065203358.html
22-04-2021||Lucknow||Five killed in train-truck collision in UP's Shahjahanpur||At least five people were killed on Thursday morning when a train collided with two vehicles parked on the railway track and derailed at Uttar Pradesh’s Katra area of Shahjahanpur. A bike-borne woman and her child were among those who were killed in the accident. One person succumbed to his injuries in the hospital.The Chandigarh-Lucknow special train hit a mini truck which was carrying fruits with one other vehicle. The gateman alerted people to move away from the tracks as he began to close the crossing but the train hit the vehicles by the time the people on the track could move, Live Hindustan reported.Along with the woman and her child and a local man also died on the spot while another succumbed to death in the hospital. The track is being cleared and the process is on to resume rail traffic. The traffic on Bareilly-Lucknow route was affected due to the incident.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the family of the deceased. The district magistrate and the senior superintendent of the police of Shahjahanpur reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/five-killed-in-train-truck-collision-in-up-s-shahjahanpur-101619065217753.html
22-04-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi hospitals get a lion’s share of Remdesivir stock||While people and hospitals across the state have been demanding Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients, the bulk of it was reportedly being alloted to private hospitals and nursing homes in Ranchi alone, according to the state government’s allotment lists, raising the question as to how other patients would get the much-needed drug from.As per the allotment lists of Tuesday and Monday this week, about 90% Remdesivir injection vials were sent to private hospitals and nursing homes based in Ranchi out of the total 330 vials of Cipla and 528 vials of Mylan on Monday, and 790 vials of Mylan on Tuesday.Ranchi-based private hospitals and nursing homes were alloted almost 698 vials out of the total 790 vials available on Tuesday.Understandably, big Ranchi-based hospitals such as Medica was alloted 80 vials and 65 vials of Remdesivir injection vials on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. Similarly, Samford Hospital got a total of 110 vials on Monday and Tuesday, Guru Nanak Hospital got 60 vials and Raj Hospital got 80 vials.Similarly, Medanta Abdur Razzak Ansari Hospital got 30, Pulse Super Speciality Hospital got 75, Maa Ram Pyari SS Hospital got 32 and Health Point got 20 vials of Mylan brand Remdesivir on Tuesday among the highest allottees from Ranchi. According to available information, the consignment was expected to be delivered on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Adventist got 24 vials, Lake View got 26 and Jaslok got 30 vials on Monday.Interestingly, Tata Main Hospital (TMH) - the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the state with 565 beds treating as many patients - was allotted only 75 vials of Mylan on Tuesday. TMH has 36 CCU beds and 22 ventilator beds.It has witnessed 64 deaths during past six days.“There is serious shortage of Remdesivir injections at TMH but we are managing somehow with Peramivir injections. We have, however, put in our requisition for Remdesivir injections with the state government authorities but has not received those yet,” Dr Rajan Chowdhury, Tata Steel medical advisor, said on Wednesday.Dr Nirmal Drolia from Patliputra Nursing Home in Dhanbad said they only got two Remdesivir vials against requisition of 150 and was allotted 12 vials against requisition of 300 injections on Tuesday.“We have not received the consignment yet. May be high demand and short of supply is the reason. But, we need to administer six vials per patient to complete the course of treatment, that is being defeated by such paltry allotment,” said Dr Drolia, adding that 39 Covid-19 patients were under treatment at the hospital presently.Dr Rakshit Kumar from 111 Save Life Hospital in Adityapur said they have been allotted four vials against requisition of at least 12.Asian Jalan Super Speciality Hospital with 27 Covid-19 patients in Dhanbad was allotted four vials against requisition of 40-50. Tata Motors Hospital was allotted 10 vials on Tuesday.Hazaribagh Arogyam Hospital was allotted 28 vials, Hazaribagh Life Care 14 and Ajay Sudha Clinic in Deogarh was allotted 12 vials of Cipla on Monday. Uma Super Speciality Hospital on NH-33 in Jamshedpur was alotted four vials on Tuesday.Remdesivir injection is not allowed to be sold by wholesalers or retailers in the open market. The Government of India has stipulated that Remdesivir injection will be routed to government hospitals through state missions under National Health Mission (NHM) while it will have to be routed through state drug controllers to private hospitals and nursing homes.Once companies get allotment orders from drug controllers, they deliver injections to the hospitals concerned and collect payment.‘Supply-demand is the root problem’State drug controller Dr Ritu Sahay on Wednesday said the root of the problem was huge the gap between supply and demand.She said most of the requisitions were hitherto from hospitals and nursing homes from Jharkhand, but they were now sending Remdesivir injections to other towns and cities.“Tata Motors Hospital was allotted Remdesivir injection Tuesday for the first time,” she said.“We fix the allotment order on the basis of the number of Covid-19 patients, number of Covid-19 patients on Remdesivir, and availability of vials. We are trying our best to rationalize the allotment as per the requisitions received. After we fix the allotment orders, it is sent to manufacturing companies concerned only after approval by a high-level committee. We are hoping against hope for things to improve from next week,” said Dr Sahay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-hospitals-get-a-lion-s-share-of-remdesivir-stock-101619063153073.html
22-04-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 500 points in early trade; Nifty slips below 14,200||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and HUL as mounting COVID-19 cases in the country kept investors on edge.After falling 501 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 463.36 points or 0.97 per cent lower at 47,242.44.Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 130.10 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,166.30.IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Axis Bank, HUL, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank.On the other hand, Dr Reddy’s, Sun Pharma, ONGC, Infosys and HDFC were among the gainers.In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex slipped 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent to close the session at 47,705.80, an over two-month low. Likewise, Nifty ended at 14,296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent.Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth ₹1,082.33 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data.Stock exchanges were closed on Wednesday on account of ‘Ram Navami’.According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a storm-like resurgence of COVID cases is impacting the economy as well as market sentiments. Localised lockdowns and severe restrictions on movements are sure to take a toll on the expected GDP growth for FY22."Uncertainty has impacted sentiments and the sustained selling by FIIs in April is a reflection of this concern," he noted.Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 22,91,428, up from 21,57,538 cases registered on Wednesday, according to Union Health Ministry data.The oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave which has left tens of thousands hospitalised appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red.Bourses on Wall Street too ended with gains in overnight trade.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent lower at USD 65.06 per barrel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/sensex-300-points-lower-nifty-at-14-219-in-opening-trade-101619062996176.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Pune recoveries go up but vaccination issues, post-Covid complications remain||Pune, which is one of the worst covid-affected regions in the country, recorded more than 10,000 cases on Wednesday. The city currently has more than 120,000 active cases and the death toll went up to 8,945 with 35 fresh fatalities. Pune city reported 5,538 new Covid-19 cases while Pune rural reported 2,998 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.Most deaths in Pune were reported among the 61-70 years age group and only 6% of this age group have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Pune has a population of more than 1 million people in this age group and only 64,000 have received both doses of the vaccine while at least 640,000 have received the first dose, as per the data from the district information office. Pune vaccinated 58,900 people on Wednesday, out of which most beneficiaries belonged to Pune rural. Pune recorded more than 620,000 recoveries with more than 11,000 recoveries.The hospital infrastructure in Pune remained stressed as small hospitals stopped taking new patients and advised relatives of patients to look for admission in multi-speciality hospitals as they struggled to accommodate Covid-19 patients.Smaller hospitals were vital in the fight against Covid-19 in the district but due to lack of oxygen, they are forced to refer patients to large multispeciality hospitals. “In initial days, smaller hospitals managed to provide support to bigger hospitals with oxygen, but now it is not possible. In multi-speciality hospitals they have two options - either they have their own oxygen plant or have cylinders. This is not the case with small hospitals,” Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Pune Hospital Board of India told HT.Several recovered patients in Pune reported getting infected by Mucormycosis which is a rare and serious fungal infection coupled with a high mortality rate. Every hospital in Pune is reporting 10 cases every month, according to a report by HT. “There is a high mortality rate while treating Mucormycosis, but surgery is the only option. If surgery is not performed then the infection is likely to spread to the brain,” Dr Sudhir Halikar, head of department, ENT, at Noble Hospital told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-recoveries-go-up-but-vaccination-issues-post-covid-complications-remain-101619061305668.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra cross 4 million mark||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported its highest single-day death toll of 568 since the pandemic began, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 61,911. It also added 67,468 fresh Covid-19 cases to push its tally over the four million-mark to 4,027,827. The active case load in Maharashtra is now 695,747.Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded 7,654 fresh infections on Wednesday. The city, so far, has 601,713 confirmed cases, while the active case count in Mumbai is 83,450. Mumbai added 62 deaths on Wednesday, taking its toll to 12,508.Maharashtra, which is slated to go under a strict lockdown from Thursday evening, is projected to add another 400,000 active cases in the next 11 days. According to a presentation on the Covid-19 situation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, the state’s active case count will touch 1,094,996 by May 2. The state aims to arrest the rise in cases by introducing a complete lockdown. Of the nearly 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad.Also Read | Fresh Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra from today as cases soarA health department official said the state is expected to face a shortage of hospital beds, unless the chain of transmission is broken through a lockdown. “Our projections had showed us that we would have an active caseload of 1.1 million by the end of this month. Even more worrying was the shortage of all types of beds across the state, including in major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,” the official said.As per the presentation, barring Amravati, Jalgaon and Kolhapur districts, Maharashtra is projected to face a severe shortage of hospital beds. Mumbai, which is projected to have an active caseload of 146,065 people, will be short of 6,433 oxygenated beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilator beds. Similarly, Pune’s active caseload is projected to touch 185,162. It is projected to have a shortfall of 34,528 isolation beds, 13,118 oxygenated beds, 2,240 ICU beds, and 518 ventilator beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-4-million-mark-101619060748635.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi border routes remain closed, traffic diverted||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remain fully closed on Thursday as farmers continue with their agitation against the three farm laws. Along the Delhi-UP border, one carriageway of the Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continue blocking the other road of the elevated highway from Ghaziabad towards Delhi. The Delhi Police, in its advisory, have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists after remaining closed for several weeks until late January.Also Read | Wheat harvest done, Punjab farmers head for Delhi borderSome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continue to remain closed fully or partially.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-border-routes-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101619060028335.html
22-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal reports highest daily spike of 10,784 Covid-19 cases, 58 new fatalities||West Bengal on Wednesday registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally in the state to 6,88,956, the health department said in a bulletin.The death toll also rose to 10,710 after 58 fresh fatalities were reported.In the last 24 hours, 5,616 patients were cured of the disease in the state, and the recovery rate stands at 89.23 per cent.West Bengal now has 63,496 active cases, the bulletin said.Since Tuesday, 50,014 samples have been tested for coronavirus, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-reports-highest-daily-spike-of-10-784-covid-19-cases-58-new-fatalities-101619059675203.html
22-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 4,969 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deaths||Jharkhand's Covid-19 death toll rose to 1,547 after 45 more people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours, while 4,969 fresh cases took the tally to 1,72,315, the health department said in a bulletin on Wednesday.It said that the number of active cases stands at 33,178, while 1,37,590 people have so far recovered from the disease.Of the fresh fatalities, 15 were reported from Ranchi and 10 from East Singhbhum, the bulletin said. The remaining deaths were registered in several other districts.The new coronavirus cases included 1,703 from Ranchi and 692 from East Singhbhum district.Altogether, 33,839 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the state in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-4-969-new-covid-19-cases-45-deaths-101619059438433.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Fresh Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra from today as cases soar||Maharashtra will on Thursday implement the fresh restrictions imposed in view of the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. The restrictions, that will be in place till May 1, were imposed amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million by May 2. As much as 80 per cent of the health machinery was already under use and the system would not be able to bear the burden, the department said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to State health minister Rajesh Tope, everything except public transport and essential commodities will be shut down. “Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load...all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said.Here is all you need to know about the restrictions:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fresh-covid-19-restrictions-in-maharashtra-from-today-as-cases-soar-101619052589269.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 surge: Capital on the brink||In the last two days, several hospitals in Delhi have raised alarm over depleting oxygen supplies as the number of dependent patients has skyrocketed. Some got the stock only minutes from a disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-surge-capital-on-the-brink-101619042452618.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||SOS in Capital, O2 politics at borders||At least 12 hospitals with more than 1,000 critically ill Covid-19 patients sent out distress calls to the government and over social media on Wednesday, warning that they were hours away from running out of oxygen, with some blaming neighbouring states for blocking supplies.The crisis pitted the Delhi government against the administrations in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where officials purportedly restricted trucks from leaving oxygen refilling units, and drew the intervention of the Union government.Later in the evening, one of the hospitals approached the Delhi high court, which pulled up the Union government for the second day in a row, following which the Centre gave the assurance that it will facilitate unobstructed supply. Hours earlier, the central government increased Delhi’s daily oxygen quote from 378 metric tonne (MT) to 480MT.The national capital at present has over 85,000 active cases of Covid-19, and 4,632 out of the 4,650 ICU beds for these patients were occupied as of 11pm on Wednesday. The surge in demand for oxygen for medical use is estimated to be around three times what is usual for the city.“We have been expressing concerns about it. There are two problems here. First, the central government has set a quota for oxygen but, in Delhi, the demand has increased significantly in light of the severe spread in Covid-19 cases...” said Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister.The second, he added, was of logistics. “Even the oxygen as per the quota allocated to Delhi is not smoothly reaching Delhi,” he said, citing two instances where officials in Haryana’s Faridabad and Uttar Pradesh’s Modinagar purportedly stopped trucks from taking the supplies. The problems were resolved with the help of the Union government’s intervention, he added.“If we have to chase every single truck and ask Centre to intervene, then it’s not a good situation,” the deputy CM said, adding that the pandemic should not turn into “a fight between states”.Late on Tuesday night and on Wednesday, some of the replenishments reached the hospitals with minutes to spare; in two cases, hospitals switched to temporary cylinders as the tankers arrived too late to refill their systems.“If the oxygen gets over, patients on the ventilators will die within minutes and the others within a couple of hours. This is a matter of life and death,” said Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of Holy Family Hospital where 375 Covid-19 patients were admitted as on Wednesday evening. Of these, 325 were either on ventilator or oxygen, and oxygen was expected to last till Thursday, 11am.The Union government acknowledged the problem. “When you deal with such a huge challenge, then at times there is panic and confusions. But the onus and responsibility is on the Union government and state governments to work together and respond quickly,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, while adding that the deadlock over supply trucks not being allowed to leave from Faridabad was resolved minutes before he stepped into the weekly press conference on Covid-19 on Wednesday.The Centre said of the total 7,500 metric tonne of oxygen being produced in India per day, 6,600 MT, as on date, is being allocated to states for medical use and assured that efforts are being made to increase supplies in the coming days, and Bhushan said a 24x7 control room has been set up where state governments can raise problems of supplies and logistics.The crisis prompted a war of words between Delhi and Haryana. “We are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we’ll complete our needs, then give to others. Yesterday, one of our oxygen tankers which was going to Faridabad, was looted by Delhi government. From now, I have ordered police protection for all tankers,” Haryana health minister Anil Vij said in the afternoon.Later, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and asked for its quota of oxygen supply too to be raised. Haryana’s chief secretary denied allegations by Delhi’s hospitals that it was not allowing vendors to send oxygen to them. ‘’No supply has been stopped to Delhi, this is not true,’’ chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said.Faridabad deputy commissioner Garima Mittal, who was named by some hospitals for stopping supplies from the oxygen refilling plants, denied the allegations.Officials in UP did not respond to requests for a comment but a person in the Modinagar administration, who asked not to be named, said there were no orders to stop the trucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sos-in-capital-o2-politics-at-borders-101619041065370.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bride fined ₹1,000 in Chandigarh for not wearing mask||All decked up for her wedding, a bride from Khanna fell short on one account – a face mask to shield her from coronavirus.The bride was headed to the Sector-8 gurdwara for her wedding, when the police spotted her car at the Sector 8-9 traffic lights. Everyone in the vehicle, including her brother and two children, had masks on, but her. All his efforts to convince the cops that his sister was not wearing a mask to protect her make-up failed to persuade the police, who let the siblings continue the journey only after the bride paid up a fine of ₹1,000. That’s one wedding anecdote that the bride is unlikely to ever forget!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bride-fined-1-000-in-chandigarh-for-not-wearing-mask-101619039565898.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||47% of Covid cases in Mohali in 26-45 age bracket||Patients aged between 26 and 45 accounted for 47% of the total Covid-19 cases reported in Mohali so far in April.The district’s figures, provided by the health department, are in line with the second wave trends in the country, where more young patients are getting infected.As many as 5,123 of the 10,917 patients between April 1 and 20 were in the 26-45 age group. Those in the 46-60 age bracket formed the second largest proportion of cases – 21%, followed by those aged over 60 at 14%. Youngsters aged between 16 and 25 constituted 13% cases, while those aged 15 and below made up 5% of the tally.61% deceased aged over 60 Among the 75 fatalities in the same period, 61% (46) were senior citizens, and 31% (23) were aged between 46 and 60. Patients in the 26-45 age group formed 7% of all deaths, and the district saw only one death among the population aged 16 to 25. More men infectedOf the total cases, 6,262 were men, 4,647 women and eight transgenders, while the deaths comprised 48 men and 27 women.Also, 47% cases (5,117) were reported from Mohali’s urban areas, followed by Dera Bassi sub-division with 29%, which comprises Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Lalru that had 3,189 cases in these 20 days. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the younger population was moving about freely and socialising without any precautions, leading to more cases among them, while senior citizens were more cautious in dealing with the pandemic. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said in the second surge, the UK variant of Covid-19 was spreading quickly across Punjab, as it had a higher transmission rate, and the youth not exercising safety measures was only making matters worse. “The urban areas are more affected with regards to daily cases, while the fatalities are higher in rural areas. Mohali is among the worst-affected districts in Punjab. Residents must wear masks and maintain social distancing while venturing out,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/47-of-covid-cases-in-mohali-in-26-45-age-bracket-101619039386533.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||With lives on the line, Delhi scrambles for oxygen lifeline||Over 1,000 critically ill Covid-19 patients in Delhi were in imminent danger in the last 24 hours after the hospitals they were in issued distress calls on Wednesday about their oxygen supplies running perilously low, with a bigger tragedy being averted with minutes to spare as frantic interventions by government officials helped secure replenishments.HT is aware of at least 11 facilities, whose executives either sent SOS letters to the government or spoke directly to report low stocks. At least six of them said the crisis was because officials in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had stopped trucks from leaving the facilities, a problem that deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia too reported.The crisis came into focus late on Tuesday when officials announced GTB Hospital, with 500 patients, was to run out of oxygen by 2am, triggering a scramble that was closely watched on social media where thousands of people counted down the anxious hours. It was around 1.30am when the first images confirmed the arrival of a cryogenic truck from UP.Hours later, officials of Indraprastha hospital, Manipal hospital and Max hospital wrote to the government, flagging the crisis. Max hospital also moved the Delhi high court, which pulled up the Union government, a day after it had criticised it in another hearing over the same issue.“Over the past few days, we have been under extreme duress due to the interruptions and delays in supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen. On the intervening night of April 20 and 21... Their (supplier’s) officials informed us that due to local administration’s intervention in Greater Noida, the supply to Delhi has been stopped. While we used to have three days of oxygen supply in our inventory, this has not reduced to around 10-12 hours of supply,” said a letter from the Indraprastha Apollo hospital to the Delhi health minister, seen by HT.On Wednesday afternoon, Dr John Punnoose, associate medical director of St Stephen’s hospital, made a panicked call to HT. “We have oxygen stock left for just two hours and our supplier has been stopped at Haryana border. There are nearly 300 Covid-19 patients, most of who are on oxygen. In addition, we are running the casualty department and the operation theatres where oxygen is needed. There will a big problem if we do not get the oxygen in time,” he said, expecting to run out of supply by 6pm. The facility used some back-up cylinders, before its supply truck arrived at 6.45 pm.Delhi’s oxygen requirement has soared to nearly three times what is normal as a tsunami of Covid-19 infections has filled up city hospitals with serious and critical cases. The situation has prompted Delhi government officials to send out multiple requests to the central government, which manages oxygen stock distribution, to raise its quota, even the state and its neighbours exchanged allegations of impeding supplies.Big hospitals use liquid medical oxygen pumped through a gas pipeline in their wards. Oxygen cylinders can be attached to the supply line in cases of emergency, but need to be closely monitored and changed frequently.The smaller 34-bed nursing home Irene hospital in Kalkaji, which needs 150 cylinders, received only 30 on Wednesday morning. “We receive around 50 cylinders in three deliveries from our supplier. Today, we were given 30 cylinders in the morning with no assurance for further supply,” said Dr Mohd Shariq, the Covid-19 unit head at the hospital.The hospital sent its staff out to look for cylinders in the afternoon. “The staff has managed to get some cylinders and are on their way back now,” the hospital said at 7.30pm.Similar distress messages were sent by two other nursing homes. Rathi hospital in Najafgarh-Nangloi took to Twitter to announce they were running out of oxygen. The hospital uses up 360 cylinders a day for 78 Covid-19 patients it has. “We have an oxygen station nearby that fills our cylinder every two or three hours. They refused us in the afternoon today; saying they have no oxygen,” said Kaushtub Tiwari, head, marketing and operations at the hospital.After a frantic search, the hospital managed to get 31 cylinders from other nursing homes.At six in the evening, one of the city’s largest private hospitals in Northwest Delhi, Max hospital-Shalimar Bagh, issued a distress message. The hospital just had two hours of oxygen supply with no assurance of replenishment. The facility had run out of oxygen late on Tuesday and had to rely on cylinders sourced from other hospitals in the Max network.“Yesterday night, the oxygen supply to the hospital was disrupted as an oxygen tanker on its way to refill the oxygen tanks at Max hospital, Shalimar Bagh was diverted. This led to a situation where the hospital’s oxygen tanks ran dry,” said a letter from the hospital to the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.The crisis prompted a war of words between Delhi and Haryana. “We are being forced to give our oxygen to Delhi. First, we’ll complete our needs, then give to others. Yesterday, one of our oxygen tankers which was going to Faridabad, was looted by Delhi government. From now, I have ordered police protection for all tankers,” Haryana health minister Anil Vij said.Later, Delhi’s deputy CM said hospitals had reported that a supplier in Faridabad – which was meant to send the replenishments to Stephens and some of the others — stopped sending trucks since a Haryana official was restricting their departure.“If the oxygen gets over, patients on the ventilators will die within minutes and the others within a couple of hours. This is a matter of life and death,” said Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital where 375 Covid-19 patients were admitted as on Wednesday evening. Of these, 325 were either on ventilator or oxygen, and oxygen was expected to last till Thursday, 11am.Later, on Wednesday evening, doctors from Indraprastha Apollo hospital said they were waiting anxiously for their replenishments. “Yesterday, the hospital received its oxygen supply at 3am just an hour before the stock would get over. Today, we have supply till 1am. Now, we have to just wait for the supplier,” said a doctor from the hospital, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-lives-on-the-line-delhi-scrambles-for-oxygen-lifeline-101619038664855.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Row over Gautam Gambhir’s offer of free FabiFlu from his office||A tweet by BJP East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir on Wednesday offering free antiviral drug Fabiflu from his local office triggered a row with the opposition accusing him of hoarding the drug and questioning him if he could distribute it legally.Fabiflu is widely used in managing symptoms of Covid-19 patients and is currently available in short supply in the city with the cases of the viral disease rising at an unprecedented pace.“People of East Delhi can get ‘Fabiflu’ from MP office (2, Jagriti Enclave) for FREE between 10-5. Kindly get Aadhar & prescription,” Gambhir tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. However, the former cricketer-turned-politician didn’t specify how he managed to the get supply of the medicine which can only be bought on a doctor’s prescription.AAP accused the BJP MP of hoarding the medicine. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak tweeted, “Gujarat — BJP president hoarding life saving injections. Maharastra — BJP EX CM fadnavis hoarding remdesivir. Delhi’s part-time BJP MP and full-time cricket commentator hoarding life saving medicines. Public representatives or criminals? You decide,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak tweeted.Senior Congress leader Pawan Khera raised questions on how Gambhir procured the medicine. Khera tweeted, “1) How much Fabiflu do you have in your possession? 2) How did you procure so much of Fabiflu? @GautamGambhir. CC @ArvindKejriwal: 1) Is this legal? 2) Is the shortage of Fabiflu at chemists’ shops due to such unauthorised procurement/distribution?”Gambhir didn’t comment on the matter. However, he posted another tweet in the evening. “Delhi is my home & I will keep serving the people till my last breath. With many requests for beds, oxygen & medicines, we are helping as many as we can!,” he tweeted.Responding to allegations of hoarding he tweeted, “Those who allowed Remdesivir to be black marketed at more than 30 thousand a vial & hospital beds to be sold for 5-10 Lakh in Delhi are concerned that a few hundred Fabiflu strips are being given for FREE to the poor. That’s their understanding of “Hoarding” #HumanLivesMatter”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/row-over-gautam-gambhir-s-offer-of-free-fabiflu-from-his-office-101619037923762.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||HC tells Centre to ensure supply on hospital’s appeal||“We cannot see people dying for the lack of oxygen,” said the Delhi high court on Wednesday as it nudged the Centre into ensuring sufficient quantity of medical oxygen for patients in Delhi along with an unobstructed passage of the cylinders to the national capital from different states.“The citizen can only fall back on the State and it is your duty to provide. Beg, borrow or steal but you must provide. And it is our bounden duty to make sure people’s fundamental right to life is not curtailed,” said a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said in an urgent late evening hearing that started around 8 pm and ended at 10.40 pm.The hearing saw both the judges exhorting the Central government to make certain that no death happens in Delhi due to shortage of supply of oxygen after Max Hospitals complained that they were running short on oxygen and were down to only a few hours of supply in some facilities.“Today it is Max before us but there could be several other hospitals which have the same problem. The shortage is there and it is there for everyone to see. We cannot shut our eyes to this. You can’t say we can’t provide only this much and no more and let people die. That can’t be an answer from a sovereign government and we are not ready to accept such an answer. We can’t see people dying because they don’t have oxygen,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government in the matter.It added: “We are in dire straits. Hundreds and thousands of lives are lost because of lack of oxygen. As a sovereign state, it is your responsibility to make sure sufficient oxygen is there. You can’t turn around and say you don’t have more oxygen. You cannot say that we can only provide this and if people are dying, let them die. That cannot be an answer by a responsible and sovereign state. You just draw on oxygen from captive industries and do everything else. And if some of the plants are to be shut, so be it. But people can’t lose lives because of oxygen.”The court also cited the tragedy in a Nashik hospital, where 24 lives were lost due to a leak in an oxygen tank.On his part, the S-G submitted that the Centre was committed to procuring maximum quantity of oxygen from all possible sources and its duty was confined to allocate it equitably to all the states. About Delhi, Mehta informed that the allocation to the capital was increased from 378 MT to 480 MT and it was now for the Delhi government to get its transported from the points of procurement.Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra agreed with the S-G about the hike in the oxygen allocation and expressed his gratitude but sought police protection during the transit.Mehta assured the court that the Centre will ascertain safe passage for the oxygen cylinders to Delhi.The bench then recorded the statement by the S-G about the increase in allocation and the safe passage while deferring the matter for a hearing on Thursday when the issue of diversion of oxygen from captive plants will be taken up.During the hearing, the bench observed that supply of medical oxygen should be stopped for industrial use and even the amendment—that the plants having captive oxygen can continue their production—does not help as it is an “emergent situation”.“Every citizen is entitled to that protection. In such a situation, you are saying that the industry would not be stopped. How are your officers not looking at the situation?” the bench asked Mehta.Mehta said that the order of stopping oxygen to the industries was sought to be earlier implemented from April 22 in wake of the time required for the technical shut down, which was given to implement the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-tells-centre-to-ensure-supply-on-hospital-s-appeal-101619037612695.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||400th Parkash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur: SGPC cancels plan of grand events||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday decided to cancel the plan of grand events that were scheduled to be held to mark the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh master. The gurdwara body has also dedicated its Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital for the treatment of Covid patients. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “Grand celebrations were scheduled to be held at Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, but due to surge in Covid cases, these ceremonies will now be held at the Diwan Hall of Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib at the Golden Temple.” “A series of events is being organised at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal, the birthplace of the ninth Guru, in Amritsar, which is being telecast live through various platforms. Links would be provided to the channels for live coverage of the events from April 29 to May 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/400th-parkash-purab-of-guru-teg-bahadur-sgpc-cancels-plan-of-grand-events-101619037465466.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police create green corridors for movement of oxygen containers||Police on Tuesday evening again stepped in to create a green corridor and resolve the oxygen shortage at a north Delhi Covid-19 hospital, after being alerted about an agitation by anxious relatives of 80 Covid patients admitted there.Police said it took them exactly 98 minutes to arrange the cylinders for NKS Super Speciality Hospital in Gulabi Bagh.Ever since Covid hospitals started running low on oxygen, the police have been receiving requests from individuals and hospitals to help arrange oxygen.On Sunday, the outer Delhi district police arranged 20 cylinders for a hospital in Nangloi where 35 patients were admitted. The south-east police arranged 15 cylinders for the Holy Family Hospital and Jeevan Hospital.On Wednesday, the police arranged oxygen for several hospitals and individuals across the city. According to the NKS Super Speciality Hospital CEO, DS Chatwal, nearly 80 of the 102 Covid patients there were dependent on oxygen and the supply was depleting by late Tuesday.“We had movable small cylinders as a last resort. Lives of 80 patients were at risk,” said Chatwal.Relatives of these 80 patients grew restless when they got to know of the shortage. “They began agitating and the situation was taking an untoward turn when the hospital made a distress call to the police,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north).The DCP and other officers reached the hospital soon after. “We pacified the relatives and then began arranging the oxygen,” said Alphonse.Police got 53 empty cylinders refilled on priority from a unit in Mayapuri Industrial Area, after speaking to its owner. The team set off for the hospital the moment the first set of 15 cylinders were filled. “We set up a green corridor and covered a distance of 13km in less than 20 minutes,” said a police officer. The 15 cylinders reached by 6.08pm and the remaining 38 an hour later, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-create-green-corridors-for-movement-of-oxygen-containers-101619037345426.html
22-04-2021||Gurugram||Officially, only 8 died of Covid in Gurugram in 2 days, but crematoriums handle over 100 such bodies||The health department in Gurugram reported four Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday and four more on Wednesday, but cremation ground staff say they have performed the last rites of at least 106 bodies, as per Covid-19 protocols, over the past two days(till 10pm Wednesday). While a few of these bodies were sent from Ghaziabad and Delhi, a majority of them are from Gurugram, the staffers said.The crematorium records, accessed by Hindustan Times, show that the Sector 32 crematorium alone recorded 17 and 40 Covid-19 deaths of city residents on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, while the Madanpuri crematorium recorded 23 and 26 Covid-19 deaths, respectively, over the past two days. According to the health department data, however, 13 deaths were reported in the past three days from Gurugram, including five on Monday. Sandeep Sharma, the in-charge of Mokshdham cremation ground in Sector 32, said, “Over 45 bodies arrived within the past 12 hours (from Wednesday noon). Of these, 40 were of Covid-19 deaths from Gurugram. The others were from Ghaziabad and New Delhi. In the past four days, the count of bodies has increased and we have been cremating bodies till 11 in the night.” Also Read | Bengal reports highest daily spike of 10,784 Covid-19 cases, 58 new fatalities“We fill all details of the deceased and follow protocols set by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). All bodies of Covid-19 deaths cremated here are recorded,” he said. Sharma said they receive at least eight to 10 calls daily from people informing them of Covid-19 deaths at home and enquiring about funeral proceedings. In some cases, the Covid-19 test reports are awaited, but cremation is done as per Covid-19 protocols. Such cases are not recorded as Covid deaths, he said.Officials of the health department attributed the discrepancy in numbers to differences in protocols followed by the MCG. The health department data shows that 31 deaths were recorded in the district from April 1 to 21.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Only those deaths confirmed by hospitals as Covid-19 are shown as official in the health department bulletin. The crematorium data comes under the MCG.” However, officials of the MCG said their data is based on hospital reports.Also Read | Jharkhand reports 4,969 new Covid-19 cases, 45 deathsAshish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said, “We collect death summary and Covid-19 positive reports. We are not aware why the data of the health department is not matching with crematoria data. We are collecting our data on a daily basis.”The city has three Covid-19 cremation grounds at Sector 32, Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk, and Madan Puri near Pataudi Chowk, while three burial grounds have been earmarked in Sector 58 near the Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village, and Badshahpur village. Singla said they presently have two dedicated ambulances for transporting Covid-19 bodies to crematoriums from hospitals and that two more vehicles will be addedto handle the surge. “The two ambulances are transporting over 30 Covid-19 bodies daily. Before handing over the bodies to the ambulance drivers, the hospital staff issue death summary and Covid-19 positive reports and these are duly handed over to the crematorium staff,” he said. Amit Kumar (33), a private ambulance driver for the past 10 years, said on average, he is transporting two Covid-19 bodies to cremation grounds daily. “I have never seen this kind of rush. There is no space to even park vehicles and bodies are lined up on platforms,” he said. A spot check by an HT team at the Madanpuri cremation ground found that bodies were lined up on all 26 cremation platforms, of which two are electric. Grieving kin in PPE overalls stood at a distance and watched as MCG workers placed the bodies on pyres. A team of four workers prepared one pyre after another, as ambulances kept arriving without a break. “The rush has been ongoing for days. Families are not allowed to come near the body. The family member who has to perform the last rites lights the torch. But it is the MCG worker who puts the torch to the pyre,” said Vinod Kumar, who has been working 12-hour shifts at the electric crematorium since the pandemic started. “Every day, over 30 bodies of Covid-19 patients arrive here for last rites,” he said. Also Watch | How HC slammed Centre on Delhi hospitals’ Oxygen SOS, The 5 Key ObservationsIt is in the last week that hospitalisation has increased dramatically from at least 171 on April 1 to 806 on Wednesday, stretching the existing health infrastructure to saturation point. The situation is constantly deteriorating due to a record surge in daily new infections. Gurugam on Wednesday reported 2,988 new infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. The total number of cases now stands at 88,866, of which 16,027 are active. Families of Covid-19 victims continued to opt for last rites instead of electric cremations, even as protocols state that electric cremations should be preferred to avoid the spread of infection. “There are only two electric furnaces, but most of the people refuse an electric cremation. Since rituals take time, there is a waiting time of at least an hour for a cremation on platforms,” said Kumar. The teams performing last rites have undergone basic training on sanitising the body, covering it in a transparent, protective sheet even as families watch from a distance. MCG officials said the ashes are handed over to the family later. Singla said the ambulances are thoroughly disinfected with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride upon returning to the MCG’s health branch office in Sector 39, where the vehicles are stationed. “To ensure there is no contact with the driver, each ambulance has two compartments, separating the space where the body is kept from the driver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-8-covid-19-deaths-in-2-days-but-106-cremations-performed-101619029119845.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||26-year-old man hacked to death in Amritsar over old enmity, 1 held||A 26-year-old man was hacked to death by seven persons over an old enmity in Ram Diwali Hinduan village of Amritsar’s Majitha tehsil, police said on Wednesday, adding that one of the key accused has been arrested.The victim is Baljinder Singh, a resident of the same village. Victim’s father Amrik Singh said, “At 5pm on Tuesday, my son was returning home after attending a fair when seven persons attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. When onlookers raised alarm, the accused fled from the spot. We rushed him to Amritsar civil hospital, where he succumbed to injuries.”The accused have been identified as Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jaspal Singh, Harjinder Singh, Mukhtiyar Singh, Sewa Singh and Ranjit Singh, all residents of the same village.Investigating officer Himanshu Bhagat said, “Baljinder had an old enmity with Harjinder Singh. The duo was involved in a cross-case lodged in 2020 under sections 326 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code. Due to this enmity, the accused, along with his six aides, killed Baljinder.”He added, “Harjinder has been arrested, while raids are on to nab the other absconding accused. An FIR has been registered against them under sections 302 (murder), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) of the IPC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/26yearold-man-hacked-to-death-in-amritsar-over-old-enmity-1-held-101619037046515.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Model Moga village devises its own health, pension plans||From giving pension to widows, elderly and disabled persons to providing health insurance to the underprivileged and needy, Ransih Kalan village in Moga district’s Nihal Singh Wala subdivision has shown the way in building a welfare model for its residents. The panchayat is providing these facilities by pooling a part of income of residents through ‘daswandh’ (giving 1/10th of earnings) system and with the help of the NRI fraternity. It started the pension and health insurance schemes five months ago. The village had received two awards — Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar — last year from the central government for the development works it undertook. Former sarpanch Preet Inder Pal Singh, 31, who is also son of present village head Kuldeep Kaur, says, “Our panchayat has no affiliation to any political party. I had won as an independent candidate and now, my mother is leading the village. There is no interference of any party and we are taking decisions independently.” The village currently has 70 pension beneficiaries and is offering health insurance to 25 residents. Widows, elderly and disabled persons whose applications for pension were rejected by the government, despite being eligible for the same, are getting ₹750 per month as pension. “We found that our people were making rounds of government offices to avail the pension and were being harassed. We called a panchayat meeting and started a pension scheme on the pattern of the state government. Also, we are providing health cover up to ₹1 lakh per person at any hospital. Nine people have already availed the benefit,” says Kuldeep Kaur. The village is also encouraging the locals not to burn paddy stubble by giving ₹500 per acre as compensation to marginal farmers. Nearly 100 farmers had availed the benefit last year, it was claimed. Kuldeep says, “All these things were done in the past six years by spending ₹5 crore. Whenever we require money for health insurance or other development works, we inform the local residents and the NRIs, who help us immediately. It is just a beginning.” Treating sewage for irrigation purpose Harjeet Kaur, 35, a panchayat member, says, “The villagers built a sewerage system themselves. We had also set up a sewage treatment plant and have been using treated wastewater for irrigation on 100 acres since 2016. A pond was also constructed to accumulate rainwater for irrigation and other purposes.” “Besides, we have made arrangements to reuse wastewater from water purifier systems and air-conditioners in the households,” she adds. Parkash Singh, 70, another panchayat member, says, “We organise a camp every two months to make our village plastic-free. At the camp, we sell ration and other goods and accept payment via plastic only. Now, people have started stocking polythene bags and other plastic items. We send the plastic to a factory in Ludhiana for recycling.” Jagjit Singh Bal, district development and panchayat officer, says, “We have already started work at other villages on the lines of Ransih Kalan. Some villages of Kot Ise Khan block have adopted this model as well.” “Though there are several examples of infrastructure developments in villages, I did not see such initiatives of welfare schemes anywhere else. I have worked in many districts but nowhere pension and health cover were being provided to residents by the panchayat, except Ransih Kalan village,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/model-moga-village-devises-its-own-health-pension-plans-101619037045443.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s nod to new reward policy for inputs on drugs||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday approved a reward policy to encourage information and inputs leading to recovery of drugs under the NDPS Act. The policy will recognise government servants/informers/sources for their role in providing inputs leading to the recovery of substantial quantity of drugs and in successful implementation of various provisions of the NDPS Act and PIT NDPS Act, according to Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta. The quantum of reward for successful investigation, prosecution, forfeiture of illegally acquired property, preventive detention and other significant anti-drug work will be decided on case-to-case basis. Persons eligible for the reward under the policy would include informers whose information lead to seizure of narcotics drugs/psychotropic substances/controlled substance and forfeiture of illegally acquired property. Other eligible category would comprise the officers/officials of state or central governments. Gupta clarified that government officers/officials would normally be eligible for 50% of the maximum reward. The rewards in excess of this limit may be considered only in cases where the government officer/official has exposed himself/herself to a great personal hazard or displayed exemplary courage, commendable initiative or resourcefulness of an extraordinary nature or where his/her personal efforts have been mainly responsible for the detection of case of seizure. The rates of reward (per kg) in respect of substances seized would be ₹6,000 in case of opium, ₹20,000 for morphine base and its salts, ₹1,20,000 for heroin and its salts, ₹2,40,000 for cocaine and its salts, ₹2,000 for hashish, ₹10,000 for hashish oil, and ₹600 for ganja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-s-nod-to-new-reward-policy-for-inputs-on-drugs-101619036985153.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs 1,584 cases in slight drop, 11 dead||With 1,584 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the tricity recorded a dip in the daily cases for the third day in a row.After registering an all-time high of 1,684 cases on Sunday, the tricity saw a slight drop with 1,681 cases on Monday. Thereafter, the infections decreased further to 1,598 on Tuesday.Mohali again led the daily tally with 754 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 622 and Panchkula with 208. There were six deaths in Mohali, three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.With the latest cases, Chandigarh’s active cases rose to a record 4,125, while total count reached 35,770, of which 31,222 (87.2%) people have recovered, against the national average of 85.01%.The latest fatalities were a man from Maloya and a woman from Sector 44, both aged 56. So far, 423 people have died due to the virus in the city.Mohali’s toll rose to 517 with the six deaths and active cases neared 7,000 at 6,995. As many as 264 of Wednesday’s cases were from Mohali city, 228 from Dhakoli, 82 from Kharar, 74 from Dera Bassi, 60 from Gharuan, 20 from Kurali, 10 from Banur, nine from Boothgarh and seven from Lalru. Of the total 38,316 positive patients in the district till date, 30,804 (80.39%) have been cured.Within 21 days of April, Mohali has added 11,671 cases and 81 deaths to its tally, up from 6,315 and 48 in March, respectively. Among the deceased in Panchkula were an 82-year-old man from Sector 16, an 81-year-old woman from Sector 7 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 25. The district’s cumulative cases stand at 17,573. Among these, 2,487 are active, 14,911 patients (84.8%) have recovered and 175 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-1-584-cases-in-slight-drop-11-dead-101619036930388.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran zila parishad chief’s son slights SDM over land mutation row||A bitter war of words has erupted between the family of Congress party’s Tarn Taran Zila Parishad chairperson Harcharanjit Kaur and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajneesh Arora over the mutation of land at Chaudhari Wala village. Kaur’s son used derogatory remarks against the magistrate on his Facebook page, while the latter accused the family of trying to bribe him to get illegal work done.Arora said Kaur’s family has been pressuring him to do “illegal” work of transferring a land in her family’s name despite a court’s stay order. He also alleged that local MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri has also been coaxing him to favour Kaur’s family. Kaur son, Vishal Sharma alias Sonu, who stays abroad, on his Facebook page asked the SDM not to create “obstacles deliberately” in the case. “We don’t want to be offensive,” he said, adding that, “Don’t teach a wrong lesson to your senior officers. Work impartially.”While replying to a comment in the post, he wrote: “…He is a sincere man….He has also put his stomach ahead (he is a corrupt man)….We respect him, but he doesn’t want to.” Sonu’s father Charanjit Sharma, a former Market Committee chairman, said he was aware of the post by his son. “I had asked him to do so,” he said.The SDM said he will send the screenshots of the remarks to deputy commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh, seeking action against him. “The family wanted to involve me in the illegal work. Even the local MLA asked me to favour the family. They also offered me bribe, but I declined. A patwari is hand in glove with the family. Lately, I have transferred my reader Gursharan Singh who used to pass secret official information to the family,” Arora said.He said, “The family claims to have one kanal land in the village. The land of the village was consolidated in 1976. The family says they were given 5.6-kanal land from the consolidated land instead of their one kanal. A court had stayed the transfer of land in 2004. After this, the family filed a petition in Punjab and Haryana High court in 2008. The petition was accepted, but the family never approached the court again. The matter is still pending in the court.”He said there were many more technicalities in the case and he has already explained the entire matter to his superiors.Charanjit Sharma said, “I will approach the Punjab chief minister if the SDM continues to work against us. If we can’t get our work done when our party is in power, where will we go?” He said the SDM was deliberately creating obstacles in their case.MLA Agnihotri said he never interfered in the case. “The law should take its course. The matter was in my knowledge as a few months ago, the opposite party had assured in writing that they will not raise any objection if the mutation is done in the name of the chairperson’s family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-zila-parishad-chief-s-son-slights-sdm-over-land-mutation-row-101619036929315.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||3 Covid care centres for police in Capital||Three Covid care centres are being set up in different parts of the national capital for Delhi Police personnel and their families, even as several men and women in uniform are falling prey to second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.So far, over 8,000 personnel have contracted Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic last year. On Tuesday alone, 242 men and women from the force tested positive for the virus, the Delhi Police said.A statement released by the police on Wednesday said Covid care centres have been opened in Shahdara and Rohini, while the one is Dwarka is yet to become operational.The Shahdara Covid care centre is the biggest of the three with 78 beds, of which 20 are equipped with oxygen supply. The Rohini facility has 20 beds, half of which are equipped with oxygen.Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson, Delhi Police, said more facilities are being set up for police personnel and their families. “These facilities, which will work as Covid care centres for Delhi Police personnel and their families, were set up for the immediate relief of patients till the time they get an admission at a regular Covid hospital,” he said.The facility and medicines at these centres will be provided from the police resources. Dedicated ambulances will be stationed at these centres to attend to emergencies, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-covid-care-centres-for-police-in-capital-101619036687907.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Senate elections: PU yet to get permission from Haryana to set up polling booths||Panjab University is yet to get permission from the Haryana government to set up polling booths in the state for the conduct of senate elections, varsity officials said on Wednesday.The polls are scheduled to begin from April 26. The polling booths of different constituencies of the PU senate are to be set up in Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan.Besides Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan have already given permission to PU to set up polling booths there. However, permission from Haryana, where 29 booths are to be set up for the senate polls, is still pending.PU has already sent a reminder to Haryana earlier this month for the permission after the high court told the university to conduct the senate polls within two months.A senior official of Haryana government, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “We are in the process of allowing PU to set up the polling booth.” However, chief secretary Vijai Vardhan could not be contacted.The polls were earlier scheduled for August last year but were postponed twice by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The last senate elections were held in 2016. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 senators are nominated by the chancellor, two are from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from different constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-elections-pu-yet-to-get-permission-from-haryana-to-set-up-polling-booths-101619036639264.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||RWAs struggle to run community centres due to shortage of staff||Two days after district administrations identified at least 31 locations to set up community Covid-19 care centres with an aim to add 541 beds with oxygen supply to the city’s health infrastructure, several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) on Wednesday said they were not being able to start the facilities despite all arrangements being in place due to unavailability of doctors, nurses, and other medical staff.Several RWAs and NGOs on Wednesday said though the district administration was providing them oxygen cylinders or concentrators, they were not able to find staff that could use them. They demanded that the government and district administrations help with human resources to run the facilities.Hardeep Singh Bhalla, president of the Sainik Farms RWA, said a 60-bed Covid isolation centre located in a municipal school in Pushp Vihar, which only caters to asymptomatic patients, has been identified for conversion into a community Covid-19 care centre.“We have only medical support staff working with us 24x7 since all our patients are asymptomatic, and doctors only visit in case of an emergency. But, if we will have to set up beds with oxygen support and admit patients with mild symptoms, we will need professionals. We need a doctor there at least for two hours every day and some full-time nurses,” he said.Arun Kumar, a member of Seva Bharti, an NGO that has agreed to start a community Covid care centre in Paharganj with 30 beds, said: “Some doctors living in the locality have agreed to provide part-time services since they already have prior commitments. We need some permanent doctors.”Some RWAs said that most of the doctors residing in their locality do not have training in handling Covid-19 patients. Dr. Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjeevan Vihar RWA, said, “I am an ophthalmologist and someone else here is a dermatologist... we cannot look after Covid-19 patients. We are more than willing to help. We can arrange for funds, foods, and other things, but without a medical team we cannot run a facility with Covid patients having mild symptoms.”Some groups who have managed to arrange for doctors said it wasn’t easy to find them. Arvind Mehta, president of an RWA in New Rajendra Nagar, who has set up a centre in a school in coordination with the team of area MLA Raghav Chadha, said they have managed to get three doctors for now.Officials in several districts acknowledged that the unavailability of doctors and nursing staff has become a major obstacle in starting community Covid care centers. “Doctors, nurses, and medical staff are already overburdened with work in their hospitals and clinics. We can’t let RWAs or NGOs start facilities without proper doctors,” said an official in the central Delhi district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rwas-struggle-to-run-community-centres-due-to-shortage-of-staff-101619036529171.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University clears 13 cases for counting of past service||Panjab University has cleared the cases of 13 teachers who had sought that their past service be counted into their total service period.The cases were approved by vice- chancellor Raj Kumar based on the recommendation made last year by an eight-member panel headed by the dean university instructions (DUI). The panel was constituted to look into any pending cases in which past service has not been counted towards total service period for promotion and retirement benefit.The counting of past service has remained one of the important issues at PU in recent years. It was one of the main agendas during the last election of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA).In its last meeting, the PU panel cleared 11 cases, observing that they are similar to the case of Namita Gupta from PU’s centre for human rights, which was approved by the senate in 2017. The other two cases have been cleared stating that they are covered as per the policy (for counting of past service) framed by PU and approved by the syndicate in 2019.52 cases in pipelineHowever, 52 teachers whose cases are in the pipeline have been asked to submit requisite documents to the varsity, as recommended by the panel last year. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We welcome the initiative taken by the university. PUTA has been demanding this for the last few years. We are hopeful that the pending cases are also cleared.”In February last year, PU had decided to provide benefits of past services to teachers with pending cases, who claimed that their past experience was not counted.Issue arose in 2017The issue of counting of past services of teachers arose in 2017, when over 100 PU professors submitted their papers, claiming that their past services were not counted while considering the promotion of teachers under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-clears-13-cases-for-counting-of-past-service-101619036575149.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||One-day lockdown on Ram Navami largely successful in Chandigarh||The one-day lockdown imposed by the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday was largely successful as markets within sectors remained closed and popular spots like Sukhna Lake, Sector 17 and Rock Garden wore a deserted look.It was imposed on the occasion of Ram Navami to control the Covid spread amid a sharp spike in cases the last month.There was thin traffic on roads, though at certain points like Zirkapur-Chandigarh border, there were traffic snarls as police stopped vehicles for checking.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Yes, it was effectively enforced by the police. Even by stopping ten gatherings, we will have prevented 100 infections, on average. Since it was a holiday, inconvenience was minimal. Infection from large temple gatherings have been prevented.”Shops rendering essential services like grocery and vegetable stores and medicine shops were allowed to stay open. Even though only home delivery was allowed by the administration during the lockdown, in some areas, people were seen walking to shops to buy goods.Police had to intervene in some areas like Burail to get shops closed which were opened in the morning.The UT transport department operated 50% of CTU buses, even as most of these went vacant, with very few commuters on the road. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party Chandigarh demanded that an all-party meeting be called by the UT administrator immediately, to frame a substantive policy to deal with the Covid situation. Earlier, Congress had also demanded the same.AAP has opposed the weekend and one-day lockdowns in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, while a section of Congress leadership has opposed the lockdown, another led by Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla has favoured a 15-day lockdown.A senior UT official said, “The administration will discuss the imposition of weekend lockdown and the lockdown for longer duration in its Friday’s Covid review meeting.”Four FIRs lodged As many as 30 challans were issued for not wearing masks in public, 255 for not maintain social distancing and 80 for spitting in public. As many as four FIRs were lodged for violating lockdown and four were arrested. Fine was collected amounting to ₹2.35 lakh.Seven FIRs in Mohali for lockdown violationsDespite complete lockdown imposed in Mohali district on Wednesday, seven FIRs were registered by police against people for moving around and opening of shops. A case has also been registered against popular eatery Nik Baker’s for opening their shop in Phase 7. All shops had been asked to remain closed expect those rendering essential services.Also, two owners of an immigration firm in Phase 1 were held flouting for flouting lockdown norms. The accused have been identified as Karmjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Phase 1 and Pradeep Singh, a resident of Daun village in Mohali, owners of “Brilliant Consultants”.Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), said, around 32 nakas were set up in Mohali city and the seven cases were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code.Also, 446 people were challaned for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oneday-lockdown-on-ram-navami-largely-successful-in-chandigarh-101619036569959.html
22-04-2021||Other||Cremation count casts doubt over Covid death data in Chandigarh and Panchkula||Even as official numbers indicate there have been 42 Covid deaths in Chandigarh so far in April, the cremation grounds in the city say the number is as high as 70, pointing to discrepancy between the health department data and the situation on the ground. Even in Panchkula, according to the administration, 18 people died due to coronavirus in the same period, while the number reported by the city’s only cremation ground in Sector 20 is 30.Similarly, in March, officially there were 26 Covid deaths in Chandigarh, but 33 cremations were carried out.In Panchkula, the bulletin showed five deaths, while there were 15 cremations in March.Apart from the traditional and LPG crematorium in Sector 25, Chandigarh, the cremation ground in Industrial Area also takes care of last rites of Covid patients from the city. Another such facility in Manimajra does not cremate Covid patients.At the Sector 25 crematorium, 49 Covid patients from Chandigarh have been cremated in April so far, while the number is 21 at the Industrial Area ground.No test report sought at UT’s crematoriumsCovid cremations in Chandigarh are mostly taken care of by members of the Red Cross. Families of the deceased also bring bodies directly after informing the crematoriums. But, there is no protocol to seek a Covid report or conduct a test before the last rites. According to the caretakers, the daily details of cremations, including those of Covid patients and those brought by families, are forwarded to the municipal corporation (MC). But, it remains unclear, if the data is calibrated thereon.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, said if a patient dies at home, the family must get a Covid test conducted for consistency in the figures.“If there is a Covid death in any city hospital, our surveillance cell gets the information. All hospital deaths are tested for Covid. Perhaps, people are going to the cremation ground and writing the cause of death as Covid in absence of a facility to verify it,” she said.Stating that there was no question of hiding fatalities, UT adviser Manoj Parida said there was a protocol in place at the hospitals, and every death was counted for and timely information was provided to all stakeholders.Families may be providing Panchkula address: DCOn the discrepancy in the numbers in Panchkula, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said at times, attendants from other cities and states gave a Panchkula address at the cremation ground, despite not being from here. “To avoid any mismatch in figures, their addresses are cross-checked by health department teams and the data is updated accordingly,” he added.However, a worker at the Sector-20 crematorium, said, “We always ask for a copy of the deceased’s Aadhaar card and another of a family member, which is used to record the address. Besides, why would anyone give a wrong address of the deceased?”Overall cremations risingWith the surging Covid-19 cases, the number of overall cremations in both cities has also risen between March and April. According to the three crematoriums in Chandigarh, they have carried out 393 cremations in April so far, while the number in the corresponding period in March was 284. In Panchkula, against 36 cremations through March, the city’s sole crematorium recorded another 47 within 20 days of April.However, the facilities aren’t under stress, as they have the capacity to conduct a lot more cremations should the need arise. The Industrial Area crematorium for instance, has the capacity to perform 24 cremations a day, but so far, the maximum has only been six.“It’s true that Covid-19 deaths are being underreported in the country, as many deaths at home could also have been due to Covid. At the same time, there is a possibility that people with other ailments aren’t getting proper medical care, as hospitals are burdened with Covid-19 patients, leading to more casualties,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, community medicine, and dean, PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-count-casts-doubt-over-covid-death-data-in-chandigarh-and-panchkula-101619036445838.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Call for help: Residents dial 112 as infections rise||As Covid-19 infections continue to surge across the Capital, residents are calling the police helpline number 112 requesting all sorts of help -- from arranging ambulances and oxygen cylinders for patients to getting tested for Covid-19.According to police control room (PCR) data, seen by Hindustan Times, the 112 number is getting over 500 calls every day for the past few days, and the police expect this to rise over the rest of the week.The calls to 112 are different from those received by the Covid-19 helpline -- 011-23469900 -- launched by police last week. That helpline receives around 900 calls daily, and a majority of them are regarding movement passes during the six-day curfew that kicked in on Monday night, as well as queries about the coronavirus disease itself.The police data is indicative of the scale of the crisis the city is facing. To be sure, there are dedicated helplines for hospitals beds, medicines and medical aid that have been flooded with calls.PCR call data for April shows that the most number of calls were related to unavailability of ambulances. On Tuesday, the control room received 210 calls from citizens who complained that they were unable to get a government or private ambulance. A day before that, the 112 number received 152 calls for ambulance services. Police, without revealing the exact numbers, said crime-related calls have dropped over the past few days, and attributed this to the night curfew and the ongoing curfew.Police said these calls had increased all of a sudden. Data shows that on April 1, there were only three such calls, followed by two on April 2, and three on April 3. The data shows that calls for ambulance services increased after April 5, when the national capital started recording at least 5,000 cases daily -- the 5,000-mark was breached on April 6 with 5,100 cases and cases have been rising steadily since then -- putting a strain on the health facilities.The positivity rate of the disease has also increased to over 30% in the last few days -- it was 32.82% on Tuesday. This means that one in every three persons tested was turning out positive for the disease. Apart from calls for ambulances, police are receiving an average of 10 calls requesting oxygen cylinders. On Tuesday, 15 such calls were received. Police officers manning the telephone lines said these calls were mostly from hospitals short on supply.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said: “On Tuesday, as reports poured in from the control room and police stations about medical professionals requesting oxygen cylinders, a meeting was held by the police brass at the headquarters. A message was sent to everyone on the field that such calls were to be given priority. Personnel posted in PCR vans were told to wear PPE kits and use the vans as ambulances when needed. Every police station was told to gather information about oxygen cylinders and ensure that it reached hospitals. The traffic police was told to coordinate with other units and open a ‘green corridor’ for vehicles carrying oxygen to hospitals. As soon as the meeting was over, around 3.15pm, a 71-year-old lady who lives alone in Bharat Nagar suffered a critical reduction in oxygen levels -- it dropped below 50, from an optimum of 95% or higher. Our officers went to her house and got her admitted to the Deep Chand Bandu hospital. Such interventions are too many to detail.”On Wednesday, for example, a call was received from doctors of Amarleela Hospital in west Delhi’s Janakpuri. The caller informed the police that the lives of 32 Covid patients were at risk as their oxygen stock was “nearly finished”. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said,” Our police team immediately contacted oxygen cylinder suppliers in and around the area. They found one in Kirti Nagar. An emergency response vehicle, which is normally used for security reasons, was rushed to the storage point to collect cylinders. They then went to Gole Market and Mayapuri to arrange for more cylinders. They finally managed to find 11 cylinders.”Until Wednesday afternoon, police received four such calls on the day.The PCR vans were also doubling as hearse vans to transport bodies to the crematoriums and cemeteries, officials said.On Sunday, the control room received information about a 93-year-old woman dying of Covid-19 in Dwarka, and her family members searching for a hearse. A PCR van transported her body to the hospital, and later to the cremation ground. Unlike last year, the control room was flooded with calls about lack of food and supplies during the lockdown, this month, police have received only 11 such calls. In the first week of April last year (first two weeks of the nationwide lockdown), the 112 number received at least 100 such calls.“There were no calls related to food or starvation in the past two days. On April 17 and 18, there were three and six calls respectively, but that was more about delivery of food because of the weekend lockdown,” a second officer said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/call-for-help-residents-dial-112-as-infections-rise-101619036292824.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Coming of age, in the pandemic||He is 13, old enough to realise that “eating my favourite veg pizza is not wise these days”.A typical pizza is expensive, Om Kumar explains, and his craze for it would be a drag on his “Papa’s” diminished resources. His father runs a tea stall in Gurugram’s Sector 14. Chatting this afternoon on WhatsApp video, Mr Kumar, an 8th standard student, gives a bleak picture of his days in the family’s one-room apartment, as the current wave of the coronavirus pandemic is raging on with full blast in the world outside.“My PC (desktop computer) stopped working five months ago. I had a tablet but the battery started having problems a month back. So now I’m attending online school classes on Papa’s mobile.”The family only has one smartphone and it has to be shared between the tea stall owner and his two sons. Mr Kumar’s mother, Bheeba Devi, lives in their native village in Madhubani, Bihar.If there had not been a pandemic, and if his father’s business had remained as stable and reasonably profitable as it was early last year, Mr Kumar might have purchased a new laptop. That would have been useful not only for his immediate studies but also for his long-term goal — his ambition is to become a cyber security expert.But the world is in a dreadful shape, and we can’t take anything for granted any longer, says young Mr Kumar. He talks with the gravitas of a person mature beyond his years. Sometimes, when he would hang out at his father’s stall, “I would survey the ongoing situation by talking to customers, and through them I discovered that things are very bad, and that there is not much hope for better days.”One month ago, exasperated by his younger brother Abhishek’s fondness for chhole kulche and momos, his father was obliged to tell them that he was facing a severe financial crunch, and that it would be “wiser not to spend money on fast food and just eat the meals cooked at home for cheap”.The last time Mr Kumar had his beloved pizza was two years ago, he recalls, in a Pizza Hut outlet. The young man notes that his family has survived the precious year’s pandemic-ridden lockdown by digging into the father’s savings. This time there are no savings, he says.Even so, Mr Kumar remains hopeful for his near and distant future. “Next year I will get a new laptop... and I’m sure I’ll become a cyber security expert, with a good job in my own Gurgaon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-coming-of-age-in-the-pandemic-101619036046536.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||4 of family among 5 held for drug smuggling, 1.2kg heroin seized||A man, his two sons and daughter-in-law were among five people arrested from a Tarn Taran village by a team of special task force (STF), Ludhiana range, for possessing 1.2 kg heroin. The team also recovered ₹70,000 drug money from their possession.The accused were identified as Manjit Singh (60), his sons Jagveer Singh and Gurpreet Singh (both in their early 30s), and latter’s wife Mandeep Kaur (30) of Bhail village in Goindwal of Tarn Taran district and Jaswinder Kaur (49) of Chabal village in Tarn Taran.Inspector Harbans Singh from the STF said they received a tip off about the accused’s movement. “After this, their car was intercepted on a bridge at Dilawarpur village in Goindwal. When frisked, 1.10kg heroin was recovered from the car,” he said.On questioning, Manjit told the police that they had bought the drugs from Jaswinder Kaur, following which her house was raided from where the police recovered 10 gram heroin and ₹70,000 in cash.A case under sections 21, 25, 27A, 29 of NDPS Act was registered against the accused at STF police station in Phase 4, SAS Nagar.The inspector said during questioning, it came to the fore that both Manjit and his son Jagvir had earlier been booked in a drug case. “Jaswinder is the prime accused. She had been booked in cases of attempt to murder, drug smuggling, fake currency, arms act, etc. She also runs three shops of clothing, bakery and grocery store from her house,” he said.He said the accused were working together for around five years. “The accused will be questioned to know more about their network,” said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-of-family-among-5-held-for-drug-smuggling-1-2kg-heroin-seized-101619036028326.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tightens curbs as Covid-19 cases continue to soar||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday imposed several new restrictions including a ban on inter-city and inter-district travel and curbs on office attendance as Covid-19 cases continue to rise rapidly in the state.Attendance in government and exempted-category offices has been reduced to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to the essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district and city travel. The order comes into effect from 8pm from Thursday.A day after the state cabinet’s decision of imposing a full lockdown in the state, the state government issued the orders late on Wednesday. To reduce the mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of the seating capacity, while travelling in local trains has been restricted only to the people working in government offices, medical sector and those who travel for health purposes.Passengers of private buses (who are allowed to travel) will have to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days after they reach their destination. Bus operators will have to stamp the passengers’ hands to indicate they are supposed to stay at home.Weddings can take place with 25 persons in attendance in a single hall. The ceremony shall not extend beyond two hours and violation of the rule will attract a fine of ₹50,000, the order said. Medical professionals and those requiring immediate medical attention and disabled people can use public transport services during the period. Disabled persons can be accompanied by another person.The local disaster management authority can obtain information of passengers of long distance travel and stamp them with “home quarantine” tag.The decision of lockdown was taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday, amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million by May 2. The department expressed concerned that the health machinery will not be able to bear the burden as over 80% of it is already under use. The shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drugs such as remdesivir was another concern, after which the ministers insisted for a complete lockdown.State health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier in the day that except public transport and essential commodities, everything else will be shut down. “Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load...all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-continue-to-soar-101619035724470.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||28 cases of UK variant, new strains reported in Jammu||Intensifying its efforts against the spread of the pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday said that it was working on a five-pronged strategy to contain the contagion and that eight cases of the UK-Covid variant and other new strains had been detected in Jammu but none from Kashmir.Briefing the media about the situation in the UT, financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo, who was accompanied by principal secretary Rohit Kansal said, “The situation is challenging but not out of control. The J&K administration has made ample preparations to meet the challenge and is working on a five-pronged strategy to restrict the spread of the virus.” “Intense testing, including that of travellers and others suspects, is being done at a rapid pace, followed by containment process, which includes contact tracing and imposing restrictions,” he said, adding that unlike last year, people were being vaccinated against the virus. “We have 13,400 active cases with a promising recovery rate of 89.6% and mortality rate of 1.38%. There are around 120 containment zones and effective mechanisms for contact tracing are in place. Three state-of-the-art Cobas-6800 machines for testing will be installed in premier health institutes shortly. There are around 600 Covid- dedicated ventilators across J&K, of which only 48 are occupied,” he said, adding that 6,000 Category-I Covid beds were available in hospitals, including 10,000 bulk oxygen cylinders and 3,500 medium-sized cylinders. “The government is in the process of installing 36 oxygen generation plants, of which 23 will be made functional by the end of the week, which will help add 2,000 more oxygen beds,” he said, while assuring that there was no death of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks and viral transport mediums (VTMs). On the availability of vaccines, he said, “The department is continuously receiving batches of the vaccine, as per the requirement. At present, at least two lakh doses are available.” Dulloo said around 17 lakh doses had been administered till date with 91,142 (74.56%) health care workers, 2,61,589 (77.51%) front line workers and 11,27,511 (36.76%) 45-year plus citizens already inoculated. Additional check posts created: Kansal Kansal said that additional check posts had been created at Lakhanpur, Samba, lower Munda en route the Kashmir national highway to test travellers besides at railway stations and airports. He said the rate of testing in J&K is one of the best in the country and other facilities are also up international requirements and standards.A massive drive was launched by the Jammu district administration for effective implementation of guidelines and standard operational procedures issued for containment of the pandemic. The district administration in Jammu, through additional district magistrates, tehsildars, and naib tehsildars in association with their police counterparts launched the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-cases-of-uk-variant-new-strains-reported-in-jammu-101619035245030.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Illinois recognises April as ‘Sikh awareness month’||Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi has entered a statement into the Congressional record to recognise April as ‘Sikh appreciation and awareness month’ in his home state of Illinois. “Madam speaker, today I rise to recognise the month of April as ‘Sikh appreciation and awareness month’ in my home state of Illinois,” Krishnamoorthi said in a statement submitted into Congressional record. This recognition, he said, is timely, given the disturbing rise in hate crimes and violent acts perpetrated against Sikh-Americans, most recently on April 15 at a Federal Express facility located in Indianapolis in which four Sikhs, including three women were killed. The first followers of the Sikh religion emigrated to the United States over 125 years ago, where they found work on farms located in California and in the lumber mills of Washington state, he said. Despite suffering persecution and discrimination, these patriotic Sikh-Americans persevered and found ways to participate in civic life, including service in the United States Army, he added.“In 1918, Sergeant Bhagat Singh Thind was the first serviceman in the history of the United States Army allowed to wear a turban as part of his military uniform. Sikh-Americans continued to proudly serve with distinction in the Second World War, Korean War, Vietnam War and in our conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq,” Krishnamoorthi said. In addition to military service, Sikh-Americans have made countless contributions to our common good, he said. “They include scientists like Dr. Narinder Singh Kapany, who is widely known as the ‘father of fibre optic technology’ and Dr Gurtej Singh Sandhu, one of the world’s most prolific inventors. They include artists and musicians like Grammy nominee Snatam Kaur Khalsa, and activist and award-winning filmmaker Valarie Kaur,” Krishnamoorthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illinois-recognises-april-as-sikh-awareness-month-101619035185120.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 2,204 cases, J&K clocks highest ever daily surge, again||With 2,204 fresh cases, Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday again reported the highest ever novel coronavirus infections since the outbreak. The infections have taken the Covid count for April to 21,482 – the second highest monthly total after September, when the first wave had peaked. So far, 1,52,442 people have tested positive in the Union territory, since the outbreak. With 13 Covid-induced fatalities — three in Kashmir and 10 in Jammu — the total death toll reached 2,084, health officials said. This is the highest daily death count in the UT since the first week of October. Of the new cases, 1,299 cases are from Kashmir while 905 are from Jammu, including 410 travellers. So far, 90 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.For the past four days, the UT has been recording over 1,500 cases. J&K had recorded an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020 and highest daily death count of 23 on September 21.Officials said with 612 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 461 in Jammu district, 232 in Baramulla, 133 in Reasi ( including 73 travellers) , 127 in Kathua and 109 in Kulgam. The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 14,928, officials said. As many as 733 patients have recovered, including 479 from Kashmir and 254 from Jammu.As many as 1,35,430 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 89.65% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.87 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September,2020 when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths, which was followed by 19,619 cases and 293 deaths in October. 1 death; 250 +ve cases in LadakhLadakh on Wednesday reported 250 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 12,556, while one death pushed the toll to 134. According to the media bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services of Ladakh, of the total cases, 236 cases were reported from Leh and 14 from Kargil. Of the total deaths reported in the union territory, 90 were in Leh and 44 in Kargil, it added.The bulletin said 136 patients have been discharged after recovery.With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in Ladakh has increased to 1,812, including 1,730 in Leh district and 82 in Kargil district, it said.So far, a total of 10,610 patients have recovered from the infection since the outbreak of the pandemic.The bulletin said 1,646 passengers were screened at KBR Airport, Leh, on Tuesday while 86 passengers, including drivers and helpers of trucks, and light motor vehicles were screened at Khaltsi checkpost on Monday. Deputy commissioner, chairperson, district disaster management authority (DDMA), Leh, Shrikant Suse, Wednesday convened a meeting to review the implementation of Covid standard operating procedures (SOPs) with the members of Covid enforcement squads. (With inputs from Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-2-204-cases-j-k-clocks-highest-ever-daily-surge-again-101619035125154.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Will try to import vaccines to inoculate all above 18: Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday the state will import vaccines that are available globally, including Pfizer, Moderna and Sputnik, to enable the vaccination of those between 18 and 45 years, following a decision by the Centre to open up vaccination for all adults starting May 1.“I have come to know that Covishield has fixed ₹400 per vial for government hospitals and ₹600 per vial for private hospitals… The state has decided to use all the vaccines available be it Covishield or the imported ones for the age group of 18-45 years,” Tope said.Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday announced it will sell Covishield for ₹400 to state governments, and ₹600 to private hospitals in the country, adding that in next 4-5 months the vaccines will be made available in retail and free trade.On Tuesday, Tope said following a state cabinet meeting that Maharashtra will import vaccines.“We have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik V from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-will-try-to-import-vaccines-to-inoculate-all-above-18-tope-101619034879208.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tourist influx dries up in Kashmir as second Covid wave wreaks havoc||Tourism in Kashmir started of to a promising note at the start of the New Year. However, with the second wave wrecking havoc across the country, the tourist influx has begun to dry up. In the last two weeks, most advance bookings in hotels and houseboats across Kashmir have been cancelled, stakeholders said.Mukhtar Shah, president, Hoteliers’ Club, Gulmarg, said there had been a slew of cancellations in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. “In the last week, a lot more people have decided to either cancel or postpone their travel. At present, we hardly have 15-20% occupancy,” Shah said, adding that the only people visiting were those who could either not cancel their tickets or were already here. Mostly tourists would make a beeline for Gulmarg, the meadow of flowers, ensconced in the Pir Panjal mountain range in the western Himalayas around 50km from Srinagar. “We received a very good response in winter. The tourism department’s promotion as well as the Khelo India games invigorated tourism,” he said.At the start of April, tourists from Gujrat and Maharashtra would start visiting the Valley. “These places are now severely affected by Covid,” he said.Tourism has nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people and communication shut for months. The situation was further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown after mid-March.Farooq Kuthoo, president, Travel Agents Association of Kashmir (TAAK), said they were expecting record breaking tourist influx this year but the second wave had dampened their prospects. “This year we were expecting a bumper tourist season, which would break all records. Since December, around 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the Valley. Unfortunately, the second wave has hit the region and affected the tourist season,” he said.“Around 90-95% bookings have been cancelled. Only those people are here who are stuck in transit or who had made payments. No new queries have been made,” he said.Houseboat Owners Association general secretary Abdul Rashid said hardly any tourists can be spotted on Dal Lake anymore. “Our houseboats are empty. You will not find a single shikara with tourist,” he said. “The cancellation of bookings have affected all those associated with the tourism industry, be it shikarawalas, houseboat owners, hotelier, dhaba owners or art dealers,” he said.Despite the surging Covid numbers in Kashmir, the government had opened the Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake to tourists on March 25. “The response was great but the second wave and lockdown in many states has affected the flow now. For the past week, very few tourists can be seen,” said Sofi Inam-ur-Rehman, assistant floriculture officer and in-charge of the Tulip Garden. Calls to director tourism GN Itoo yielded no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tourist-influx-dries-up-in-kashmir-as-second-covid-wave-wreaks-havoc-101619034944960.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu shares old posts, says one man responsible for 2015 sacrilege incidents||Former minister and Amritsar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday blamed “one person” for having colluded with the culprits of 2015 sacrilege cases. In a Twitter and Facebook post, he shared his old clips of harangues on the sacrilege incidents. He, however, neither disclosed the name of the person, nor he clarified about the culprits he was talking about.The shared clips include a portion of a speech in which he had alleged “friendly match” between the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). “Carefully crafted collusive abetment leading to…..Hum to doobegen sanam, tumko bhi le dubenge (We will drown, but will take you along). It is not a failure of the Govt or the party, but one person who is hand in glove with the culprits,” Sidhu tweeted.In 2019, Sidhu, while addressing an election rally in Bathinda, talked of ‘friendly match” with regard to “inaction” by the state government against culprits of sacrilege incidents. His tweet is being seen ostensibly as another salvo on the Amarinder-led government in Punjab.Last week, during a press conference in Patiala, the Congress leader had attacked his own government by saying it had cheated the people of Punjab by “failing to meet the two prime demands of strict action against drug kingpins and punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib”.On the sacrilege issue, Sidhu had said that the investigation was botched up since 2015. “Why has the government failed to name and nail the guilty? On whose directions did the policemen open fire on protesters? Why are their names not mentioned in the FIR? It’s evident from the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report that the then chief minister had spoken to the then police chief at midnight, hours before the firing on protesting Sikhs was undertaken. The report was tabled in the House, debated and a resolution was passed to punish the guilty, but no concrete action has been taken. Who is responsible?” he had said, asking the government to make the report of the sacrilege probe public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-shares-old-posts-says-one-man-responsible-for-2015-sacrilege-incidents-101619034885499.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||2nd wave of Covid deals blow to wedding business, tourism in Himachal||A day after the government imposed fresh restrictions on social gatherings, around 45% to 80% weddings have been postponed or cancelled, which has dealt a blow to the wedding industry. The government has now reduced the capacity for both indoor and outdoor guests at weddings and funerals to 50. Hotel Holiday Home manager Nand Lal Sharma says, “Banquets halls at the hotel had been booked solid until mid-May. However, we were asked to cancel 20 such events yesterday alone. People have deferred the dates.”Ravinder Sandhu, manager, Hotel Pinewood, which is 61km from Chandigarh on the Kalka-Shimla highway, agrees, “Many people from the tricity — Chandigarh, Mohali, and Panchkula — had booked our hotel after the Punjab government limited the number of guests at weddings. Now, they have cancelled or postponed their bookings.” “We had booked nine weddings after April 23. However, now that the government has capped the numbers we have lost avenues to earn,” said Sanjay Madan, proprietor, East Bourne Hotel. Shimla Hoteliers and Restaurateurs Association president Sanjay Sood said, “At a time when the pandemic-hit tourism industry was showing signs of revival, the restrictions have again dealt a blow to the hotel industry. Many hotels have lost bookings.” In Dharamshala, too, catering companies and hotels fear that they may lose business. Vijay Inder Karan, a Dharamshala-based hotelier ,said, “We have two or three wedding bookings. We have asked them to strictly adhere to the guest limit of 50 people.” Surge in cases and the slew of restrictions being announced one after the other have brought the tourism industry to a grinding halt in Himachal. The government had issued an advisory for tourists from heavy caseloads states asking them to bring negative Covid reports not older than 72 hours with them. “The financial health of the tourism industry and its stakeholders is already in a bad shape due to complete closure of tourism units for seven to eight months last year. The industry was slowly heading towards revival due to free-flow of tourists,” said MK Seth, president, Himachal Pradesh Tourism Stake holder Association . “The stakeholders were at least generating some revenue to meet their expenses.However, the second wave has broken the back bone of tourism industry in Himachal,” he said adding that the state receives most tourists between March and mid-July, and that too from Gujrat and Maharashtra, and West Bengal. The weekend crowd also mostly comprises visitors from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand, most of which feature in the list of high caseload states. “It has become difficult for the stakeholders to keep their units running,” says Seth. Similarly, taxi operators are also finding it difficult to make ends meet. “I purchased a new car after raising a loan from the bank two years ago, but lockdown was imposed last year and prospects of earning seem bleak this year too. I have no option but to sell the car,” says Ravinder Kumar , 25, a taxi operator .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2nd-wave-of-covid-deals-blow-to-wedding-business-tourism-in-himachal-101619034766297.html
22-04-2021||Other||Week after Ludhiana man’s mysterious death, wife, her aide held for murder||A week after a 35-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Jodhan village of Ludhiana, police arrested his wife and her alleged lover in the case. The victim, Ranjit Singh, 35, was found dead on April 14. Police claimed the accused, Gagandeep Kaur, 30, and Raghvir Singh, 27, a cousin of the victim, confessed to the crime after their arrest on Wednesday.Sharing details, Jodhan station house officer (SHO) Amritpal Singh, who is the investigating officer, said the case was registered on complaint of the victim’s father Sukhdev Singh.He told the police that his son had got married to Gagandeep around 10 years ago and the couple has three daughters, aged 9, 7 and 4. However, due to strained relations, the couple had started living separately. The complainant said that he came to know that his nephew Raghvir had visited the house a day before his son was found dead. It also came to the fore that Raghvir and Gagandeep Kaur were in an illicit relationship. “When I questioned Gagandeep about the matter, she was not able to give a proper response and on the intervening night of April 16 and 17, she fled, leaving her daughters home,” said the victim’s father. “Following their arrest, the accused revealed that they had served dinner laced with poison to the victim and strangulated him after he lost consciousness,” the investigating officer said. A case under Section 302 (murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/week-after-ludhiana-man-s-mysterious-death-wife-her-aide-held-for-murder-101619034765029.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra imposes full lockdown from today||The Maharashtra government imposed a full lockdown, almost one on the lines of the one that was in place last year, amid the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases.From reducing attendance in government and exempted-category offices to 15%, local train travel has been restricted to essential sector and stricter curbs have been imposed on interdistrict/city travel. The order comes into effect from 8pm on Thursday. This would mean, people can’t step out unless for medical reasons or to buy essential commodities (between 7am and 11am) or if they are working in essential sector. Majority of restrictions have already been announced on Tuesday. A day after the state cabinet’s decision of imposing a full lockdown in the state, the state government issued an SOP late on Thursday. To reduce the mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of their sitting capacity, while the travelling in local trains has been restricted only to the people working in government offices, medical sector and ones who are travelling for health purposes. The inter-district/city travel has been made strict by making 14 days quarantine and stamping their hands mandatory. The public transport buses, including BEST in Mumbai, will ply for all, but at 50% of the sitting capacity. The passengers travelling inter-city/district in public transport buses will have to mandatorily undergo the quarantine period of 14 days, while a rapid antigen test on them at alighting point can be considered by local authorities, the order has said. The decision of lockdown was taken by the state cabinet on Tuesday, amid the projection by the health department of active cases rising over 1.1 million cases by May 2. The department had expressed concerned that the health machinery will not be able to bear the burden as over 80% of it has already under use. The shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug such as Remdesivir was another concern expressed, after which all the state cabinet ministers insisted for the complete lockdown. The wedding ceremony, which is proved to be the super-spreader event in the past, has been allowed in the presence of only 25 attendees. The ceremony has to be completed in two hours, while the flouting of the condition may attract the fine of Rs50,000 to the family and action against the operator by shutting down the facility till the end of the pandemic. “The offices from exempted category, including banks, mediclaim, insurance sector, too, will have to reduce the attendance to 15% from existing permission of 50%. However the offices dealing in essential services including hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical companies, posts, ports, petrol pumps, petroleum companies, e-commerce companies etc can operate at 50% capacity,” the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said. The private offices have already been directed to switch to work-from-home (WFH) mode. The private passenger vehicles, except buses, have been allowed only for essential and emergency services or for valid reasons at 50% of their sitting capacity. The inter-district travel of such vehicles, too, has been restricted only for essential and emergency services. The private buses are allowed to ply intra and inter-city/district at 50% of their sitting capacity. “The passengers travelling in such buses will have to go through a 14-day quarantine. A rapid antigen test at the alighting point can be considered by local authorities. The passengers will be stamped for ascertaining the quarantine period. Flouting of rules will attract a fine of Rs10,000,” the order has stated. State health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier in the day, which except public transport and essential commodities, everything else will be shut down. “Railways and bus services will not be shut down, under the new curbs expected to be announced soon. Though we are not calling it lockdown, it is a ‘break-the-chain’ initiative amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. We have been utilising 80-90% of our facilities in the health infrastructure, including beds, oxygen, manpower and it cannot bear more load. Against the backdrop of it, all the cabinet ministers insisted on complete lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will announce it soon,” he said. The minister said that although prime minister Narendra Modi has said that the lockdown should be the last resort, the state government has no other option, but to go for it amid pressure on the infrastructure. Tope said that there would not be complete ban on inter-district travel.“The inter-district travel will be allowed only for essential and emergency services. Police administration will ensure at the borders that outsiders are not entering the district without a valid reason. The entry will be given with valid prior permission. We, however, do not want to impose complete ban on an inter-district travel,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-imposes-full-lockdown-from-today-101619034644371.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Why Punjab’s wheat procurement process is in doldrums this time||The ongoing wheat procurement in Punjab has been chaotic, exposing Capt Amarinder government to an unprecedented situation at a time when assembly polls are less than a year away. The government is on the back foot, finding it tough to defend its position. All this gives room to the opposition parties —SAD and AAP — to win political brownie points over the Congress. HT takes a 360-degree look to find out why wheat procurement is tardy this time. Farmers not adhering to token system As against expectations of the mandi board for 40 lakh tonne wheat arrival in the mandis by April 20, in proportion to 9.87 lakh passes issued to the farmers, the arrivals actually touched 59 lakh tonne, leading to a glut. “The farmers are not going by the turn system, they are trying to push their way as if they have pressed a panic button and are unloading their produce in mandis,” said a senior officer of state food and civil supplies department. Last two procurements were smooth because mandi board was able to successfully execute the token system, which flopped this time. 130 lakh tonne wheat is expected to be procured this season. Shortage of gunny bags State’s food and civil supplies is facing acute shortage of gunny bags. Roughly 5.42 lakh bales (each bale has 500 bags) are required this time and there is a shortage of 68,000 bales (3.4 crore bags). The shortage is delaying lifting, hence contributing to the glut. After nod from the Centre, the state department has allowed use of one-time used bags at a cost of ₹41.9 per bag. The arhtiyas and owners of rice shelling mills are offering one-time used bags for procurement. “The entire operation of collecting these bags and distributing them in the mandis takes time for which everyone needs to have patience,” said a food department officer. Arhtiyas not cooperating For the first time in 65 years since assured procurement began, the role of arhtiyas was restricted for the first time in the current procurement season. The Centre mandated direct benefit transfer (DBT) of minimum support price directly in farmers’ bank accounts bypassing the arhtiyas. Though state government made some changes in the PFMS system used in making payments to farmers, but they have no control over the payment part. “Previously they used to perform some functions on their own, such as arrangements of gunny bags in case of shortage and making payment to the farmers in case of delay from the Centre. But they are not coming forward this time,” said a mandi board officer. “We are down morally, but we are cooperating,” said VK Kalra, president of arhtiyas’ association. Labour shortage Due to pandemic, there is shortage of labour. The entire logistics in the procurement process such as cleaning of grain, weighing, filing, stitching and transportation is done by labour and the shortage has slowed down the entire process. “The harvest is highly mechanised as 17,500 harvest machines are put to use in 12,500 villages across state and it takes only a week to 10 days. But procurement and lifting can’t be done at the same pace, leading to pile-up in mandis,” said director food and civil supplies Ravi Bhagat. Arrivals peaked in a week March being comparatively warmer this year, wheat grain matured early leading to fast-paced harvesting even as procurement was delayed by 10 days this time. “We touched peak arrivals within nine days with 10 lakh tone of produce reaching the mandis. Now, it has come down as weather conditions have changed,” Bhagat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-punjab-s-wheat-procurement-process-is-in-doldrums-this-time-101619034526194.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||IMA opposes disparity in prices of Covid vaccine||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has have opposed the disparity in the rates of Covid vaccines being offered to private hospitals.Dr Navjot Dhayia, national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the Serum Institute of India (SII) has fixed the price of Covishield vaccine at ₹600 per dose for private hospitals and ₹400 per jab for government hospitals, whereas the centre will get the same for ₹150.Dahyia termed it as discrimination with private doctors. He said that at a time when the government was promoting slogans such as “one nation, one tax”, why private hospitals are being discriminated against. The prices should be the same for government and private hospitals, said Dahyia.Dr GS Grewal, former president of Punjab Medical Council (PMC) and Dr Arun Mitra, former chairman, Ethical Committee of PMC, said the Prime Minister had some time back stated that all the countrymen will be given vaccines free of cost. “But now, the government is running away from its responsibility. Right from the day one, the government is not serious about controlling the pandemic. The disparity in prices has exposed the slogan of ‘one India one Mandi and one India one ration card,” said Dr Grewal.Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, former vice-president of IMA (Ludhiana chapter) said that the prices of vaccines will show the private doctors in a bad light.“Already, there is a perception that private hospitals charge a premium on health services. Generally, people are not aware about the price difference of the vaccine. And when the private hospital will charge more, the public will accuse them of fleecing which sends a wrong message,” said Dr Sachdeva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-opposes-disparity-in-prices-of-covid-vaccine-101619034285031.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||HP govt orders salary deduction to raise funds for Covid relief||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that it will deduct two days’ salary of Class 1 and 2 employees and one day’s wage of Class 3 and 4 employees in order to combat the second wave of infections sweeping through the state. The order issued by health secretary Amitabh Awasthi says the second wave of the pandemic was fast-spreading and fatal. “Now, therefore, it has been directed that all drawing and disbursing officers in different departments, public sector undertakings, autonomous bodies under the government of Himachal Pradesh shall deduct two days’ salary, emoluments of each Class 1 and 2 employees, except health care workers working on regular or contract basis from whom one day salary shall be deducted,” the order said. The collection will be deposited in the ‘HP Covid-19 solidarity response fund’.“Despite several social welfare measures undertaken by the state government during the pandemic, hardships might still be faced by the citizens, particularly the poor and marginalised sections of the society,” says the order.The state government has also made an appeal to all well-off families to donate generously towards the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-govt-orders-salary-deduction-to-raise-funds-for-covid-relief-101619034104931.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda sees seven-fold jump in Covid cases in a month||As another 271 Covid-19 cases were reported in Bathinda on Wednesday, the district has seen more than a seven-fold rise in the infections in a month.District officials said that number of active cases is likely to be much higher as a large number of people, particularly from the rural belt, are frequently participating in farmer protests in Punjab and Delhi borders. They also see a possible link of huge gathering at the annual Baisakhi mela in Talwandi Sabo town of the district as 2,119 Covid cases have reported in the last one week since April 15. According to the official data, on March 21, the number of active cases in Bathinda was 359 and total of 261 deaths were reported by then. There were 11,912 Covid positive cases till March 21. However, after one month, the number of active Covid patients has now reached 2,746. Almost two deaths were reported every day in the last one-month period in Bathinda.The district has the highest number of positive cases and Covid deaths among the districts of south Malwa.District Covid nodal officer Dr Ramandeep Singla said besides farmer protests and rallies, the Baisakhi mela that was held between April 11 and 14 at Talwandi Sabo was an example of a grave violation of pandemic guidelines.“Thousands of people visited the annual mela at Talwandi. There was absolutely no social distancing and hardly anyone was using face mask. Such unregulated events may lead to a chaotic medical situation. Though five-day home quarantine for those visiting religious or other large gatherings is in place, it is impossible to implement in the absence of community participation,” said Singla.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk admitted gross violations of Covid norms during the four-day Baisakhi mela and rally organised by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrhana) at Talwandi on April 13 but no FIR was lodged against violators.“We registered a daily diary report (DDR) about the violations,” said SSP said. “Population in the urban areas is more responsive to testing and vaccination but the same spirit lacks in the villages. Community leaders should play an important role here as the Covid situation is very alarming and the health department could give results only if people extend proactive support,” said civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-sees-seven-fold-jump-in-covid-cases-in-a-month-101619034044882.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Home Covid vaccine not an option: UoI affidavit to Bombay HC||The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) told the Bombay high court (HC) that door-to-door vaccination is not feasible, as it would be difficult to ensure that the vaccine is maintained at the optimal temperature required and further, help a patient in case of in Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). The detailed affidavit filed by under secretary Satyendra Singh on Tuesday cited five reasons for why such a vaccination policy does not exist.“In case of any AEFI, case management may not be proper and there will be delay in reaching health facility; Challenges in maintaining protocol of observation of beneficiary for 30 minutes after vaccination; The vaccine will be place in and out of Vaccine Carrier for each vaccination thereby increasing chances of contamination and exposure beyond recommended temperature which could affect vaccine efficacy and cause AEFI which will be detrimental to vaccine confidence and programme performance; High vaccine wastage due to increased time going from door to door taking more time for reaching out to each beneficiary; Following protocols for physical distancing and infection prevention and control may not be possible during door to door campaign,” it stated.Two advocates, Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, had filed a Public Interest Litigation on April 7 seeking that the vaccination of senior citizens above 75 years, differently abled and those who are bed-ridden should be carried out in their homes. The PIL stated that since the vaccination drive, which began on January 16, many politicians had got the vaccine at home. However, on April 9, the state of Maharashtra opposed the plea on the grounds that as per vaccination protocols issued by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, which guides on all aspects of the vaccination drive, did not have any mention regarding door-to-door vaccination. Purnima Kantharia, representing the state, submitted that supervision is a must after vaccination and the doctors have to observe how the body reacts to the jab. The lawyer representing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation submitted that as per guidelines, three rooms including waiting room, vaccination room and observation room are required in any vaccination centre. The lawyer submitted that as a result of this vaccination had to be carried out close to an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) facility in case of any emergency. A bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni of the Bombay HC sought a response from the MoHFW, and also asked whether a policy for door-to-door vaccination could be put in place by the Centre. In an exhaustive affidavit filed on Tuesday, the Centre said that it was not mandatory to have an ICU facility for administering the Covid-19 vaccines. The affidavit stated that as the vaccine would be constantly removed from the carrier for each shot to be administered, it would be difficult to maintain the correct temperature needed for their storage, and the chance of contamination and exposure to temperatures that are beyond what is recommended would affect vaccine efficacy and may cause Adverse event Following Immunization (AEFI). Singh also stated that in case of an AEFI in door-to-door vaccination, it may not always be possible to take a patient to a health facility on time, and that the mandatory observation for at least 30 minutes after vaccination, would not be possible at home. The affidavit also states that after receiving requests from several state governments, more vaccination centres had been approved for special consideration of senior citizens. The case is scheduled to be heard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/home-covid-vaccine-not-an-option-uoi-affidavit-to-bombay-hc-101619033924285.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Indrani Mukerjea, 38 inmates of Byculla jail test positive for Covid-19||Indrani Mukerjea, prime accused in Sheena Bora murder case, and 38 other inmates of the Byculla women’s jail tested positive for Covid-19 and were moved to a Covid care centre in Byculla for treatment, senior prison officials said on Wednesday.This comes in the wake of an outbreak in the state’s 44 prisons, which have seen the number of active Covid jump from 284 to 385 (of which 285 are prisoners) in the week between April 14 and 21. The number of active patients in the state prisons was 42 on March 3. The jail official quoted above said that a random anti-gen test of the prisoners revealed 39 positive cases on Tuesday night, including Mukerjea, the former chief executive officer of INX Media, who was arrested in August 2015. Mukerjea was arrested after her driver, arrested under the Arms Act, accused his employer of killing Sheena Bora, Mukerjea’s daughter, three years earlier. Peter Mukerjea was also arrested later in this case. The Central Bureau of Investigation told the court that he was the “silent killer” in this case. According to the prosecution, Indrani had been against the relationship between Sheena, Indrani’s daughter from a previous marriage, and Rahul, Peter’ son from a previous marriage. Last June saw a major outbreak in Arthur Road Central prison when over 180 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19. The Byculla district prison has a capacity of 462 prisoners (262 women and 200 men) but houses 306 women and 203 men. Some women prisoners also have children living with them.The authorities have conducted 59,036 Covid tests so far. “Since April 2020 a total of 3,262 prisoners have tested positive for Covid and nine have succumbed to the infectious disease. Yerwada, Kolahapur and Thane prisons have maximum active Covid positive prisoners,” the jail official said.In view of the surge in cases of Covid infection among prisoners and jail staffs across Maharashtra prisons, the jail authorities have started setting up 36 temporary prisons (Covid Centres for prisoners) across the state. “These temporary prisons (mostly educational institutes which are shut due to lockdown) were discontinued last year as the Covid cases had gone down drastically; 14 temporary prions (Covid Centres) have already started while requests have been made to local authorities for 22 others,” Sunil Ramanand, additional director general (prisons), said. Prison officials also said that the principal reason for spread of the virus in jails is overcrowding as lower courts have not released prisoners on bail across the state. The prison authority also wants the quarterly (three-monthly) meeting of district-wise Under-Trial Review Committees, which are headed by a Sessions Judge, to be conducted weekly to enable the regular review of de-congestion exercise at the prisons.Since March 25, 2020, 10,788 prisoners have been released to reduce overcrowding in the prisons in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. However, state prisons continue to remain highly overcrowded. At present, they have 34,943 prisoners against the capacity of 24,000 prisoners.The prison authority also taking efforts to prevent the spread of virus among its jail staffs. So far 3982 tests have been conducted on staffs following which 759 detected positive for Covid-19. Among these, eight jail staffers died. At present state prisons have 102 active Covid cases among staff members.The first case of Covid-19 was reported in Byculla jail on May 31, 2020.Another prison official requesting anonymity said that all the precautionary measures which came into effect during the peak of the pandemic last year have been put in place again. This also includes ensuring no mulaqats (visits of prisoner’s relatives to jail to meet prisoners).The prison authorities have also been conducting random testing not only of prisoners but also of the staff members working in various prisons throughout the state. No new inmate is being admitted without a Covid tests since last May. Taking cognizance of the April 16 report of Hindustan Times the Bombay High Court initiated a suo motu public interest litigation and directed authorities to compulsorily subject prisoners to RT-PCR tests and a vaccination shot 24-hours prior to being admitted to the prison. The High Court is likely to pass more orders in this regard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-indrani-mukerjea-38-inmates-of-byculla-jail-test-positive-for-covid19-101619033684259.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||At 568, Maharashtra sees highest single-day deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported its highest single-day toll of 568 since the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the toll to 61,911. It also added 67,468 fresh Covid-19 cases to push its tally over four million-mark to 4,027,827. The active case load in Maharashtra is now at a touching distance of 700,000 at 695,747.Mumbai, meanwhile, added 7,654 fresh infections to go over the 600,000-mark on Wednesday. The city, so far, has 601,713 confirmed cases, while the active case count in Mumbai climbed to 83,450. Mumbai added 62 deaths, taking its toll to 12,508.Maharashtra, which is slated to go under a strict lockdown from Thursday evening, is projected to add another 400,000 active cases in the next 11 days. According to presentation on the Covid-19 situation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, the state’s active case count will touch 1,094,996 by May 2. The state aims to arrest the rise in cases by introducing a complete lockdown. Of the nearly 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad.A health department official said the state is expected to face a shortage of hospital beds, unless the chain of transmission is broken through a lockdown. “Our projections had showed us that we would have an active caseload of 1.1 million by the end of this month. Even more worrying was the shortage of all types of beds across the state, including major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur,” the official said. As per the presentation, barring Amravati, Jalgaon and Kolhapur districts, Maharashtra is projected to face a severe shortage of hospital beds. Mumbai, which is projected to have an active caseload of 146,065 people, will be short of 6,433 oxygenated beds, 1,477 ICU beds and 121 ventilator beds. Similarly, Pune’s active caseload is projected to touch 185,162. It is projected to have a shortfall of 34,528 isolation beds, 13,118 oxygenated beds, 2,240 ICU beds, and 518 ventilator beds.Fourteen of the 35 districts in Maharashtra have a high positivity rate on a week-on-week basis, as per the presentation of the state health department. The positivity rate in these 14 districts is higher than the state’s overall positivity rate of 16.36%. Osmanabad topped the districts with a high positivity rate at 39.25%, followed by Parbhani and Hingoli at 36.78% and 36.7%, respectively. Pune district had a positivity rate of 30.43%, while Thane district had a positivity rate of 30.67%.Since April 14, Maharashtra has added 3,107 deaths and the senior health department officials attributed the jump in fatalities to late admission to hospital. They, however, dismissed shortage of oxygen and remdesivir as contributors to deaths. “Late arrivals continue to be the main factors. Besides, the sheer number of infections, we are bound to get high number of deaths. We do not think oxygen shortage or drug shortage is a factor,” said a health department official, who did not wish to be named.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director general of health services in the state and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, “With more and more people getting infected, we will see a high number of patients land up in hospital. Roughly 10% of the cases are clinical. Late arrivals make it difficult for doctors to save the person. There could be some stray cases of deaths due to oxygen shortage but it is not the main factor.”He added that the case fatality rate in the state is under control. The CFR stood at 1.54% on Wednesday. “Had the CFR shown an upward graph we would have been in a really bad position.”Of the 568 deaths reported on Wednesday, 303 occurred in the past 48 hours and 160 in the past week. The remaining 105 deaths are from the period before past week. Area in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region cumulatively reported 88 fatalities in the past 24 hours. Pune district saw 36 deaths, while Nashik and Ahmednagar reported 29 deaths each. Nagpur district added 41 deaths, Bhandara 23 and Nandurbad 24. Osmanabad and Beed districts added 17 and 12 deaths, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-568-maharashtra-sees-highest-single-day-deaths-101619033624326.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hits new peak with 4,970 fresh cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported another record spike of 4970 Covid cases, breaking the previous high of 4957 infections witnessed on April 18.With 69 more fatalities, the death toll in the state climbed to 8,114, according to a bulletin released by the state government. A total of 3,14,269 people have been infected by the virus in the state so far.Maximum 10 deaths were reported from Amritsar, seven each from Ludhiana and Ferozepur, six in Patiala and five in Hoshiarpur. According to the bulletin, maximum 879 cases were registered in Ludhiana, followed by 692 in Mohali Nagar, 462 in Patiala, 422 in Jalandhar, 290 in Amritsar, 267 in Bathinda, 221 in Hoshiarpur, 182 in Sangrur, 166 in Faridkot, 164 in Gurdaspur, 162 in Kapurthala, 148 in Ferozepur, 135 in Rupnagar, 124 in Pathankot, 126 in Muktsar, 105 in Moga, 110 in Fazilka, 51 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 32 in Barnala, 50 in SBS Nagar and 41 in Tarn Taran.SAD demands white paper on Covid spendsThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday asked the Congress government to present a white paper to disclose how it used ₹1,000 crore to upgrade hospital infrastructure in the state to fight the Covid-19 pandemic “when nothing had been done on the ground”. Terming the ₹1,000 crore spend on fighting Covid as a colossal scam, former minister Sikander Singh Maluka demanded a central probe into the claim by an impartial agency, saying even as thousands were dying due to the sheer apathy of the Congress government, the latter was making bogus claims. In a statement, he said an urgent probe was needed to detect and punish those responsible for the multi-hundred crore scam as well as to put a lid on further corruption so that State money could be spent on patient welfare. Asking how the government could even make these claims, Maluka said: “There is no visible change in the hospital infrastructure. Districts like Mohali and Rupnagar do not even have dedicated Covid hospitals. New ICU facilities have been created only in two district hospitals. There is a shortage of life saving injections like toclizumab and Itolizumab, besides remedisvir. Patients are not getting access to ventilators. Even ventilators provided by the central government were left unpacked for months because of lack of staff to operate them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hits-new-peak-with-4-970-fresh-cases-101619033565640.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||SSC exams cancelled: Real test for Maharashtra board now||In the absence of a standardised mechanism to assess the year-round performance of state board students, the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel the senior secondary certificate (SSC) Class 10 exams has thrown up challenges for the state education department. The cancellations On April 15, CBSE cancelled Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams across the country. Students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of objective criteria to be developed by the board. The criteria for marking students are yet to be declared. On April 12, the state had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June, following which the state had written to CBSE and ICSE officials requesting postponement of board exams. However, following CBSE’s decision and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB, there was growing pressure from students and parents to cancel exams to ensure equivalence across boards, key at the time of admissions to colleges. On Tuesday, Class 10 exams were cancelled by the state government. The challenges While state education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of internal assessments, it seems like a herculean task for a board with over 17 lakh students across different geographical and social backgrounds appearing for the exams every year. Schools said while they were awaiting guidelines, they were unsure about the efficacy of internal assessments as they were conducted at the school level and their format and frequency varied in each school. Jagdish Indalkar, principal, KVK School, Ghatkopar, said while the school has conducted prelim exams, some students did not write them. “Some students have not submitted any of the assignments we had asked them to and did not even appear for the exams. Now, if internal assessments have to be considered, we will have to give another chance to such students. Besides, students wrote their prelims only for practice and did not know that these marks are likely to be considered in the future. Hence, we cannot say that these marks indicate the real potential of a child,” he added. Schools said in the absence of government guidelines on internal assessments throughout the year, they continued conducting short tests, prelims etc. as per their understanding and requirement. “Some conducted a single prelim, while others took three to four exams. Those who could afford conducted exams using high-end proctoring software, while those who could not, used Google forms, email and other such means. Where is the consistency? How can two students from two different schools who are evaluated on completely different criteria compete for a college seat with their marks? This will be unfair,” said a teacher from a school in the city’s eastern suburbs. How others do it The heads of CBSE and ICSE boards said both the boards have a process for internal assessments and have data for it. “We have a meeting with the board in a few days and will wait for instructions to send data. We have conducted year-round assessments,” said an ICSE board principal. CBSE, too, has four-five assessments throughout the year and schools have sent the data to the board on Tuesday. Vasant Kalpande, former chairperson of the state board, said we need to understand the differences between students of the state board and those from other boards. “These schools have a majority of students from middle- and high-income groups and many schools are in towns and cities with basic online infrastructure already in place. For the state board, there are many challenges because there is the rural-urban gap and then a large number of students are also first-generation learners. Thus, the decision-making process here is likely to be more complex,” he added. While a majority of schools in the state did not conduct any internal assessments for Class 10, some schools in parts of the state where schools had reopened for a few months before the second wave, physical exams were conducted for Class 9 and 10. This has raised concerns over equivalence of marks as some students wrote physical exams while others did not. “We held our practice exams for students and almost all attended. We prepared them for 2-3 months and then took exams. Hence it was a very well-planned exercise here,” said Balu Bhoyar, principal, Karamveer Vidyalaya in Chandrapur. The state education department allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, 2020 and for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27, 2021. Many schools closed in March and April owing to the rising Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad held a meeting with experts and officials of the education department. “Several ideas and possibilities were discussed and explored. We are trying to get feedback on them from various stakeholders and experts,” said a senior educationist who was present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-exams-cancelled-real-test-for-maharashtra-board-now-101619033564285.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Police enforces lockdown, shuts shops after 11am||With curbs on timings for shops selling essential goods, the Thane Police forcefully closed shops in Thane markets on Wednesday afternoon. Markets across the city wore a deserted look since afternoon as all shops remained closed. Police officers from each police station closed the shops in their jurisdiction after 11am. Action was taken in popular markets of Jambli Naka, Naupada and Ghodbunder along with those in Kalyan and Dombivli. As per state guidelines, grocery shops, dairy shops, fruits and vegetable shops and vendors, meat shops, bakery shops and all other essential shops can function only between 7am and 11am every day. A senior police officer from Thane said, “We will ensure that these curbs are strictly followed. Our teams will be patrolling through the day to take action against shops found flouting these directives.” A grocery shop owner from Jambli Naka, Jitesh Gala, said, “We used to start our shop around 9am. But as per new rules, we have to start it at 7am and close at 11am. During this time, very few people shop for groceries. Most of them come to shop around 10am. The situation was same today, but we asked them to form a line. The timing is too short and not suitable for business.” Jagannath Gupta, a dairy shop owner from Naupada, said, “Our milk business is not affected, but the business of milk products such as cheese and paneer is hit as we cannot produce it in large quantities like earlier. It will not be sold in the four hours allotted to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-enforces-lockdown-shuts-shops-after-11am-101619033445541.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||FYJC admissions: Maharashtra government discusses entrance exams, increasing seats||After the state government cancelled Class 10 - SSC exams on Tuesday, it is now mulling various options for conducting first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions in a free and fair manner. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Wednesday held a meeting with education experts and officials of the education department, in which, several possible ways of conducting FYJC admission were discussed. Some options discussed included holding entrance exams for junior college admissions, increasing the number of seats at prominent junior colleges and calculating the performance of students for Class 10 based on their marks for two-three years. “Several options were discussed. There was an opinion that since there will be no exams, a fair mechanism for admissions to colleges is needed. One of the ideas was conducting entrance exams in junior colleges where there is competition and more takers than seats. Sought after colleges are numerically smaller. In other colleges, admissions can be given to students easily as there is no fight for seats,” said an expert present at the meeting. Every year, admissions to FYJC begin after the results of board exams are declared. While SSC students join junior colleges in the state, many from CBSE, ICSE, IB and other boards apply for seats too. In the state, admissions are conducted online in six regions- Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati. In other parts of the state, offline admissions are held at the college level. Experts are now worried that not having SSC exams might have long term repercussions on future careers of students. “We are worried that this batch should not be termed as Covid batch because they did not have any exams. Similarly, students need to be realistically assessed and not having exams will make the task difficult for the state board. These students have studied all year and subjecting them to another uncertain format for admissions will be unfair,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board. “We already have a surge in the cut-offs every year. Now with internal assessments, we are worried that there might be too many high scorers and very few seats in comparison,” said the principal of a city-based junior college. Possible scenarios for admission-Calculation of average marks of students from their scores of the last 2-3 years. Students will then be given cumulative scores which will be considered for admissions-Pre-admission entrance tests to be conducted by junior colleges or centrally by the education department. Scores of the exam to be considered for admissions.-Increasing the number of seats in prominent junior colleges to accommodate more students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-admissions-maharashtra-government-discusses-entrance-exams-increasing-seats-101619033444905.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi reports fewer cases than Dadar, Mahim||Since the beginning of 2021 including the second wave of Covid-19 outbreak in Maharshtra that began mid-February, Dharavi has contributed 24.3% of Covid cases in its administrative ward area, which is considerably less than neighbouring areas of Dadar (36.5%) and Mahim (39.1%). This year, Dharavi has reported a total of 2,220 cases till April 20, Dadar reported 3,341 cases, and Mahim 3,574 cases. Dharavi has contributed to 0.7% of Mumbai’s total cases reported during this time.In the beginning of the pandemic last year, Dharavi was a major hot spot of Covid-19 cases, with the highest single-day spike reported at 94 on April 8. G-North ward, with jurisdiction over these areas, has reported a total of 22,238 Covid-19 cases so far since the beginning of the pandemic, with a doubling rate of 59 days and growth rate of 1.22%. Dharavi has contributed 5,740 of these cases till April 20, with a doubling rate of 90 days and average growth rate of 0.89%. On the other hand, so far Dadar has reported a total of 8,016 cases, and Mahim 8,019.The trend of Dadar and Mahim, characterised by residential buildings, reporting more cases than Dharavi is in line with the general trend seen during the second wave, where more number of cases are being reported from residential buildings than from slums and chawls. As of Wednesday, there are 114 containment zones in slums and chawls, and 1,198 sealed buildings across the city.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward, said, “The overall trend of the second wave is seen in Dharavi as well. But in January and February, when we noticed cases in Dharavi were increasing even slightly, we immediately took stringent preventive measures to ensure a second outbreak is mitigated. We started mobile testing vans, fever clinics, tracing high-risk contacts. We were able to control the cases in Dharavi to an extent.”On Wednesday, Dharavi reported 30 new Covid-19 cases. Presently, there are 930 active cases in Dharavi, 2,168 in Dadar, and 2,353 in Mahim. In G-North ward, beneficiaries have received a total of 8,715 vaccine doses, which includes first and second dose for some beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dharavi-reports-fewer-cases-than-dadar-mahim-101619033444273.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Contact tracing remains poor in Punjab amid second Covid wave||At a time when Punjab is battling the second wave of the pandemic, the state health department is struggling to break the Covid-19 transmission chain by tracing all the contacts of the positive patients.Contact tracing—the practice of identifying all those who had come in contact with a positive patient—is one of the major Covid-19 control methods. However, besides treatment and testing, Punjab is also lacking in maintaining the contact tracing of every Covid-19 patient.According to the Union government norms, at least 30 persons should be tested after every Covid-19 patient but the state health department is managing to trace only 17 people per patient. In many districts, the contact tracing numbers are as low as 5-8 contacts per positive patient.“When the health teams try to ask the patients about their contacts, they start misbehaving. People are reluctant to reveal the names of their family members and friends as they think the health department will forcibly take them to hospital and will get them tested. Despite the hurdles, we are tracing 10-15 people per patient,” said Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh. According to the health department data, only 4-5 people were being traced in Punjab against every positive patient, against the target of 10, during the infection spike in September last year.An Amritsar-based health official, on the condition of anonymity, said: “The district is recording over 300 fresh cases daily, but the health department teams are only testing family members who are living in the same house. The patients are not being asked about their visits and the gathering they had attended before catching the virus.”“As people do not reveal their contacts, special teams have been constituted with the officials of district administration and police to improve the situation. The teams will ask positive patients to give names of all those persons who came in his or her contact in the last few days. We are tracing 15 people after every positive patient,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh.Focus on treatment, testingState nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “At present, we are tracing 17 people after every positive patient but we are trying to achieve our target of at least 20 people per patient. Many times, housewives and elderly people get infected with the virus and their contacts remain low as they meet very a few people. Till last month, we could only trace 14 people per patient but we are improving on this control measure.”“Among other districts, Mohali is leading as 20 people per patient are being traced, followed by Ludhiana with 18 people per patient, Barnala with 17 and Jalandhar with 16. Other districts are trying to improve. At present, our focus is to provide best treatment to the Covid patient. We are increasing our daily testing, which also plays a major role in breaking the virus chain. At present, we are testing over 40,000 people per day. After treatment and testing, we keep our focus on contact tracing,” Dr Bhaskar further added.“The state health department has given full authority to district administrations to make containment and micro-containment zones, which is also helping Punjab to control the spread. It acts like a local lockdown and is being implemented effectively. More than 100 micro-containment zones have been made in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contact-tracing-remains-poor-in-punjab-amid-second-covid-wave-101619033385552.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Conduct second-year medical offline exams as per schedule, says NMC||Days after the state health education minister and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) postponed second and third-year MBBS examinations to June, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has released an advisory for medical institutions directing them to conduct second-year exams as well as supplementary exams for first and second semesters only in the offline mode.“The universities are advised to adhere to the existing norms for conducting theory exams. However, considering the risk stratification of the areas where medical colleges are located, all necessary precautions including staggering of small batches must be adhered to,” states the recent circular released by the Undergraduate Medical Education Board of NMC. Last week, after discussions with various stakeholders including state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Amit Deshmukh, the state minister for medical education tweeted the decision to postpone all undergraduate medical exams to June first week. Rising Covid-19 cases across the state was one of the main reason for this move. Along with MBBS, this decision also affects students from Ayurveda, homoeopathy and similar courses affiliated with the university.Over the past few days, second-and third-year medical students from the government and private medical colleges in Maharashtra had been requesting authorities to postpone exams especially at a time when the state is recording 50,000-60,000 cases daily. The exams in question were originally scheduled to take place in February, but were deferred first to March and then to April by the MUHS due to increasing Covid-19 cases and complaints of several medical students.NMC however said delaying exams further will have a larger impact on the next academic year, and therefore a decision has been taken to conduct pending exams in smaller batches, starting with second-year MBBS and supplementary exams.“If external examiners are not available due to the current pandemic situation, such examiners can overlook the theory exams online but internal examiners have to be physically present in the examination hall. Practical/clinical examinations may be conducted in laboratories with due precautions,” states the NMC circular. It further states that students who are unable to appear for these physical exams due to whatever reasons Will be allowed to take the examination with supplementary batches. “This will not be counted as an additional attempt for them,” said the circular.The circular has invited mixed reactions from students at present. “Medical examination will be impossible to conduct in the online mode and with correct precautions, medical institutions can conduct the said exams. The NMC has also clarified that students who are unable to appear for exams can participate in supplementary exams so students need not worry,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of an MBBS student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-conduct-second-year-medical-offline-exams-as-per-schedule-says-nmc-101619033384259.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Restricted timings in Mumbai: Shopkeepers unhappy; citizens blame state||Amit Maru, who runs a small bakery shop in Kurla, was in for a shock as the police arrived sharp at dot 11am on Wednesday asking him to close his shop. When Maru argued that he came under essential services which are allowed to operate, the police personnel sternly told him he is allowed to operate for only four hours—7am to 11am only. Maru closed his shop to adhere to the new rules.This was the scene repeated across Mumbai a day after the state government ordered that all essential shops except medical stores could operate just for four hours. Their contention was that citizens were roaming around citing they were going to buy groceries and eatables and hampering their efforts to contain the Covid-19 virus.“There is no way I can sustain by keeping my shop open for four hours,” said Maru asking, “How can I call my workers to work for just four hours?”Urban Greens, a mini supermarket specialising in groceries which operates in Lalbaug and Byculla, opened early at 8am instead of its usual 9.30am in view of the new timings. “We are concentrating on home deliveries, but that is not a big source of income for us. Our business has fallen by 50% due to these new rules,” said Anil Parekh, owner, Urban Greens.The state government on Tuesday issued a new order, restricting timings of essential shops such as grocery, vegetable and fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and all types of food shops among others to four hours from 7am to 11am across the state till May 1. However, the government has allowed home delivery from these shops between 7am to 8pm.The scene at Dadar vegetable market early morning was as chaotic as always as consumers crowded disregarding all social distancing norms. “This is a very narrow stretch of road and it is not possible to keep distance. I request my clients to keep distance but they don’t listen,” said Anna Padwal, who comes from Palghar to sell vegetables outside Dadar station.Mitesh Mody, secretary of Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) which represents traders, said there was confusion over this new order. “On one hand they ask us to shut shop at 11am, and then tell us to continue with home deliveries. How can we send deliveries when our shops are shut?” questioned Mody.Citizens have criticised there rules saying restricted timings will in fact encourage crowding. “7am is a very unrealistic timing, and in the coming days we will see people crowding to get their essentials; thus defeating the very purpose of containing the virus,” said social activist Vidyut Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/restricted-timings-in-mumbai-shopkeepers-unhappy-citizens-blame-state-101619033324199.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra begins Covid management orientation programme for MBBS graduates||On Wednesday, final year medical (MBBS) students sat through day one of the Covid-19 pandemic management orientation programme, following a recent circular from the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) directing mandatory attendance for the online course. The purpose of the programme, said MUHS, is to train final year medical students for the ongoing pandemic and immediately put to use their knowledge and skills for Covid-19 patient management during their internship training programme. To be conducted in the virtual mode and relayed on YouTube till April 24, students will also be allowed to put forth their questions on the chat window that will be answered by experts.“Our country is currently suffering from an infectious disease and the state of Maharashtra, in particular, is facing a shortage of trained medical manpower to manage the present situation,” read the circular released by MUHS this week. Last year, after much deliberation, the board of governors (BoG) of the Medical Council of India (MCI now National Medical Commission) had released a pandemic management module to be implemented across all medical institutions starting August 2020.Put together by a team of experts and the academic cell of MCI, the module has been designed to ensure MBBS students acquire competencies in handling not only the illness but also the social, legal and other issues arising from disease outbreaks. “The emergence of Covid-19 and its rapid spread across the globe has further underlined the need to develop these skills in our graduates. One of the desirable outcomes of the competency derived education program is to enable a medical graduate to be able to understand, investigate, treat and prevent new and emerging diseases,” stated the BoG released last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-begins-covid-management-orientation-programme-for-mbbs-graduates-101619033264240.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination drive disrupted in Thane, Navi Mumbai, Panvel||The vaccination drive in Thane, Panvel and Navi Mumbai was affected owing to shortage of vaccines on Wednesday. While the drive in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) was completely suspended apart from one centre administrating second dose of Covaxin, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) too had to shut 22 vaccination centres following a shortage of vials. TMC received 3,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday evening after the drive was suspended for an entire day. With the new stock, around eight vaccination centres with Covishield vaccine will be functional on Thursday. Majiwada vaccination centre, which administered only Covaxin booster dose, saw some chaos with several citizens claiming that despite waiting in long queue, they did not get the jab. “They should have asked us to wait according to the available dosages of vaccine; I waited for almost an hour with my aged mother for her booster dose. This is my fourth visit and attempt to get her the second dose but did not help. There is no clarity and proper announcements made on behalf of the civic body,” said Ashwini Salatry, 44, resident of Vrindavan society.Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “We did not have any stock of Covishield vaccine till Wednesday evening. Only 300 dosages of Covaxin were available only for booster dose. The post-Covid care centre in Majiwada administered only second doses of Covaxin.” Last month, opposition leaders had made allegations that TMC was permitting many, including politicians, civic officials and their family and friends, to take vaccine out of turn. They cited similar instances of mismanagement to be the reason for the shortage of vaccine in the city. “Depending on the number of doses that we have received and based on the requirement, we are providing vaccines to the respective municipal corporations. On Wednesday evening, we provided few vials to all civic bodies,” said a senior official from Thane District. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Wednesday claimed that it would run out of vaccine on Thursday and will have to suspend the drive on Friday if no fresh stock is distributed to them. “We have stock till Thursday. Later on we will have to suspend the vaccination as there will not be any enough vaccine left to continue. We have appealed for more stock, but have no clue when it will arrive,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named. As of Wednesday, the civic body has a stock of 7,718 vials of Covishield and 8,022 of Covaxin. In a day, the civic body carries out around 4,500 inoculations. Several residents, however, complained that private hospitals are not administering the second dose of Covishield citing lack of stock. “I have been trying to get my second dose of Covishield since the past three days, but none of the hospitals in Dombivli MIDC have it. My second dose is due and with the increasing number of cases I wanted to get it without delay,” said Raju Nalawade, a resident of Dombivli MIDC. PCMC, too, suspended vaccination drive on Wednesday. Around 2,000 Covishield vials are expected to reach PCMC on Thursday, following which the centres will start operations for the second dose of Covishield. Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) received 3,000 vials of Covishield on Wednesday. “Some of the urban primary health centres had to be shut by 12pm and some by 5pm due to lack of stock. If we do not get new stock on Thursday, we will only have NMMC-run hospitals and jumbo facilities to administer vaccination till the stocks last,” said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-drive-disrupted-in-thane-navi-mumbai-panvel-101619033204223.html
22-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana records biggest Covid spike of 879 cases||Covid cases in Ludhiana continued to soar with as many as 879 fresh cases being reported in the last 24 hours. This is the highest-ever single-day count recorded in the district since the pandemic outbreak last year. The previous high was recorded just four days ago on April 17, with 835 positive cases.As many as seven persons also succumbed to the virus, health officials said on Wednesday. The deceased include four males and three females. The men who lost their lives include a 65-year-old resident of Kochhar Market area, a 46-year-old resident of Sahnewal, a 56-year-old resident of Janta Nagar and a 57-year-old resident of Giaspura. Among the women who lost their lives are an 84-year-old resident of Sarabha Nagar, a 43-year-old from Vishkarma Nagar and a 45-year-old from Guru Nanak Nagar.The fresh cases took the cumulative count of infections to 45, 478, out of which 38,921 patients have recovered and 1, 265 have succumbed. The district currently has 5, 292 active cases. A total of 7, 075 patients are currently in home quarantine.Taking stock of the situation, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma stated the rising number of cases is putting pressure on the health infrastructure and people are scanning online portals to check for bed availability. “Currently, 83 beds are occupied in government hospitals while in private hospitals, the number stands at 750,” he said, adding that the administration is taking steps to increase the number of beds in private hospitalsHe also appealed to residents to continue adhering to Covid safety norms to keep the infection at bay as the situation is worsening day by day.Nurse shortage in civil hospitalThe rising cases have also led to a shortage of healthcare workers at civil hospital. The hospital urgently needs 20 nurses and attendants. Interested candidates can approach the office of the senior medical officer. Won’t shut down factories, don’t leave: DC to migrantsPosting a video message on social media, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to migrant labourers to not leave the city and assured them that factories won’t be closed. “It has come to my knowledge that migrants are leaving and hiring private buses to take them to their hometown. It is my sincere appeal to the migrants to not to leave so that we can contain the spread of virus. We will be taking action against private buses and are already issuing challans for violations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-biggest-covid-spike-of-879-cases-101619033145518.html
22-04-2021||Other||Private vendor to provide 13 tonnes of oxygen to Thane, supply to 350 beds to be restored||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Wednesday evening finalised a deal with a private vendor to provide 13 tons of oxygen. Along with this, 350 beds will receive oxygen supply by Thursday morning within the Parking Plaza facility. This move has come into effect 11 days after 30 patients were shifted from the parking plaza facility to Global Covid Hospital due to a shortage of oxygen supply. Due to lack of regular oxygen supply, at least 1,500 oxygen beds in two of Thane’s civic-run hospitals have gone unused for the past 11 days. This had led to the deterioration of the health of Covid-19 patients currently admitted, as well as a backlog in the admission of severe patients. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “A private vendor has been finalised on Wednesday evening; they will initially provide 13 ton of oxygen supply to Parking Plaza by Thursday morning. This will restore supply to 350 oxygen and ICU beds and gradually will focus on providing oxygen for the others beds. Parking Plaza has 800 oxygen beds and 200 ICU beds. Currently, there are 375 general beds which are occupied with Covid positive patients.” The work to set up a 47-ton oxygen plant, that can refill 175 oxygen cylinders, has now begun at the parking plaza. The work is slated to be completed within a week. TMC officials also informed that by Friday all the 800 oxygen beds in the facility will be available for patients. Currently, Thane city has only 124 beds with an oxygen facility and 61 beds with intensive care unit (ICU) available in civic-run Covid hospitals. Two oxygen plants will be operational by April 30.Two of the three dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) run by the TMC – Parking Plaza and Voltas Company hospitals – have not used the oxygen beds (in the former case, since April 10), as the amount of oxygen supplied to the civic body by the state has reduced drastically. The city receives 34 tonnes of oxygen, from both a private vendor and the state. However, this was insufficient to meet the demands of the oxygen beds run by the TMC. While Global Covid Hospital has 929 oxygen beds, the Parking Plaza has 800 oxygen beds, the civic body has now finalised another vendor who will provide around 13 ton of oxygen to the Parking Plaza by Thursday morning. The civic body will gradually focus on providing oxygen for the other beds, including ICU.TMC’s Covid hospital at Vartak Nagar (Voltas Company Hospital) is not operational yet. The city till Wednesday evening was receiving only 23 tons of oxygen. Since Global Covid Hospital was the only facility that has the capacity for patients requiring oxygen, all such patients are currently shifted there. State cabinet minister and Thane’s guardian minister Eknath Shinde on Wednesday surveyed Parking Plaza and the commencement of work to set up an oxygen plant. “We are coming up with one jumbo tank that will have the capacity of 47 tons that can refill 175 oxygen cylinders. The work for the same will be completed within a week and the oxygen will suffice for the beds within Parking Plaza. Once this plant is built, Parking Plaza Hospital will function full-fledged,” said Shinde. “In all three new plants for oxygen are being built; two of these will have a capacity of 175 metric tonnes. We shall also increase the number of oxygen beds to accommodate the 300 cylinders, such that the Parking Plaza will have [a total increased capacity of] 800 oxygen beds. Moreover, another plant will be set up, the cost of which will be borne by MMRDA. Once the oxygen supply is restored and functions properly, we shall focus on increasing the beds as well,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC at the general body held on Tuesday. “When the plant is operational, the city will get 50 tonnes of oxygen daily. We can use 47 tonnes for our patients while three tonnes can be provided to private hospitals,” added a senior officer from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-vendor-to-provide-13-tonnes-of-oxygen-to-thane-supply-to-350-beds-to-be-restored-101619033144304.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Family court refuses relief to IT graduate against wife based in Australia||A woman cannot be restrained from pursuing her case in a foreign country when she and her estranged husband are already before a foreign court for partial settlement of the issues between them, a family court at Bandra held recently and dismissed a petition filed by an information technology (IT) graduate.The IT graduate had last year approached the family court for divorce on the ground of cruelty and adultery. Along with the divorce petition, he had also moved an application seeking to restrain his wife from filing a divorce petition before the court in Australia and also to restrain her from pursuing other cases filed before an Australian court.The couple has been residing out of the country for the past 10 years and now are permanent residents of Australia. Both are presently residing in Australia. However, the husband has filed a divorce petition before the family court in Mumbai.Meanwhile, the wife has approached the court in Australia for disclosure of properties of the parties for distribution of assets among them. However, before the filing of the respective litigations, the couple had already signed consent terms with regards to the custody of their child before the Family Relationship Centre, a government institution in Australia.The wife’s lawyer Shraddha Dalvi had opposed the plea contending that the husband had already submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the Australian court, therefore it was not open for him to seek restraint against the wife at Mumbai.The family court after perusal of the case record observed, “On perusal of documents, it is very apparent that not only respondent (wife) but the petitioner (husband) had subjected himself to the jurisdiction of the court at Australia, but they have agreed for parenting plan before the institution or agency of Australian Government.”“So, in this background, it is not proper for the petitioner to question the jurisdiction of the court at Australia, when he has subjected to the order of Australian court and he has obtained consent order from the said court even before presentation of this petition or even before presentation of the petition filed by wife in an Australian court,” said the family court at Bandra.The court further held, “Both the parties reside in Australia when the child is in Australia when most of the properties are in Australia, a petitioner cannot say that without there been a divorce, Australian court would divide assets and liabilities of the parties. He can initiate a similar proceeding for divorce on the ground similar to Hindu Marriage Act and the decree would be valid if it fulfils requirements of the Civil Procedure Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-family-court-refuses-relief-to-it-graduate-against-wife-based-in-australia-101619033085567.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||BSF seeks FIR against intruder Pak pigeon spotted in Amritsar||The Border Security Force (BSF) has sought registration of an FIR against an intruder from Pakistan that happens to be a pigeon. Punjab Police are seeking legal opinion on this.The pigeon perched itself on the shoulder of a BSF jawan at the Rorawala post last Saturday, apparently after flying across the border, an official said.A small piece of paper with a “contact number” was wrapped around its leg, the official said.The BSF handed over the bird to the police with a demand in writing for taking legal action. Senior superintendent of police Dhruv Dahiya said the BSF demanded registration of an FIR against the pigeon.“As the pigeon is a bird, I don’t think an FIR can be registered against it. But we have referred the matter to our legal experts for their opinion,” he said on Wednesday. The number tagged on the pigeon’s leg is being analysed, he said.Pigeons have been “captured” earlier as well in border areas with security forces suspecting espionage attempts. Homing pigeons can be used to courier information and the tags can carry coded messages. Or the birds can be innocent, tagged with identification numbers by their keepers. For now, the pigeon is being kept at the Khangarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-seeks-fir-against-intruder-pak-pigeon-spotted-in-amritsar-101619033085080.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shiv Sena corporator threatens doctors, apologises later||A video went viral on Wednesday over an argument between Shiv Sena corporator and education committee chairman Sandhya Doshi with healthcare staff of civic-run Bhagwati Hospital. Doshi in the video is seen claiming a staff member from the hospital misbehaved with a Covid-19 patient from her electoral ward.Doshi, who is a corporator from Gorai and second-time chairman of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education committee is said is heard saying in the video, “There was misbehaviour by the doctor with the patient, and hence I have come here. I can make 10 doctors like you stand here at the hospital.”The incident took place on Tuesday. In response to this, the healthcare staff at Bhagwati Hospital released a separate video threatening to resign, protesting Doshi’s behaviour. A doctor in the video is heard saying, “We are working under constant stress and are daily seeing our colleagues falling ill to Covid-19. In all this, if someone expects us to pay attention to a particular patient, it will not be possible. We request whoever claims that they can get 10 doctors like us to get them. We will resign post this.”However, both the staff at Bhagwati Hospital and Doshi later said that they have sorted the issue. Dr P Jadhav, head at Bhagwati Hospital, said, “The issue has been sorted out between the doctors and the corporator. All doctors are on duty and there is no question of any strike or resignation.”Doshi told HT, “I had gone to Bhagwati Hospital due to inappropriate behaviour with a Covid-19 patient from my ward. My ward has the highest number of cases, and it is my duty to handle them. However, whatever is seen in the video has taken place in the heat of the moment. Post that, the patient was hospitalised, I have apologised to the staff. We both exchanged something that was out of panic, and hence I apologised to the staff.”Meanwhile, BJP on the other hand has demanded action against Doshi. Pratik Karpe, BJP Corporator and education committee member of the BMC said, “Such language with doctors in this critical time when doctors are giving their best to save lives is unwanted, and also the person accompanying Doshi was not wearing a mask inside a Covid-19 Hospital. I have written to the BMC chief to taken action in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shiv-sena-corporator-threatens-doctors-apologises-later-101619033024850.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 5-million Covid tests, 2 million conducted in 2 months||The city crossed the five-million mark of testing Covid-19 samples, one year after testing took off on February 3, 2020. Of the five million samples tested as of Tuesday, around 1.9 million samples were tested in the past two months as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ramped up its testing.According to the figures, Mumbai was testing around 20,000 samples daily till February. However, Mumbai’s testing capacity has gone up to around 50,000 daily on weekdays since March 23. As of Tuesday, Mumbai had tested 5,075,152 samples and the overall positivity rate is 11.70%.The 100,000- mark was crossed in May, 200,000 in June, 500,000 in July, followed by one-million mark in September last year. In February this year, the number further crosses the three-million mark, and the four-million mark in March. In terms of Maharashtra, a total of 24 million tests have been conducted in the past one year.Mumbai was the first city in the country to liberalise testing starting July 2020. Under this, any citizen wanting to get tested for Covid-19 was allowed to get tested. Before this, only symptomatic patients or those having prescription from a doctor were allowed to get tested.Since July 2020, BMC also started usage of rapid antigen kits that give results in 30 minutes but are less reliable. BMC initially maintained the ratio of 30% of the tests being conducted daily via rapid antigen kits and remaining via RT-PCR kits. Later, it went up to 50% in December 2020. Currently, 60% of the tests are conducted using RT-PCR method and 40% using rapid antigen kits.On Wednesday alone, 47,270 samples were tested of which 7,654 were found to be positive with a positivity rate of 16.19%. The city also reported 62 deaths on Wednesday. This took the city’s case tally to 601,713 and toll to 12,508. The city’s recovery rate is 83% with 504,466 recoveries and fatality rate is 2.07%. There are 83,450 active cases in the city.Further, owing to the surge in cases, the daily positivity rate in the city had gone up to 25% in the first week of April, which has since come down to around 15%. However, though the number of testing in Mumbai has increased drastically in the past one month, there is a huge difference in the number of tests conducted in Mumbai and Delhi. Mumbai conducted around 45,000 tests on Tuesday whereas Delhi conducted tests on around 86,000 samples.Experts maintain that though the city’s testing has been scaled up drastically, Mumbai requires more. Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “If tests are not increased beyond 50,000 per day, we must ensure that the results are given to the patient at least within 24 hours after sample collection. Also, more tests should be done in those parts of Mumbai where very few RT-PCR tests are done daily. An attempt should be made to increase the test number up to 60,000 to 70,000 tests per day, and the motto should be to trace early, test fast and treat immediately.”Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday, while talking to reporters, said, “I request citizens in Mumbai to not lower their guard. We are witnessing that daily cases have stabilised in the city, but we need to ensure that our cases remain under control by following Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-5-million-covid-tests-2-million-conducted-in-2-months-101619033024266.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||No green corridor given to Oxygen Express, alleges Shiv Sena; CR denies allegations||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday alleged that the Railways did not provide green corridor to the Oxygen Express dispatched to bring oxygen from Visakhapatnam as Maharashtra is facing shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Sena chief spokesperson and former Union minister Arvind Sawant slammed the Centre for its “cruel politics” over supply of oxygen, alleging that the train that left Kalamboli on April 19 night was at Akola in Maharashtra 24 hours after its departure. He also demanded resignation of railway minister Piyush Goyal.A passenger train journey between Mumbai’s Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Visakhapatnam takes a little over 28 hours to complete. With a green corridor, the journey was expected to be faster. Sawant said there is “no guarantee when oxygen will reach us”. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Sawant said the Centre has set a precedent to indulge in politics at such a difficult time for the country. “Tankers left from Kalamboli on April 19; last night (Tuesday) at around 8.30 the train was at Akola — 24 hours after it left. Around 2-2.30am [on Wednesday] it reached around Nagpur. Later [on Wednesday evening] it was near Raipur, when it has to go to Visakhapatnam. You (Goyal) are saying green corridor is being made, but so far it has not reached there. The train has to come back as well. We do not expect it to arrive in next three days. This kind of politics is cruel... The railway minister should resign for this negligence,” Sawant said. He further added that the government was playing with the lives of thousands of people. Sawant is expected to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Goyal’s resignation and an inquiry into the delay to transport oxygen to Maharashtra.While Goyal was not available for reaction, the Central Railway (CR) denied the allegations. “The train is running as per the pre-determined route and there is no delay or change of route. The train is now running in the East Coast Railway Zone and will soon reach Visakhapatnam Steel Plant Siding. Oxygen Express is being run with priority,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Senior railway officials also stated that the Oxygen Express, which has tankers, cannot be moved from the railway ghat (mountain pass) sections and have to be moved by railways goods section.“The express is being given priority, but we cannot operate the train from the ghat areas like other passenger trains are operated. The train went through Vasai and will be reaching Visakhapatnam in some time. The routes were already defined. There are also particular speeds at which goods or roll-on roll-off is operated,” said a senior railway official who did not wanted to be named.The train is likely to reach Visakapatnam at Wednesday night, after which the tankers will be moved towards the steel plant.Sawant also alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre had “stooped down” to show Maharashtra in bad light. He said, “Maharashtra chief minister put in restrictions to control the cases. For the past few days, cases in Mumbai have come down. If these restrictions are increased, cases will further decrease. But to not allow Maharashtra government to be seen as progressive and doing good work, they have stooped down to low level of politics, which is seen in the past few days in the matter of Remdesivir and vaccination. All these things are condemnable.” Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said there are attempts to hide state government’s failure to tackle the Covid-19 situation. “The Union government has provided all assistance the states require. This is nothing but a weak attempt to shift the blame of their failure on the Centre,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-green-corridor-given-to-oxygen-express-alleges-shiv-sena-cr-denies-allegations-101619032964236.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Afghan woman’s plea for custody of four grandsons||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the habeas corpus petition of a grandmother from Kabul, Afghanistan, who sought directions to her widowed daughter-in-law to come and live with her along with her four sons as it would be beneficial to the development of the four children. The court, while rejecting the grandmother’s petition, held that the best interest of the children was to be with their mother and due to the situation in war-torn Afghanistan, the daughter-in-law had a right to stay back in India. The court, however, granted visitation rights to the grandmother and paternal aunt while dismissing the petition. The daughter-in-law who was originally an Indian had married an Afghani man who had come to Mumbai for education in 2010 and had moved to Afghanistan and had borne four sons. However, she was widowed in 2018 after which she returned to India with her four sons and started living with her parents and brother in Kalyan. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of the 79-year-old grandmother was informed by advocate Mohammad Adenwala, that his client was not seeking to separate the children from their mother, hence the petition sought that the mother and four children accompany them to Kabul where they could live a life of comfort and ease as opposed to the life she and her children were living in Kalyan. The grandmother further claimed that the four brothers and a sister of the deceased had agreed to take care of the financial needs of the widow and her children if she returned to Kabul. After marriage in India, the couple had shifted to Kabul. However, in 2018 the husband was killed in a bombardment by government forces, while the fourth child was still in the womb. All four children had an Afghani passport even though two were born in India. After her return to India in 2018, the woman started residing with her brother and parents at Kalyan allegedly in a single room tenement. This was the reason why the grandmother and paternal aunt of the children approached the HC seeking directions to the woman to return to Kabul with the children. However, advocate Uzair Kazi for the woman, her parents and brother informed the court that the woman was financially secure, hence the assumptions by the grandmother were misplaced. Kazi further submitted that due to the warlike situation in Afghanistan, the woman feared for the lives of her children and hence believed that staying in India would be more beneficial for the safety and prospective future. He also submitted that as per Muslim Law, the mother had a paramount right to have custody of the children and hence the prayers of the grandmother and aunt be rejected. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “We believe that on the test of best interest and welfare of the children, it would be appropriate that they continue in the custody of their mother i.e. respondent No.2. In any case, the custody of the children with their mother is neither illegal nor improper and therefore, we are not inclined to issue a writ of habeas corpus as prayed by the petitioners.” While dismissing the petition the court directed visitation rights to the grandmother and aunt when they come to India and weekly interaction with the children through video calling on weekends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-afghan-woman-s-plea-for-custody-of-four-grandsons-101619032904333.html
22-04-2021||Other||Lucknow admn to acquire 3 pvt hosps for treatment of Covid patients||LUCKNOW The district administration has decided to acquire three big private hospitals -- Medanta, Sahara, and Apollo -- for the treatment of Covid patients. Shatabdi Hospital phase 1 and 2 at the King George’s Medical University will also be made Covid facilities, as per two separate orders. Doctors at the KGMU stated that the Shatabdi phase 2 building runs a blood bank, clinical haematology, surgical oncology department and a linear accelerator for patients. They said this needs planning so that facilities can be run properly.As oncology services and blood bank have to run along with Covid facility, making the Shatabdi phase 2 building a Covid facility will adversely affect these facilities, they said. “We are going to hold a discussion over this issue and find a solution to increase the number of Covid beds and also run these facilities,” said Dr Sandip Tiwari, in-charge of the Covid facility on the campus. The KGMU is running a 500-bed Covid facility at the DPMR building and the number of beds is going to be increased beyond 800. For this, Gandhi ward surgical ward one and two and Shatabdi phase one and two were acquired by the district administration. “Many patients need treatment for diseases, which cannot be delayed. Hence apart from Covid facilities in the city designated non-Covid hospitals also need to run simultaneously,” said Dr Sandip Kapoor, director of Healthcity hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-admn-to-acquire-3-pvt-hosps-for-treatment-of-covid-patients-101619032845393.html
22-04-2021||Other||Punjab announces salary hike of ₹500 for mid-day meal workers||In a relief to around 3,622 mid-day meal (MDM) workers who have been preparing meals for the students of 1,536 government schools in the district, the state government has hiked their salary by ₹500 per month. Earlier, the workers used to get paid ₹1,700 per month. The last hike given to the workers was in 2017 and at that time they used to earn ₹1,200 per month. The mid-day meal workers in the district said that it was a relief for them as they had been working hard to prepare packets of food grains along with the teachers and then delivering the same to the doorsteps of the children amid the lockdown imposed by the Central government last year. Forty-year-old Usha Rani, a mid-day meal worker at Government Primary School, Chanan Devi, said, “I have been working in this school for the last 10 years. We reach school early as we have to serve meals to the children by 11.30 am. We have been preparing meals for over 600 students every day and put in a lot of effort to serve delicious and healthy food to the children studying in Class 1 to 5. This enhancement in salary will further motivate existing workers to continue with their jobs.” Last year on September 23, the state government had announced paid maternity leave for 180 days for mid-day meal workers under the Maternity Benefit Act. Another MDM cook in a Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, Vandana, said, “This is the biggest respite for the workers as we are paid a very meagre salary per month. I was expecting a hike of ₹1,300 per month. I have been preparing meals in our school with other workers for more than 700 students but due to the surge in Covid -19 cases, now we are not serving meals to students as schools are closed till April 30. The state government even paid us salary for June last year, while usually, during the summer break in June, the authorities do not give us a salary.” While as per the officials of the state MDM Cell, they do not have details as to when the salary will be hiked. When contacted, Prabcharan Singh, general manager of the state MDM cell, SAS Nagar, said, “I will not be able to comment as we haven’t received any information regarding when the salary of the MDM workers will be increased from ₹1,700 to ₹2,200.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-announces-rs-500-salary-hike-for-mid-day-meal-workers-101619032844841.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar undergoes postoperative procedure after gallbladder surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar underwent a postoperative procedure at Breach Candy Hospital on Tuesday evening. His condition is stable and he is recuperating at the hospital. He may be discharged after a day, party leaders said on Wednesday.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was admitted at Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai last evening for a follow up procedure post his gallbladder surgery. The procedure has been conducted and he is now recuperating in the hospital,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister.On April 12, Pawar had undergone a surgery after being diagnosed with multiple stones in the gallbladder. The 80-year-old veteran leader underwent laparoscopic surgery, also known as keyhole surgery, which requires minimal invasive surgical procedure.Since Pawar’s was not in a condition to go for gallbladder surgery immediately as there was swelling in his pancreas, a strain was put up by the doctors then to prevent more stones from slipping into the bile duct.“Doctors have removed a strain that was put up to stop gallstones from slipping into the pancreas. It was done after one of the gallstones slipped into his bile duct that caused jaundice and pancreatitis,” said a NCP functionary, privy to the development.Prior to the gallbladder surgery, doctors had to conduct an emergency endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure on the NCP chief on March 30 to remove the gallstone that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and pancreatitis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-undergoes-postoperative-procedure-after-gallbladder-surgery-101619032784166.html
22-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B’s design for solar-powered housing wins big in international competition||A team from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), won the first runner up position at the Solar Decathlon, a competition by the United States department of energy for designing affordable, high-performance and low-carbon buildings that mitigate climate change. Team Shunya, a group at IIT-B started in 2012, is the only one to represent India in the competition. The team of around 46 students has conceived a cluster-level design of a community of houses that can be powered by solar energy. The Artist Village at Belapur in Navi Mumbai was considered as the base for the design. The team has designed a community-dwelling of 10 housing units—four single bedroom houses, four double bedroom and two triple bedroom houses—over an area of around 16,000 square feet (sqft), all powered by solar energy. “The design incorporates a self-designed automation system and application, cluster-level heating, ventilation and air conditioning system with radiant panels, creating a net positive energy cluster efficient by all standards,” said Bhavya Kasagni, student team head, Shunya. The cluster can be constructed for ₹2,718 per sqft. What’s unique about the design is that it is that of a cluster of 10 houses that generate their own energy needs through solar panels. The design also comes with a do it yourself (DIY) concept that allows occupants to select different styles of windows, doors, railings from a catalogue to make their house unique from others. While Shunya has always participated in the Decathlon for the design and build category, this year, for the first time the team went for the design category alone. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, we were all working remotely. We couldn’t actually build the houses and therefore we decided to go for the design category,” said Kasagni, who is a research assistant in the department of electrical engineering. This meant assigning tasks to members in each of its six subgroups of architecture, civil, mechanical, electrical, communication and sponsorship and market analysis. Several rounds of simulations were done to achieve an optimum design. “The Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown posed a challenge, unlike previous years when we were on campus and could work together. This year, we attended classes virtually all day, complete our assigned tasks and then meet virtually every night to take stock of the work,” said Kasagni. The team plans to file a patent for their design.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-s-design-for-solar-powered-housing-wins-big-in-international-competition-101619032604277.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s industry minister tests +ve; 1,692 new infections reported||Himachal Pradesh Industry Minister Bikram Thakur was among the 1,692 people who tested positive in the state on Wednesday, pushing the Covid tally to 81,102.“I was feeling unwell for three-four days and my Covid test has returned positive,” Thakur wrote on his Facebook page, adding that he had been admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College, Shimla, for treatment. He advised people, who had come in his contact to self-isolate, get testedand strictly follow protocols.Of the new cases, 288 were reported in Solan, 286 in Kangra, 224 in Shimla, 205 in Sirmaur, 120 in Hamirpur, 97 in Mandi, 67 in Una, 41 in Kullu and 27 in Lahaul-Spiti.The death toll in the state mounted to 1,223 after 17 patients succumbed to the contagion. Four deaths each were reported in Kangra and Shimla, three in Solan and two each in Hamirpur and Una.Active cases have gone up to 10,793 while recoveries reached 69,058 after 907 people recuperated.Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 13,286 cases, followed by Shimla where 12,839 and Mandi with 12,152 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 10,483 while Una has 5,708 cases, Sirmaur 5,382, Kullu 5,217, Hamirpur 4,932, Bilaspur 4,231 , Chamba, 3,637, Lahaul-Spiti 1,661 and Kinnaur 1,574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-industry-minister-tests-ve-1-692-new-infections-reported-101619032544730.html
22-04-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu: 16 migrant workers jump quarantine to return home||Chennai: Two days before their quarantine period ended, 16 Covid positive migrant workers left Tirupur district to go to their native place in Jharkhand, police and health officials said.The 16 infected patients left with a group of 36 other migrant workers and boarded a train on Monday night fearing a lockdown amid the Covid second wave. Tirupur health authorities have informed the state officials to alert their counterparts in Jharkhand so that co-passengers of the same train could be tracked. Samples taken from the workers came back as positive on April 7. Their 14-day isolation period would have ended Wednesday. The workers were being treated at the government hospital and medical college in Tirupur for a week. “After being discharged they were asked to quarantine for another week but they escaped on the 5th day,” said Dr Jagadish Kumar, deputy director of health services of Tirupur. “They are unlikely to pose a risk as they’re all asymptomatic and have remained in quarantine except for two days but it is still a violation of protocol so we have registered a police complaint and informed the medical team in Jharkhand.”The district police are likely to register a complaint under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “We have received the complaint today and we will be registering an FIR for Covid-19 violations,” said sub-inspector Sivaganesh. The workers were employed with a cotton mill at Vellakoil in Tirupur and were undergoing quarantine at the staff quarters at the mill. “Even the mill management was not aware that they had left,” he said. As cases rise in Tamil Nadu and several restrictions have been imposed including a night curfew, migrant workers from different parts of the state are queuing up at railway stations to go home. The belt of Tirupur, Coimbatore and Erode in the western region of Tamil Nadu are dotted with industries and manufacturing factories and a major part of the workforce is formed by migrant workers, predominantly from Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-16-migrant-workers-jump-quarantine-to-return-home-101619032424710.html
22-04-2021||Other||panel submitted report in ipS officer’s case, TN govt tells HC||Chennai: The internal complaints committee (ICC) has completed its enquiry and submitted a preliminary report to the government on the sexual harassment complaint of a woman IPS officer filed against suspended Tamil Nadu special DGP (law and order), the state informed the Madras high court on Wednesday. A L Somayaji appearing for the state as special senior counsel made this submission to the first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthil Ramamoorthy. The court was hearing a plea by a former additional SP of special branch CID, R Kuppusamy who sought the case to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). During the hearing, advocate Abdul Saleem, representing the suspended DGP informed that the accused had appeared before the ICC and CB-CID so there was no necessity for a CBI probe. The court disposed off the writ petition stating that it didn’t require a central agency probe since the CB-CID is also investigating the case which is being monitored by a single judge bench of justice N Anand Venkatesh.The chief justice however directed the state counsel to ensure that the investigation is free and fair. The Tamil Nadu government had set up a six-member ICC on February 25 after the woman officer had complained to the state DGP, J K Tripathy. A day later, the state directed the CB-CID to also take over investigations. On March 23, the CB-CID had informed the court that it would submit its final report within eight- weeks. Justice Venkatesh who had taken suo motu cognisance of the case to monitor its probe expressed that he was satisfied with the progress made based on the case diaries and submissions of the investigating officer. Statements of two accused policemen and 87 witnesses had been recorded in the case while CCTV footage was under analysis. The CB-CID had registered an FIR against two accused- the special DGP and SP of Chengalpattu district under sections 354-A(2) (sexual harassment) and 341, 506(1) under the IPC and section 4 of the Tamil Nadu prohibition of harassment of women Act 1998. The complainant had said that the special DGP sexually harassed her while they were on duty for chief minister Edappadi Palanswami’s tour. The investigating agency is also probing the role of the SP in preventing her from filing a complaint by stopping her vehicle and bringing in a posse of policemen and a special strike force at the Chengalpattu toll gate on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-submitted-report-in-ips-officer-s-case-tn-govt-tells-hc-101619032424102.html
22-04-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru: Crematoriums run overtime while kin wait||Bengaluru: Despite a relative’s relentless attempts, 24-year-old Sunitha refused to move away from the ambulance, where she has been for more than an hour looking at her mother Valliyamma’s body. While she refused to move using hand gestures, she took a moment to ask a question to her relative: “What number it now?” “Ten,” replied the relative, adding it could take another five hours before their turn and that she should take rest.On Wednesday, Sunitha was among the many relatives waiting outside the government crematorium in Summanahalli in Bengaluru, one of the seven locations allocated to cremate Covid-19 causalities. “We have been waiting here since morning and they are telling us they will be able to cremate her only after five hours. Her body kept in an ambulance for all this while, there is not even ice box,” said Sunitha.More than 19 ambulances were waiting outside this crematorium on Wednesday with dead bodies in them. As no one is allowed near the furnaces, family members were seen performing last rites around the ambulances.Inside the crematorium, the staff had their own troubles. Earlier on Wednesday, the door of one of two furnaces malfunctioned, which took a couple of hours to fix. “Our maximum capacity is to cremate 16 bodies a day that, too, if we push ourselves and machine. For the past few days, we have been cremating more at least 25 bodies a day. Today (Wednesday), we have already got 23 bodies (at 2.30 pm), we are told more bodies are coming,” said Vinod R, a supervisor of the crematorium.The crematorium has four staffers to operate the furnaces. “Their shift starts at 7 am and because of the number of bodies, they have to work till 2 am. We are not turning any bodies back, because we know what the families are going through, but we are finding it physically difficult to keep up with the workload,” he added.In the first wave of Covid-19, the highest number of deaths reported was 75 on July 17, 2020, but in the second wave, the number of deaths reported has been much higher. On Monday, 97 deaths were reported in Bengaluru. The pressure of this increase is being felt at crematoriums across the city. The numbers didn’t show any considerable reduction, with the city reporting 92 and 70 deaths on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.Around 7km away from Summanhalli, at Peenya crematorium, the situation was no different. The centre received 23 dead bodies by Wednesday afternoon and the six furnace operators were preparing for another long night.Renuskesh, the supervisor of the centre, has bloodshot eyes from sleeping for just three hours the previous night. “We were told to close the gates once we get around 15 bodies, which is our capacity, but when people plead in front of us, we can’t be inhumane. The workers have been sleeping in the crematorium itself. They haven’t met their families for days,” he said.The furnace operators are contract labourers, who until recently were not even paid their salaries. “We get only ₹13,000 and after cuts, it comes down to ₹10,000. But for close to a year, we were not paid our salaries. It was only recently because the authorities needed us that our salaries were paid. Despite this, we didn’t strike or stop working, that is because we see the pain of these families,” said Ramanajaiah, one of the contract workers at Peenya.While the employees are ready to work the long hours, there are many aspects that are beyond them. “Firstly, the local residents have been objecting to the furnaces running late into the night. But the biggest problem is the furnace itself. We can’t keep it running like this. It needs to cool down for at least 7-8 hours. Otherwise, it will break down soon. Also, as the number of bodies is increasing and cleaning the remains from under the furnace needs time too. We are not getting any time for this,” added Renuskesh.He added that just seven cremation centres for Covid-19 casualties in the entire city was not enough. As the number of deaths is increasing, pushing the furnaces beyond their capacity will lead to a collapse and more chaos, Renuskesh said.At the Banashankari crematorium, two men in threw their personal protective equipment (PPE) kits on the road after a heated argument with the crematorium staff. The staff did not allow the ambulance, which arrived at the centre, to enter as furnaces had reached the capacity. “We already have 24 bodies, and we won’t be able to finish it by even 3 am. But people are not understanding, they are making influential people call us, but when there is no space, what do we do?” asked a crematorium staff on the condition of anonymity.Acknowledging the shortage of cremation slots, Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana on Wednesday said that instead of just seven crematoria, all available cremation centres will be used for Covid-19 cases.“From today onwards, the final rites of those who succumb to Covid-19 will be performed in all the 13 crematoriums of the city. I have discussed the problem related to the cremation with Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner of BBMP and steps have been taken to make arrangements for the dignified burial of those who lose lives due to the pandemic,” Narayana told HT on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengaluru-crematoriums-run-overtime-while-kin-wait-101619032064127.html
22-04-2021||Other||UP CM asks for continuous enhancement of Covid-19 beds in four districts||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday evening asked for continuous enhancement of the number of Covid-19 hospital beds in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, and Kanpur Nagar. During a virtual review of the situation in these four high Covid-19 incidence districts, he also laid stress on maintaining smooth supply of oxygen, Remdisivir and other life-saving drugs. “Improve Covid management at all levels continuously. The principal secretary (medical education) and the principal secretary to the chief minister should review the progress in establishment of oxygen plants at medical colleges and private hospitals in the districts,” the chief minister said, according to a government statement. The ministers in charge of the four districts, divisional commissioners, district magistrates, police chiefs, chief medical officers and the heads of medical institutions also participated in the meeting. “The officers concerned in each district, in coordination with their minister in charge, must further improve the efforts for Covid control in their respective districts. All Covid-19 hospitals — government or private — must have a nodal officer each,” he said. Calling for tough action against hoarders, he spoke about doing raids. Yogi asked about better handling of ambulance services for Covid-19 patients, effective implementation of containment zones and making people aware of Covid safety and prevention. He laid stress on wearing of masks and social distancing through public address systems, the role of nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) and contact tracing in preventing the spread of the Covid-19 infection. The chief minister asked for effective management of quarantine centres for migrants reaching these districts, screening, testing, if required, and proper lodging and food arrangements for them. He also asked for effective implementation of corona curfew and night curfew in the four districts. “There should not be any such action on the part of the administration of hospitals regarding oxygen or lifesaving drugs that would harm people’s confidence,” he said. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, medical education minister Suresh Khanna, health minister Jai Pratap Singh, and Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh too attended the meeting virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-asks-for-continuous-enhancement-of-covid-19-beds-in-four-districts-101619031584072.html
22-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal forest dept seeks choppers to douse fires||With the prolonged dry spell sparking off forest fires across all 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh, the forest department has sought choppers to douse the raging blaze as most affected patches are inaccessible by road. The fires have so far devoured at least 8,415 hectares of forest land. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania said he will raise the issue in the Cabinet. “We have asked the government to provide us choppers as not all affected forests can be accessed through roads,” he said. Deficient rainfall, little moisture in soil and man-made blazes are responsible for the fire incidents. Himachal Pradesh frequently witnesses forest fires during dry weather as pines shed resinous needles that are inflammable. February recorded a rain deficit of 82% and March 62%. This year, at least 845 cases of the forest fire have been reported and 620 cases registered. With 132 fire incidents reported so far, Mandi is the worst affected district. As many as 101 incidents were logged in Bilaspur district’s cirh forests as the pine is highly combustible, 90 in Dharamshala and 72 in Nahan.  “Around two dozen incidents have been reported around Shimla this year. A fire in the woods surrounding the famous Tara Devi Temple could only be brought under control after three days. Shimla was engulfed in a blanket of smoke blanket in the morning. The government needs to make vigorous efforts to control the situation,” said former Shimla mayor Sanjay Chauhan. The fires, which have wrecked significant damage to fauna and flora, is keeping the forest department on its toes. Forest department officials estimate that so far 2,000 plants have been destroyed in fire and a loss of around ₹136 crore has been incurred. Apart from tying up with the fire department, the forest department is seeking villagers’ assistance and has deployed several tankers to douse the flames. A forest official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Most fire incidents are caused due to human negligence as they mostly start in and around habitations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-forest-dept-seeks-choppers-to-douse-fires-101619031044688.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Private home isolation facility, at-home services help Covid patients in Noida||Noida: For 33-year-old Vikram Singh, isolating self after testing positive for Covid-19 in a two-bedroom flat with three other family members was proving to be a tough task. The Sector 62 resident, who works at a private firm located in the same sector, lives with his elderly parents and wife at Nirvana Apartments. “We started going to the office since January. In the second week of April, a colleague tested positive for coronavirus. Following this, all those who came in his contact were asked to isolate. I also got myself tested. On Sunday, my report came back positive and I also developed a fever. Doctors asked me to isolate myself,” he said.But Singh was finding it difficult to isolate in his 2BHK flat and decided to go to a private home isolation facility. “I found a private home isolation facility in Sector 58 where a room with an attached washroom, along with lunch and dinner, was available for ₹2,500 per day. Thinking about the safety of my wife and parents, I opted for it and moved there for a week,” he said.The private home isolation facility has been started in Noida by Your Space, a PG accommodation provider. With PG accommodations rendered empty, the rooms have been converted into a home isolation facility.“The home isolation facility is for asymptomatic to mild patients of coronavirus. We currently have a facility in Sector 58 which has 90 rooms and another one is coming up in Sector 62. Currently, 25 Covid-19 patients are using the facility in Noida,” said Venayak Gupta, head of growth, Your Space.Your Space is also running a home isolation facility with 35 rooms at Malviya Nagar in South Delhi, Gupta said. Meanwhile, at-home services like antibody tests are also gaining popularity among senior citizens in Noida. A private firm, Antara Assisted Care Services, is providing antibody tests and even X-rays at home for seniors in Delhi-NCR. With the recent wave of coronavirus, chest X-rays are done in order to be informed about any changes in lungs that may remain hidden from the patient in case of a false Covid test result.“The X-ray facility at home is available at a price of ₹2,500. Seniors no longer need to stand in long queues or change clothes before the test which allows for a hassle-free experience along with a minimized risk of infection,” said Vaibhav Poddar, CEO, Antara Assisted Care Services.Antibody tests are also being done at home for the senior citizens. “Antara provides this service to seniors at the comfort of their homes at a cost of ₹625. Antibody tests are a way to identify whether one’s body will be able to fight the virus. This helps seniors plan their future check-ups and medicine intake better. It acts as a warning for taking the necessary next steps,” said Poddar.Apart from this, the firm also provides pathology and rehabilitation services, and Covid nursing and attendant services for senior citizens.As Covid-19 cases increase rapidly, Antara officials said that the firms’ call centres are getting 800 queries a day from seniors, as against 100-150 calls a day earlier.“With the increase in cases, we are also witnessing an increase in demand for products such as oximeters, nebulizers, etc,” a statement from the firm said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-home-isolation-facility-at-home-services-help-covid-patients-in-noida-101619030984029.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Another fire at Behlolpur village, no casualty||Noida: Days after a massive fire gutted 150 shanties and claimed lives of two children in Behlolpur, another fire was reported from the village on Wednesday afternoon. The fire was reported around 3pm from a scrap godown in the area, police said, adding that there was no casualty in the incident.Police officials said that it took eight fire tenders to completely douse the fire. “The fire was controlled in about 40 minutes. There were no casualties in the incident,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The officials said that some locals had burnt garbage in a vacant plot adjoining the godown and embers from that small fire got into the scrap causing the incident. There was no complaint in the incident either, they said.“Several industries are located here and people from Behlolpur and Chhajarsi villages often collect the leftover scrap that keeps accumulating. We will ask the Noida authority to look into the issue and take care of all illegal godowns. Some of them are a hazard waiting to happen,” said a senior police official.The Wednesday’s spot was near the place where 150 shanties had burnt down on April 11, leading to the death of two children. The incident had occurred due to a suspected short circuit and no FIR was registered in the case, police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/another-fire-at-behlolpur-village-no-casualty-101619030864086.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Man hoarding Remdesivir injections nabbed in Noida||Noida Police on Tuesday night arrested a man for allegedly hoarding Remdesivir injections and selling them at a high price.The suspect was identified as 30-year-old Rachit Ghai (30) from Delhi who had been residing in Noida’s sector 158 since March. According to police, he used to run a box manufacturing business in Delhi till last year, which went under during the lockdown.“He first sold the injections at a smaller profit margin to people he had come in contact through social media,” said Abhishek Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime.Ghai later allegedly sold the injections for between ₹15,000 to ₹40,000. The market price for the drug is between ₹899 to ₹4,000 depending on the manufacturer. Police said he sourced the injections from Chandigarh.“We are working on identifying who was providing him with the medicine and to how many people he had already sold the injections to. His accomplices, if any, are also being looked at,” said the DCP.In a joint operation of the sector 20 police with crime branch, Ghai was nabbed from near a private school in sector 29 on Tuesday night and police allegedly recovered 105 Remdesivir injections (100 made in India and five from Bangladesh) from his possession along with ₹1.54 lakh and a Santro car.He was booked at the sector 20 police station under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Drugs and cosmetics Act and the Epidemic Act.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria on Monday asked doctors to exercise caution while prescribing Remdesivir to patients and said that the drug being used to treat Covid-19 was not a ‘magic bullet’. He advised doctors that the drug does not reduce mortality and is of no use if given to people with mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-hoarding-remdesivir-injections-nabbed-in-noida-101619030744093.html
22-04-2021||Other||Noida cremation facility struggles to maintain order amid surge in dead bodies||NOIDA: Amid an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, the Sector 94 crematorium, the only funeral home in the city, is struggling to dispose of bodies with limited resources and staff. Till late evening on Wednesday, 75 dead bodies, including 50 bodies of Covid patients, arrived at the crematorium, officials said. The facility is struggling to maintain order during the last rites of bodies, said officials of Noida Lok Manch (NLM), an NGO which takes care of maintenance of the cremation ground. On Tuesday, at least 50 cremations took place and on Monday 45 bodies were cremated here, said the officials. They also said that on an average 120 to 180 bodies are usually cremated in a month on normal days. Though Gautam Budh Nagar district has recorded only 13 deaths due to Covid-19 in the past three days, the officials said that some bodies were brought to the crematorium from neighbouring districts. The facility has 24 manual platforms and two CNG chambers, the officials said, adding that 12 new are being built to handle the pressure.On Wednesday, NLM sought help from the police to enforce social distancing guidelines at the facility. “We appeal to people to not visit the cremation ground in large numbers because it is creating pressure on our staff. More than 50 people are turning up with each dead body, thereby causing disorder and infection risk to staff members. We had to call in police to enforce order,” said Mahesh Saxena, general secretary of NLM. NLM said it has increased its staff members from 10 to 20 three days ago to handle the rush.Meanwhile, the Noida authority has deployed at least 20 additional staff at the facility that include three junior engineers and as many supervisors to maintain the order. “We have directed the staff to work day and night to make sure all bodies that reach the facility are cremated. Currently, two CNG chambers, along with manual platforms that require wood, are operational. We have procured one more CNG machine that will start operations on Friday. Two more CNG chambers will start functioning by end of April,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.The NLM officials said that pressure is mounting on the facility because bodies from nearby districts such as Faridabad and Bulandshahr are also coming here. As a result, the cremation ground spread over 13 acres and located near Kalindi Kunj Barrage on Yamuna along the embankment road is witnessing dead bodies even during night time, they said.“We have suggested the administration for a new cremation ground either in Noida or Greater Noida, because one is not adequate in view of the current situation,” said Maheshwari.During the period from June to November last year, the maximum cremations that had taken place were between 30 and 40, the officials said. Meanwhile, the NLM has sought wood from the Noida authority for the manual cremation of bodies. “We have an adequate arrangement of wood for the cremation from Modi Nagar,” said Maheshwari.“We request the visitors to stay outside the cremation ground and cooperate for general good,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, who was present at the facility on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-cremation-facility-struggles-to-maintain-order-amid-surge-in-dead-bodies-101619030684890.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police make green corridor for oxygen tanker||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Wednesday afternoon created a green corridor for an oxygen tanker from Greater Noida to the DND Flyway, from where the Delhi Police escorted it to a private hospital in the national capital. The 30km green corridor was made from the factory of Inox Air Products Pvt Ltd, a leading oxygen supplier in Delhi-NCR, at Surajpur in Greater Noida to DND Flyway, officials said, adding that the tanker was carrying 14,000 litres of oxygen. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GB Nagar, said that the oxygen manufacturer had requested the police to escort the tanker for safety. “A police team reached the firm’s plant in Greater Noida in the afternoon. The team made a green corridor and escorted the tanker to DND Flyway in 30 minutes. From there, a Delhi Police team escorted it to a hospital in the national capital,” he said. The DCP said that the traffic police will create green corridors for all oxygen tankers passing through Noida. The traffic police have also issued a helpline number – 9971009001 – for the oxygen cylinder providers if they need green corridor. “If people face difficulty in getting life saving medicines in their neighbourhood, they can also contact us. We will try to arrange the medicines and deliver to them,” Saha said. A senior official of the Delhi Police said that a green corridor is being made wherever there is a movement of oxygen cylinders in the capital.Despite repeated attempts, Abhishek Yadav, manager (sales) at Inox Air Products, could not be contacted for a comment. Meanwhile, according to news agency PTI, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued an order and stationed officers at the oxygen manufacturing plant in Greater Noida to check movement of oxygen cylinders. Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY on Tuesday issued orders posting two senior officers round-the-clock at the Greater Noida factory of Inox Air Products. According to PTI, the officers will “be present at the company site during the allotted hours and ensure adequate supply of oxygen to Covid-19 hospitals” in the GB Nagar district, the order by Suhas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-make-green-corridor-for-oxygen-tanker-101619030684199.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar allows industries to function during curfew||Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday registered four Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 118, according to the Uttar Pradesh health department bulletin on Wednesday. The district also recorded 536 cases taking the tally of positive cases to 32,133 and 4009 active cases. Government and private hospitals in the district faced shortage of oxygen. While the district required 60 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen a day, the supply was less than 10 MT. Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, said that due to rise in the number of Covid patients, the oxygen demand had increased sharply. “There is acute shortage of oxygen in the hospitals but the supply has not stopped. We are trying to manage things with limited resources,” he said. Meanwhile, the GB Nagar district administration has allowed all the industrial units to function during the weekend curfew in the district. “The employees should produce their IDs when asked by the officials,” he said. The same will be implemented in Ghaziabad as well. The move comes after the Awnish Kumar Awasthi, addl chief secretary to UP government, issued a letter to the district administration and police on Wednesday. On April 16, the government had issued directions for shutdown from 8 pm on Saturday to 7am on Monday. On Tuesday, the government again issued the directions to extend the weekend curfew from Friday 8 pm till Monday 7am.Sudhir Shrivastava, Noida Entrepreneurship Association (NEA) vice president and spokesperson, welcomed the move. “The industries have already been closed for months and suffered losses. Now they function with limited workforce,” he said. NEA has around 3000 members who deal in various fields, like mobile phone accessories, ITs, garments, packaging, cable, etc. Shrivastava also said that the UP and Delhi government should make a coordination for enforcement. “We source some of our raw materials from Delhi, where the government has enforced a weeklong lockdown. We can’t buy any products from there now. If the enforcement continues, Noida industry will suffer. There should be a similar enforcement order for industries in both Noida and Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-allows-industries-to-function-during-curfew-101619030624053.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Private hospitals grapple with limited oxygen supply||Ghaziabad: The situation at St Joseph Hospital in Nandgram went out of hand for a brief moment when the hospital ran out of oxygen supply early Wednesday morning and officials were found running pillar to post to procure four cylinders and administer the life-saving gas to 25 patients on Covid beds. Lalit Goel, manager (operations) of St Joseph Hospital, said, “We ran out of oxygen around 4am. At least 25 patients were in need of oxygen at that moment. We somehow managed to arrange four cylinders from private sources and then reached out to the district administration for help. The oxygen supply was regularised later.” Goel added, “Nowadays, we require around 60-70 oxygen cylinders per day against the previous requirement of 30-35 cylinders. We are planning to install an oxygen generator that will be put in place in three to four days.” The shortage of oxygen supply has hit several hospitals in Ghaziabad. Officials familiar with the issue said the district needs about 46,000 cubic metre of oxygen supply per day but was getting only about 30,000 cubic metre of oxygen per day. An official familiar with the developments said that the city, on April 18, received about 12,700 cubic metre of oxygen supply, of which about 5,500 cubic metre was supplied to a single health care facility. Another private hospital, whose officials requested not to be named, said they were left with only five oxygen cylinders on Monday when at least 55 patients required the life-saving gas. “We repeatedly requested the authorities to regularise the supply and also arranged cylinders on our own from clinics and nursing homes known to us. On Tuesday, 70 more cylinders came and 50 were in operation,” said the officer from the second private hospital. In an official statement issued on April 20, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed that every hospital should have minimum 24 to 36 hours of oxygen backup with them. “We require about 400 cylinders of oxygen per day and the administration has assured that supply will be regularised. We are trying to add 20 more Covid beds. If we get the supply, we will be able to operate those beds at the earliest. Now, the oxygen supply to industries has stopped so we are expecting the supply to improve further. Our backup supply is being maintained as per cycle,” said Dr Sharad Agarwal, CEO of LeCrest Hospital in Vasundhara. Officials of the Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, also held a a detailed meeting with the district magistrate and other officers on Wednesday afternoon and raised the issue of oxygen supply. “The hospitals are getting oxygen just-in-time and many hospitals have no backup of 24-36 hours. It is so as the demand has suddenly increased four times due to a surge in Covid-19 infections. There was sudden shortage at some hospitals in the last couple of days and we requested the administration officials to ensure such incidents don’t get repeated in future,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad. During the meeting with IMA office-bearers, the administration said that they have formed a co-ordination committee comprising several officers, including IMA officials, to strengthen co-ordination. “The oxygen suppliers have been asked not to spread rumours that oxygen supplies are hampered. All the private hospitals are provided with oxygen supply as per their demand. It is also directed those private hospitals having minimum of 50 beds should reserve 10 beds for Covid,” read the statement from the administration. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and queries about the official figures of daily demand and supply, besides the issues being raised by the hospitals.  Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) and nodal officer looking after oxygen supplies in the district, said the co-ordination committee will look after the demand and supply of oxygen to private hospitals. “There is gap but we are trying to manage during the times when demand suddenly increases. We have also made arrangements so that in case oxygen stock goes down in one hospital, nearby hospitals will be able to arrange oxygen for immediate help. We are trying to maintain demand and supply in the district,” he said admitting that the demand and supply figures were not readily available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-hospitals-grapple-with-limited-oxygen-supply-101619030325800.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Noida falls short on plasma, rarely any donors||Plasma banks in the city are running dry as very few donors have come forward, even as demand for the treatment is increasing.Plasma therapy involves removing antibody-containing plasma from the blood of a recently recovered Covid-19 patient and pumping it into a sick patient. Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor (research and transfusion medicine) at SSPHPGTI has been actively circulating messages and videos on social media to help encourage people to come forward to donate plasma. “In the past two weeks, the demand for plasma has surged heavily. However, there are barely any voluntary plasma donations. We receive over 10 requests from people looking for plasma but are able to fulfil the request of only 3 or 4 such people in a day. This is only after the attendant brings a donor of another blood group and then we exchange the plasma for the required blood group. Amidst this, there is nothing left for the bank as there are no voluntary plasma donations,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar police commissionerate launched a plasma bank on April 18 and tied up with Child PGI hospital to act as a bridge between plasma donors and those who require it. However, since it launched, only five civilians have come forward to donate plasma while over 400 requests have been registered at its helpline.“While five civilians came forward to donate, we could only take plasma from four of them as one of them was ineligible. From the police force, five personnel have donated plasma. The numbers are low because the eligibility criteria is that they should be recovered between March-April and the number is low. However, we are still under process to screen more personnel who will be eligible to donate,” said Meenakshi Katyayan, DCP, Gautam Budh Nagar Police.She added that those who have recovered between January to end of March this year are eligible to donate plasma. Between January 15, 2021 (24952 total recoveries) and April 15, 2021 (25703 total recoveries), 751 patients from Gautam Buddh Nagar district have recovered from coronavirus.She added that currently 85 police personnel are infected with Covid-19 and the officials hope that once they recover, they will donate to the plasma bank.The situation is similar at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida as well. As per officials, the plasma bank here has not had any voluntary plasma donations since January. “In the last two weeks, many of hospital doctors who had recovered from Covid ended up donating plasma to save lives of Covid patients,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson from Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida.He added that the plasma banks are rendered empty as to treat Covid patients today, plasma is required from a patient who has recovered anywhere between January to April 1. “Since Covid cases were very less at that time, hence not many people are even eligible to donate. However we hope Covid patients that leave after recovering shall come back to donate after 15 days in order to help others recover,” he said.Manish Kumar, a resident of Greater Noida west who has been helping friends and family arrange plasma for Covid patients, said that many are not coming forward to donate because of a scare of Covid. “To donate plasma, a person has to spend over 2 hours at a hospital. These days with Covid cases rising and happening to those too who had it earlier, voluntary donations are becoming lesser and lesser,” he said.The medical community, however, is divided over the efficacy of the treatment.“A patient benefits from plasma therapy if the he/she requires oxygen and his/her duration of illness is less than 10 days. The idea of Plasma donation is that we are transferring readymade antibodies in a sick person who’s own body will take time to make its own,” said Dr Mrinal Sircar, Director - Pulmonology & Critical Care, Fortis Hospital, Noida.“Studies have shown that plasma therapy has a limited role and is not of much use,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-falls-short-on-plasma-rarely-any-donors-101619030325145.html
22-04-2021||Patna||‘No beds,’ say packed Patna hospitals amid Covid-19 spike||Amid the surging Covid-19 cases, finding a bed in a hospital with oxygen facility is turning out to be an impossibility in Patna, which has four medical college hospitals, something few cities in the country can match, besides the private nursing homes, registered or unregistered.HT visited at least 15 hospitals and almost everywhere it found notices announcing “no beds” put up prominently.“I had to first buy an oxygen cylinder for ₹18,000 and then admit my husband to a private nursing home, as no nursing home was ready to admit him due to uncertainty of oxygen supply. One of them agreed on the condition that oxygen supply would be my concern. In the government hospitals, seats are only available for VVIPs,” said Kavita Srivastava, a resident of Friends Colony.Oxygen supply is a big concern for private hospitals. Kin of several patients are already weighing options of shifting them to Delhi. “You ask the government, and they say everything is fine, while the situation is so bad that even for a thermometer or a steam inhaler, one has to keep running from one medical shop to another, let alone oxygen,” said Ravish Kumar, a resident of Patna City area.Ravish Narayan (48), a Covid-19 patient and a resident of Danapur, had to face an even more harrowing ordeal. After his health deteriorated on Tuesday evening, his family rushed him to a leading hospital near their residence in Rajabazar area. Despite their pleas, they were advised to take him home. “There is no vacant bed, and he will be managed better at home,” they were told.As the night progressed, his condition worsened, with oxygen levels dipping to dangerous levels, leaving him gasping for every breath that he took. Their efforts to find “a bed with oxygen cylinder” also failed in hospitals. After hundreds of frantic phone calls to friends and beyond, Narayan was finally accommodated at a private hospital. Currently, he is struggling for life.The attendant of another patient said he had to cough up ₹54,000 for a Remdesivir injection. “I paid as I needed it. My doctor had asked for it. I was left with no choice but to pay. Remdesivir has become like liquor in dry Bihar. It is officially not available, but the black market provides the facility of home delivery. What I am saying is no hearsay. I have myself paid for it and I am thankful that the black market at least makes it available,” he says, not wishing to be identified.With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases creating a record each day, the situation is likely to aggravate further. AIIMS is the first choice for patients in Patna, but it has limited number of beds and VVIPs hardly leave enough space for common people.Rajabazar’s private hospital was packed to capacity on Wednesday when HT visited the facility. “There’s no bed at all,” a hospital employee on duty said. At AIIMS, patients and attendants were seen waiting for admission, without success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-beds-say-packed-patna-hospitals-amid-covid-19-spike-101619030324593.html
22-04-2021||Noida||Denied test at Ghaziabad hospital, 65-year-old Delhi woman dies in ambulance||A 65-year-old woman from Delhi died in an ambulance at the MMG District Hospital on Wednesday afternoon after health care workers at the Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital told to go there for her Covid-19 test, her family alleged. The dead woman was identified as Sunita Kakkar, resident of Krishna Nagar. Sandeep Chaddha, her son-in-law who took her to Ghaziabad on Wednesday, said, “After not getting beds in Delhi on Tuesday, we turned to Ghaziabad and visited several hospitals but could not find a bed. We then reached the testing booth at Sanjay Nagar and the staff there asked us to go to MMG Hospital.” At MMG hospital, her sample was taken up around 12.15pm and she died around 12.30pm, he said. “Her oxygen supply in the ambulance had exhausted by then,” said Chaddha. “If the test would have been conducted at Sanjay Nagar booth, she would have been saved. Instead, we had to suffer traffic to reach MMG Hospital, which is about 5kms away. When her rapid antigen test report arrived, she tested positive for Covid.”Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar district hospital said that the testing booth staff, is attached to the office of the chief medical officer (CMO). CMO Dr NK Gupta said he will inquire into the incident. “We will get it inquired,” he added. The UP government recently issued directions on April 17 about “presumptive patients” and said that those having Covid-like symptoms but testing negative in reports, should be treated like Covid patients. When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and did not respond to detailed query sent to him about the issue. In another incident, a 62-year-old man from Vinod Nagar (East) in Delhi collapsed on a road in Vaishali on Monday evening after his son took him on a bike to hospitals in Ghaziabad in order to get him admitted. The state control room records indicated that the Ghaziabad district recorded a single day high of a total of eight deaths on Wednesday. With this, the overall tally of Covid-related deaths has gone up to 117. Overall 15 deaths have taken place so far in the month of April.“Of the eight deaths, two took place at Santosh Hospital while five took place at Rama Hospital. The patients were in critical condition. At our end, we are trying best to give treatment to patients,” CMO Dr NK Gupta, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/denied-test-at-ghaziabad-hospital-65-year-old-delhi-woman-dies-in-ambulance-101619030264179.html
22-04-2021||Pune||The challenge of managing a pet in a Covid-positive family||Families with pets who test positive for Covid-19 have no option but to drop their pet off at a home boarders’, a kennel or at pet hostels. Vandanaa Patwardhan Goswaamii, owner of Crazy Paws pet resort in Bavdhan, has been boarding pets of families that tested positive for Covid-19 since March 2020. “Since March last year, we have been boarding pets of families that tested positive and are in quarantine. Pet dogs do not spread the virus; however, families are unable to walk their pets while in quarantine, so we go and pick up the pet, following all protocols, and board their pets,” Goswaamii said. Savita Gadre and her husband tested positive and have a 1.5-year-old Pitbull. “We have a Pitbull named Lily, and we were really worried when we got our results. Luckily, when we had mild symptoms, I had spoken to a good friend who has a boarding facility. On informing her she was ready to extend her help and took Lily in. Our dog has always been very happy and comfortable with Crazy Paws,” Gadre said. Radhika Ghadge, another pet owner said that as soon as you have doubt about your health start keeping a distance from the rest of the family and pets. “When we had our family member test positive, it was impossible to give Smokey our dog any exercise as we were quarantined. Our usual pet sitter from Crazy Paws came like an angel to our rescue. She arranged a pickup for our dog in a very efficient and contactless way. For 15 days Smokey stayed with her, it was a blissful vacation for him, Ghadge says, adding, “She sent us regular updates, videos and photos of him so that we would not worry.” For most families with more than one Covid positive member, it is impossible to take care of their pet’s daily routine and in most societies even if one person is positive the whole family is put under quarantine. Riya Sayaji from Pets Hangover boarding and dog park has a dedicated driver or pet taxis for pick-up and drops. “We follow some precautionary steps when the pets check-in at a place, for example bathing them and cleaning their leash and collars. Though pets don’t spread Covid-19, the equipment could be contaminated,” said Sayaji, who operates in Koregaon Park Annexe with kennels in Ghorpadi and Undri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-challenge-of-managing-a-pet-in-a-covid-positive-family-101619020063388.html
22-04-2021||Pune||61-70 age group sees highest Covid deaths in Pune district, only 6% completed vax regimen||While the age group of 61-70 years has seen the maximum number of deaths due to Covid-19 among all the beneficiaries, only 6% of this age group in the district has been completely covered under vaccination. Of the 10 lakh estimated population above the age group of 60 years, only 64,000 have got both the doses while 6.4 lakh have got the first dose of the vaccine. As per the data from the district information office updated till Tuesday, Pune district has completely vaccinated, that is both the doses administered, only 6% of its elderly population. Of the over a million estimated population of those above 60 years of age, only 64,822 have got both the doses. This includes 17,491 from Pune rural, 35,042 from PMC and 12,289 from PCMC. Also 67% or 674,021 have got the first dose of the estimated population which includes 314,295 from Pune rural, 254,572 from PMC and 105,154 from PCMC. Only 1% of the population aged between 45-59 years has been completely vaccinated. Despite the maximum number of deaths from this age group, only 6% of the population has been completely vaccinated. Of the 11,646 deaths due to Covid reported until Tuesday, 7,843 were males and 3,803 females. The highest deaths were in the age group of 61-70 years as 3,303 deaths were reported followed by 2,640 deaths from the age group of 51 to 60 years. The nationwide vaccination programme for those aged above 60 years of age began from March 1 and since then has received a huge response from senior citizens in Pune. However, the irregular supply of vaccines and repeated cancellation of the pre-booked appointments for vaccination has interrupted the smooth vaccination campaign in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6170-age-group-sees-highest-covid-deaths-in-pune-district-only-6-completed-vax-regimen-101619017123211.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Lockdown restrictions leave marketplaces overcrowded in Pune||Pune: On Wednesday, the first day of time restrictions for stores selling essential commodities in Pune – 7am to 11am - huge crowds were seen across the city trying to beat the deadline. This resulted in a massive rush at markets, grocery shops and at vegetable vendors. At the Mandai market, one of the major vegetable markets in Pune, people started crowding at 6am. At 9 am, there was such a huge crowd inside the market area that no proper social distancing was possible. “I had gone to buy some vegetables at Mandai market in the morning, when I saw the crowd, I returned. The decision of limiting the timing is leading to more rush,” said Kiran Pisal, a local resident. A similar situation was seen on the other main roads. In Hadapsar, at Gadital chowk citizens crowded to purchase groceries. Outside kirana shops, long queues were seen by 8am. Atul Namekar, secretary of the Sinhgad road-Warje residents association, said, “On Sinhagad road, from Rajaram bridge chowk till Bramha hotel chowk, the entire footpath is crowded with roadside vendors. People rushed to buy vegetables, groceries and other food items as if it was the last day before lockdown. By doing this they are risking their own and lives of others too, as there might be by many Covid positive patients or carriers amongst them.” “There was heavy rush on the Jambhulwadi road to buy household items and vegetables. The road had a traffic jam before 11am. Our demand is that this limitation should be removed immediately,” said Vaibhav Dhekane, executive president of Dattanagar Jambhulwadi road traders’ association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-restrictions-leave-marketplaces-crowded-in-pune-101619015203230.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen stock running out of breath in Pune||Pune: As the demand for oxygen increases in Pune, providing it to each hospital has become really challenging for the civic and district administration. The demand in Pune city and district is for 350 metric tonnes of oxygen per day and the current supply is at 315- 320 metric tonnes per day. Every day officials panic as least three to four phone calls are coming in, stating that oxygen supply has not reached. On Wednesday, oxygen at one of the hospitals in Chakan ran out and the authorities needed to shift patients to another hospital. Two days earlier, the same scenario unfolded at a Jumbo hospital in Shivajinagar. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) additional commissioner SB Patil is in charge for co-ordinating oxygen supply in the Pune city and district. He was unavailable for comment on the shortage.PMC officer Srinivas Kandul is coordinating oxygen supply to PMC hospitals and Covid centres. Kandul said, “Oxygen supply is really very tight. Every day there are crises at some hospital. PMC’s total demand for civic-body-run Covid centres is 42 metric tonnes and we are not getting oxygen as per demand. There is short of six metric tonnes, but we are managing.”Another officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said, “Due to social media, there is more panic. If oxygen levels came down in a specific hospital immediately the news is on social media, even if the demand is addressed. Then, the administration needs to address various calls to deal with the panic.”A doctor working at a government hospital, also speaking anonymously, said, “As the surge is very high and many patients are critical, oxygen demand increases all of a sudden. Now doctors need to keep in mind things like oxygen supply. This creates a greater burden on the medical fraternity as they need to handle the situation in the wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-stock-running-out-of-breath-in-pune-101619014843147.html
22-04-2021||Delhi||Jailed gangster-turned-politician Shahabuddin Covid +ve, admitted to hospital||Gangster-turned-politician Mohammad Shahabuddin, who was lodged inside Delhi’s Tihar jail, has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to a city hospital on Tuesday night, according to senior prison officials privy to the development.Tihar prison officers are now on high alert and tracing the source of the infection because unlike other prisoners, Shahabuddin,57, was lodged in a single cell and did not have any interaction with other prisoners. The only people he was in contact with are jail officers. Prison officers suspect Shahabuddin, a former Member of Parliament from Siwan, Bihar, may have been infected with the virus through an asymptomatic jail officer.Also Read | 17 test positive in Tihar in a day, officials scamper to create isolation spaces“It is scary. There are three prisoners in Tihar, who do not share space with anyone, Shahabuddin being one. The other two are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and Delhi gangster Neeraj Bawana. They are lodged alone in the most secure part of the prison. Even other prisoners do not interact with them. For the last 20-25 days, the bi-weekly family visits have also been suspended. So, the infection has happened inside only,” a senior prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.Jail officers are now monitoring Rajan’s health because he may also have contact with the same jail officers. Rajan has co-morbidities, officials said. The three prisoners are lodged in three adjacent cells at a heavily guarded wing inside jail 2.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed that the former parliamentarian had tested positive and was admitted to a city hospital but refused to disclose details related to the case.Tihar, which is the country’s largest prison complex and houses over 20,000 prisoners currently, has at least 115 active cases among prisoners. There are 14 Covid-positive jail officers too, which include the prison’s doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jailed-gangster-turned-politician-shahabuddin-covid-ve-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-101618991624849.html
